Steg cash tee RT JANUARY1962 The Cover: Yosemite National Park, California Color Transparency by Josef Muench Frontispiece: Winter in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah Photograph by Hal Rumel Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press New Year s Greeting (THE General Board of Relief Society sends warm and loving greetings to our sisters throughout the world. Our prayer for each of you is that joy, happiness, and prosperity will be with you in the new year. Our thoughts are not only of prosperity in material things but that all might prosper in adding to stores of spiritual treasures. May you prosper in your desire to be better, more devoted wives, sweeter, more understanding mothers, and harder working, more dedicated handmaidens in the kingdom. May your homes be warm with love and lighted by faith. May your hearts rejoice in the goodness of your children. May your every act be keyed by kindness and your neighbors blessed by your thoughtfulness. May your courage enable you to surmount trials and obstacles. May your heart and mind be alert to ways your life and the lives of members of your family can be made more beautiful. May your love of freedom and the great gift of personal free agency lead you to help in prospering the cause of peace on earth. May you find strength in your religion and feel the security of perfect faith and trust in our Father in heaven. May we all accept the opportunity a new year affords to begin anew, to further resolve to live righteously in accordance with the commandments, and to give the service that will prosper the work of the Lord and his Church. Rama ab ao ae oe From Near and Far The Clark Branch was organized in May 1961 as a branch of the Southern Far East Mission. We are located about sixty-five miles north of Manila, at Clark Air Base. Most of our members are military personnel and civilians working for the government here, but we do have six Filipino members, with prospects for several more in the near future. We are sure that the addition of The Relief Society Magazine to the San Fernando Library a local Filipino library will assist in this work and will be appreciated by the Filipino people. —Paul H. Sharp Branch President Clark Air Base Philippine Islands The Relief Society Magazine has brought me much happiness, and I enjoy thoroughly the messages contained within the covers of this wonderful and informative book. Every day I am more and more thankful for the knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We as a family are thankful for the servants who came to us just three years ago with the message of the everlasting gospel. —Norma E.. McGill Nitro, West Virginia My husband and I both are very much pleased with our beautiful Relief Society Magazine, especially the beautiful covers. —Mrs. Peggy A. Nyman Kalamazoo, Michigan Several years ago, my daughter, Mary Ober, of Alhambra, California, sent her old Relief Society Magazines to a young Chinese Filipino schoolteacher, Aurora Ang Fan, in the Philippines. These were greeted with such appreciation and acclaim that I am now dispatching mine, I hope, in time for Christmas. They help the students to read English and do missionary work for the Church. —Mtrs. G. A. McCrimmon Seal Beach, California Page 2 I want to thank you for the article on books and reading for young children ("The Precious Words, July 1961, by May C. Hammond). I consider Mrs. Hammond to be my friend, and through her years of study and teaching, she has gleaned much knowledge about the field of children's literature. —Mary Lee Smoot Dallas, 'Texas I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much, especially the stories. I am a convert to the Church for nine years now, and a new citizen of this wonderful land of the Lord since the 8th of August. We have not had much education in schools, but life itself has educated us. I send you my love. —Mtrs. Johanna Van de Coolwyk San Francisco, California Being a constant subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine for over twenty-eight years, I have learned to love the great spiritual uplift of the Magazine. The courses of study have been arranged by inspired men and women and answer the need for divine guidance in the home. Helping to make ready for a Relief Society banquet, these words came to my mind, and they were used on individual placecards: If you would find life's enrichment, Strong faith in Jesus Christ, Satisfaction for time well spent, A plan for your life's guide, Then at Relief Society keep a tryst — The door is open wide. —Fvelyn S. Grant Centerville, Utah I would like to thank you for the wonderful Magazine. It gives me so much help and inspiration. I enjoy every department and look forward to each issue. —Bettina C. Graham Powell, Wyoming THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the reine Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints LIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. S afford» - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Christie H. "Bidston Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny S. Kienitz Edith S. Elliott Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Elizabeth B. Winters Florence J. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron LaRue H. Rosell Leone G. Layton Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt Jennie R. Scott Blanche B. Stoddard Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Alice L. Wilkinson Evon W. Peterson Winniefred 8. Pearle M. Olsen LaPriel S. Bunker Aleine M. Young Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Irene W. Buehner Josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Irene C. Lloyd RELIEF SOCIETY. MAGAZINE: Editor - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 49 JANUARY 1962 NO. 1 =) Contents SPECIAL FEATURES New Year's Greeting General Presidency 1 Keep the Commandments '= Joseph Fielding Smith 4 Rew cesictng Bishopric 'Sustained «2204... 20h... EA de ee Ee 8 New General Presidency of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement ASSOCIA Say MANS NT Ee lg Ae ie nn te ble aN ea em ec neal ee eel he A10 Irene Cannon Lloyd Rebeinied to the General Board of Relief Society........ Louise W. Madsen 12 Award Winners — Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. 13 The Other Mother — First Prize Poem.. I Miranda Snow Walton 14 Rain Song — Second Prize Poem.......... Eeecesceceeceeeeeeesceneeeees Bernice Burton Holmes 15 Recess — School for the Deaf — Third Prize Poem Eva Willes Wangsgaard 16 Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest ».. 2. 18 Ten Dollars Will Buy Many Things — First Prize Story Mary Ek Knowles 19 Color Comes to Inside Pages of the Relief Society Magazine... 27 The New March of Dimes ooo. Ee George P. Voss 29 FICTION Bexyetnevrield With Roses — Chapter '*l).2822'" tel SaMargery S. Stewart 30 Because of the Word — Chapter 6 (Conclusion)...................-: Hazel M. Thomson 38 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far pe. 2 Sixty Years Ago 24 Woman's Sphere s Ramona a Cannon 25 Editorial: ''The Multitude of the Promises".... Vesta P. Crawford ea Notes to the Field: Award Subscriptions Presented in April cia ta aes Bound Volumes of 1961 Magazines 58 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities —...... Hulda Parker 43 V7 lass CemGcishllennahas st a es ce eee ane eee. Inn ane i. |) oeeioe ae aianenaeesWe, FEATURES FOR THE HOME fabri meric ice | CSS) eg cence sh ee ose ace ees cerca. Margaret Knipp 29 Homemade Candy for Winter Evenings............... 4 Caroline Layton Naylor 36 Leota Murphy Makes Rugs of Unique Design = Ki/ Chase Those Winter Woes 20........-.. Cscccsscceccceeececceceeees Janet W. Breeze 71 LESSONS FOR APRIL Theology — The Revelation to William W. Phelps... Roy W. Doxey 50 Visiting Teacher Messages — ''I Will Be Merciful Unto You" WWW... Christine i. Robinson 56 Work Meeting — Attitudes Make the Difference Elaine Anderson Cannon 58 Literature — Edgar Allan Poe — The Pathos of His Life and Poetry.............0.. Briant S. Jacobs 60 Social Science — How Women Share in Pe gueesings of the Priesthood................ Ariel S. Ballif 65 Words Written in White Ida Elaine James 7 The New Year. Viola Ashton Candland 9 i PSN i OR A ALE Le Se. Ee ee ee See eee eeLael W. Hill 11 (oe Wéiteh S ee ee Le Pe ce 2 = ellLinnie Fisher Robinson 28 Joa sige ee ee eee eee ee eee Catherine B. Bowles 42 Flame Against Snow wesc coe RE Reet a tener tnent TalalMaude Rubin 49 Our Creator = a MeeIris W. Schow 57 RMIT GMINEONTA AE OSC oon canon cn scien ene nncdng -ctbnsesdeecenecenstvtee SeadeuecouccestaceaeeaeanesucdonececenceceeseucedChristie Lund Coles 64 merece a Wy LO Gre we Site. Sd Tho DUPE TESST ES Y ry) reDorothy J. Roberts 70 Dear Friend.: = Florence S. Glines 72 = Jeane ih lee at ee ee ee Linda Clarke 72 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE ~ GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1962 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20e a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 3 Keep the Commandments President Joseph Fielding Smith Of the Council of the Twelve Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 27, 1961.] T is a wonderful sight to look into the faces of you good sisters and see this Tabernacle filled. It is a wonderful work that you are doing, and I commend you, I pray for you, and I add a blessing for you in the work which you are called upon to do. We could not get along without you. Frequently, almost daily, I get a letter from someone who is troubled in spirit because of the conditions which prevail in the world today. These conditions have been predicted. 'They were spoken of by our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. The Lord has called our attention to them in his teachings to his disciples when he was on the earth, and in the revelations of the Lord. We are living in critical days, but days that have been spoken of by the prophets since almost the beginning of time. You sisters have a glorious work to do laboring with the sisters of the Church and teaching them to keep the commandments of our Eternal Father. The Savior said "If ye love me, keep mry commandments" (John 14:15). Never in the history of the world has the need of keeping the commandments of the Lord been made manifest more than today. I get letters almost weekly from people asking questions about conditions, the conditions prevailing in the world, the distress and Page 4 the trouble, and the fears in the hearts of people, wondering what in the world we can do. There is one answer to that. They want to know if they should build bomb shelters and take other methods of protection. I am not prepared to talk about matters of that kind, but I am prepared to talk about one kind of protection, and that is keeping the commandments of the Lord. I have opened my Book of Mormon to the fifth chapter of Helaman. In this chapter I discover counsel that was given by Helaman to his sons. He had some very good, faithful sons. When Helaman began to get old, like his father did before him, he gave counsel to his sons. I want to read you a paragraph. And now, my sons, remember, remember that it is upon the rock of our Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God, that ye must build your foundation; that when the devil shall send forth his mighty winds, yea, his shafts in the whirlwind, yea, when all his hail and his mighty storm shall beat upon you, it shall have no power over you to drag you down to the gulf of misery and endless wo, because of the rock upon which ye are built, which is a sure foundation, a foundation whereon if men build they cannot fall (Helaman 5:12). Now that counsel is just as good to sisters and daughters as it is to sons. We belong to the kingdom of God, the kingdom that has been set up according to the revelations i KEEP THE COMMANDMENTS the Lord has given to his prophets of old, never to be thrown down or given to another people, the kingdom that is to grow and spread until it eventually will fill the earth. Now you good sisters are playing your part in this great undertaking of bringing to pass righteousness and truth and a love of God in the hearts of the members of the Church. We ought to be grateful that we live in this day, notwithstanding all the fears and the troubles and the anxiety which come upon us because of conditions that prevail in the world. E have security, the security of the protection of our Father in heaven and his Son Jesus Christ, but that protection is based on our faithfulness in the keeping of his commandments. There is no other security. In fact, there never was security in any other way, only in obedience to the commandments of the Lord. Now, as you travel and _as you hold your meetings with our good sisters scattered throughout the Church, tell them there is a protection far greater than the building of places of protection in the earth. The Lord has promised to guide his people and bless them on one condition, that we keep the commandments of the Lord, that they are true and faithful before him. There is no security in any other course. It is the duty of our sisters, as well as it is of our brethren, to search the scriptures, to become familiar with the things the Lord has revealed. The promises he has made, the covenants he has offered to us, and to walk with understanding and in faith. In the revelation 5 given to John, he saw Satan in all his power, laboring among the children of men in the day in which we live, more determined, more energetic perhaps than ever before in the history of mankind on this earth, and John records he was industrious, energetic, because he knows he has but a short time. We are living in the days of fulfillment of prophecy. We are living in the days spoken of by our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, that were to precede his second coming. The signs, many of them, that he enumerated are here, we can see them. Signs in the heaven, signs in the earth, the perplexity, the distress of nations, men's hearts failing them for fear. We are living in that day when the Lord said these things would take place here. We have all the evidence that anybody could need to know that the signs the Lord predicted were to come upon the face of the earth, before his coming, are here. Now I don't mean to say that every sign has been given; there are other things yet to come, but the distress in the world, the wickedness, and men's hearts failing them, everyone fearful for fear destruction will overtake them, all of this was told and recorded by prophets of old and our Savior when he stood with his disciples in his ministry before his departure from them. OW I want to read you another scripture from The Doctrine and Covenants on this same point: And, now, behold, if Zion do these things she shall prosper, and spread _herself and become very glorious, very great, and very terrible (D & C 97:18). Do what things? Just keep the commandments of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And the nations of the earth shall honor her, and shall say: Surely Zion is the city of our God, and surely Zion cannot fall, neither be moved out of her place, for God is there, and the hand of the Lord is there; And he hath sworn by the power of his might to be her salvation and her high tower. Therefore, verily, thus saith the Lord, let Zion rejoice, for this is Zion — THE PURE IN HEART; therefore, let Zion rejoice, while all the wicked shall mourn (Ibid. 97:19-21). Now there is a great blessing and promise the Lord makes to the members of the Church, protection, guidance, to give unto them his laws and direct them in righteousness and truth, and they will be called Zion, which is the pure in heart. Now I cannot stop the reading of this at this point because the Lord says something more, what he adds to what I have read is the part that troubles me and I want to do my part, as far as I can, to keep our people in the paths of righteousness and truth that they may be the pure in heart and have the protecting care of our Father in heaven and his Son Jesus Christ. Oh, I wish we could make all of the members of the Church understand this. We have those among us who have hardened their hearts, who are dull of hearing, and as the prophets have said, even in Zion, who love the things of this world more than they love the things of the kingdom of God, and whose ambitions are centered upon worldly things, the things that perish, and so the Lord is under the necessity of adding something, and so he says: For behold, and lo, vengeance cometh speedily upon the ungodly as the whirlwind; and who shall escape it? The Lord's scourge shall pass over by night and by day, and the report thereof shall vex all people; yea, it shall not be stayed until the Lord come; For the indignation of the Lord is kindled against their abominations and all their wicked works. Nevertheless, Zion shall escape if she observe to do all things whatsoever I have commanded her. But if she observe not to do whatsoever I have commanded her, I will visit her according to all her works, with sore affliction, with pestilence, with plague, with sword, with vengeance, with devouring fire. Nevertheless, let it be read this once to her ears, that I, the Lord, have accepted of her offering; and if she sin no more none of these things shall come upon her; And I will bless her with blessings, and multiply a multiplicity of blessings upon her, and upon her generations forever and ever, saith the Lord your God. Amen (Ibid. 97:22-28). OW, it is my duty to cry re pentance, to teach our people, to try to get them to walk in ways of righteousness and truth. It is your duty as sisters to teach your sisters that they may do likewise, just as it is the duty of all those who hold the Priesthood to cry repentance and teach our people to prepare themselves for the coming of the Son of God. Now, the Lord is not going to tell anybody when he will come. He is not going to tell me or anybody else, but he will come when least expected; when people 6 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 KEEP THE COMMANDMENTS are full of this world and its affairs rather than the things that pertain to the kingdom of God. So I plead with you sisters in your labors to keep yourselves humble, that you may go forth and teach in your various organizations, build up and strengthen the sisters, and counsel them to teach their husbands and members of their families that they, too, may realize the importance of obedience to every command the Lord has given us. Now, the Lord said "This is not a day of many words," but I feel to talk to you in this manner at this particular time, due to the fact that the hearts of our people, many of them, are failing them. They don't know what to do, where to run, where to hide, fearing dreadful destruction may overtake them. We have one way of escape and that is the best, and that is the protection of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, 7 providing we will keep his commandments. The Lord bless you good sisters. I am grateful for you and for the work you are doing and for your loyalty, and for the integrity and loyalty of these good sisters who preside and who direct you in your labors. The Church of Jesus Christ is not a Church governed by one minister. The Lord has spread the work so that every member of it may have some important duty to perform. 'The Lord has called this organization and the other organizations of our sisters into existence for the building up and strengthening of his kingdom. I am sure your good brethren, I being among them, love you for the great work you are doing and the integrity of your hearts. We pray for you, we uphold you, we want you to walk in the light and the understanding of the gospel of Jesus Christ. In the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ, Amen. Words Written in White Ida Elaine James Today, the world is chastened. Through quiet snows Upon the streets move common mortals, white With winter's luminous aureole; each goes To find his dream or his despair, each bright With brief, ethereal beauty. The quiet air Is pregnant now with loveliness that sifts Magic alike on aging cheek and hair And heads of children laughing down the drifts. There is no sorrow through a world of slow And muted wonders such as these that bring Pulse to the buried wish of long ago, Strength to forgotten prayer, the blossoming Of light, from out a world of death and frost, To April dreams the heart has somehow lost. New Presiding Bishopric Sustained THE PRESIDING BISHOPRIC Left to right: Bishop Robert L. Simpson; Presiding Bishop John H. Vandenberg; Bishop Victor L. Brown. New Presiding Bishopric was called by the First Presidency and sustained at the 131st Semi-Annual Conference of the Church, September 30, 1961. John H. Vandenberg was sustained to succeed Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin; Robert L. Simpson and Victor L. Brown were chosen as counselors. 'They succeed Bishop Thorpe B. Isaacson and Bishop Carl W. Buehner. As vice-chairman of the Church Building Committee, in charge of finances and clerical work, Bishop Vandenberg has had wide experience in executive and administrative work. He served as a counselor in the Denver Stake Presidency, and as mission president in the same stake. He was for three years a missionary in the Netherlands, and has served in numerous positions in the Priesthood and in Church auxiliary organizations. At the time of his call to be Presiding Bishop, he was a counselor in the Ensign Stake Presidency. Bishop Vandenberg and his wife Rena Stok Vandenberg are the parents of two daughters, Mrs. Lenore V. Mendenhall of Salt Lake City, Utah, and Mrs. Norine V. Francis of Twin Butte, Alberta, Canada. Bishop Simpson recently returned from New Zealand, where he served as mission president for three years. He had previously spent three years in New Zealand as a missionary (1937-1940). Upon his return to his home in California from this mission, he became a member of the Inglewood Ward Bishopric and served as M. I. A. Superintendent in Ingle wood Stake. He is a graduate of Yale University and served as a captain in the Army Air Corps Training Command in World War II. At the time of his call as President of the New Zealand Mission, he was supetvisor in the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company's accounting dePage 8 partment in Inglewood. Bishop Simpson and his wife Jelaire Chandler Simpson have three children, Steven, Christine, and Robert. Bishop Brown is a native of Cardston, Canada. After graduating from the University of Utah, he became associated with United Air Lines, in 1940. He was an executive for this company in Chicago at the time of his call to the Presiding Bishopric. His many Church positions have included ward bishop, member of a stake M. I. A. Presidency, and counselor in the stake presidency while living in Denver, Colorado. Bishop Brown and his wife Lois Kjar, of Salt Lake City, are the parents of five children, Victor, Gerald, Joanne, Patricia, and Stephen. She New Year Viola Ashton Candland What can the new year mean to me? A golden opportunity, A gift of time from God above To grow in wisdom and in love, What can the new year bring to me? A sense of true humility, A love of God, an urge to pray, To draw near unto him each day. What can the new year bring to me? More strength to meet adversity, A lamp of faith to light the way Of loved ones, lest they go astray. I hope the new year lets me see My great responsibility To live and teach the gospel plan And foster brotherhood in man. I hope it has in store for me More tolerance for humanity, More tact to guide the errant youth, More diligence in seeking truth. I pray the new year lets me know The joy that day by day will grow, If I but strive to serve the Lord And hearken to his holy word. I pray that it will bring to me The peace and sweet serenity That comes from knowing God is near To bless me in the coming year. NEW PRESIDING BISHOPRIC SUSTAINED 9 New General Presidency of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association Appointed PRESIDENCY OF THE YOUNG WOMEN'S MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATION Left to right: Mrs. Margaret R. Jackson, First Counselor; Mrs. Florence S. Jacobsen, President; Mrs. Dorothy P. Holt, Second Counselor. New General Presidency of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association was announced at the 131st Semi-Annual General Conference of the Church, September 30, 1961. Named President was Mrs. Florence Smith Jacobsen, with Mrs. Margaret Romney Jackson and Mrs. Dorothy Porter Holt as her Counselors. These officers succeed President Bertha S. Reeder and her Counselors Mrs. Emily H. Bennett and Mrs. LaRue C. Longden. Mrs. Jacobsen has been a member of the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association since 1959, when she returned to Salt Lake City, Utah, after her husband Theodore C. Jacobsen was released as president of the Eastern States Mission. Mrs. Jacobsen has been active in Church work since her girlhood, working in Yalecrest Ward and Bonneville Stake auxiliary positions. She has the distinction of being the granddaughter of two Presidents of the Church — President Joseph F. Smith and President Heber J. Grant. She is the mother of three sons, Steven, Alan, and Heber. Page 10 Mrs. Jackson, wife of Junius M. Jackson, former President of the New England Mission, and now President of the Genealogical Society, has been active in Primary and the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association since an early age. She was appointed to the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association in 1951 and served in that position until her husband was called to the New England Mission in 1955. She is the mother of five children, Richard, Douglas, Marilyn, John, and David. Mrs. Holt has given many years of service to the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. 'Twice she served as a ward president and in recent years she has been teaching the Gleaners and the Mia Maids in the Ensign Fourth Ward, Salt Lake City, Utah. She has received the honorary Golden Gleaner award. Her husband, A. Palmer Holt, served as a counselor for several years in the Ensign Stake Presidency, following his service as a bishop. 'They are the parents of two sons, Robert, who recently received his master's degree at Harvard University, and Thomas A. Holt, a student at the University of Utah; and three daughters, Susan, Janet, and Nancy. First Fall Lael W. Hill They are all said, and silent — The cool green words of rain, Songs warm with summer, September laughter — gone Tum by turn Between the white beginning And the whitening end. Faces are swifter than sight: We may not recognize One April by a smile, Nor eyes of June long-shadowed; Small October kisses Are fallen to timelessness And here is a cold handclasp. Still this moment holds the mind: Now, link of the lost known To not-yet-discovered, Explores its winter cell. And where we turn towards newer years This old one and I part Friends. NEW GENERAL PRESIDENCY OF THE Y. W. M.1. A. APPOINTED 1] Irene Cannon Lloyd Appointed to the General Board of the Relief Society Counselor Louise W. Madsen RENE Cannon Lloyd was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society on November 1, 1961. She brings to this high calling experience in leadership, devotion to the work of the Church, and a fervent testimony of the gospel. Any sketch of Sister Lloyd's life might well include the words of Nephi, "... Having been born of goodly parents, therefore I was taught somewhat in all the learning of my father." She is the daughter of George J. And Lucy Grant Cannon, and a granddaughter of President Heber J. Grant. Her mother is a former General President of the Young Women's Mutual ImprovePage 12 ment Association. In her parents' home she was truly taught the principles of the gospel and there obtained her deep and abiding testimony. Sister Lloyd married E. Thomas Lloyd in the Salt Lake Temple. They are the parents of four children, two boys, one of whom passed away in young manhood, and two daughters. 'Their son, Heber J., is at present serving in the ScotchIrish Mission as _ assistant to President Bernard Brockbank. The daughters are married, Lucy Jane to Captain Don F. Clark, Irene, to Henry Earl Huesser. 'There are seven grandchildren in the family. At the time of her call to the General Board she was serving as the president of Holladay Stake Relief Society, having previously served in this position for three and one-half years, and as a member of the stake board, as well as president of the Relief Society of the First and Fourteenth Wards. She is a talented musician and has used this talent unstintingly in service to the Church. Sister Lloyd is loved and respected by her associates who know her as a dedicated, enthusiastic, whole-hearted worker. She is a very spiritual woman, with a great love for the sisters of the Church who will be well served by her. Ward WV aaitions Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1961 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1961 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and closed August 15, 1961. The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Miranda Snow Walton, El Monte, California, for her poem ""The Other Mother." The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Bernice Burton Holmes, Arcata, California, for her poem "Rain Song." 'The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Eva Willes Wangsgaard, Ogden, Utah, for her poem "Recess — School for the Deaf." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and inspirational leader. The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the General Board of Relief Society, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the General Board. The General Board also reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Mrs. Walton appears for the third time as a winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest; Mrs. Holmes is a first-time winner; and Mrs. Wangsgaard has been a_ winner many times in the contest. There were 203 poems submitted in the 1961 contest. Entries were received from thirty-one States, with the largest number, in order, coming from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, Nevada, and Washington. Entries were also received from Canada, Australia, New Zealand, England, and the Cook Islands. The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. 'The General Board wishes also to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, _together with photographs and _ brief highlights on the prize-winning contestants, are herewith published in this issue of the Magazine. Page 13 Page 14 MIRANDA SNOW WALTON First Prize Poem She Other Mother Miranda Snow Walton No book of Holy Writ records her name; She lived and died unknown, although her son Became a sign for infamy and shame — Judas Iscariot, the evil one. She must have dreamed of him, as mothers do, The months she cherished him before his birth, And watched with pride and gladness as he grew To manhood's stature, great upon the earth. When she beheld him on that blessed day Follow the Holy Man of Galilee, How could she see the cross along his way, A premonition of the pain to be? But when his sin of avarice was paid Its wage of death, what anguish did she know! Surely her soul walked with him, hurt, afraid, Along the tortured trail they both must go. Fain would she have suffered in his stead, Taken his retribution as her own, But in a potter's field her son lay dead By his own hand. She drained her cup alone. She reaches down the corridor of years, She mourns with grieving mothers of all lands; Wherever hearts are broken, bathed with tears For children's sins, her tragic shadow stands. BERNICE BURTON HOLMES Second Prize Poem Rain Song Bernice Burton Holmes I shall miss the rain more than the snow. I shall miss the rain most when I go. The snow is feathery, deep, and white; But the rain will talk to me all the night, The rain will tell what I want to know. I shall miss the rain most when I go. Snow is voiceless and does not talk. Rain will whisper; rain will walk Upon the roof in dark of night; Rain will silver the evening light. I hear the silvery tongues of rain; They talk to me through the windowpane. Far off the thunder, dull, aloof; But rain dances crystal feet on the roof. I have missed the great white shawls of the snow; But I shall miss the rain most when I go. Page 15 Page 16 EVA WILLES WANGSGAARD Third Prize Poem Recess — School for the Deaf Eva Willes Wangsgaard Here children play denied the joy of sounds, Where thunder falls as silently as snow. 'They've never heard the milkman on his rounds, The clink of bottles, hurried steps tiptoe. They cannot hear a hymn or lullaby, A mother's voice wrapped softly round a name, A night train's whistle or a coyote's cry, For town or country silence is the same. The thud of ball on bat, the lilt of laughter Received in silence colorless as frost Are subtle arguments for what comes after, Some heaven where no joy is ever lost, Where man's equality is not belied And heaven grants each child what earth denied. Miranda Snow Walton, in expressing her happiness as @ winner the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, describes the contest as "A goal for me to work fon Now 4 resident of El Monte, California, Mus. Walton was born in the uppet Bear Rivet country of Uintah County, Wyoming. "As a gith I knew all the rigors of soneer life. In 1914 ™Y parents moved to Evanston, Wyoming. I was one of the ten children of Henry Brooks Snow and Anna Danielson. The grandparents on both sides were converts to the Church, ™Y Snow grandparents coming to Utah in 1851. Married James Walton, 4 Rich County, Utah, attomey, and lived 0 Woodruff, Rich County, for many years, where my three children were bom. Later, we lived in Salt Lake City, and now 1 California. J am a member of the North El Monte Ward, West Covina Stake. I have worked in every organization open to women im the Church. Genealogy 18 now my principal interest. While living in Woodruff, 1 was active in the Parent-T eachers Association, Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, and in 4u Club myotk. { was also a stake missionary. My children ate Vivian (Mrs. Delbert Owens ) Jack, and Claude Walton. I have fout grandchildren. At an eatly age | became 1- terested 10 writing poetry and it has been an abiding interest throughout MY Vite." Bernice Burton Holmes was born in Afton, Wyoming, 4 daughter of Arthur F. And Kittie Dixon Burton. She was graduated from the Latter-day Saints University, Salt Lake City, Utah, and received het BS. Degree from the University of Wyoming. She has done post-graduate work at the University of Utah Harvard, and the University of Southern California. While attending the University of Wyoming, ghe received two poctty prizes and was 4 member of Phi Upsilon Omicron, and American College Quill Club. Her poems have appeared wn many poctty magazines and religious pubhiHer husband, Dr. LaMar L. Holmes, teaches at Humboldt State College, Arcata, California, where the family resides. Bart, their eldest son, served a mission in the Central Atlantic States, and is first counselor in the bishopric of Arcata Ward. Trilby is secretary and drama director in the Y MM. LA. In the Centinela Ward, Inglewood, California. Dan is 4 missionary 1 the Central British Mission, and Roget, the youngest son, lS ward clerk in Arcata, and ls attending Humboldt College. Mrs. Holmes has been 4 teacher in the Wyoming schools, and in Utah and California. At present she is teaching in Eureka, California. Her Church work includes much genealogical research, and she has been active in the various auxiliary organizations for many years. Eva Willes W angsgaard, Ogden, Utah, a well-known and gifted poet, and many times 4 winner 0 the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, writes: "J was bom and educated through high school in Lehi, Utah. 1 was graduated from the University of Utah Normal School and taught two years in Lehi. 1 married David W angsgaard and spent We spent twenty summers and two winters in Huntsville, Utah, Mr. Wangsgaard's home town, where he went into the farming and cattle raising business with his two brothers. Three children were born to us: Dee, who earned the rank of captain im World Wat IJ and now has an insurancy agency in Logan, Utah; Reid, who is in the household engineering business 10 Logan, and who served three terms in the Utah State Legislature; and Genee, who is the wife of D. E. Evans, DDS., Smithfield Utah. All of the children are graduates of the Utah State University. There are _— living grandchildren and fout great-grandchildrenMr. Wangsgaard died in 1946. "1 began writing lm 19 6, and have had poems published extensively 0 many maga zines in the United States, Canada, England, and India. 1 received, in 1961, 4 citation, with a hundred dollar award, from The Lyric, long-established, all-poetry magazine in Christianburg, Virginia, for poetry achievement. 1 have had five books of poetry published, as well as many articles and stories." Page 17 Award Winners Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1961 issue of the Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1961. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Mary Ek Knowles, Ogden, Utah, for her story "Ten Dollars Will Buy Many Things." The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Sarah O. Moss, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her story "Splendor Before Dawn." The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Linda S. Fletcher, Tacoma, Washington, for her story "Cheshire Cat." Mrs. Knowles is a third-time winner in this contest; Mrs. Moss is also a winner for the third time; and Mrs. Fletcher is a first-time winner in the story contest. The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open only to Latterday Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1962. Sixty-nine stories were entered in the contest for 1961, with six of the Page 18 entries coming from countries out side the United States, including England, Northern Ireland, Australia, Canada, and Hong Kong. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. 'The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Prize-winning stories are the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. 'The General Board also reserves the right to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories. ~The General Board also acknowledges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee im supervising the contest. Sirst Prize - Winning 5; tory Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Ten Dollars Will Buy Many Things Mary Ek Knowles MARY EK KNOWLES \ ' THEN Sarah Delaney reached "ive bankj there 'were already long lines of people waiting before the four tellers' cages. Her dark eyes quickly counted each line and she chose the one closest because there were two people less. She told the boys: "Sit over there | on those chairs a the wall." | Eddie said, "But, Mama, it's such r big line." He looked up at her, his blue eyes and the shock of red hair that had escaped his helmet hat | making him look so like his father that she had a sudden hurting inside 'sharper than the day Bert died. | "Hurry, Mama," Matt said. "I'm tired." "I know, darling." This was Matt's first day out since he had measles, and his five-year-old face was thin, some of the baby roundness gone. 'There had been the long wait for the bus in the cold, and they still had to walk to the other end of town to buy shoes at CutRate Shoe Emporium. She bent down. "When Miss King drives us home maybe she will stop at Eddie's Diner, if her father isn't too tired." May King was her neighbor. She had told Sarah, "I have to take Dad to the doctor. If you're at the shoe store when I'm done, I'll drive you home." This would be a big break with the weather so bad. "You can each have a twentyfive-cent treat," she told the boys. They hugged her knees. "Oh, boy! Gosh, thanks, Mom." Then Eddie said, "Come on, Matt." She looked after them as they ran for a chair and sat stiffly on the edge. 'They were such wonderful boys. When Bert died eight months ago, ten-year-old Eddie had taken over as man. Of the house. He called for Matt at the nursery every day, and, when Sarah got home from the office, the table: was set for dinner and the kettle was boiling so she could have a cup of hot instant chocolate. Sarah couldn't afford fifty cents for a treat, but the boys had earned it. As she moved slowly along with the line, she looked at her weekly Page 19 paycheck, knowing where each penny of it was going. She had a good future at the law office, and she was going to night school to learn shorthand, but right now they lived from, payday to payday with very little left over. And this paycheck was smaller, because she had had to lay off work for four days and take care of Matt. THE boys had to have good stout shoes. She hoped Cut-Rate could fit them. She finally reached the teller's window. The middleaged teller had sparse hair and his mouth turned down at the corners. He took her check, asked grouchily for identification, then, satisfied, counted out bills, then rechecked and counted again, acting as if his mind was on something else. Then he said shortly, "Next!" Sarah picked up the money, put it carefully in her billfold. "All right, boys," she called. Outside, the snow had turned to a blizzard. She knelt, buttoned Matt's jacket to the top, fastened Eddie's cap under his chin, pulled her knit hat down over her dark hair. Five blocks in this! Maybe she should go to Anderson Shoe. She could telephone May at the doctor's office to meet them there. Then she remembered that the money she saved at Cut-Rate would buy the boys each two pairs of warm stockings. And the shoes were good. It was just that you waited on yourself, and the styles were last-season styles. "Come on," she said. "Let's go." Eddie took hold of her jacket, Matt clung to her hand, and heads down, they walked north. The going was rough, and at the end of the third block, Sarah pulled them into a doorway. Matt was crying, "I'm cold, Mama. Let's go home. I don't want new shoes." She was cold, too. Her car coat had been meant for driving in a warm car. She saw their bus coming and almost weakened, then remembered that it would be a week before she could bring the boys from the suburbs where they lived into the city, and their shoes would not last another week. "We can get through this," she said gaily. "Let's pretend we are on our way to the North Pole, and the first one who gets there can put up the American flag and...." "And the enemy is going to try and beat us there!' Eddie entered into the fantasy. They covered the last two blocks in record time, and then they were in the warmth of the shoe store, and the boys were sitting on chairs, and she was hunting through the racks of shoes. She was in luck and found a sturdy, thick-soled pair of shoes for each of them. Her heart yearned over a pair of overshoes to protect them, but that would have to wait until next month. It was when she went to pay the clerk that she found the extra ten dollars. While the clerk was wrapping the shoes she sat down and counted her money. The shoes were her only purchase, and she'd had only small change to begin with. She remembered how absent-minded the teller had been. He had given her ten dollars too much! "What's the matter, Sarah?" She looked up and May King was standing there, a blue scarf tied over her gray hair. "I have ten dollars more than I should have," Sarah said. "Good for you,' May laughed 20 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 FIRST PRIZE-WINNING STORY shortly. May had been a good neighbor to Sarah. She had been so kind when Matt was sick, sitting with him while Sarah went to the store, but there was a streak of hardness in her. May had never married. She talked constantly of her great romance with a Fred Dallas. She'd had to turn him down because her mother had a stroke, and none of the other brothers and sisters would take the responsibility. And now her eighty-year-old father had to be taken care of. "put, of course, I can't keep it, May," she said. "Why not? The bank has a vault full of ten-dollar bills, and you certainly can use it." That was true. Ten dollars would buy many things. It would buy the overshoes, or she could give Dr. Swanson something extra. He had taken care of Bert during a year's sickness and had waited so patiently for his money. He had four small children. He could use ten dollars, and the bank certainly did have a vault full of money. And then, suddenly, she was a little girl and mother was telling her: "Honesty above all, Sarah. Don't take as much as a straight pin that doesn't belong to you." "Oh, I couldn't keep it, May!" "Why not?" May asked "Because it's not mine, and keeping it would be stealing." She suddenly remembered how cross the teller had been. Maybe he had a reason, a very sick wife or a mortgage note to pay. "The teller would have to pay the money out of his own pocket." "Well, that's his tough luck," 21 May said. Curate." Sarah shook her head. "TI can't keep it. I've got to take it back." "Suit yourself." May shrugged her shoulders. "But I can't wait. Dad's in the car and he's hungry and cross as a bear. But let me tell you, if I hadn't been such a softheaded fool...." She went on and on telling the story May had told so many times before, how she had taken care of her sick parents and Ed and Jack and Shirley had just turned their backs on her, and so Fred had married another girl.... Sarah looked after her neighbor as she walked out of the store, feeling sorry for her. May's father had told Sarah, "Fred was never in love with her. She just imagined it, and she has ruined her life thinking she missed her big chance." "Aren't we going with her?" Eddie asked. "He's paid to be ac- "No, son. I have to go back to the bank." Matt began to cry. "I want a treat." "You'll get your treat, honey," she said. "I promise you." "Don't cry any more, Matt!" Eddie said sternly, but he, too, looked after May's plump figure. The five blocks back to the bank were cold and wet, the wind had risen and the icy pellets of snow peppered their faces, but they finally reached the bank. There was, thank goodness, no line to the middle-aged teller's window and she walked right up to him. She saw the name plate. "Thomas Eddrington." "Mr. Eddrington," she said, "when you cashed my check you made a mistake. You...." "You should always count your money before you leave the window." He shrugged his shoulders. She almost turned on her heel and stalked out. May was right. It was his headache, not hers. Her voice shook. "You gave me ten dollars too much." "Oh...." His face turned red. He hastily counted through the bills in his till, compared the amount with figures on a sheet of paper. "Yes, I am ten short." But he didn't thank her. He almost snatched the bill from her hand. Sarah turned slowly and. Looked at her tired, patient little boys. "Now," she said with a brightness she did not feel, "now for that treat." "Td like a hamburger," Eddie said. "With French begged. In the Elite Lunch, Sarah ordered only root beer for herself, but she couldn't even drink that because she was suddenly nauseated, remembering the way the teller had acted. He could have said, "Thank you." Maybe May was right and she was a big fool. Fries!" Matt HEN they arrived home it was almost dark. She fixed hot chocolate for the boys, read to them, and, finally, they were in bed. There was a knock at the door. It was May. She held out a pan of freshly baked cinnamon buns. "Thought you might enjoy them," she said. Sarah knew it was her way of apologizing for not waiting to drive them home. "Why, thank you," Sarah said. May asked, "Did the teller say, "Thank you, kind, honest lady?' " "No." Disappointment and anger washed over Sarah. "He acted as if it were my fault." "Was he a bald-headed man, sour looking?" May's eyes narrowed. "Thomas Eddrington?" "Why, yes, that was his name." May laughed. "And you dragged your little boys five blocks through a blizzard to give him ten dollars. Thomas Eddrington is a bachelor. He learned to play the stock market, how to invest his money. Why, he owns two buildings downtown. He owns an apartment." "Then why is he working in a bank?" "Because he loves money. He likes to handle it, count it, earn more, even that small salary. Besides he hasn't anything else to do." May added wryly, "He needs that ten dollars like he needs another row of toes! "Listen, Sarah," May said. "You're all alone now, and you've got two boys to support. You have to be a bit more clever, a bit more ruthless than the next guy, or you will get stepped on. Believe me, Sarah, I know. If only I'd told my brothers and sisters, 'Mother and Dad are your responsibility. I'm going to marry the man I love.'" Her neighbor looked so miserable, so unhappy, that, even as upset as Sarah was, she said a little prayer for wisdom to show May that she had served a wonderful, useful life caring for her elderly parents. Tomorrow she must make her see that she was blessed, that she would be more blessed as time went on! "Stop being a sucker," May finished, a gentleness in her voice. After May had gone, Sarah leaned against the closed door and cried quietly, tears sliding down her cheeks. She cried because she 22 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 FIRST PRIZE-WINNING STORY missed Bert's arms around her, because she was afraid of the responsibility of rearing her two sons, because the code by which she had been reared wasn't good any mote. How could she teach them what was right when she didn't know what was right any more! But most of all she cried because she was disillusioned. She had done the right thing, the honest thing, but it had turned out to be a foolish thing. After awhile she stopped crying and went through the automatic movements of finishing the dishes. She heard Matt cough. She went into the bedroom to cover him up. Eddie was asleep, the covers thrown off. She covered him, kissed him lightly on the forehead. He had left his light on. She walked over to turn it off and saw his "Captain's Log," as he called it, open on the stand. ERT had known he was dying. He had spent a lot of time talking to the boys. He had told Eddie, "Being a man is a big job, but it doesn't happen all at once. Each day you learn something that helps you when you are a man." And he had given Eddie a large journal. "This is like a Captain's Log on a ship. Each night the captain writes what has happened during the day, and every night you must write down what you have learned during your day." Toward the end Bert had told Sarah, "I seem to talk in platitudes: 'Good is rewarded — As the twig is bent so the tree grows..." things like that. But there is much I want 23 to teach the boys, and there is so little time left. I don't know if ''m getting through to them." Sarah had never read Eddie's journal. She respected his privacy, but here it was open and her eyes skimmed lightly over what he had written. Systematically he had numbered his day's findings, writing in a careful, childish hand: 1. It takes a long time for the bus to come in winter. 2. New shoes make me feel taller. 3. The hamburger man liked cooking for us. He was happy we ate every bit. Sarah smiled fondly, surprised and pleased that Eddie had had the insight to know that the hamburger man enjoyed watching them eat his cooking. And then she read No. 4, and for a moment the words blurred through her tears. She brushed them away and read again, going sick inside thinking back to the moment when she had almost gone with May, unaware that all she did and said was being taken as gospel because she said and did them. "No. 4," Eddie had written, "If you have something that belongs to someone, take it back, even if you have to walk five blocks and it's snowing and your boys are crying. Because it doesn't belong to you and you have to give it back, even if somebody else says keep it, don't be a sucker." And he had added, capitalizing each word, "Honesty Is The Best Policy." "Amen," Sarah said softly. She closed the journal and walked out of the bedroom, her head held high as befitted one who had been tried and not been found wanting. Note: For a brief biographical sketch of Mary Ek Knowles, see page 37. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL Nations" GREETINGS TO RELIEF SOCIETY: With the dawn of this New Year's day I send greetings to the noble band of Relief Society workers throughout the world. Let forgiveness and charity be our bond. Let love and cleanliness and order rule in every home... Seek to bind your society with hoops of love and union. Let no harsh words pass our lips, nor yet any envious nor unkind thought entcr our hearts.... Be not carried away with vain social pleasures and foolish fashions of the hour. Make yourselves beautiful; be gentle and womanly.... I feel that I have been blest in my labors while ministering to the sick and unfortunate and have experienced much joy in Relief Society work, and I feel to promise similar blessings to those who lovingly and faithfully take up a part of this labor.... —Bathsheba W. Smith President of the Relief Society in all the world. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN SALT LAKE STAKE: President M. I. Horne spoke upon the duties of the Relief Society members. Keep from evil thoughts or actions, pay tithing and attend our meetings.... Sister Annie T. Hyde felt Relief Society work is a sacred responsibility on every officer and member.... President B. W. Smith said she was very young when she became acquainted with the Prophet Joseph; that she had a strong testimony of his mission before she ever saw him and was always anxious to hear him speak.... She was at the organization of the Relief Society.... Sister M. W. Wilcox was acquainted with the Prophet Joseph in Nauvoo, had often heard him speak, —Conference Report ONE WOMAN'S PRAYER Of all the gifts we may enjoy, there's one We most desire; the gift of Love! And then — So loving all Thou hast created — give us Power to help Thee save the souls of men! —Ixion THE NEW YEAR, 1902:... The pioneers who sought out this resting place were not only great in pioneering and colonizing, but they were also in the best and truest sense pioneers for the establishment of truth upon the earth; the builders of Temples and sanctuaries in which to worship God.... And now the children and grandchildren... Are in possession of the fullest freedom and liberty ever enjoyed by any body of people... And let us hope and pray that they may hold it so sacredly, and stand firmly for equity and truth, maintaining the rights bequeathed to them from the fathers... —Editorial UTAH WRITERS:... One of our best prose and poetical writers is Augusta Joyce Crocheron.... She excels where thought is required and elegant expression.... Emily H. Woodmansee is one of the most gifted and inspirational poets of Utah.. Helen Mar Whitney and Lulu Greene Richards are poets, and both are classed among the spiritual and inspirational writers.... —Utah Woman's Press Club Report Page 24 ISS EVA B. ADAMS, a long: time Congressional aide and a former educator, has been appointed Director of the United States Mint. Miss Adams is a native of Wonder, Nevada, and a former dean of women at the University of Nevada. Her new duties will include supervision of the making of coins, the storage of gold and silver bullion, and transportation of bullion. M&s TOBY ELLEN SAKS, of New York City, a nineteenyear-old college student, was recently awarded first prize in the junior division of the third Pablo Casals Cellist competition in Tel Aviv, Israel. Thirty-one cellists, representing many nations, competed, and over 50,000 people attended the concerts. YNN BURKE, who has almost three hundred medals for swimming, has retired from competition. She won two Olympic medals in Rome in 1960, setting a world record of 1:09.3 for the 100-meter backstroke. But she wants to finish college and live a normal life. During the eleven months before the Olympics, she swam 1,300 hours, practicing. "As a swimmer, I'm an old lady at eighteen,' she comments. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MBS. LAVER KNUDSEN MILLARD, a Latter-day Saint, of Reseda, California, is California State Music Chairman for the Parent-Teachers Association, and during the past six years of her direction, the Mothersingers, having more than one thousand singers in the central organization, have presented the music at the California State Parent-Teachers Association Conventions. Mrs. Millard has served on Relief Society and M. I. A. Stake boards and is active in other Church and community organizations. She is the mother of two children, and since her husband died three years ago she has been doing choral work in adult education in Los Angeles County. MB. ARTHUR LAHTINEN, of Fort Lauderdale, Florida, handicapped by polio at the age of three years, was nominated by the Broward County Chapter of the National Foundation as Mother of the Year. The requirement for this honor is being of service (despite a handicap) to self, family, and community. Mrs. Lahtinen is an excellent wife, mother, musician, and laboratory technician. She joined the Church in 1957 and has served as teacher of the literature lessons in Relief Society. Page 25 C— > EDITORIAL 9 VOL 49 JANUARY 1962 She Multitude of the Promises. The people... Did wax strong... And were blessed according to the multitude of the promises which the Lord had made unto them (Fourth Nephi 10-11). OW that a New Year of promise is beginning, we have before us again the precious gifts of life and time. It is well for us to rejoice in our opportunities and our privileges, and to remember the steadfast promises which have been given to those who are willing to become "partakers of the heavenly word." In the book of Fourth Nephi, a scripture of but few words yet adorned with great promises and profound wisdom, we are told of the happiness and the blessings which came to the people during a long period of time in which they held the gospel as a light before them and as a guide for their footsteps... "and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God" (Fourth Nephi 16). Spiritual hope and a measure of spiritual serenity come to us when we realize that the principles of the gospel are eternal. All doctrine and all commandments have been given for our personal direction and for a guide to us in our family relationships, in our activities in the Church, and in our wider responsibilities of truly being the keepers of our brothers and sisters. It is well for us, and it is a source of strength and comfort to know that the more we discipline and develop ourselves and keep our bodies Page 26 and our spirits strong — so, in like measure, shall we be able to strengthen those around us. Not one among us can give to another that which he does not himself possess. Hope and faith and courage may be radiated, beautiful and warm as sunlight, from one who has cultivated well the blossoms of the spirit. As a circle of treasures within the home, each member of the family chastens and polishes his own immortal spirit and lends a glow to all the loved ones. The father in the circle of prayer expresses his gratitude for the household of faith, and the small voices, in different words, uplift themselves and others in prayer. Within the Church, in all its auxiliaries, in each organization, with its particular duties and responsibilities, the individual participant is blessed with spiritual growth, and in his relationship to others he may become indeed his brother's keeper. For a certain period of time, a person may be a learner and a listener within a group, and then he may be called to be a leader, and in both positions there is strength to be given and blessings to be received, in that fellowship of growth and accomplishment which Fourth Nephi speaks of as walking after the commandments "which they had _ received from the Lord." EDITORIAL Relief Society women find joy and fulfillment in strengthening themselves and yielding strength to others. At one time a woman may be a listener in the class; at another time she may be seated with her companions and deftly work her needle through the satin of a quilt; she may be at evening time in the quiet of her home studying the longlasting words of a poet whose work will be the subject of tomorrow's lesson. A Relief Society woman may go forth with her companion on errands of love and solicitude as a visiting teacher; later, the visiting teacher may become a president or a counselor in Relief Society, and 27 will possess the wisdom and devotion which her other callings have developed within her. In each and every calling, she will know that giving and receiving are but different facets of a treasure passed from hand to hand. She will know that spiritual gifts are not for one alone, but are most radiant and glorious when they are shared in the worldwide sisterhood. For us and all the world, the year is new. The commandments and the gospel, the promises, are old and everlasting. 'They are ours to treceive and share as "heirs to the kingdom of God." —V. P. C. Zine. Beginning in February. Color Comes to Znside Pages of the Reliof Society Magazine The Relief Society General Board is happy to announce that color will be introduced in future issues of The Relief Society Magazine beginning in the March issue. The Webb Offset printing press installed by the Deseret News Press makes this possible, but necessitates trimming slightly the margin width of the MagaThe General Board is also pleased to announce that eight additional pages will be added to each issue of the Magazine, Notes TO THE FIELD Award Subscriptions Presented in April HE award subscriptions presented to Magazine representatives for having obtained 75 per cent or more subscriptions to the Magazine in relation to their enrolled Relief Society members, are not awarded until after the stake Magazine representatives' annual reports have been audited. Award cards for these subscriptions for the year 1961 will be mailed to ward and stake Magazine representatives about April 1, 1962. Bound Volumes of 1961 ITlagazines RELIEF Society officers and members who wish to have their 1961 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine.) 'The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.75, leather $4.20, including the index. A limited number of the 1961 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah, for $2 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the lg61 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. She Seacher Linnie Fisher Robinson I spoke his word — His garden grew; The harvest he already knew. Mine were the feet upon the hill, Messengers of his sweet will; I held the light that others see And found that it transfigured me. Page 28 She New March of Dimes George P. Voss Vice-President for Public Relations HE 1962 New March of Dimes campaign opens January 2. Our immediate objective is to intensify the attack on birth defects, arthritis, and polio, and thus achieve, eventually, a higher health standard for all. Although our medical research and scholarship programs are nationally organized, patient aid is given with March of Dimes funds at the community level. Our local chapters are in the course of expanding a bold, new approach to patient aid — a network of Special Treatment Centers and Evaluation Clinics. Through this system we hope to bring highly skilled medical services to areas where they do not now exist. When crippling is an accomplished fact; when a child is paralyzed by a birth defect or polio, or his limbs are knotted by arthritis, he needs Total Medical Care. Research, education, dedication, these are the basic steps. 'Taken one by one, they build up total medical care under the New March of Dimes. Research in laboratories and hospitals is opening the way for development of new medicines and new treatment methods. Grants to students and universities assure that the knowledge that comes from research will be put to use. There can be no grants for dedication, but your willingness to help, to share, sparks the efforts that are bringing new standards of care to the chronically disabled. Say "Yes" to the March of Dimes. Your dimes will do it again! Henn, and Rice Casserole Margaret Knipp 2 c. Diced, cooked ham ¥z c. Chopped onion 24 c. Cooked rice 2 tbsp. Pimento 1 c. Cream of mushroom soup 1 c. Mushroom slices 1 can cream of celery soup (or 1 3-0z. Can) — optional %-% c. Milk bread crumbs ¥ c. Chopped green pepper tbsp. Butter Saute pepper, onion, and mushroom slices in one tablespoon butter (if canned mushrooms are used, just add after draining). Mix soups with milk until well blended. Add pepper, onion, and mushrooms. Butter pan before filling and alternate layers of ham, rice, and soup mix. Finish with soup, and sprinkle with bread crumbs. Bake in 350° oven until bubbly, about 40 minutes, depending on depth of casserole or baking pan. Page 29 Sow the Field With Roses CHAPTER 1 Margery S. Stewart HE was lost. She was lost S somewhere in the Malibu mountains, in country new to her, on terrain inhospitable and bleak. Nina Karsh reined Dominick in, and the mare came to a dancing halt. Nina braced against the jolts and patted the damp mane. Dominick whinnied, pleading to be allowed the reins. Nina rubbed the arching, golden neck. "You are beautiful, Dominick, but you are not clever, and I do not think you know the way back any more than I do." Her voice was pushed against her by the silence. Nina took off her gloves and looked about. There are different ways of being lost, she thought. Within myself I have been lost — since Father died, since Laura and David moved to Milwaukee, and terribly lost since Danny went away. The thought of her nephew made him tise in the brush, a tall and vital mirage. A fox yipped in the underbrush, down in the canyon a heavier body crackled its way. Nina trembled. Who would know if anything happened to her? How vulnerable she was in her loneliness. She looked about. She had been so engrossed in her problems, so busy thinking of Danny and wondering what he was doing, and if he were happy at the medical school, that she must have come miles inland without noticing. She scanned the hills about her. If she could just get to the top of one and find Page 30 a view of the sea. But, with the sun gone down over the midge, it was difficult to tell which way was west. The canyon was narrowing, the hillsides growing more steep. Perhaps she should go back the way she had come, but there had been cross paths here and there. She noticed in the hillside ahead a narrow, twisting path. She coaxed Dominick toward it. Dominick was not eager, but he was amiable. "T shall most certainly buy you," Nina promised, "and you and I will live on that absurd hilltop and make it beautiful for Danny when he comes home this summer. I shall learn to live there," she continued briskly. But at once all her defenses crumbled, as they had a habit of doing, and she found herself crying inwardly, Danny! Danny! Why don't you write? Are you so glad to be gone from me, then? Was it lonely and awful for you all the years of being brought up by an aunt instead of a mother and a father? I tried, oh, Danny, how I tried. The years seized at her, Danny on roller skates, then a bicycle, then the car. Danny with the Mother Goose books, and then the Tarzan books, and the science fiction, and suddenly nothing but the sober tomes of anatomy and science, Latin and German.... "I've decided to be a doctor... As my father was." Fiercely telling her this, as if she SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES would snatch his desire from him. She hadn't wanted to do that at all. She had only wanted to help him achieve his desire. But Danny had gone alone into the world of medicine. He had closed the door between them. He wanted to walk the path by himself, which, after all, was only a normal desire. Only... Only it left her so suddenly empty. She had made Danny her whole life. The earth is treacherous by the sea, given to sudden slides. Dominick plunged on the slipping earth, rocks rattled past them. Nina held the reins lightly. What a dolt she had been to ride so far without thought of where she was going. Dominick climbed up the steep slope, picked her way over a barbed wire fence that had been cut and trampled. Nina sighed with relief as they left the edge of the gully, where the earth crumbled under the horse's hoofs. She took a deep breath and looked, about her, and saw that the sun was almost lost in the sea. It would be dark very soon even here on the hilltop. She saw, _ to her dismay, that she should have climbed the other side of the gully for the great chasm was now between her and the coast. Sound of galloping hoofs. Dominick wheeled in the direction of the sound. Two men rode hard toward them. Against her will and _her quick pride, Nina felt a wave of fear. The men did not look | friendly. | There were two of them. The taller of the pair reached her first. | He was a great, gaunt rock of a man with a carved granite face and 1 extraordinary eyes. The eyes, piercing her own, were gray and chill. | | HE lifted her head to the sudden | | | | 31 His hair, under the dusty black hat, was red, as were the hairs on the backs of his hands. Something familiar in the turn of his face caught Nina. "You are Tomas Novarro?" She looked from him to the wide sweep of land and mountain, gully and plain. "You own all of it.... 1 was just reading...." Novarro swung off his mount and knelt by the trampled fence. He picked up a strand and eyed her accusingly. "You did this?" "Of course not. I wouldn't know how to cut a fence." His aide galloped up and stared suspiciously at Nina. He clambered down from his horse and went to kneel beside Tomas Novarro. 'Together they examined the fence and the ground. "This is the third time, Mr. Novarro." "It was done by a crowd." Tomas Novarro stood up angrily. "Look at their footprints. I think it was part of the rioters at the beach. Boys!" He turned to glare at Nina. "What business do you have up here, anyway? This is private land! Mine!" Nina smiled in what she hoped was a winning way. "I'm lost. I had to climb up from the gully to see where I was." "Where do you live?" he demanded. She was forced to confess, "I'm not terribly sure. I just moved into the house. The agent told me it was one of yours." The two men consulted each other wordlessly. The aide snapped his fingers. "Your grandmother's house." He looked coldly at Nina. "It is a small house," he stated, "with much Bougainvillaea, and a bell?" Nina sighed with relief. > "TExactly." She took up the reins briskly, "Now if you'll tell me what direction to take to get there." Tomas Novarro pointed down the gully. "Go back the way you came, when you reach the road, turn left. After awhile you will recognize your surroundings." "But, Mr. Novarro!" the smaller man was plainly disturbed, "your grandmother's house is only down this plateau a little way. She is right about getting lost in the gully." "Be still, Manuel." Novarro's voice was curt. "This will do two things. It will teach this lady that I meant what I said about trespassers, and it will keep another fence from being cut." Nina sat back on Dominick. "You are joking, Mr. Novarro." Novarro's eyes met hers levelly. "I have little sense of humor, but I do have a strong feeling for what is mine." GHE said coldly, "Let the thought occur to you that it might be dangerous to send me back down the hill. I am not an experienced horsewoman, and I am even less equipped to spend the night in the canyon." "You will be much wiser in the morning... Miss...." "Nina Karsh." "Ah!" Interest leaped into the cold eyes. "You are the nurse whose picture was in the paper." Nina wet her lips. All the brief confidence she had forced into herself vanished. "I am not a nurse....' She had to take a breath. "I am an aide. The whole thing was greatly exaggerated." "Now I know!" Manuel regarded her with warm interest. He lapsed into a furious Spanish. "Tt wasn't true... What the papers said." Nina leaned forward, the familiar helplessness engulfing her. "I wasn't out of my mind... It was the nurse who was hysterical." Tomas regarded her with a calm, searching scrutiny. "But you did thrust her into the closet and lock the door. You did leave her there?" Nina felt ill. He phrased it so badly. I suppose it will go on as long as I live, she thought, people hearing the story and looking at me and wondering.... She said fiercely to herself, I will not try to defend myself again ever... No one believes me. "T left her there," she said aloud. | She lifted her head. "I am or rather I was... An aide.... I was to take the child to surgery. When I went into the room the nurse, Miss Pincus, was trying to give her a shot } —the little girl fought it, and Miss Pincus became hysterical...." She looked at their faces, which revealed nothing. "We had had a long outbreak of flu. Miss Pincus had been on duty double shift, and was tired and upset. It wasn't really her fault. I meant to go back and unlock the door and... And help her. But it was too late. Miss Pincus said I... Had suddenly done this... They believed her." A thin smile pulled at the corner of Novarro's mouth, "And for this humanitarian gesture they discharged you?" "I had taken matters into my own hands. I had taken the child to the sun room to talk to her and quiet her before I took her upstairs. I... Was... Insubordinate... But the newspapers decided to make something of it." Manuel listened intently. He said oo neha 32 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES in English, "My cousin Donna says this lady is a painter, with many canvases and much colors." Nina moved uneasily on the restless back of Dominick. It was absurd the whole thing, sitting here, waiting for the tall man's judgment. Why didn't she go? She could move in the morning. But the mere thought made her limp. The little house, on its lonely hill, had seemed sanctuary and haven. She could not bear to go.. It was a place where she could paint and hide... Yes hide, until the wounds were healed. She lifted her chin. After all, what could this Tomas Novarro do to her? She had paid her rent for months in advance. She had signed the option that said she could, if she wished, purchase the little house. So why should she be leaning over Dominick's golden neck, tense and anxious, for the tall man's verdict? OMAS Novarro lifted his head. His face had changed. It had grown almost warm, almost gentle. "Follow me. I'll take you to your house. Manuel, ride ahead and cut the fence for her." "Oh, thank you." Gladly she turned her horse at his gesture and trode after him. Novarro reined in his horse. "You come from the East?" "Yes. My father was ill. We had just lost my sister and her husband in an accident, I had their little boy, Danny, to rear. This climate has been very kind to us." "Your father?" "He died... And Danny is a grown young man, he's gone East to medical school." She bit her lip. "Danny was... Is... A wonderful person. I miss him very much." 33 "You are not married?" Her patience was at an end. "No," she said curtly and galloped ahead after the disappearing figure of Manuel, What right did this man have to ask all these questions? Did he expect her to turn and _ say, "Yes, once there was a boy I loved... Very much. But when my sister and her husband were killed, when my father's health failed, when Danny cried in loneliness and fear, I could not leave them, and the boy could not wait." She looked about her at the fast darkening hills. The pain had never gone away. 'The years had made no difference to that first and tertible loss. Tomas Novarro galloped up. "Was it important to you... The child's crying? After all, she was a stranger to you? Why didn't you pass by? You could have returned after a discreet interval." Nina regarded him steadily. "I am thirty-nine years old," she said, "and that is a nice distance into maturity. I have learned many things, but not yet to be a bystander where a child is involved. Tim sorry... 27 "Thank you, Miss Karsh." He pointed down the hill. "There is your house, and Manuel has cut the fence." Nina slowed down to a walk. "It must be wonderful to own so much." Novarro gave her a brief smile. "All this has been my people's for a very long time. It was one of the first great Spanish land grants. My father lost most of it. My mother never quite forgave him for that." "Nor have you," she said and bit her lip. His face darkened. "I have made up for it. I have lands in Mexico and in 'Texas and in Canada. No one will take anything of mine away from me." Nina looked at his red hair. "Not all your people were Spanish." "My mother was English. She had pale hair, like yours, but her eyes were brown, not blue, like yours... She had a beautiful skin." "T freckle easily," Nina said, burning under his glance. She got down from Dominick and led him around the barbed wire. But when she would have mounted him again, she found herself without a stump or a rock to stand upon and she was too short to reach the saddle. Novarro came to her, dismounted, and held out his hands. "No thank you." She was furious at the prim sound of her voice on the dark evening air. "Nonsense." He took her in his arms and lifted her into the saddle. "You are a very thorny young woman, Miss Karsh." He was laughing at her. For one long angry moment Nina fought the impulse to lean down and strike the smile from his face. "Good day, Mr. Novarro." "Goodbye, Miss Karsh. It has been most interesting." Arrogant, horrible, impudent man! Nina breathed other descriptions under her breath as she unsaddled Dominick and locked the gate of his small corral. HE walked slowly toward the darkened house. How beautiful it was here in this fast darkening night. The wind was making a song of its own in the chinaberry tree and the jasmine at the corner of the house mingled its heady fragtrance with the orange blossoms, waxy and new, on the small bright tree. The long, pillared porch, with its ancient wicker furniture welcomed her. She touched the chairs in passing. Had 'Tomas Novarro's grandmother sat here in the long spring evenings, watching the lights spring up in the houses, far down in the valley, listening to the wild things moving in the thicket? A great bell hung in the last arch. Nina moved her hand lightly on the cold surface. 'The agent had hinted at some romantic reason for the bell, but grim realism had pointed out the necessity for such a bell in a region so lonely and so prone to fires. Nina swung the bell a little. She had never heard its tone. So large a bell would make a ringing that would bring the canyon people for miles around. She went into the house, turned on the lamps. That was the worst of living alone, coming home to darkness and to shadows that whispered and_ stirred. 'There was always a tense moment of standing still when the lights were lit, until a quick peering into corners gave the feeling that all was well. The living room was long and narrow, with a great stone fireplace at the far end. Nina went to it, gladly took a match from its box and lighted the shavings under the logs. The fire leaped up. The room became rich with gilding light and flame. In the small kitchen Nina made herself a bowl of bread and milk. She brought the frugal meal back to the hearth. She sat in silence and ate. It had been a long day. And a strange one. How Danny would have listened while she told 34 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES him about it. She missed him so much. But soon he would be here. All summer long his whistle would plague the mockingbirds. He would be delighted with Dominick. ON impulse she put aside her bowl and went out of the house, down the long, dark, winding path to the road where the mailbox stood. He had not written in weeks, but when she thrust her fingers into the box she was at once rewarded with the rustling of an envelope. She raced back to the house. 'The letter was from Danny. How foolish she had been to fret and worry. She tore open the envelope and read the hasty lines. You would love Joan, Aunt Nina. She is so tall and beautiful. Her people have lived in Philadelphia since Benjamin Franklin, and the way they talk, you would think he was still alive. So we're going to be married, at the end of June.... Invitation on its way.... So we'll live here. Her-uncle is in pediatrics, and I rather think that will be my line.... He seems to want me to go in with him, and he is getting on in years.... Nina let the paper drift to the floor. The fire had settled down to softly flaring ashes. She stared into them. Face yourself. Someone had said that about agonies. Nina walked woodenly to the long mirror by the door. Her pale hair, as that man, Mr. Novarro, had described it, was bright around her face. Her blue eyes looked back blankly; the freckles were very clear in her pale face. She was thin and not beautiful as women were beau- 35 tiful today. She was too slight... Too understated... People had difficulty remembering her name. 'That was why they had looked at her askance in the hospital. She did not look like a woman who would do a rash, impulsive thing. She had nothing of talent... Well, perhaps her painting. She looked at the canvases on the wall. Were they good? Were they bad? Her father and Danny had been loudly approving, but she had not summoned courage to display them. Once she had read that when a door closes it is then that another door might open. But since Danny had gone, there had been only a succession of quietly closing doors. She had not known how wide a world he had given her. Nina looked around the room curiously. It was all in perfect order. Then why did she have the impression of ruins about her feet? Why was there suddenly terror in the sound of the wind and the falling pods from the eucalyptus tree? Where does a woman go, when there is no place to go? What does she do with the empty years, when she is no longer important to those she loves? Suddenly through the house rang the imperious summons of the great brass knocker on the ancient heavy door. Nina stood frozen, waiting for the sound to repeat itself, trying to envision the hand that lifted the knocker at this late and lonely hour. (To be continued ) tlomamade Candy for Winter Evenings Caroline Layton Naylor Date Roti 1 Ib. Pkg. Fresh dates 1 c. Chopped walnuts 1 Ib. Pkg. Marshmallows 1 small pkg. Nabiscoes 1 pkg. Coconut Put dates, marshmallows, and coconut through food chopper. Add walnuts to mixture. Roll out in long roll and cover with crushed Nabiscoes. Wrap in wax paper and put in refrigerator until firm and chilled. Cut and serve. PRALINES 2 c. White sugar pinch of salt 1 tsp. Baking soda 2 tbsp. Butter 1 c. Buttermilk 2 ¢. Pecans or peanuts Mix together in large boiling pan. Cook briskly, stirring frequently to prevent burning. Cook 210° F. Stir in two tablespoons of butter. Stir continuously to 230° and remove from heat. Cool slightly. Beat until thick and creamy. Add nuts, stir, and drop from spoon onto wax paper. Boston CREAMS 4 ¢. Sugar pinch of salt 3c. Milk: nut meats Put one cup of sugar into large (deep) boiling pan. Heat slowly, stirring constantly, until the sugar is melted and turns a light brown color. Remove from heat and slowly add one cup of milk. This will form a hard brittle mixture. Place back over heat. Stir until mixture is melted and boiling. Add one cup of sugar, melt, and boil. Add one more cup of milk. Add one more cup of sugar and one more cup of milk, boil, and add last cup of sugar and boil to 240° F. Be sure to start and end with one cup of sugar. Remove from heat and cool for half an hour, then place in refrigerator until mixture is cold. Beat while cold and add nut meats if desired. Roll into long rolls and wrap in wax paper. If necessary mold with butter or cream. CHOCOLATE FupGE 4 ¢. Sugar 1 tbsp. Vanilla 1% e. Milk vO pinch of salt 4 tbsp. Cocoa. 1 piece of butter 4 tbsp. Corn syrup Mix sugar, milk, cocoa, corn syrup, vanilla, and salt well until sugar dissolves. Then heat and cook fast, stirring constantly until mixture reaches 240° F. Remove from heat and add a small piece of butter. Do not stir in. Cool for half an hour, then place in refrigerator until cold. Beat until creamy and roll in wax paper. Page 36 Leota Murphy Makes Rugs of Unique Design oe Murphy, Hayden, Arizona, has developed artistic skill in making rugs from discarded clothing. One style is made with a special crooked needle with which thousands of woolen strips (cut on the bias) are crocheted together with a hidden warp that runs through the center of each strip. Another type is made from cotton strips woven on a loom. In addition to rugs, Mrs. Murphy fashions beautiful quilt tops from sewing remnants. Her fame has traveled far, and many people collect and send her material for her work. Her durable and attractive rugs and quilts grace the homes of many friends and relatives. Mrs. Murphy was born in West Virginia, and later lived in Iowa, where she heard the gospel message and was converted to the Church. Her life is an example of thrift, industry, kindness to neighbors and friends, and love of God. << Mary Ek Knowles, Ogden, Utah, has won much recognition for her short stories. She is a member of the Blue Quill, a writers club of Ogden, and has served several times as president of the State organization League of Utah Writers. In a brief sketch of her life and activities, she tells us: "I was born in McGill, Nevada, but reared in Salt Lake City, Utah. I have a wonderful husband, Rowland, and three grown children: Janet, Ernest, and Larry; a handsome new grandson, Stuart, and a beautiful new granddaughter, Teressa Ann. My eighty-two-year-old father, Alma Ek, lives in Merced, California. "I have always been interested in writing, and have had stories published in American Magazine, Cosmopolitan, Today's Woman, Chatelaine, Toronto Star Weekly, and such teligious publications as The Improvement Era, The Relief Society Magazine, and Extension. Many of my stories have been reprinted in foreign countries. I am pleased that my story "Ten Dollars Will Buy Many Things" won recognition, because I believe so devoutly in the theme. I served as literature class leader in the Ogden Twenty-third Ward for seven and a half years." Page 37 Because of the Word Cuapier 6 (Conclusion) Hazel M UTH lay on the bed and wept for a long time. Alone! Here in Kirtland on the edge of nowhere, the baby almost due, and Vic gone! And living among people, most of whom she still considered strangers. At last, her fury spent at Vic for being able to even think of leaving her now, she sat up and looked dully around the tiny room. The house! That was it! With Vic gone she could negotiate openly and even be moved in the new house when he returned. She slid heavily from the bed, walked to the washstand and poured cold water from the pitcher. She splashed it again and again over her swollen eyes. Inwardly, she knew that this was her way of repaying Vic for what she felt to be gross inconsideration. With everyone else giving their all for the temple, or to build up Zion in Missouri, he would be more embarrassed at her buying the house right now than he was when she wore a different kind of dress to church. Ruth put on her bonnet and started for the temple lot. This was where she would find Mr. Smathers who owned the house. She saw Mary out in the yard as she passed, but did not stop to chat. She remembered talking to Vic about Mr. Smathers, old and crippled with rheumatism, when Vic had mentioned the pain the old man suffered. "Why doesn't Joseph or someone Page 38. Thomson send him home where he belongs?" Ruth had asked. "And break an old man's heart?" Vic had answered. "This isn't just a building to him, Ruth. It is the temple of God. He has said many times that it is the greatest privilege of his life just to work on it." "You're always saying how they need every able-bodied man they can get. I have no quarrel with that," Ruth had continued, "but anyone can see that he certainly isn't able-bodied." "He can stand guard as well as anyone," Vic had answered quietly. "Someone has to, or the actions of the mob right here in Kirtland would prevent the temple's ever being completed. Besides, he gives invaluable advice on how to build it, from his long experience. He has a new idea for finishing the outside." Ruth could see the old man as she drew near, seated near the front of the building, working with hammer and chisel on the great pile of stone. His gun lay nearby. S the Prophet had said, the work was going forward, though Ruth could see that the working force was much smaller than usual. Strange, how in her own mind, she always referred to Joseph as the Prophet, just as Vic did. Mr. Smathers recognized her at once and knew also why she had come, from their previous conversations, BECAUSE OF THE WORD "Mrs. Hall,' he said, reaching out his hand, the fingers drawn for. Ward by years of pain. "You want to know about the house, I reckon. Well, it's still for sale. That little one of yours will suit me better anyway, since my wife has gone on. I'd be right proud at my age to be able to make a sizable contribution in money to the temple. I work every day all nght, but no use fooling myself about how much work I can do." "Oh, Mr. Smathers," said Ruth, "you make me so happy. I'll love having your house, and I'll take care of it just as your wife would have." "T'm sure of that, and, because I am, I can sell the house. You see, I built it just as my wife wanted, and it was only finished a few short years before she died." 'The old man was silent for a moment, a faraway look clouding his eyes, then he said, "When would you like to move in? Not until Brother Hall gets back, I suppose?" "That's just it," said Ruth. "T want to surprise him." "But, Ma'am," said Mr. Smathers shyly, "you — you're in no condition to be doing a lot of heavy work, if you'll excuse me for saying it." Ruth smiled. "That's true, but since it is all right with you, I will see if I can get enough help to manage it. The money is ready anytime." Then she looked again at the temple. "The work keeps right on," said Ruth, "even though so many men did go on the expedition." "Yes," said Mr. Smathers, rising stiffly to his feet. "Come inside and see how much progress has been made." 39 Ruth followed the old man, stepping carefully among the bits of smaller stone that lay on the ground. 'They stood inside the great rectangular structure, the bright May sky brilliant above them. In one corner near the door, Ruth noticed a pile of dishes, some whole, some broken odds and ends, on a piece of canvas. "What is curiously. "We're asking the sisters to give pieces of china that they can spare. It will be made into a fine dust and added to the final outer coating of plaster. I saw it done once. Made the building glisten as if it were set with jewels when the sun hit it." "How very interesting," said Ruth. "Vic told me that you knew many things about building. Well, I must be going now. I'll see what I can do and talk to you again in a few days." Trying to find an available wagon and team and a man who had time to move her belongings was more of a task than Ruth had counted on. The expedition had taken at least twenty teams, besides many other horses. Other than those busy hauling materials for the temple, there did not seem to be any other horses in all of Kirtland. Mary was busy in preparations for her wedding planned for August. The two girls spent many afternoons together, sewing either on something for Mary or clothes' for the temple workers. Her days passed pleasantly enough, but many times in the night Ruth awoke, trembling with fear at nightmarish dreams, with Vic himself in the hands of the mob. Sometimes, Ruth found herself that?" she asked unable to sleep, lighting the lamp and reading the book far into the moming hours. If she only read long enough, she told herself, she would invariably doze off. Ruth knew the Bible fairly well, and as she read of Christ's visit and teachings to the Nephites her soul thrilled with the similarity and beauty of his words. BY July, she began to look daily for Vic's return. One rainy afternoon, which Mary as_ usual spent with her, realizing the nearness of Ruth's time, Ruth insisted on beginning to pack in preparation for moving into her new home. "But, Ruth, you mustn't," protested Mary. "But I must," answered Ruth. "If Vic gets back and hears what I have done, he likely will refuse to move at all. If the weather stays bad, I'm sure I can get someone to come and help for a day." Ruth knew she felt unusually tired, as Mary prepared to leave for the night. "T hate leaving you alone tonight. Perhaps I should stay." "T really don't feel like myself, Mary. I...." A bright flash of lightning cut through the room, followed by an earth-shaking clap of thunder, drowning out Ruth's words. In the brightness of the flash, Ruth's face was contorted with pain. "This is it, Mary!' she cried. "Run for Mrs. Hunter! Hurry!" But this was not it, at least not until after many pain-filled, weary hours had passed. During an interval between pains, Ruth asked Mary to read something to her from the book. The words came to her vividly and clearly. And now, as I said unto you, that because ye were compelled to be humble ye were blessed, do ye not suppose that they are more blessed who truly humble themselves because of the word?... Therefore, blessed are they who humble themselves without being compelled to be humble; or rather, in other words, blessed is he that believeth in the word of God, and is baptized without stubbornness of higam,... Ruth felt the force of the message more strongly than even the pain that encompassed her. It was enough. At last she knew the truth. HEN Ruth awoke, the sun was high and Mrs. Hunter was leaning over her bed. "Sister Hall! Sister Hall! You're going to be all right! You have a wonderful, beautiful son." Vic's baby. And it was a boy. It meant something that her first thought had been for his happiness rather than just her own. This was what Vic himself would have done. All this time she had been fighting the very part of him that had first made him so dear, his ability to set his own affairs aside in the interest of others, his kindness, his thoughtful consideration. Through the open door, Ruth could hear the low voices of several women. Word had been passed along and she knew that they had come from their sleep, willing and eager to be of help. She could smell something cooking and realized how good a bowl of broth would taste. Then Mrs. Hunter returned to the room and placed the baby by Ruth on the bed. Looking for the first time at her son, it seemed that 40 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 BECAUSE OF THE WORD all the events of her life had been aimed at this moment of fulfillment. During the time she was regaining her strength, Ruth wondered often how she could ever have thought of the women of Kirtland as strangers. 'They took complete charge of her, the baby, and the house, and the feeling among them made Ruth realize that when they called each other "sister," they meant it, indeed. It seemed that nearly everyone in the village called. Ruth was not surprised when even Mr. Smathers arrived to get a glimpse of the new baby. "T wanted to see you, Mr. Smathers," she said, taking the gnarled, old hand. "T suppose you will be more anxious than ever to get into the house," he said. "Mighty fine baby, Mrs. Hall." "That's just what I wanted to talk to you about. Mr. Smathers, I know you dislike the thoughts of leaving your house. I have decided not to buy it." "But I do want to make a contribution, and I have no cash nor can I see any way to raise some right now," protested the old man. "The contribution will be made," said Ruth, "and partly in your name. No, don't try to stop me. Seeing your faith has given me something more precious than all the houses in the world. Vic was right when he said yours was truly a faith like that of the ancients." Ruth prevailed upon Mr. Smathers to take care of the transaction and noticed how proud he looked as he limped away from the little house. She knew that Vic's satis- 4] faction in what she had done would be not a shade less than her own happiness. Still, the past weighed heavily upon Ruth. She felt so unworthy of this peace and well-being that filled her soul, even in her desperate loneliness for Vic. She had entrusted him to the care of her Father in heaven and had relaxed her worry for his safety. Vic had given all that he could, his time, his efforts, and had borne her taunts and reproaches without complaint, doing what he knew he must. 'The desire to make further compensation grew strong within her, yet what more had she to offer? Then an idea came to her. T was on the first afternoon that the sisters who had become so dear to her, finally agreed to leave her alone, that Ruth had a chance to put her plan into action. She found an old piece of wagon cover which she spread out on the table. Then she walked out in the yard and picked up a rock. No use looking for a hammer. Vic had long since taken every tool they had to the temple lot. Inside again, she reached the dishes down from the top shelf. Working quickly, she pounded one piece of the china and then another into fragments, feeling a severing of her former intense desires with each blow. So engrossed was she in the task that she failed to hear Vic's footsteps until he spoke. "Ruth!" he cried, clasping her hard by the shoulders. "Ruth! Whatever are you doing? Have you lost your mind?" "Lost it, Vic? No, I haven't lost it. I've found it! I have found, at last, the testimony you have been praying for." Vic turned her slowly toward him and she heard him catch his breath. "Ruth! The baby...." "Asleep in the bedroom," she said, smiling up at him. "He's a little copy of his father." "A son! We havea son!" Ruth saw the wonder and the love in his eyes. "Ruth, Ruth, and I left you to bear it all alone." "T wasn't alone, Vic. Not by any means. I never knew how kind people could be. You must never blame yourself for going, Vic. I have only now begun to realize what it cost you to go. But, come. See your son." Together they looked down at the sleeping babe. Vic reached out his hand and touched the tiny fist. The fingers closed around one of his. Ruth watched Vic, his face glowing with happiness. At last she said, "Come on. Get a rock and help me pound up the rest of the dishes. You must take them to Brother Smathers up at the temple to use for the walls. If we hurry there may still be time for me to be baptized before it gets dark." Ki ootsteps Catherine B. Bowles "Hold up my goings in thy paths, that my footsteps slip not" (Psalms 17:5). Footsteps, footsteps, here and there Searching, hunting everywhere — In the wood, through the heather, Facing sun or stormy weather. Some lead over the rocky ridge, In dark places where the light Dims the way, obscures the sight; Missing flowers along the way, Singing birds, the sun's bright ray, Gentle clasp of friendship's hand And many beauties of the land. Footsteps, footsteps, lead aright, Walk in paths that bring delight. Let our footsteps ever be A pathway to eternity. 42 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph aubmitted by Telimne, G. Maloy MOUNT GRAHAM STAKE (ARIZONA) VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION April 14, 1961 Thelma G. Maloy, former president, Mount Graham Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Mount Graham Stake Visiting Teacher Convention was held April 14, 1961. We had two hundred in attendance. We have three hundred visiting teachers in our stake and feel that we had a very good attendance, as our wards are so scattered and there are long distances to travel. "The program 'Messengers of Love and Service' was presented. We had thirteen visiting teachers dressed in costumes representing eleven countries and other localities: Mexico, Japan, Scotland, Denmark, England, Argentina, Switzerland, Holland, Indians, Sweden, the Islands, Germany, and France. The program was enjoyed by all, and these visiting teachers radiated love for their work, even though they traveled a long way to attend." Millie Kelly is the present president of Mount Graham Stake Relief Society. Page 43 44 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 Photograph submitted by Marian Mathewson NYSSA STAKE (OREGON) PRESENTS CHORAL PAGEANT "VISITING TEACHERS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD" AT VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION Marian Mathewson, President, Nyssa Stake Relief Society reports: 'An outstanding feature of the Nyssa Stake annual visiting teacher convention was a choral pageant depicting the theme 'Visiting Teachers Throughout the World.' As the women came down the chapel aisle, two by two, dressed in native costume, a choral narration about the country represented was given to appropriate background music. Fourteen countries were thus represented. Pictured above are the women participating in this pageant. At this convention we honored the ward having the highest attendance at the convention, as well as the oldest and youngest teachers present." submitted by G avs Wilson Photograp NEBO STAKE (UTAH), PAYSON FOURTH WARD ACHIEVES ONE HUNDRED PER CENT ATTENDANCE AT VISITING TEACHER MEETING ~ April 1961 Front row, seated, left to right: Ramona Schaerrer, May Kapple; Alpha Balle; Audry Rasmussen; Tessie Drissell; Alta Coombs, Secretary-Treasurer; Alice Robertson, President; June Fullmer, Education Counselor; Ruby Cheever, Work Director Counselor; Mary Nielson; Margaret Cloward; Leah Francom, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 45 Second row, standing, left to right: Eva Crook; Ila McKinnen; Ethel Smith; Eva Hendricksen; Della Chatwin; Lucille Allen; Pearl Graves; Alice Schwab; Eva Garner; Wilma Smith; Fanny McClellan; Nelda Herbert; Sarah Grant, Laura Cloward. Third row, standing, left to nght: Mamie Curtis; Maida Hardy; Betty Mower; Rhea McBeth; Burl Provstgaard; Zola Dixon; Arcola DeWitt; Anna Reynolds; Elaine Martin; LaVonda Anderson; Martha Chard; Bertha Jones; Permelia Mayer; Karine Carter. Not present when the picture was taken: Florence Mitchell, Cora Montague, and Nancy Provstgaard. Gladys Wilson, President, Nebo Stake Relief Society, reports: "The presidency of Nebo Stake Relief Society encouraged the eight wards of our stake to make a special effort in April for one hundred per cent of the visiting teachers to attend the visiting teacher meeting. All wards put forth a special effort. We were very happy with the result. Three wards had every visiting teacher present who was physically able to attend. The Fourth Ward had one hundred per cent attendance. "The entire stake benefited by raising the attendance considerably, not only on that day, but also at the visiting teacher meeting the following month. In appreciation for their splendid acceptance of the challenge put to them, the presidency presented the four wards achieving the highest percentage present a picture of the visiting teachers, framed, to hang in their Relief Society room. Photograph submitted by Vida H. Curry LAS VEGAS NORTH STAKE PRESIDENCY AND RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY AT THE VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION May 13, 1961 Standing, left to right: Mary Worthen and Na Gustin, Counselors; Vida H. Curry, President, Las Vegas North Stake Relief Society; William Taylor, President, Las Vegas North Stake; Sam Davis and Arden Sampson, Counselors. Sister Curry: reports that the program for the visiting teacher convention consisted of an address by President Taylor, skits by members of the various wards, the film, "Unto the Least of These," and a tribute to visiting teachers written by Mrs. Lamar Leavitt. A fine group of visiting teachers from each ward attended the convention, and after the program a luncheon was served. "We have one hundred per cent visiting teaching in our stake since we were organized in November 1960, and we hope to continue this record." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 pease: nA eaeeeael —- Photograph submitted by Barbara C. Taylor SOUTHERN FAR EAST MISSION, TRILDISTRICT SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC AT CONFERENCE, July 15, 1961 Barbara C. Taylor, President, Southern Far East Mission Relief Society, reports the completion of a very successful T'r-District Conference held in the Hong Kong area. Of the four-day conference, one of the highlights was the Relief Society session held on the evening of July 15, 1961. Relief Society sisters from the three member districts in Hong Kong met together in a well-planned and very inspirational meeting, which was well received by the seventy sisters and friends present. One of the fine points of the program was the music presented by the Singing Mothers. Many of this group are not mothers, and some of them are not married, but because of the en; thusiastic attitude and the desire to serve, the sisters joined in the chorus. The mission chorister is Nora Koot. Al a Photograph submitted by Cacia F. Margetts WELLS STAKE (UTAH), WILSON WARD VISITING TEACHERS COMPLETE FOURTEEN YEARS OF ONE HUNDRED PER CENT VISITING TEACHINC Cacia F. Margetts, former president, Wells Stake Relief Society, reports: "Th Wilson Ward was organized in May 1946, at which time Verda Pyper (fourth fron the left on the first row) was sustained as president, with Ellen Kiser as first counseloi Stella Hansen, second counselor, and Florence Webb (seventh from the left on th) first row) as secretary-treasurer, and Eliza English (fourth from the right on the firs row) as visiting teacher message leader. "The importance of the visiting teacher meeting and the privilege of entering th homes was greatly stressed. Because of the enthusiastic and untiring. Efforts of Edit) _ _ NOTES FROM THE FIELD 47 Koelliker (fifth from the left on the first row), who was appointed supervisor over all Visiting teachers, seven years of a one hundred per cent record was achieved. Sister Koelliker was then released as supervisor and sustained as Magazine representative on, the stake board, but continued on as a visiting teacher. "In 1954 a change in Wilson Ward Relief Society presidency was made, and Ada Clark (fourth from the left on the second row) was sustained as president, with Lucile Seaman (seventh from the left on the second row) as visiting teacher message __ Teader, and Florence Webb, supervisor, and five more years of one hundred per cent visiting teaching was achieved. | "The third president (1958), Sadie Loveless, who had been a counselor and also served for one year on the stake board, was sustained, with Elly Tron (fourth from the left on the third row) as visiting teacher message leader, and Edna Frenette (third from the left on the second row) as supervisor. All sisters mentioned are still serving as visiting teachers in this ward. "Belvedere Second Ward and Waterloo Ward have completed six years of one hundred per cent visiting teaching." Veda Black Askew is the new president of Wells Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Blanche George MILLARD STAKE (UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED FOR PERFECT ATTENDANCE, May 1961 Front row, seated, left to right: Ruth Bennett; Ada Stewart; Betty Rasmussen; Thelma Wilcox; Mary Jane Paxton; Sarah Stringham; Jennette Robison; Blanche Swal-. Low; Florence Beeston. Back row, standing, left to right: Blanche George, President, Millard Stake Relief | Society; Lula Gull; Sylvia Jensen; Beth Crosland; Lillian Rogers; Edna Hogan; Ruth | Mary Brower; Rebecca McKibbon; Zella Allen; Gloria Tompkinson; Elda Whitaker; Irene Paxton; Gladys Warner; Mae Davies. Not present when the picture was taken: Georgia Day, Jane Christensen, Violet | Greenhalgh, and Grace Staples. | Sister George reports: "Twenty-six visiting teachers were especially honored at our | visiting teacher convention for their one hundred per cent attendance at visiting teacher | meetings during the past year. The program consisted of two short plays on visiting teaching, musical numbers from the stake Singing Mothers, and a talk by the stake | Visiting teacher message leader. Special recognition was given to those sisters having |a one hundred per cent attendance at visiting teacher meetings. Refreshments were, Served." 48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 Am wal ¥ rhe ra T. Loveland WEST BOISE STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 7, 1961 Photograph submitted by Elno Front row, seated, left to right, beginning third from the right: Elnora T. Loveland, former president, West Boise Stake Relief Society; LaRue Campbell, chorister; Marguerite K. Ward, First Counselor. Geneva I. Peterson, Second Counselor, was absent when the picture was taken; gtganist Karma R. Echols was also absent. Sister Loveland reports: "These sisters sang 'Come, Ye Blessed of My Father' by Florence J. Madsen, and 'God Is Ever Beside Me,' and they were most beautiful. President D. Keith Ricks expressed his appreciation and the sentiments of all present, when he commented on the beauty of the renditions." Afton A. Ellison is the new president of West Boise Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Dessie W. Thomas NEW JERSEY STAKE SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, June 18, 1961 Alma Williams, chorister, stands at the left in the front row (in dark dress); La: verne Robertson, accompanist, is seated at the organ. Dessie W. Thomas, President, New Jersey Stake Relief Society, reports: "The New Jersey Stake Singing Mothers made their first appearance on June 18, 1961, as they furnished the music for stake quarterly conference. New Jersey Stake was organized in 1960, with Dessie W. Thomas as president of the Relief Society, with Anna M Davies as education counselor, Phyllis B. Daniels, work meeting counselor, and Adel Ray Koziar, as secretary-treasurer." | i NOTES FROM THE FIELD 49 ES 3 ae Photograph submitted by Luella M. Buch RIVERSIDE STAKE (UTAH) ELDERLY VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION, June 2, 1961 Front row, seated, left to right: Amelia Jones, eighty-four; Janet Bridge, eightythree; Alzina Whitehead, eighty-two. Back row, standing, left to right: Elvina Holt, eighty-five; Sarah Harman, ninety; Hannah Jones, eighty-three. Daphne Hartle, seventy-eight, was not present when the picture was taken. Luella M. Buchi, President, Riverside Stake Relief Society, reports: "These sisters were honored for their faithful service. They are still actively engaged in visiting teaching. Each sister represents the eldest in her ward. Their combined years of visiting teaching total 228 years. "A lovely luncheon was prepared and served by the stake Relief Society board to 236 sisters present. The skit "The Improper and Proper Way of Visiting 'Tcaching' was presented and enjoyed. The Twenty-ninth Ward Relief Society put on a clever 'Laf-Vu of Fashions' in which thirty members participated. Vocal selections were rendered by a trio, Janice Smith, Eunice Calagory, and Carmen Mann. Each ward had a wonderful display of handiwork and other articles made during the past season. Everyone acclaimed this as one of the finest conventions we have had." >_< Hame Against Snow Maude Rubin Love was a candle in the April wind— Unthinned Its burning; flaring in bright design through autumn's lambent glow. Now, like a ripened burl of pine, Amber with lucent power, Love warms this white December hour... Fire on the evening hearth, flame against drifted snow. Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 39 — The Revelation to William W. Phelps Elder Roy W.. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants: Section 55) For Tuesday, April 3, 1962 Objective: To study the contribution of a talented Latter-day Saint who helped move the kingdom of God forward. ANY men of exceptional talent joined The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints not long after its formal organization in the spring of 1830. The Lord knew the needs of the Prophet and the men who could help him most. Among those who had indicated a desire to join the Church at this early period was William Wine Phelps who will long be remembered by the saints because of his contribution to the hymnology of the Church. He made his impress upon the history of this dispensation in many other ways, however. According to the Prophet's journal, William W. Phelps and _ his family arrived in Kirtland, Ohio, about the middle of June 1831, as the Prophet was preparing for his first journey to Missouri. Because Mr. Phelps desired "to do the will of the Lord," the Prophet inquired of the Lord concerning him and the Page 50 revelation (Section 55) for study in this lesson was received. (See D. H. C,. 1:184-18s.) Background of Section 55 William W. Phelps was in his fortieth year when he came to Kirtland. Before this he had been active in politics in New York State and had been the editor of a newspaper for the Anti-Masonic Party. It was while thus employed in Canandaigua, New York, only a short distance from Palmyra, that he bought a copy of The Book of Mormon which had just come off the press With an intimate knowledge of the Bible, he and his wife compared it with The Book of Mormon. A few years later (1835), he wrote this about the influence The Book of Mormon had upon him: From the first time I read this volume of volumes, even till now, I have been struck with a kind of sacred joy at its LESSON DEPARTMENT title page. What a wonderful volume! What a glorious treasure! By that book, I have learned the right way to God; by that book I received the fulness of the everlasting gospel; by that book I found the new covenant; by that book I learned when the Lord had set his hand the second time to gather his people; by that book I learned that the New Jerusalem, even Zion was to be built upon this continent; by that book I found a key to the holy prophets; and by that book began to unfold the mysteries of God, and I was made glad. Who can tell his goodness, or estimate the worth of such a book? He only who is directed by the Holy Ghost in all things; and has kept all his 4 commandments blameless through ife. [The above quotation, with other biographical material in this lesson, is taken from an unpublished thesis written by Walter Dean Bowen of the Church Seminary System. | William W. Phelps' conversion to the gospel] through The Book of Mormon had given to him and his wife a desire to meet Joseph Smith. This was accomplished toward the end of December 1830. Of this event, Brother Phelps recorded his feelings as follows: Now, notwithstanding my body was not baptized into this church, yet my heart was here from the time I became acquainted with the Book of Mormon; and my hope, steadfast like an anchor, and my faith increased like the grass after a refreshing shower, when I for the first time held a conversation with our beloved brother Joseph who I was willing to acknowledge as a prophet of the Lord, and to whom, and to whose godly account of himself and the work he was engaged in, I owe my first determination to quit the folly of my way, and the fancy and fame of this world, and seek the Lord and his righteousness, in order to enter a better world.... Such was the impression made upon Brother Phelps by the Proph- 51 et. The way had been prepared, however, by the witness of the Holy Ghost to his soul. Section 55 Six months later, the Lord, by revelation, called upon Brother Phelps to be baptized. Significantly, he would not be chosen unless he was obedient to the commandment given. 'The Lord calls men, but only a relatively few are chosen because their thoughts and aspirations are upon the things of this world. The essential message of the gospel for the investigator is given in verse 1 of this revelation (D & C 55:1). Every convert receives a remission of sins by obedience to the commandment that his faith and repentance are sincere, with the intent that his act of obedience to baptism will be pointed to the glory of God. It is the Lord's work and glory to bring about the eternal life of man. Acceptance of the gospel requires that the person's efforts will be turned into furthering the Lord's work in every possible way. Another important truth is indicated in this verse when it is understood in its historical background. Brother Phelps had already received a testimony of The Book of Mormon by the Holy Ghost; yet, he was told that if he was baptized in the water the Holy Ghost would be given to him by the laying on of hands. Why was it necessary for Brother Phelps (and all converts) to receive this gift, if he had already received the Holy Ghost? The brief answer is as follows: the Holy Ghost which convinces the investigator of the truth will not remain with him unless baptism in water is accepted, and also the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. Not until the authorized servant of God bestows this gift by the power of the Priesthood does the person have the "tight" to retain the blessings of the Holy Ghost. (See lesson 32, "The Gifts of the Holy Ghost," Relief Society Magazine, February 1961.) Phelps' Baptism There are probably many ways that the Lord has brought great persons of talent into his work. An understanding of some teachings of the gospel was a factor in the case of Brother Phelps, although he had already received the testimony of the Holy Ghost Of his conversion, he once wrote: I was not a professor at the time, nor a believer in sectarian religion, but a believer in God, and the Son of God, as two distinct characters, and a believer in sacred scriptures. I had long been searching for the "old paths,' that I might find the right way and walk in it, and after a suitable time to investigate the work, and prove its truth by corresponding evidence from the old Bible, and by internal witness of the spirit, according to the rules of holiness, I embraced it for the truth's sake, and all honest men who seek a better world, will "go and do likewise" (Messenger and Advocate, I:115). Obedient to the revelation, Brother Phelps was baptized on June 16, 1831. Because of William W. Phelps' prominence in New York State, several newspapers made note of his becoming a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. A General Assignment Continuing the revelation, the promise is made that upon his baptism, Brother Phelps would be ordained an elder by Joseph Smith, and thus he would be able to preach repentance and baptism for the remission of sins. (See D & C 55:2.) Following this promise the revelation reads: And on whomsoever you shall lay your hands, if they are contrite before me, you shall have power to give the Holy Spirit (Ibid., verse 3). This promise to Brother Phelps was not intended for him alone, but it is a blessing which may be participated in by any worthy elder of this Church. In itself, it is an important truth. These following two facts are worthy of consideration: (1) By revelation in this day man may know that the power to bestow the Holy Ghost was never intended only for the 'Twelve Apostles appointed in the meridian dispensation; and (2) There is a way by which the elder may be able to see the evidence of his ministry in the lives of those whom he serves. How would Elder Phelps be able to know, on the basis of verse 3 of this revelation, that he had not been deceived? As long as he worthily performed his duties as an elder and the person he confirmed a member of the Church had prepared himself with an "eye single to my [God's] glory," there should be manifest in the lives of those converts the fruits of the Spirit. The Lord promised many gifts of the Holy Ghost to the sincere believer. (See D & C 46:11, 26.) As these gifts were received and use made of them in healings, and other miracles, prophesyings, etc., the elder in the Church would be apprised of the power which he possessed as an elder. One may conclude that the 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 LESSON DEPARTMENT steadfastness which Brother Phelps and many others demonstrated during their lives, aided by the Spirit, gave evidence of the promise given to faithful Priesthood bearers. Specific Calling The revelation addressed to William W. Phelps gave him an assignment which was suited to his special abilities. In these words, the Lord said: And again, you shall be ordained to assist my servant Oliver Cowdery to do the work of printing, and of selecting and writing books for schools in this church, that little children also may receive instruction before me as is pleasing unto me (D & C 55:4). This is the first time in the revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants that mention is made of schools in the Church. It should also be noted that this revelation (verse 5) commands Brother Phelps to accompany the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon to the land of the saints' inheritance (Missouri), where he would undertake the work assigned him 'The last verse of Section 55 assigns Joseph Coe also to be a member of the company. A brief account of this journey is found in the Prophet's writings (D. H. C. 1:188). In Jackson County, Missouri (July 1831), the Lord gave to the Prophet a revelation in which Brother Phelps was to be established as a "printer unto the church" at that place. Important in this connection is that the position of printer in that period was much more than a pressman; it also included the responsibilities of editor. It is said of such men that they had great versaa8 tility and knowledge. In Section 57 Brother Phelps is told to "obtain whatsoever he can obtain in righteousness, for the good of the saints" (verse 12). The Evening and Morning Star With the call to be the printer unto the Church and work with Oliver Cowdery in publishing books for the Church, Brother Phelps purchased a printing press at Cincinnati. With the establishment of this enterprise and the issuance of The Evening and Morning Star, a monthly publication, the first periodical of the Church, there was great joy for the saints, as the Prophet recorded that although the press universally had sought to harm us, "the Saints rejoiced that they [editors] could do nothing against the truth but for it" (D. H. C., 1:273). In this periodical appeared many of the revelations which are now found in The Doctrine and Covenants and also a chapter and parts of three other chapters of the Book of Moses. It was published from the period June 1832, until the destruction of the press on July 20, 1833, at which time the Book of Commandments, the first compilation of revelations, consisting of sixty-five chapters, was being printed. (In 1835, The Evening and Morning Star was re-established in Kirtland, Ohio, with Oliver Cowdery as editor.) The first issue of the Star informed its readers that its office was "'situated within twelve miles of the west line of the state of Missouri; which at present is the western limits of the United States, and about 120 miles west of any press in the state..." (Ibid., page 277). There also appeared in the first issue, the following counsel concerning the education of children: The disciples should lose no time in preparing schools for their children, that they may be taught as is pleasing unto the Lord, and brought up in the way of holiness. Those appointed to select and prepare books for the use of schools, will attend to that subject as soon as more weighty matters are finished. Since that time the Church has developed an educational system that has provided for the secular and religious education of its members. William W. Phelps' Career William W. Phelps was a man of great ability, with varied interests. Numerous were his contributions to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and to the American frontier. His versatility of ability and interests is shown by the following occupations and offices held by him. He was "a printer, hymn writer, poet-journalist, mewspaper editor, judge, orator, scribe, lawyer, educator, missionary, temple worker, member of city council, member of stake presidency, pioneer, explorer, writer of books and pamphlets, topographical engineer, superintendent of schools, surveyor general, weather man, chaplain of lower house of representatives, and speaker of the house in the legislature of the State of Deseret." In the years of 1837 and 1838 when many leading brethren apostatized, Brother Phelps was one of them. The members of the Church in Missouri withdrew the hand of fellowship from the local presidency of the Church, consisting of Brother Phelps, David Whitmer, and John Whitmer, because of disobedience to the word of the Lord. Notwithstanding the action of Brother Phelps which brought about his severance from the Church in the spring of 1838, the Lord still provided an opportunity for him to return to the fold in a revelation a few months later. (See D. H. C. III:46.) Later in the year 1838, Brother Phelps, with other former members of the Church, signed an affidavit against the Prophet in a court of inquiry. Ata conference of the Church in Quincy, Illinois, March 17, 1839, Brother Phelps was excommunicated. Several years later he confessed that this affidavit was made under duress and that his part of betraying his brethren was done to save his life. The Prodigal Returns In June 1840, William W. Phelps wrote to the Prophet asking forgive ness for the errors he had committed in Missouri. His confession and spirit shown in this letter indicate what was said earlier in this lesson, that he had received a witness of the truth, but he permitted Satan temporarily to overcome him. He wrote as follows:... Tam as the prodigal son, though I never doubt or disbelieve the fulness of the Gospel. I have been greatly abused and humbled, and I blessed the God of Israel when I lately read your prophetic blessing on my head, as follows: "The Lord will chasten him because he taketh honor to himself, and when his soul is greatly humbled he will forsake the evil. Then shall the light of the Lord break upon him as at noonday and in him shall be no darkness," &c. I have seen the folly of my way, and I tremble at the gulf I have passed. So it is, and why I know not. I prayed and God answered, but what could I do? Says I, "I will repent and live, and ask my old 54 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 LESSON DEPARTMENT brethren to forgive me, and though they chasten me to death, yet I will die with them, for their God is my God. The least place with them is enough for me, yea, it is bigger and better than all Babyfon.... I know my situation, you know it, and God knows it, and I want to be-saved if my friends will help me.... I have done wrong and I am sorry. The beam is in my own eye. I have not walked along with my friends according to my holy anointing. I ask forgiveness in the name of Jesus Christ of all the Saints, for I will do right, God helping me. I want your fellowship; if you cannot grant that, grant me your peace and friendship, for we are brethren, and our communion used to be sweet, and whenever the Lord brings us together again, I will make all the satisfaction on every point that Saints or God can require. Amen (D. H. C. IV:141-142). The Prophet's Greatness In reply to this request, Joseph Smith extended the hand of forgiveness for himself and the saints. He referred to the suffering caused by Brother Phelps and said:.. The cup of gall, already full enough for mortals to drink, was indeed filled to overflowing when you turned against Ms.. However, the cup has been drunk, the will of our Father has been done,. And we are yet alive, for which we thank the Lord. And having been delivered from the hands of wicked men by the mercy of our God, we say it is your privilege to be deliveredfrom the powers of the adversary.... Your letter was read to the Saints last Sunday, and an expression of their feeling was taken, when it was unanimously Resolved, That W. W. Phelps should be received into fellowship. "Come on, dear brother, since the war is past, for friends at first, are friends again at last" (Ibid., pp. 163- 164). Brother Phelps' faithfulness after this was evidenced in many ways during his life. His testimony of the 55 truth was shown when he sustained the Twelve Apostles after the martyrdom of the Prophet. As a pioneer in the West, his contribution was great as already indicated in his numerous activities. Phelps, the Hymn Writer Many of the accomplishments and contributions of William W. Phelps have been forgotten by the members or are unknown to them, but there is one contribution made by him which will never be unknown. It was his great gift to write hymns. It is improbable that any one person has left his impress to a greater degree upon the Church in this way than has Brother Phelps. W. W. Phelps' Testimony The conversion of William W. Phelps came about from his reading The Book of Mormon. Upon meeting the Prophet Joseph Smith, he and his wife were convinced of the truth of what the Prophet had said concerning the reopening of the heavens and the revelations directing the establishment of the kingdom of God on the earth. Although there were times when he turned against the Church he had accepted as true, yet, he came through many trials and persecutions. 'Truly, the Lord had blessed him generously with many talents which he used for the advancement of his work. He was "called and chosen" as the revelation said. (See D & C 55:1.) Upon his return to the fold and until his death on March 6, 1872, in Salt Lake City, Utah, he continued firm in his testimony of the work instituted by God through the Prophet Joseph Smith. In the General Conference of April 1860, Elder Phelps ... Held in his hand a copy of the first edition of that Book [Book of Mormon] and declared it to be the truth of the Almighty; he had heard the testimony of Joseph Smith and that of the chosen witnesses in relation to the Book of Mormon, and he with them wished to give his testimony to the world relative to its divine origin. He said that he knew this was the church of the living God, and that Brigham Young was the legally appointed successor of Joseph Smith, and that all who receive this testimony will be saved in the celestial kingdom, and he wished he had a thousand tongues to speak of the great things of the kingdom to the nations of the earth (Deseret News, April 11, 1860). Questions for Discussion 1. Describe the effect of The Book of Mormon upon the conversion of Brother Phelps. 2. What effect did meeting the Prophet Joseph Smith have upon his decision to be baptized? 3. Why is it necessary for a person to receive the gift of the Holy Ghost if he has already received a testimony of the gospel by the Holy Ghost? 4. In the true Church an elder is promised a power which can be verified over a period of time. (a) What is this power? (b) How is it manifest? 5. Of what importance to the Church was The Evening and Morning Star? 6. Name some of the contributions of Brother Phelps to the hymnology of the Church. (Consult a Latter-day Saint hymn book.) a+ <li Visiting Seacher IT lessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 39 — "I Will Be Merciful Unto You" (D & C 50:16). _Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, April 3, 1962 Objective: To demonstrate the Christ-like nature of true mercy. MONG all of the Savior's divine attributes, mercy is one of the greatest. Throughout his mortal life he continuously demonstrated this wonderful virtue. In the wellknown story of the Good Samaritan, the Savior asked the question as to which of the three passersby was neighbor to the injured man. "And he said, He that shewed mercy. On him. 'Then said Jesus... Go, and do thou likewise" (Luke 10:37). In his great test before he died on the cross, the Savior uttered these immortal words of mercy, "Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do" (Luke 23:34) The story is told of a well-known sculptor who was commissioned to do an heroic statue of the Savior. The sculptor was delighted and wanted to make this his best work. He labored almost night and day for months. Finally, he finished the clay model of what he considered to be a magnificent figure of the Christ — a commanding statue depicting strength, dominance, and leadership. The clay model was locked in his studio to set and when the 56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 LESSON DEPARTMENT sculptor returned and opened the door to his studio, he was shocked to see that his masterpiece was greatly altered from the way he had left it. Time, weather, and some unknown power had caused the figure to settle, the head had dropped forward, the arms and hands, which had been high over the head, were now appealingly outstretched. The change had brought an attitude of compassion and mercy into the figure which the sculptor had been nable to accomplish. Reverently, th he sculptor looked upon his inspired creation and gave it the simple title, "Come Unto Me." Mercy is a Christ-like quality Which, when it functions in our lives, will bring blessings of happiness both to ourselves and unto those to whom we are merciful. Shakespeare — expressed thought when he said: this The quality of mercy is not strain'd, It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath: It is twice bless'd; It blesseth him that gives, and him that takes... —William Shakespeare The Merchant of Venice Act IV, Scene I. The quality of mercy is such an essential part of successful and joyWF ful living that the Lord has given it to us virtually as a commandment. In Luke 6:36 we read, "Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful.' The Lord also _ said, "Blessed are the merciful: for the shall obtain mercy" (Mt. 5:7). The grand key words "of Relief Society are, "Said Jesus: 'Ye shall do the work, which ye see me do.' " To be merciful unto others is an essential part of this work. In speaking to Relief Society sisters, the Prophet Joseph Smith said [you] "should be armed with mercy.... Manifest benevolence." He also said, "If you would have God have mercy on you, have mercy on one another." As we apply this great principle to our own lives, let us remember that mercy means more than the absence of criticism and judgment. It implies kindness, consideration, understanding, and it seeks the highest possible good for those who might have offended us. When we practice the quality of mercy, we exhibit the true application of love to our lives and in our attitude toward others. Then, and only then, are we entitled to the promise of our Redeemer when he said, "... With everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee..." (3 Nephi 22:8). Our Crea tor Iris W. Schow He is the magnet drawing on our faith; The star of hope above our sands that shift; He is the universal charity, The Giver who accompanies his gift. Work ITleeting— Attitudes and Manners HOW DO YOU DO? (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 7 — Attitudes Make the Difference Elaine Anderson Cannon For Tuesday, April 10, 1962 Objective: To show that good manners spring from good thoughts and that a woman is most charming when she is being thoughtful. EOPLE too often think of proper behavior and good manners only in terms of which fork to use when eating a salad. Actually, there are roles a woman of today is required to play for which there are not definite prescribed lines to say, or a list of rules of precisely what to do and when. These are the subtle requirements of being socially correct, aware and sensitive to situations. How we respond to these situations springs from our attitude about people and our basic relationship with them. Our re sponse usually determines whether or not we can be described as charming. In Glamour magazine, November 1960, these cautionary words were given on charm: If you are sure you have it, you don't. If you hoard it, you lose it. If you buy with it, you spend false coin. If you give it away, it bounces back (Reprinted by permission from Glamour, November 1960, Copyright 1960 by the Conde Nast Publications, Inc.). Elements of Charm The ideal attitude which should underlie all of our womanly behavior should express kindness, refinement, gentleness, self-respect, sympathy (though not necessarily Page 58 pity), and a certain amount of deference to one's husband, an older woman, or to a dignitary. Cultivated, these qualities can enhance our relationship with others in a most positive manner. Negativism, over-zealousness, criticism of others, including Church officers, organizations, and _ procedures, are practices which can easily slip into our way of behavior, unless we constantly guard against them. They can prove to be destructive to our personal relationships with others and rob us of serenity. We should try conscientiously never to hurt anyone's feelings. If we discover we have committed this error, we should pray for strength, guidance, and help in making it right again with the injured person. The weakness of taking offense easily is as unjust as giving offense. One should pray just as diligently for a forgiving and understanding heart, if one has allowed her own feelings to be hurt. It is difficult sometimes to do this, but, nevertheless, it is important in mastering inner maturity and good will. It is unwise to harbor grudges, nurse hurt feelings, or foster unhappiness by clinging to injuries of the soul. LESSON DEPARTMENT Some examples of thoughtfulness which are charming and which spring from good thoughts (but are not listed rules in a book of ett quette) include: 1. Sending congratulatory messages to the bishop on his birthday, or to a friend on her big day of achievement (chairman of a program, winning an honor, the arrival of a new baby, being the wife of a new bishop, stake president or branch president, etc.) 2. When advisable, it is thoughtful to make brief hospital calls and take some little gift, a few flowers, or send a cheery note or card. 3. It is thoughtful for the patient to send a small gift or a special card to a nurse who has been particularly attentive during one's illness. 4. It is an appealing mark of deference to bow ever so slightly when introduced to an important authority or to an older woman, also, when one sees an acquaintance across the room (rather than waving). It is refreshing to see a woman notice another's child, admiring the baby (without touching it!), or speak to teens on the Street (inspiring a gracious reply from them). The following are familiar phrases guaranteed the most unlikely to please: "When I was the work meeting lead- —_—.. "Did you hear what someone told me about Mary?" "That wasn't the way I heard it. You have it all wrong." 59 "How much did it cost?" "My doctor says that's the worst thing you could do!" "Your child is a hard one to discipline, isn't he?" "Another meeting?" "Well I can't come to any of the practices, but I guess I could sing with you on the program." "Yes, this is a nice centerpiece, but you should see my tulips this year." "Don't expect me to work on a committee with her." "Can't you possibly get someone else to do it?" "Oh, this recipe is a failure today. I never can do it when I have to bring it over to the chapel." Facing Attitudes It is well to face our attitudes, for they face us! Our attitudes and appreciations, our thoughts and the actions that spring therefrom, our sensitivities and our responses line our faces, just as surely as a pen marks a paper. The happiness of your life depends upon the quality of your thoughts, therefore guard accordingly; and take care that you entertain no notions unsuitable to virtue and reasonable nature (Marcus Antonius, from The New Dictionary of Thoughts). Questions for Discussion Using the above "phrases most unlikely to please" as a basis, restate them in words of charm and thoughtfulness. How do YOU do? ob iterature— America's Literature Comes of Age Lesson 31 — Edgar Allan Poe — The Pathos of His Life and Poetry (1809-1849) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 413-457) For Tuesday, April 17, 1962 Objective: To review Poe's life that we may more truly read his works. DGAR Allan Poe, generally recognized by the public as an author of great prose and poetry, has been subjected to more conflicting judgments by the critics than any other American literary writer. These diverse opinions concern both his personal life and his artistic creations. They Tange from such comments as Tennyson's, "The most original American genius," to the slanderous portrait of Poe as portrayed by the Reverend Rufus Ww. Griswold, whom, most ironically, the naive Poe chose to edit his writings, Never in literary history has a liter. Ary personage committed a more catastrophic blunder. Poe made his living as an editor and critic, whose keen analytical Powers were respected and whose courage and, sometimes, sharp tongue in saying exactly what he thought of his contemporaries, made him many enemies, among them Rufus W. Griswold. Griswold apparently never forgave Poe for publishing unflattering statements about his writings and those of his friends. Poe felt contempt for the current practice of publishing critical comments anonymously; he believed it.. - folly to assert that the literature of any nation or age was ever injured by plain speaking on the part of critics. As Page 60 for American Letters, plain speaking about them is, simply, the one thing needed, They are in a condition of absolute quagmire (Southern Literary Messenger, July 1849). And Poe spoke plainly, indeed, as the following excerpt from a review testifies: Mr. Grattan [the author] has a bad habit, that of loitering in the road — of dallying and toying with his subject, as a kitten with a mouse — instead of glasping it firmly at once and eating it up without more ado. He takes up too much time in the anteroom. He is never done with his introductions... So that by the time he arrives at his main incidents there is nothing more to tell. He seems afflicted with that curious yet common perversity observed in garrulous old women—the desire of tantalizing by circumlocution,.., If the greasy-looking lithograph here given as a frontispiece, be meant for Mr. Grattan, then is Mr. Grattan like nobody else — for the fact is, I never yet knew an individual with a wire wig, or the countenance of an under-done apple dumpling. -.. As a general rule, no man should put his own face in his own book. In looking at the author's countenance the teader is seldom in condition to keep his own (Southern Literary Messenger, April 1849). Prophet Without Honor Justly Poe might be described as having lived in the world, yet not of it. Although he is the one man in the English-speaking world who LESSON DEPARTMENT AoPEEry EDGAR ALLAN POE has achieved pre-eminence in the three literary realms of fiction, poetry, and criticism, still many adult Americans have always tended either merely to tolerate him, without really claiming him as one of their own, or to ignore part of him. But since it is just and inevitable that we admit his greatness as an American writer, it is equally just and inevitable that we face the life out of which his greatness came, that we may more fully appreciate and understand both the intent and achievement of his creations. Poe's Chronology Edgar Allan Poe was born January 19, 1809, to actor parents while their group was appearing in Boston. His grandfather, General David Poe, was quartermaster general during the American Revolution, and friend to LaFayette. Before he was three, 61 Poe's parents had separated and both had died. His mother died in Richmond, Virginia, where, out of pity, three wealthy matrons each took one of the three surviving children into their homes. Mr. John Allan, stern, practical Scotchman, had no children and desired none, but he yielded to the wishes of his younger wife and accepted Edgar, giving him Allan as his middle name. He provided Poe with excellent schooling in England and at the University of Virginia, but always resented him somewhat, though his wife was overly affectionate. First in his class at the university, Poe gambled to pay school expenses which he claimed Mr. Allan would not. They quarreled violently, and Edgar ran away to Boston. He published his first book of poems when he was eighteen, before enlisting as a private in the army. He arrived at home the day after Mrs. Allan's funeral, and entered West Point through Mr. Allan's influence, but soon asked permission to resign his appointment. When this was denied, he cut out enough classes to get himself discharged. He published his second book of poems and first prize-winning stories while living at the home of his aunt, Maria Poe Clemm, in Baltimore. When Poe was twenty-four he moved to Richmond to work full time on the staff of The Southern Literary Messenger, one of the most influential magazines of the day, soon becoming its editor. Mrs. Clemm and her daughter Virginia joined him there, and the next year he married Virginia, in her fourteenth year. 'Theirs was a most happy marriage, although Virginia, always delicate and sensitive, died eleven years later. "Mother" Clemm lived with them until her daughter's death, then remained with her "adored Eddie" until his own death, in October 1849. The year following his marriage Poe moved his family to New York City, then to Philadelphia, where he soon became editor of Graham's Magazine. Having achieved success with his prose writings, he returned to New York City and for a time fulfilled his lifetime dream of editing his own magazine, but, when it failed, he moved his family to a humble cottage at Fordham, some miles outside the city, where their poverty became acute and Virginia died in 1847. Bewildered by grief and loneliness, Poe began lecturing widely. First he courted one widow in Lowell, Massachusetts, then proposed to another in Rhode Island. When a few months later their marriage plans were, by mutual consent, abandoned, he again attempted to find support for a new magazine he hoped to establish and edit. During a southern tour he met an old friend in Richmond, Virginia, and planned to marry her as soon as he could bring Mrs. Clemm from New York for the wedding. While on his way he suffered a mysterious catastrophe and was taken to a Baltimore hospital where he died four days later, on October 7, 1849. His death resulted not from "delirium tremens," as reported by Griswold (whom his attending physician, Dr. John J. Moran, defined as Poe's "avowed and personal enemy"), but from nervous prostration and the shock of having been beaten, robbed, and abandoned. In his A Defense of Edgar Allan Poe, published in 1885, Dr. Moran described in detail the sixteen hours preceding death when Poe was under his care, in rational consciousness save when he slept, and that he "did not die under the influence of any kind of intoxicating drink." Incensed at the malicious warping of the truth by Griswold, Poe's friends, N. P. Willis and George Graham, editor of Graham's Magazine, at once published defenses of Poe's character and reputation — in magazines, while Griswold's more extended "Memoir of Poe" appeared in every copy of Poe's works until late in the century, both in Europe and in this country. Several other friends published books in an attempt to correct the false picture which Griswold had made, but largely in vain. Griswold forged several letters, inserted and deleted words to change Poe's meaning and character, and so falsely accused Poe of duplicity in relation to his own charges of plagiarism against peaceloving Longfellow, that even Longfellow felt compelled to expose the falseness of Griswold's accusations. To maintain that Poe's private life was without flaw would be as untrue as were Griswold's errors and manipulations, for Poe was, on occasion, vain, sharp-tongued, and always intensely ambitious for success. As for drug addiction, a doctor testified that he was so unfamiliar with laudanum that when in a fit of depression he attempted using it, he didn't even know the proper dosage. He did drink excessively on occasions when his malnourished wife was dying or when sophisticated Bostonians walked out en' masse during his lecture, but he knew 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 LESSON DEPARTMENT alcohol acted as a poison within him, and that half a glass of wine made him well-nigh insane, or, in Graham's words, "'the least drop of wine, to most men a moderate stimulus, was to him literally the cup of frenzy." As for charges of insanity, Poe probably spoke truth when he said that "I was never teally insane, except on occasions where my heart was touched." Apparently, only two such _ periods occurred in his life: during the years of his wife's suffering and, intermittently, during the final days of his life. As Poe wrote, on January 4, 1848, "My enemies referred the insanity to the drink rather than the drink to the insanity." Particularly, after reading in Poe's stories more extended and gripping examples of this world of inward terror which so dominated his art, may we be willing to see how drinking was the effect rather than the cause. The editors of the most scholarly anthology of his writings (Alterton and Craig, Edgar Allan Poe, Representative Selections, American Book Company, 1934) write on page 543: "Of all the nonsense talked about Poe, and there has been much, none is perhaps greater than that which fails to see in him a man of fundamentally noble moral nature," a statement which becomes more pertinent to his entire life and writings the more they are studied. Poe's first book of poems, titled Tammerlane and Other Poems was published in Boston in 1827. Most of these earlier poems reflect the disappointments and ambitions of youth and reveal the influence of English romantic poets, such as Coleridge and Byron, By 1831, when 63 another volume of his poetry appeared, which included the poems "To Helen," "TIsrafel," and "The City in the Sea," Poe had developed more sureness as a poet. The poem "To Helen" was, according to Poe, inspired by a school friend's mother who died when Poe was fifteen. Her kindness to the sensitive young boy caused him to speak of her as an angel to his forlorn and darkened nature. Yet in this poem "To Helen" the idealized image is not flesh and blood, but a symbol of beauty in the land of heart's desire. Poe is representatively romantic in his portrayal of nostalgic yearning for a realm of serene beauty, in art, in myth, and in life, and in this poem the entire feeling is romantic, although the allusions and pictures are all classical. TO HELEN Helen, thy beauty is to me Like those Nicean barks of yore, That gently, o'er a perfumed sea, The weary, way-worn wanderer bore To his own native shore. On desperate seas long wont to roam, Thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face, Thy Naiad airs have brought me home To the glory that was Greece And the grandeur that was Rome. Lo! In yon brilliant window-niche How statue-like I see thee stand, The agate lamp within thy hand! Ah, Psyche, from the regions which Are Holy-Land! "Annabel Lee," one of Poe's best known and best loved poems, supposedly refers to his own young wife Virginia who died at the age of twenty-four. (See text, page 455.) Written in 1849, the poem concludes with For the moon never beams, without bringing me dreams Of the beautiful Annabel Lee; And the stars never rise, but I feel the bnght eyes Of the beautiful Annabel Lee: And so, all the night-tide, I lie down by the side Of my darling — my darling — my life and my bride, In her sepulchre there by the sea— In her tomb by the side of the sea. Next to "The Raven," Poe's most popular poem is "The Bells" which was much revised before Poe, in 1849, considered it complete. Many readers enjoy this poem for the tone and mood conveyed by sound and image. As the poem progresses, we become increasingly aware of words carefully selected for their particular music-tone. A unity of effect is achieved in each stanza by the use of descriptive words appropriately associated with a particular bell and its connotation. (See text, pp. 454455). Note that in stanza I, the silver bells of the sledge, with their tinkling, jingling sound are heard in the "icy air of night," while in stanza 3, alarum bells are loud, turbulent, brazen, and clamorous, and they clang into the "'palpitating air." An interchange of any of these descriptive words would destroy the unity of effect Poe worked so carefully to create within each stanza. The poem must be read aloud to appreciate the music-tone of words and the vivid image. Spiritualism and mesmerism were current speculative interests of Poe's day, and Poe became somewhat interested in them as dramatic material for his art in story and verse. But the mysticism which more truly represents Poe was of a personal nature. It was refuge and adventure into the dark, mysterious regions of his inner self. No statement on his poetry, with its "indefinite," unattained beauty and its pathos, can be accurately made without taking into account the pathos of his sensitive and lonely life. Thoughts for Discussion 1. In what ways do Poe's writings reflect the unfortunate circumstances and loneliness of his life? 2. How do the conflicting judgments of critics affect our evaluation of Poe as man? As artist? 3. Which romantic qualities do you find in Poe's poetry? (See Preview.) She Mothering Sree Christie Lund Coles The aspen, fragile as a girl, Barely emerged from childhood, stands A mothering tree to spruce and pine, And shields them with her slender hands. The sturdy evergreens begin Their gradual and steady climb Upon the eternal mountainside, Fast in their strength though slow in time, Until they attain their pointed height, Above the golden aspen tree — Green exclamations that declare The strength born from gentility. 64 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 Social a The Place of Woman in the Gospel Plan WOMEN AND CHURCH ACTIVITY Lesson 6 — How Women Share in the Blessings of the Priesthood Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Tuesday, April 24, 1962 Objective: To increase our understanding of the way in which women participate in the blessings of the Priesthood. Priesthood is the divine commission for the operation of the Lord's Church. It is the right to officiate in God's name in all matters pertaining to the welfare of man under the plan of salvation. Welfare of human beings. Our Pioneer Women HE Church was restored through revelation and the authority of the Priesthood; but it was built and developed by men and women together. Often we speak of the strength of the men of this early period, forgetting the fact that in the pioneering period of this Church the strength of the women was a support to the men. 1. In the Beginning of Church Activities From the very beginning of the Church stress was placed on the importance of the family unit. 'The first years were full of sacrifice and suffering. 'The women had the allimportant task of holding the family together and supporting their husbands in their convictions of truth. The women endured the persecution and hardships without losing sight of their objectives, and family solidarity developed under these experiences. The teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith in regard to the eternal nature of the marriage covenant strengthened the family ties. The major purpose of the plan is the eternal progressive The government of the Church is Priesthood in operation. The women accepted the persecution, hardships, and sacrifice with the determination to maintain the family structure. They were the developers of the influence that kept the spirit of the entire community on a durable basis. All during the wanderings of the saints the women were interested in the problems and suffering of one another and solved many of their difficulties through cooperative action. They gave courage to their husbands in the face of new trials and continued persecution. But even more important, the women were unwavering in their testimonies of the truthfulness of the gospel, and many took over the total family operation while their husbands filled missions for the Church. The strength of the Church today has been greatly aided by the strength of the mothers in this early period of trial. They taught their children the importance of the principles of the gospel. Most of them remained steadfast and true in the face of the most severe adversities. The mothers who had to provide the environment for the children Page 65 made it an environment of faith, hope, and love. The children of these pioneer homes, in general, grew up to be men and women of integrity and truth, who honored the Priesthood and gave to the Church the leadership that has led to its present progress. 2. First Organized Activity of Women in the Church The mothers of the Church, in addition to the operation of their own homes, extend their love and mercy to those in the community who are less fortunate than they. As early as 1842 the idea of combining time, materials, and the talents of the women to meet the needs of the workmen on the Nauvoo Temple grew to the point that the sisters planned to organize a Ladies Society. 'They submitted their plans to the Prophet Joseph who said:... This is not what you want. Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of the Lord, and He has something better for them.... Invite them all to meet me and a few of the brethren... Over my store next Thursday afternoon, and I will organize the sisters under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood (A Centenary of Relief Society, 1842-1942, page 14). He called the women together on Thursday, March 17, 1842, and organized the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo. The women of the Church tesponded enthusiastically to the new organization. It began with eighteen members and within two years it had grown to 1,341. It has continued to grow in importance in the lives of the people of the Church from then until the present day. The Relief Society's objectives under Priesthood guidance were the care of the poor, comfort to the sorrowing, and to save souls. The same objectives are listed for Priesthood quorums, to take care of the temporal, intellectual, and spiritual welfare of the quorum members and their families. The first Relief Society officers were aware of the importance of frequent personal contacts. In 1843 they organized "'the necessity committee." 'The members of this committee, sixteen in number, were to discover the needs of each family and to accept contributions for the needy. This committee was the beginning of the visiting teacher program, still a most vital part of the Relief Society organization. The accomplishments of the Relief Society... Bear testimony to the faith, courage, vision, and industry of the women of the Church who have received "instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation" (A Centenary of Relief Society, 1842-1942, page 3). 3. Relief Society Services Today The Presidency of the Church and the Relief Society leadership have never lost sight of the original purpose of this greatest woman's organization. The distress and misfortune of the saints from Kirtland to Nauvoo and from Nauvoo to Salt Lake City, made lasting impressions as to the value of compassionate service of the women of the Church. There is still present in our society a great need for sympathetic understanding. Sickness, old age, poverty, death, and the tragedy of family failures make the need for 66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 LESSON DEPARTMENT compassionate service as demanding today as ever before. The faster our materialistic development is and the more dense our population becomes, the greater the need of benevolent service and sympathetic understanding. In this day the Priesthood has organized a Welfare Program designed to help meet people's needs through providing opportunities for work in conjunction with the united efforts of friends and neighbors as members of the Church organizations. It is an expression of the highest type of co-operative action. Where it has been developed, the men produce materials and foods, and the women prepare the materials and preserve the food. The over-all "aim of the program is to help the people to help themselves" (Welfare Plan Handbook of Instructions, page 1). The educational aspect of the Relief Society has been a medium of great stimulation to the sisters of the Church. The Relief Society provides a constant intellectual challenge to their membership to improve their minds to meet the requirements of a woman's function in today's world. 'The organization provides lessons in all areas of participation required of women, with special emphasis on strengthening testimonies, on motherhood and homemaking, at the same time providing a rich experience for all. Priesthood Provides Benefits for All Members The purpose of Priesthood is to improve all men and women, bringing them toward the perfection of God, the Eternal Father. 'For behold, this is my work and my glory 67 — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). 1. The Performance of Ordinances Is a Blessing 'Through the Priesthood We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof (Fifth Article of Faith). Many of us are inclined to take the most important and sacred things for granted. Membership in this Church is basic to all the blessings the gospel promises. Yet too often the eighth birthday celebration is emphasized more than baptism, the attending of Church, and the meaning of membership. 'Those who come to the waters of baptism through conversion often are more conscious and appreciative of this important event than the child born in the Church. Every woman who is a member of this Church shares in the blessings of the Church through the functioning of the Priesthood. Jesus pointed out that we cannot enter the kingdom of heaven unless we have been born of the water and of the spirit. No one can perform the ordinances of baptism and confirmation without holding the Priesthood. Each Sabbath day we are reminded, encouraged, and permitted to renew our covenants with the Lord through the sacrament, a Priesthood ordinance. As a matter of fact, the Priesthood is a constant source of blessing to every member of the Church each day. A woman has full rights to the benefits of the administration to the sick. Often it is the faith of SACRED MUSIC FOR THREE PART LADIES CHORUSES COME, YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER — Madsen..............-....20 GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH — Schreiner -........-.30 sear GO YE FORTH WITH MY WORD — Madsen...............--- 25 oe IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS — Madsen...25 INCLINE YOUR EAR — Wilkes.25..«.. IN THY FORM — Madsen.........20 nome | LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY — Stephens -........-.-.20 | LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS — Elgar................-.-- 25 a LORD, HEAR OUR PRAYER — Mc - |.20 eevee LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE — Madsen.....20 OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane.25 THE 23rd PSALM — Schubert....25 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY ' 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah ' } I! Please send the music indicated above. | (J On Approval O Charge l (J Money Enclosed Name Address: I ' City & State mmr 77 Ist South | salt Lake City 11, Utah | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 the women that initiates this ordinance and supports the Priesthood in its performance. The patriarch, who has a special Priesthood function, is available to membership of the Church to provide them with a patriarchal blessing of enlightenment, encouragement, and clarification as to what course in life will bring the greatest accomplishment, the most satisfaction, and which will make possible the opportunity for exaltation in the presence of our Eternal Father. 2. Unlimited Possibility of Growth In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 93:36, it says "The glory of God is intelligence..." and in Section 131:6, it says: "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance." The quest for knowledge, faith, and love is equally as important to the woman as to the man who holds the Priesthood. She, too, is given her free agency and placed upon this earth to gain experience and progress toward perfection. Her understanding of life here and hereafter is of vital importance in giving intelligent direction to her family and for her own exaltation. Here again the Priesthood is responsible for and is the source of blessings. The Call to Service One of the richest blessings to a woman comes through the privilege of service in the Church. Every officer in the Church is called - by proper authority and commissioned by this authority. In the ward the bishop calls and commissions the worthy persons to their particular responsibilities. Every office and calling in the Church is important, LESSON DEPARTMENT and to the individual receiving the assignment it is the most important assignment in the Church. No one else can do the work you are called to do while you are in the office. Your effective performance of the duties and responsibilities of your office gives strength to the whole organization. 'The privilege comes through the Priesthood, and _blessings come from your devotion to duty. We have stated before that the government of the Church is the Priesthood in action. Every office in the Church is therefore, to a degree, Priesthood work. As _ the Church has grown there has been a need for auxiliary help. As the term implies, the auxiliaries are assisting organizations to the Priesthood, but subject to, and under the direction of the Priesthood. The officers and teachers in the auxiliaries play an important part in the teaching of the gospel. But, as has been pointed out, teaching the gospel to all the members is a major responsibility of the Priesthood quorums. There are assignments to the women in the work that is assigned to the Priesthood. Women work on the genealogical committees and do both research and temple work for the dead. The missionary work which is to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people also uses the women of the Church. They are an effective part of the missionary program in teaching the gospel to people of the Many nations. Service in the Church is a blessing in and of itself. Through Church work you are serving the Lord by serving your fellow men. It tends to teduce selfishness, and by doing 69 things for others it reduces tensions in your own life. We tend to love whom we serve. 'The Lord emphasized this to Peter when he asked ", levee thom™imess. 7" and Peter's answer was "yea...." Then he said "Feed my sheep." 'This he repeated, giving emphasis to the connection between, and the importance of service and love of God (John 21:15-17). Women's Service, a Strength to the Church The activity of the women in the Church program is a manifestation of dedication to a great cause. This is demonstrated by a situation in the mission field where three wonderful Maori ladies, old in years, but vigorous in the love of the gospel, held a little branch together for many years until the Priesthood holders were regenerated. These faithful sisters did everything but the ordinances, and they guided the young Aaronic Priesthood members in the care and administration of the sacrament. Many times the women of the wards and stakes have provided the activity necessary to the success of Priesthood projects. 'Through the efforts of the women in the home, the men are constantly built up and encouraged. They care for the children, assist their men in_ projects and programs, and provide leadership for the auxiliary organizations. The blessings in store for the women of the Church are limited only by the efforts they put forth to build the kingdom. Every effort they put forth in gaining knowledge, in exercising faith, and in performance of duty is a step toward perfection, and every step toward Hawaiian Tour February Southern Temple Tour February Mexican Tour Leaving early March Mexico City, Cholula, Pueblo, Taxco, Cuernavaca, Acapulco, Archaeological Ruins Northwest Banff-Lake Louise Tour Including Worlds Fair at Seattle leaving June 23 Ask about our ALASKA and HILL CUMORAH TOURS ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue SALT LAKE CITY 3, UTAH Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles —..... 35 150 to 300 miles.... Z 300 to 600 miles..... 45 600 to 1000 miles _........................ -54 1000 to 1400 miles........00.. -64 1400 to 1800 miles.................. 76 Over 1800 miles 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah perfection adds blessings. 'The Lord is mindful of those who serve him. ".. 1, the Lord, am merciful and gracious unto those who... Serve me in righteousness and in truth unto the end. Great shall be their reward and eternal shall be their glory" (D & C 76:5-6). Thoughts for Discussion 1. Define Priesthood. 2. In what ways does the woman share the blessings of the Priesthood? 3. What effect can a wife have on the effective functioning of her husband in his Priesthood calling? Explain. 4. In what Church work assigned to the Priesthood can a woman participate? To what extent? Jo a Child... Who Grew Dorothy J. Roberts Tonight there is no place to turn In thought for solace or for rest. All the things I would forget, Now the mind remembers best. There is no roadway of return To bring you back through time and place, No way to pare the change of years, To fill the need gone from your face. Time tore your simple wants aside, The little needs your eyes confessed. Now though I long, the vanished years Refuse you what my heart possessed. This night is one to bear the scourge, The whiplash of an old regret, Until the wanted grace is learned, Until the waning moon has set; Till day brings other seeking eyes, And other fingers that implore, A chance to change the stone for bread, To serve it through love's open door. 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1962 Chase Shose Winter Woes Janet W. Breeze NE little, two little, three little overshoes — but you can't find number four? Keep the children's overshoes and mittens handy and also out of the way by making good use of that multiple skirt hanger. Simply cover an area of your back porch or basement wall with clear plastic to protect the paint from mud and water. Next, hang the skirt hanger on a good heavy screw eye inserted in the wall. Clip mittens at the top (in pairs snapped together) and overshoes at the bottom. Large family? Use more than one hanger. Small family? Try clipping hats and scarves where they can easily be found. When summer rolls around, use your hanger for garden gloves and swim caps. Plastic bags can substitute for ovetrshoes ina pinch. Put the bag over your child's feot and hold tight with an elastic at the ankle. Slip a glass marble in the finger of those holey gloves for easier mending. The button eyes and nose on that prize snowman won't keep falling off if they're anchored with toothpicks. Gives you the ultimcte in fingertip total electric living now... And a years to come. When the future is allelectric, why buy anything but a Gold Medallion Home? UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Buy now from your dealer Dear SF rie nd Florence S. Glines If friends like you are here Through all my mortal hours, They'll give me comfort dear And strew my path with flowers. If I can always measure To the treasure in your soul And see myself reflected, I will have reached my goal. The things that brought us near Seemed sad and hard to bear, But proved a blessing without peer Because I found you there. I pray that God will bless you Through all your mortal days, And I will find you true When we walk eternal ways. Page 7} Hawaiian Tour in January and February Northwest and L. D. S. Pageant Tours for 1962 Ask about our World's Fair Tours MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East SALT LAKE CITY 11, UTAH 486-1601 — HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Birthday Congratulations Ninety-eight Mrs. Ann E. Coomss Centerville, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Ex. Ien Larson SMITH Mesa, Arizona Mrs. SInA CAROLINE HEISELT MORTENSEN Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Annie MartA GAMET HANSEN Idaho Falls, Idaho Ninety-two Mrs. Martua TotmMAn THURGOOD West Point, Utah Page 72 Mrs. Ontve Pace SCHOETTLIN Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. E, pira ANDERSON DauHL Midvale, Utah Mrs. Grace LILIAN PRIESTLEY CAMPBELL Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Katie Fatt Sevy Orangeville, Utah Mrs. CaTHariIneE Harris Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. ELLEN JANE Rose FILLMORE Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Luetta Cornwarti Hansen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mar Harrison SMITH Springville, Utah Mrs. Minnie B. Dixon Kelsey, 'Texas Mrs. Mary Grace GATES GRIFFIN Springfield, Missouri — She Blind Linda Clarke Weep not for Milton, For he gave light To those who, truly blind, Saw only through his word. Neither shed your tears For those who seek no light, For they view the world, And seeing, do not sense the dark. But weep for those Who see the world And sense the light, Yet live in darkness. > A new book by Hugh B. Brown... The Continuing Quest Here is a vast treasury of fifty speeches, articles, General Conference and auxiliary addresses, musings and poetry by President Brown on a multitude of subjects. The articles have mainly appeared in The Improvement Era, Instructor Magazine, and The Millenial Star. Some of the titles of the addresses and articles are: The Garden of the Good Neighbor, Attributes to Cultivate, The More Abundant Life, Justice Without Vengeance, The Value of Good Books, Life's Purpose, What is Man and What He May Become, and Elder Brown's recent October General Conference Address. $3.95 2 STORIES OF OUR MORMON HYMNS J. Spencer Cornwall All who love our LDS hymns will appreciate this fine book by the Conductor of the Tabernacle Choir from 1935 to 1957. It tells the stories of the hymns together with available information on the lives of the authors and composers. Over 300 hymns are treated, following the LDS Hymnal page by page. Illustrations of authors "ee, are included, where ~ = obtainable. $3.95 Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find... Check... Money order. | have an account for the encircled (numbered) books: 1 2: Name Address. Ne eeeevesoseceseeesocesseered® loco a8 enZone...... State Residents of Utah include 3% sales tax. PPP eHe Serer ereeeeeReeeEeSeESEDESEEELESOOSEOEREOSEOEEES OU CAN catch a glimpse of America's future in the faces of the young men and women in our schools today. They are learning not only the skills and logic that will see them through the technology of tomorrow, but they are also learning what has made America great... And how we can "'preserve us a nation." How will your son or daughter fit into R162 The Face H e+ Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah of America's 4 the world of tomorrow? How can you help prepare your children for it? And what of your own tomorrows? What decisions should you be making now that will make the future brighter? A Beneficial Life Planned Futures program can help you find the financial answers to many of these pressing problems. Call your Beneficial Life agent BENEFICIAL LIFE surance & Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah Ynvoke the Nliracles Alice Morrey Bailey What can soothe this winter-wounded world— Storm-beaten, stabbed where bitter ice has hurled Its barbs, and winds have gnarled the tortured tree? How cleanse the leaf-locked streams of their debris? Come, rescuer, and thaw the binding shrouds And sweep the sodden sky of murky clouds. Let mending moods of sun and gentle rain Persuade new life from buried husk and grain. Where branches, autumn-robbed, stand mutely stark And frost-numbed, turn the warming south wind's flood. Revive the white roots' groping in the dark, The veins' slow pulse to embryonic bud. Invoke the miracle your hour begets And heal the snow-bruised earth with violets. The Cover: Isle of Oahu, Hawaii Transparency by Josef Muench Frontispiece: Bates Creek, Wyoming Photograph by Aksel H. Nohr Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From lear and Sar I wish to show appreciation for the Magazine, and for Counselor Sharp's article "Relief Society Today Needs You" (November 1961). 'This article touched my heart and gave new meaning to our motto "Charity Never Faileth." Since I have been working in Relief Society I have had the joy of seeing our weekly attendance doubled, imactive sisters brought back, our teachers freshly inspired and enthused, our visiting teaching maintained at one hundred per cent throughout the past five months — and I attribute this to the fact that The Relief Society Magazine is to be found in every sister's home. I read and study every part of it. I derive from its pages spiritual and practical help. I know it influences me in supporting my husband in his many duties and callings and in bringing up our six children. I believe the Magazine is unique in that it suits every woman, both young and old, and of every nationality. I once thought I couldn't afford the Magazine. How wrong I was! Now I know I just cannot afford to be without it. —Jennifer Mason Cheltenham, England My wife has subscribed to your fine Magazine during the entire period of our married life — eighteen and one-half years — and prior to that, it was in her mother's home during all her married life. I don't always get to read it, but can honestly say that I am always well pleased with what I read. It lifts me spiritually. The quality is always very high. —lra M. Stevens McClean, Virginia I just had to write and tell you how much I enjoyed the article "A Golden, Golden Wedding Day" (by Linnie Fisher Robinson, September 1961). The lady who celebrated that golden wedding was our nearest and dearest aunt. I haven't seen a wild daffodil since I was a little girl, but I remember gathering them on our hills. I am so happy to have this beautiful article in print for lasting enjoyment. —Mrs. Carol Durham Alameda, California Page 74 As the only adult female member of the Church on this island, for over a year, I enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine so much for keeping me in touch with other sisters. Now two other sisters have arrived, and we hold our weekly meetings, often with several investigators. Now, rather than as a companion, I find my Magazine serves me best as a guide for the lessons I teach. I sincerely thank you for the comfort the Magazine has given me in faraway places. I enjoy each issue to the fullest extent, and then take pride in handing it on to others, knowing they will be learning the gospel from any part of the Magazine they read. —Joyce Kartchner MacCabe Nicosia, Cyprus I thank you for the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. I love everything that is printed on its pages — the letters From Near and Far, the continued stories, and the short stories, and most of all, I love the lessons. —Mrs. W. B. Martin Preston, Idaho The Relief Society Magazine has been my favorite for many years, for I enjoyed reading it in my parents' home — and how it has improved through the years! I have had various positions in Relief Society, including ward president, and we found the Magazine to be one of our best missionary aids in bringing new members into our group. Gift subscriptions often led to interest in the society, then attendance at meetings, and, eventually, membership and subscriptions. We sent the Magazine to all missionaries and to each newly baptized sister. —Ruth L. Jones Los Angeles, California Thank you again for the wonderful help and encouragement in printing my poem — '"Earthborne" (June 1961). Because of | it, I have received correspondence from a sister in the gospel clear over in Australia. How thrilling to think that words or ideas you have expressed have traveled so far. —Marjorie Reay San Mateo, California THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SO CIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford._ = - - - Marianne C. Sharp Louise W. Madsen Hulda Parker - - Anna B. Hart Christine H. Robinson Edith S. Elliott Alberta H. Christensen Florence J. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Leone G. Layton Charlotte A. Larsen Blanche B. Stoddard Edith P. Backman Evon W. Peterson Winniefred 8S. Aleine M. Young Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Annie M. Ellswo Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt rth Pearle M. Olsen Editor Associate Editor General Manager Wealtha S. Mendenhall President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford VOL. 49 FEBRUARY 1962 NO. 2 Contents Fellowshipping Through Relief Society Mark E. Petersen 76 Funeral and Burial of President Brigham Young Preston Nibley 84 We Help Build a Church at Pooricg 2oo. N. I.. Oenecececeecseecc ence cececeneneeseeeesceceaeessneeenenscanesccocenseneseViolet M. Evans 108 FICTION Splendor Before Dawn — Second Prize Story Sara O. Moss 79 MiemB Mem Gimgham Dress a... EcenceenececenenecececeeeceecscnseeecceeececesnscseseraseeeteescenenesseseceeBetty Lou Martin 99 OUR ieaiee El oe Chainer tits ii... Ccc... Ccceetsta.. Actusecsetetbcceonecncorssecccioesceessesvsavceseessecensesvusdltesseccubessessee.. Maryhale Woolsey 106 AN LSS Z ogg Ls a aaPauline L. Jensen 112 Sow the Field With Roses — Chapter 2 ee Margery S. Stewart 117 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 74 County Wein Gey eee cere re ee a 94 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 95 Editorial: Refinement of the Soul Through Tribula,. Ee... Marianne C. Sharp 96 Birthday Congratulations ie 152 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Make It Out of Imagination oo. C cece ceceecceceneeecccetesesscsneevvacevacevessesercentuvennecseseeseesSylvia W. Dixon 102 Cafe Curtains Are Versatile 22... Cectee ec ceececceeeeeeeeceeeececeeeceeeceeeeeeeeeseseeeeevesneeeseotentaneenesssShirley Thulin 110 "Sweeter the Thoughts of Love Expressed' 2o.......0.0-. CcescseesceeeceeeseeeeeceneeneeeesMabel Law Atkinson 115 Pearl Bunnel Newell Specializes in Knitting Sweaters and Making Hairpin Lace 2. 116 LESSONS FOR MAY Theology — Put the Kingdom of God First Roy W. Doxey 131 Visiting Teacher Messages — 'Continue in Steadtfastness'' wee. Christine H. Robinson 137 Work Meeting — Hello and Goodbye: laine Anderson Cannon 139 Literature — Edgar Allan Poe — Artist of Word and Sentence one ccsesesseeeeeeBriant S. Jacobs 141 POETRY Invoke the Miracles — Frontispiece -we--Alice Morrey Bailey 73 A Moment, by Padda M. Speller, 78; The Spirit's Stillness, by Caroline Eyring Miner, 89; The Fragile Hour, by Maude Rubin, 93; Siege of Winter, by Lael W. Hill, 97; The Winter Trees, by Vesta N. Fairbairn, 98; Words After Snow, by Ida Elaine James, 123: With Nobleness of Heart, by Pauline M. Bell, 123; Indigo, by Gladys Hesser Burnham, 138; Portrait, by Rose Thomas Graham, 151; Firethorn in February, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 151; Little Brown Curls, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 152. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1962 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year: 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 75 Notes to the Field — Hymn of the Month — Annual List. Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 0.000. Ce eee Food Buying, Care, and Storage -. N.....2ceeeeccececeeeeceeesteeceeneneceeaeseesscesenecceceeeeee Salt-Pork Griddle Cakes o. Cceccctecccseee eee Cauliflower Casserole oo. C.. Cc.. Ccssececsescecccseceescceeeeeseecccsececeeeecceenseceeveseececue PEMBIEIP OT YOUT LOUNGGY __.. C. C-cscccccee+--scecceecconcesssueceess -seceseeeeeneceseenecsaseeae--- Social Science — Fullness of Life and Exaltation.. 98.. Hulda Parker 124 Ruth P. Tippetts 90 Chet Switell 105 Edna Lind Cole 105 Janet W. Breeze 114 Ariel S. Ballif 146 Fellowshipping Through Relief Society Elder Mark E. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 27, T is wonderful to be with you | sisters. It was thrilling to watch the roll call and see women from all parts of the world arise. It surely impresses us with the fact that the Church is now a world Church, as it never has been before, and surely the prophecies are being fulfilled, wherein the Lord has said that the little stone cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth and fill the whole earth. We have had a demonstration here this morning of how that little stone is really rolling forth, and how truly enough the world is our field. It is a great inspiration to be associated with the Relief Society. Every year I am more impressed with the excellence of its work and the devotion of all you wonderful people, and with the outstanding leadership of your great Presidency and General Board. I am constantly amazed at the ingenuity, the inspiration, the strength, and the leadership of these wonderful women. They have been most cooperative with us in every way, as we have tried to carry out various phases of our part of the program, which has touched theirs. We are so grateful for the way in which all of you have responded. This morning, for a few minutes, I would like to talk to you about one of the subjects mentioned by Sister Page 76 1961| Spafford in her excellent address and report. She mentioned that we are reaching about half of the women of the Church through our Relief Society, and she also mentioned the importance of reaching the good women of the world who are not members of the Church. May I talk to you about those two things for just a moment. We believe that Relief Society is so important that it ought to be taken to every woman in the Church, that we should not be satisfied in any sense with reaching half of them. We know, too, that another lesson Sister Spafford taught us this morning is all important, we cannot wait for the women to come to Relief Society. We must go out and seek them. We must ask them before the Rebeccas or some other organization asks them. Let us be solicitous about the women of the Church first, then about the good women not of the Church, so that we may bring them in. One of the most important things about reaching out for these people is that we exhibit real friendliness and neighborliness in doing so. We are trying to promote in the Church, through our missionary program, a good neighbor policy whereby every Latter-day Saint will be a good neighbor to every other Latter-day Saint. We would like to have every Latter-day Saint woman be a good neighbor likewise to every non-Latter-day Saint woman. Isn't it but keeping the commandments? Isn't the second great commandment "Thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself'? We cannot fulfill that commandment if we are exclusive at all. We must have the missionary spirit with respect to enlisting the women who are already members of the Church. If we are reaching only half of them, then let us set our goals to reach the rest of them. Relief Society may be used as a marvelous re-activation organization. We may reach out to the younger women, the new mothers, and to the working mothers. Who needs Relief Society and its work more than working mothers to help them enrich their lives and their homes? And we can reach out to the wives of inactive brethren. We can reach out to inactive women themselves, and we can reach out more to sisters who are active in other organizations, but not so much in our own. UT how are we going to do it? We are going to do it by being friendly, being neighborly, by visiting, by soliciting their attention, and by giving them a demonstration of what Relief Society can do for them. I once heard an address by one of the great salesmen of the business world. This man, after talking about the great value of friendliness in making sales, said that the next great point was that people who are selling a product must show the customers what the product will do for them. I think that is very applicable to Relief Society, don't you? If we, through friendliness, can build up confidence in the minds of those who do not come, and then if we can follow up on that friendliness by showing to them what Relief Society can do for them, then we will, if I might use the business expression, sell them on Relief Society. I firmly believe that many women do not come to Relief Society because they do not know what Relief Society is. I do not believe that all of them understand what Relief Society has to offer them. How can they know, unless we tell them? Is it out of the way, for instance, for us to go into the home of a new mother and give her a demonstration right in her home of what Relief Society can do by way of teaching her home nursing, child care, child psychology, making home a more attractive place, building up the high standards that ought to be in every good Latter-day Saint home? May we not go to the working mother and show her how Relief Society can fit into her needs and her time? May we not go to the intellectual, yet inactive woman, and actually give her a demonstration in her own home of what the literary lessons can do for her? And may we not bring the message of Relief Society by actual demonstration to all others in the same way? We need to go out and demonstrate by actual live demonstration what our work will do for them. Then there is this great missionary program referred to by Sister Spafford. President McKay has announced that every Latter-day Saint is to be a missionary, and part of that means that the existing FELLOWSHIPPING THROUGH RELIEF SOCIETY 77 organizations, including the auxiliaries, will participate in that program. That means that we are going to continue this friendliness, this neighborliness, and by this neighborliness and friendliness, build confidence in the mind of the nonmember neighbor, and let her know what Christian goodness there is in a good Latter-day Saint woman. First, build confidence, invite them to social groups, then invite them to Relief Society, and when the time comes, arrange, as Sister Spafford has said, to co-operate with the missionaries. T would be a wonderful thing if every good Latter-day Saint mother would be willing to invite to a cottage meeting in her home her good non Latter-day Saint neighbors and permit the missionaries to come in and give the missionary lessons to these women so that they may understand the gospel doctrinally, as well as by merely observing us. Every one of us can be missionaries by extending the hand of fellowship to nonmembers, by encouraging them to be friendly with us, by inviting them to our cottage meetings, by co-operating with our stake and foreign missionaries. I was glad that Sister Spafford invited us to use the people, lest we lose them. I am confident that if we can properly fellowship the women of the Church, and the good women not of the Church, and hold out to them a hand of friendship, we can bring in many of the Latterday Saints who are not now coming; we can use our work as a means of conversion for many who are not yet members of the Church. Will you be willing to look at this matter from the standpoint of a missionary? We must save the Latter-day Saints, as well as the nonLatter-day Saints. We must con vert the Latter-day Saints, as well as the non Latter-day Saints. If half our women do not come, there must be many among them who need conversion to our way of life, to our organization. There are many nonmembers who are willing to come. Let us use our facilities to convert them, so that the light of the gospel may come into their homes that they may then help to build Zion. That we may all work together in this way, is my humble and earnest prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. —~ A Mloment Padda M. Speller Rayleigh, Essex, England, British Mission Written on the occasion of the visit of President McKay to Great Britain in February 1960. I caught my breath, my heart was stilled; I thought, this wonder cannot be. With joyous tears my eyes were filled, Our Prophet gave his hand to me. 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Splendor Before Dawn Sara O. Moss SARA O. MOSS ARY dusted the two end M tables with special pleasure. They were her latest "joys," their satiny finish gleaming against the rich brown of the fabric on the recovered couch. She glanced around the room, thrilled with its beauty. It was just as she had dreamed it would be, though it had taken years — by adding a piece at a time — to make the complete picture. But here it was — something to be proud of, something she had always wanted — an elegant living room. The telephone rang. Mary hurried to answer it, knowing it must be Linda with one of her problems. It seemed that was all the girl had was problems, since she and Phil had undertaken the pretentious house on Juniper Street. "Mother!" Linda was almost hysterical, "they're going to take our washing equipment — all of it, the washer, dryer, and ironer." Mary waited a minute. "I'm sure it isn't that bad," she said with confidence. "Surely you can make some arrangement." But the girl was adamant. Three payments had lapsed. 'Their money was gone. "Tl come down," said Mary. "We shouldn't discuss this on the telephone, dear." Mary hung up the receiver. She had to call John, her husband, about this. They would have to help Linda. No woman could get along without a washer. John listened as Mary told him the latest trouble that had_ beset their youngest daughter. "This is their problem, Mary," insisted John, "those two people must find their own way out of the brush. They have to learn that they can't live in a mire of debt and survive." "I know, John," pleaded Mary, "but a washer. No woman can get along without a washer. It's her right arm." John hesitated at the other end. "No handouts, Mary, no loans," John insisted. Page 79 Mary waited. "All right, John," she said a bit grudgingly, "but it wouldn't hurt us to help out a little right now." "See you," said John with finality. Mary hung up the receiver. She thought of her own first washer — a secondhand affair, because John insisted on paying cash. She could hear it yet, loud, noisy, and unlovely to look at, but how she thrilled at the lines of clean, bright clothes waving in the sun. She had not minded that she was not the first to wear off the newness. She had only felt a keen delight in knowing it was hers. EK K OK O&K ARY drove slowly. She wound around the circular streets of the large subdivision. The beauty of the new structures impressed her. These were houses of warm, blending tones, rambling large houses, soft white bricks combined with mellowed wood, and others of softtoned woods and sturdy brick. There were smooth, spacious lawns with groupings of hard metal furniture. There were expensive rock work, flowers, and shrubs, which were cared for by paid gardeners. Then there was Linda's and Paul's house — unlandscaped, the cold, hard clay spilling over onto the stone-laid driveway and walks. Mary rang the bell. "Mother!" exclaimed Linda, as she opened the door, her eyes red from weeping. "I'm so glad you came. Those men were here. They have taken all the washing equipment. I didn't think they meant it, but they did. We just couldn't make the payments." Mary walked through the long hallway into the spacious, carpeted rooms. The nine-month old baby sat in a playpen near the kitchen. Mary picked up the child, and then she could see the vacant wall where the laundry equipment had been. Its emptiness marred the elegance of the wall. Mary suddenly roused to what Linda was saying. "And another thing, those people who were supposed to do the landscaping were here last night." "Yes?" said Mary questioningly. "Instead of just putting in our lawns and shrubbery, they want to terrace and put rock work in the backyard. 'The engineer says there's a spring on our lot, and he wants to make a waterfall. Oh, Mother, it will take thousands of dollars." Mary rose from sheer nervousness. "And it seems we owe for the installing of the air conditioner," continued Linda, "and these are samples of our drapes, Mother. The decorator was here yesterday." 'The younger woman extended several swatches for Mary to examine. "Thank goodness we haven't signed up for them yet, but I don't know what the neighbors will say if we don't soon get some drapes up. They all have so much around here." Mary rose. "Well, you'll have to do something about your laundry. Perhaps you can get by by bringing | your clothes up home, then get Phil to string some lines and dry your clothes in the sun." Linda laughed. "I had to buy the dryer, Mom, because Mrs. Packer expressed her views on a clothesline. She said she paid enough for her | lot and didn't want her view obstructed by clothes waving in the wind. We just had to get a dryer." Mary sighed as she rose. "Such 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 SPLENDOR BEFORE DAWN. Bondage! Oh, Linda," she said forlornly, "your young lives should be joyous and full of adventure. You can't possibly be happy with so many installments to pay." Linda was close to tears as she took the baby from her mother and followed her to the door and out to the car. "T know," she said, "but it looked so easy before we signed up for the house." Mary got into her car. "Come up home and wash, dear," she said, "until you have worked something out." She drove away, her heart wounded at the sad little figure standing in the clay. If only these young people knew the joy of freedom from debt and worry. If only they would wait for the pleasures of owning a little at a time, instead of rushing headlong into the mire of easy credit to obtain the things that come through waiting. \A ARY knew she could not help these young people now. Getting the washing equipment back was only a drop in the bucket. 'The landscaping, the costly draperies, and the furniture for the elegant rooms, and all the other expenditures would in all probability have the same consequences as the washing equipment. John was right. They had to learn the hard way. Phil did not make that much money. Mary looked back over the years. John's thrift and organization in his life was like a religion to him. As far back as she could remember, he had saved for a rainy day. Small wages, small savings, but the habit was there. He had always been: an 81 opportunist, too, in a small way — food bargains, little deals that filled the locker for winter. There had always been plenty, always a sure way to meet the emergencies that came along. 'Thrifty, yet no one could say John was stingy. That winter when Mary's father had been hospitalized in the depression days, John had come to the rescue. The little bank account was wiped out completely, and he had started in again ungrudgingly. Yes, John had helped many people — the Andersons with the large family. He had instructed Mary then to supply them with food and clothing. He had supplied them with money, too, and they had gotten by until a job was in sight. And yet, what an adventure life had been. What fun they had building their own home, making additions, improving, renovating, and making the old pieces serve their purposes. The things that mattered — music, education, a vacation, new dresses for the girls, when an event was something special — all those things John stood behind. Life was lived leisurely and joyously. No, Mary reflected, she had nevez known what it meant to be bogged in the mire of debt. The next morning Mary and John sat at breakfast when Linda drove in. She hurried up the walk, holding little Kathy limply on her hip. She was almost running, and Mary hurried to open the door. 'There was something urgent in the girl's face. "Good morning, Dad, Mother," the girl said, setting her baby on the floor. Mary could see excitement in her face. 'Mother, I can get my job back, so I'm going to work — that is if you'll take Kathy." Mary almost choked as the full impact of her daughter's words pierced her mind. "Well, yes, dear," she said, "but does Phil want you to go to work?" "Not exactly, but he really hasn't much choice, Mother. We have to make some extra money, and there's no other way to make it." Mary sat down. She could see John's set face. He did not like any part of this. "Well, Pl have to hurry," Linda was saying, "I have to be at the typewriter by nine. I'll have to run back and change." "Now, just a minute," John was saying. He rose and picked up the smiling granddaughter. "Your mother has her job, too,' Linda opened her eyes questioningly, "But that's just volunteer work at the hospital," she said. Mary fidgeted. She wished John would not get down to cases just now when Linda needed them both so much. But her husband was firm. "Volunteer or whatever you call it; it's something she loves to do. She shouldn't have to be tied to tending children." Linda was half angry, greatly disturbed.. "But I thought...." "For today," said Mary briskly, "Tl take Kathy, just temporarily." John kept still, but Mary knew he wanted to prolong this argument. Linda set the bags down. "But I thought you both loved Kathy, and I thought you were glad we had bought our own home." "Of course we love this baby more than almost anything, and as for buying a home, that's a smart thing for any young couple to do if you can use moderation, but what you and Phil have undertaken...." After a few curt words, Linda hurried away. "Oh, John," said Mary. "I wish you hadn't made her feel so badly just now." John put an arm around her, at the same time passing the baby to her. "Mary," he said. She could see his eyes held only love. "We're grandparents, but we are not going to be baby sitters. We have earned the right to do the things we want to do." Mary smiled at him through the baby's blonde curls. "You're so right, John," she said. "T just don't have the nerve to set the children straight as you do." week went by — two weeks. Linda was working while Mary took care of little Kathy. Things got worse for Phil and Linda, taxes, bills, commitments. It's so useless, thought Mary, those young folks aren't happy, and Phil's dragging around, with that heavy chest cold. It was that night that Linda called, her voice shaking with fear. "Phil's so sick, Mother. Can you and Dad come down? I'm so worried." Phil was indeed ill. Virus pneumonia had set in. For many days Phil hovered between life and death. John stayed at his side, with Linda and Mary relieving him often. Margaret, the oldest daughter, came from California to help with the baby and the work in the house. Many in the neighborhood responded with. Their 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 SPLENDOR BEFORE DAWN love and helpfulness. The crisis passed, and Phil showed signs of improvement. 'The convalescence was slow, and it took many weeks before he could be released from the hospital. On the day he came out of the hospital Mary and John suggested that they come to their home until Phil was stronger. It was a Saturday afternoon. Phil lay on the couch in the living room. He was strangely quiet as he looked into the low burning fire. "T don't ever want to go back to Juniper Street," he said suddenly. Mary straightened. John looked as calm as usual, but Linda was startled beyond measure. She ran to his side and sat on the ottoman beside Phil, then laying her head on his chest, she burst into violent crying. Phil put his hand on her head. "Go on," he said, "it will do you good, then we can talk." Linda raised her head and wiped her eyes. "I don't ever want to go back either," she said. "We're not ready for such a big house yet, Phil. It's something we should have waited for for many years." "We'll lose our shirts maybe," said Phil, "but suppose we do. The 83 way it is, it's like a chaos — a scramble, so much to live up to—far beyond our means." Mary felt a joyous relief. 'Then these young people had learned, and John had been right. 'They had come out of the brush. "Tl talk to the agent," said Phil, "af he can sell, we'll take what he can give us. We'll get us a small place like...." "Like this," supplied Linda. "We'll buy just a little at a time like Mother and Dad have done. We won't ever go into all those installments again." Linda's face showed relief and joyous expectancy. Mary got up suddenly. "I'll fix us a snack," she said, hurrying to the kitchen. John followed close behind. "Well, dear," he said, pulling Mary toward him, "I think you can buy that washer for Linda now." Mary beamed. "Oh, I'm so glad, John," she said. "She's going to need it. But no dryer, John. She can get along without a dryer." John smiled. "No dryer, Mary," he said. "She still has to find the sunshine, and a clothesline is one sure way." Sara O. Moss, Salt Lake City, Utah, writes: "I have tried to show that debt is such a bondage, especially for young people who seem prone to buy all the things at once." Mrs. Moss is a talented and enthusiastic writer. She is a member of the League of Utah Writers, a former member of the Barnacles, a writers club, and is a member of a well-known workshop group in Salt Lake City. She is the wife of Don W. Moss. They have three daughters: Joyce and Mary Sue who are teachers in the Granite District; and Mrs. Carol Donna Voss of Pomona, California. They have one grandchild. Mrs. Moss was born in Brooklyn, New York, and came with her parents at an early age to Logan, Utah. She received her education at Brigham Young College and Utah State University. Funeral and Burial of President Brigham Young Part II Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian leading brethren of the Church to the death of President Brigham Young, is well expressed in the words of George ©. Cannon, a member of the Council of the Twelve: "On Tuesday night," he states, "as I sat at the head of his bed, and thought of his death, if it should occur, I recoiled from the contemplation of the view. It seemed to me that he was indispensable. What could we do without him? He had been the brain, the eye, the ear, the mouth, and hand for the entire Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. From the greatest details connected with the organization of this Church, down to the smallest minutiae connected with the work, he has left upon it the impress of his great mind. From the organization of the Church, and the construction of Temples, the building of Tabernacles; from the creation of a provisional State government, and a Territorial government, down to the small matter of directing the shape of these seats upon which we sit this day; upon all these things, as well as upon all the settlements of the Territory, the impress of his genius is apparent. Nothing was too small for his mind; nothing was too large. His mind was of that character that it could grasp the greatest subjects, and yet it had the Page 84 ike immediate reaction of the C. R. Savage BRIGHAM YOUNG Said to be one of his last portraits capacity to descend to the minutest details. 'This was evident in all his counsels and associations with the Saints; he had that power, that wonderful faculty, which God gave him, and with which he was inspired. And while I was thinking of all this, it seemed as though we could not spare him; he was indispensable to this great work. And while I felt it, it seemed as though a voice said, 'I am God, this is my work; it is I who build up and carty | it forward; it is my business to guide my Saints'" (Deseret News, Sep tember 3, 1877). II THE funeral of President Brigham Young was held on Sunday, September 2, 1877, in the large Tabernacle. The previous day, "at a quarter past eight o'clock in the morning,' the body was conveyed from the Lion House to the 'Tabernacle, in order that the Saints might have "a farewell look upon the countenance of our loved and veni i. Don Busath for Hal Rumel: % % ¢ e thas Nae erated President, Prophet and Brother...." About half past ten o'clock the doors of the 'Tabernacle were opened and the anxious crowds admitted. From this time on until nightfall "there was a continuous stream of living humanity passing through the 'Tabernacle' until, it was estimated, that at least 25,000 people "had taken their last farewell of the honored dead." The following morning, Sunday, BRIGHAM YOUNG'S GRAVE First Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah FUNERAL AND BURIAL OF PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG 85 at ten o'clock, the doors of the Tabernacle were again opened, and by noon "the building was entirely filled, as were the aisles and doorways, and every available standing place. The congregation within the building numbered at least 12,000, while thousands of persons, unable to obtain admission, were in the grounds of the Tabernacle, or in the streets outside." "At 12 noon," the immense congregation was called to order by George Q. Cannon. "The Choir of 220 voices, led by George Careless, with Joseph J. Daynes presiding at the Organ," sang "Hark, From Afar a Funeral Knell." The opening prayer was offered by Franklin D. Richards, after which the choir sang "Thou Dost not Weep to Weep Alone." The first speaker was President Daniel H. Wells, whom, with the others, I can quote only briefly. A] arise with an aching heart," he said, "but I cannot let pass this opportunity of paying at least a tribute of respect to our departed friend and brother, who has just stepped behind the veil. I can only say, let the silent tear fall that it may give relief to the troubled heart; for we have lost our counselor, our friend our President; a friend to God, a friend to his Saints, a friend to the Church, and a friend to humanity." Wilford Woodruff followed with a few remarks: "We have lying before us the earthly tabernacle of President Brigham Young. His voice is hushed in death, and all Israel has to submit to the mind and will of God. Israel will never again hear his voice until after the resurrection. I have no desire to occupy the time of this assembly, in eulogizing the life of President Young. His works and words are recorded in Heaven, and they are recorded here on the earth; and that is sufficient. Let those of us who remain a few days study the counsels, the sermons and _ principles which have been revealed to us through the mouth of the Prophet of God...." RASTUS Snow followed: "... It would be a small thing to add my testimony, but which I know would be the testimony of thousands before me, as well as thousands who are not with us today, more especially those who have been longest and most intimately acquainted with him; namely, the never-failing devotion of his heart to the building up of the Kingdom of God, to the honoring of the Holy Priesthood he received, and the carrying out of the counsels of the Lord, and all things revealed through the Prophet Joseph...." George Q. Cannon then arose and tread this remarkable statement, which President Young had pre pared in 1873, more than four years previously, regarding his funeral services and the disposition of his remains: "I, Brigham Young, wish my funeral services to be conducted in the following manner: "When I breathe my last, I wish my friends to put my body in as clean and wholesome state as can conveniently be done, and preserve the same for one, two, three or four days, or as long as my body can be preserved in good condition. I want my coffin made of plump one and one-quarter inch boards, not scrimped in length, but two inches 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 longer than I would measure, and from two to three inches wider than is commonly made for a person of my breadth and size, and deep enough to place me on a little comfortable bed, with a good suitable pillow for size and quality; my body dressed in my Temple clothing, and laid nicely into my coffin, and the coffin to have the appearance that if I wanted to turn a little to the right or the left, I should have plenty of room to do so. The lid can be made crowning. "At my interment I wish all of my family present, that can be conveniently, and the male members wear no crepe on their hats or in their coats; the females to buy no black bonnets, nor black dresses, nor black veils; but if they have them they are at liberty to wear them. The services may be permitted, as singing and a_ prayer offered, and if any of my friends wish to say a few words, and really desire, do so; and when they have closed their services, take my _ remains on a bier, and repair to the little burying ground, which I have reserved on my lot east of the White House on the hill, and in the southeast corner of this lot, have a vault built of mason work large enough to receive my coffin, and that may be placed in a box, if they choose, made of the same material as the coffin — redwood. Then place flat rocks over the vault sufficiently large to cover it, that the earth may be placed over it — nice, fine, dry earth — to cover it until the walls of the little cemetery are reared, which will leave me in the southeast corner. This vault ought to be roofed over, with some kind of temporary roof. There let my earthly house or tabernacle rest in peace, and have a good sleep, until the morning of the first resurrection; no crying or mourning with anyone, as I have done my work faithfully and in good faith. "IT wish this to be read at the funeral, providing that I should die anywhere in the mountains, I desire the above directions respecting my place of burial to be observed; but if I should live to go back with the Church to Jackson County, I wish to be buried there." BRIGHAM YOUNG, PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1873, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PRESIDENT Young did die "in the mountains," and his instructions were respected. The concluding speakers were George QO. Cannon and President John Taylor. "His value has not been properly estimated by the Latter-day Saints," said Elder Cannon. "There are none of us who will not feel this more and more, every day in the future. Today, now that we have lost him, we examine our conduct, and the wish will rise that we had been more obedient, more willing to observe his counsels, and pay him that respect and reverence which his great qualities as a Prophet and _ leader deserved.... The time will come when the Latter-day Saints will appreciate him as one of the greatest Prophets that ever lived. "I have been much with him. I look upon this association as the greatest privilege of my life, to have heard his counsels and witness his life as I have. And in contemplatFUNERAL AND BURIAL OF PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG 87 ing that life, it seems to me perfect. In my eyes and to my feelings, he was as perfect as a man could be in mortality...." President John Taylor was the concluding speaker. "We have before us," he said, "the body of the man who has led us for the past thirty-three years. 'Thirty-three years ago I was with, and witnessed the departure of our first President, Joseph Smith. He passed away in very different circumstances to those which surrounded President Brigham Young in his last hours. Immured in prison, surrounded by enemies who sought his life and attacked by a ruthless mob, savage and relentless, they took away his life, and he died by the hand, and in the midst of vindictive and bloodthirsty foes, who, in the absence of legal offense, surcharged with deadly, venomous hate, clamored for his blood. "President Young, after leading the Church, and buffeting the trials and persecutions to which the Church has ever been subjected, has, at length, in these valleys of the mountains, after having accomplished the object of his life, and done the work that has been represented here so truthfully by our brethren, who have spoken, lain down to sleep in the midst of a loving and affectionate family, surrounded by faithful and tried friends.... Both of these Presidents had the faith and confidence of the Saints of the Most High, and the guidance and direction of the Lord...." After a closing hymn by the choir, and the benediction by Orson Hyde, the body of President Young was borne to its last resting place, as he had directed. All that was mortal of him was given back to mother earth; his spirit had departed to the great kingdom beyond. Ill If I were asked to point out the principal thing, which, more than all others, made President Brigham Young the great man he was, I think that I should reply, without hesitation, that it was his ability to believe — his great faith. First, faith in a living God, to whom he felt personally responsible and to whom he felt obligated to render up an accounting for all the deeds done in the flesh. Second, faith in every principle and doctrine revealed and taught by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and a firm and unyielding determination to shape his life according to those principles. Third, faith in himself, and in his ability to carry on the great work of establishing the kingdom of God, the leadership which had come to him after the death of the Prophet. 'Time and time again in his history, I have been astounded by the strength of this man's faith. On his tombstone one might well have written He Believed — yes, he believed his religion, this great man, and he shaped his life to its principles, to his dying day. 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 IGUASSU FALLS, BRAZIL She Spirit s Stillness Caroline Eyring Miner God's masterpiece, Iguassu Falls, demands The spirit's stillness, savoring silence, too. The mighty water thunders and commands And I stand mute. Eternity shines through, As emerald-amber streaked, the living stream Plunges in shattered glass and silver spray, Rising in mist like bride's illusive dream. Glass beads spill on the mossy footstool where Embroidered eyelet flounces endless weave Hypnotic trances of this sunlit hair So silvery bright that falling, falling leaves This memory in tropic jungle green, Where the majesty and power of God are seen. Page 89 Sood Buying. Care, and Storage Ruth P. Tippetts Consumer Marketing Agent Utah State University Extension Service 66 PTS the Food You Eat That Counts." Good nutrition for your family is your goal in buying and caring for your food supply. Through rain or through shine, in winter or summer, you have the big job each week of buying your family's food supply. You have many items to choose from. 'This complicates the picture for most shoppers. In some areas many foods are found in fresh, canned, and frozen forms. Though offering greater variety, more opportunity for satisfaction, and moneysaving possibilities, the multiple forms impose on shoppers a greater responsibility for making a wise choice. For most of us, improved transportation has extended the season for fresh food beyond that of the locally grown products. Many canned and frozen products are available throughout the year. So the homemaker's choice is less clearcut than it once was. The shopper's decision to select a fresh, canned, or frozen food de pends on many things. Shoppers usually evaluate several factors, such as cost, nutritive value, use, convenience, storage, and family preference. Prices for fresh foods change more during the year than their canned and frozen counterparts. The price of the fresh form is generally lowest during the local growing season. Remember that markets often have specials on all three forms of a food. With all the complications of shopping, food specialists say there are three keys to success in food shopping. 'These keys are Wise Planning, Intelligent Selection, and Proper Care of Food. Wise Planning considers what you are going to buy before you go to the market. Make a shopping list and prepare a week's menu in advance. Use the following daily food guide to keep your family well fed. This guide is a pattern of choices based on what is known about our needs for vitamins, min erals, proteins, and calories. Here is that guide: Milk Group: Children need one quart per day; teenagers 1-1% quarts; adults 1 pint or more. (Cheese and ice cream can replace part of the milk.) Meat Groups: 2 or more servings of beef, veal, lamb, pork, poultry, fish, eggs, with dried beans and peas and nuts as occasional alternates. Fruit-Vegetable Group: 4 or more servings, including a dark green or deep yellow vegetable at least every other day; a citrus fruit or other vitamin-C-rich fruit or vegetable daily. Bread-Cereal Group: 4 or more servings. Or restored. Page 90 Other fruits and vegetables, including potatoes. These should be whole grain, enriched, A _ key Intelligent Selection. FOOD BUYING, CARE, AND STORAGE Survey your cupboard and refrigerator to be sure of what is on hand. Know how much money you can spend. 'Twenty-five per cent of the food budget is generally allowed for meat, twenty-five per cent for dairy products, twenty per cent for fruits and vegetables, twelve per cent for bread and cereals, and eighteen per cent for sweets, fats, and oils. Keep your food list flexible and list alternate choices in case one food is too expensive, such as the kind of meat for the main dish, or fruit for the dessert. By knowing what is needed before you go to the store, you won't be spending money for something that you don't need. You can take advantage of quantity prices if you need large amounts. Check the food items that are plentiful. The wise food shopper needs to know the time of the week and time of year when various foods are available in the largest volume. These are the ones that are most likely to give you the most value for your money. Acquaint yourself with the grades and different qualities of foods that are on the markets. Lesser known brands often provide just as good quality, and, for many uses, the top grade is not necessary. FTER you do your planning, then, it's time to use the second If you are | Wise, you will stick to your shopping list and buy the protective foods first — dairy products, fruits, vegetables, and meats. Let the other items come after these. Then you won't be giving in to impulse buying too much. A shopping list that is well made out, having related commodities together, will save you 91 time, and you need only shop once or twice a week to take care of the family's needs. When buying meat, you can approach your market with confidence if you arm yourself with information. First, let your eye be your guide. The best beef comes from young cattle. Meat from such antmals is dark red, the fat is firm and white, the bones are pink, porous, and _ soft-looking (gray or white bones are those of an older animal). Good pork will look lean, firm, and pink, with a firm white covering of fat. Look for veal which is juicylooking, and light pink in color, with little fat covering. Choice lamb will be fine-grained, pink, and firm, with bones showing red where cut. It is wise to buy on the basis of cost per serving instead of cost per pound, especially when you buy meat. Bone and fat must be figured in the cost per serving. Beef short ribs may cost less per pound than hamburger, but it gives you only one-third to one-half as many servings. OMETIMES, according to the use you're going to make of the food, you can buy a second or third grade instead of the top grade. Grade "B" eggs are good for baking and mixing in scrambled eggs and omelets. Spend money for Grade "A" eggs only when you're going to use them for poaching, frying, or cooking in the shell. The same is true for canned goods. Casseroles and stews don't need whole tomatoes. Buy a second grade of these. Using judgment in this way can save money. Take advantage of "specials," watch food prices. But In finding a bargain the first thing to do is to compare prices. And that means to compare prices no matter what special sales offers may be fluttering from banners, hung in the store, posted on the windows, or featured on cans and boxes. Those "cents off" legends on the labels of so many brands these days are not reliable. Look for the actual selling price on the item. Learn about manufacturer's brands and retailer's brands. Here you may find equal quality at a savings. Your best guarantee of quality is to read the labels. 'They contain helpful information as to weight, size, brand, grade, number of servings, cut, measure, price, ingredients. Buy in quantity only if you can use the product or have adequate storage space. If your family is small, small size jars and packages may be wiser buys than giant sizes, even at a low price. OW, here is the third key, Proper Care and Storage of Food. Many homemakers overlook the importance of good care and storage for the food items they buy at the store. There isn't any point to doing a good job of planning and a good job of buying, only to let the nutritional value slip away, simply because the food was not put where it would keep its quality until it was used. Wash fruits and vegetables and store them in the vegetable compartment of your refrigerator or other cool place to keep them fresh, attractive, and full of value. Leaving them in the heat is one sure way of losing the very things you paid for when you bought the fruits and vegetables. Keep eggs clean, cold, and covered. Why covered? The shell of the egg is porous. It can lose moisture by evaporation and absorb odors from other foods. If you use the convenient built-in tacks in the refrigerator, be careful to cover odorous foods and use the eggs within one week. If covered, the storage life is from two to six weeks. Keep milk in the refrigerator below 45°F. Storage time for pork cuts is somewhat shorter than for other meat cuts. Use ground meat in one day, variety meats in two days, fresh meat cuts in three to six days. If you don't plan to use ground meat the day you buy it, keep it in your freezing unit. Ground meat spoils quickly. Wrap cold cuts, sliced, in semimoisture proof material, such as waxed paper, and store at 38°F. Use within six days for best quality. Store cured meats, bacon, and ham at 38°F. Use half ham within seven days for best quality; whole ham within ten days. Probable storage life of whole ham, four weeks; of half ham two to three weeks. Store fresh fish, loosely wrapped, at 32°F. Use within one day for best quality. Remove the tight wrappings from poultry. Rewrap loosely and store in the coldest part of the refrigerator. Use within two or three days. A loose wrap on poultry or other fresh meat permits the air to circulate around the surface of the meat which helps to retard the spoilage. While the tough shell of nuts would lead most of us to believe that nuts are one of the best keep 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 FOOD BUYING, CARE, AND STORAGE ers, the opposite is true. Nuts have a high fat content. They require refrigeration. When the oils get rancid, the nuts will be stale. So, store nuts in airtight containers in the refrigerator or freezer. Unshelled nuts keep better than shelled. Unsalted nuts keep better than salted, because salt spreads rancidity. In an automatic refrigerator with the control set for normal operation, the center storage section of the cabinet will probably run between 38°F. And 42°F. The area just below the freezing unit is colder, for storage of foods such as meats, poultry, and fish, needing the lower temperatures. The bottom of the cabinet is somewhat warmer than the center, for less perishable foods. If in doubt about your refrigerator, take the temperature in different locations with a thermometer. More and more frozen foods are being used. "Zero 'Temperature"' is the most important factor to highquality frozen foods. Once food damage has been done because of higher temperatures, nothing can 93 restore quality. A frozen turkey held for one week at twenty to twenty-five degrees is likely to darken. Orange juice will separate. Fruits and vegetables will lose color and flavor. Other storage care should be given to some fruits and vegetables not regularly stored in the refrigerator. Potatoes, for instance, are a hardy looking vegetable, but they are really quite perishable. Light causes greening which results in off flavor. 'Too high temperature hastens sprouting. Too low temperatures may convert some of the starch to sugar, giving the potatoes an undesirable sweet taste. So, keep potatoes in a cool, dry, dark place with good ventilation. Store onions in slatted crates in a cool, dry, well-ventilated room. Pumpkins need dry, cool temperatures. Place on slatted shelves one layer deep. Store apples in a cool, humid place. 'Temperatures close to 32°F. Are best for apples. Store dried products in tin cans, glass jars, and plastic bags, as free of air as possible, and in a dark place. <> She Fragile Hour Maude Rubin I walk my crusted path to evening chores, My mittened hands steel-bracketed by bails Of empty buckets.... So time treads soft white floors, Muffled by mores, wrapped in habit's veils. New boys and girls come scuffling through the snow, Their easy laughter tinkling like wind-bells, Bright skates on their shoulders. Far below The pond is unetched glass.... Old music swells, Recedes, then swells to burst the fragile hour With a high and shattering timbre of pure sound. The shards fall at my feet, a frosted flower Too brittle to open its petals.... Frozen ground Vibrates like harp-strings, plucked, and low-hung stars Sway dizzily above the pasture bars. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, February 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NaTIons" OFFICIAL NOTICE: In consideration of the seventeenth of March next, 1902, being the sixtieth anniversary of the first organization of the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, the General Officers of the society have thought it advisable to make the day a special occasion of thanksgiving and rejoicing.... An interesting program suitable to such gatherings might be arranged, bringing in the best talent available.... Any veterans in Relief Society work should be remembered... Brief historical sketches of some of the great leaders in the movement, past and present, might be appropriate... And the teachings and instructions of the Prophet Joseph to the Relief Society are always suggestive and profitable to read on memorable occasions.... —Bathsheba W. Smith General President DUTIES AND BENEFITS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY: We, as members of the Relief Society, feel it not only our duty to relieve and assist the poor, but to comfort the distressed with kind words and acts; to visit them personally, help them in trouble, nurse them in sickness. What a mission of love.... —Catharine Naisbitt LOVE'S SONG I saw two happy beings Whose lives were made complete, For scenes of summer beauty, Of wreaths and roses sweet. Bright autumn's golden harvest Of luscious fruits and grain, And winter's hoary whiteness All breathed the soft refrain: "Oh, love, thou gift to mortals given, Thou gift which flows from out of heaven, Each gentle word, each tender thought, By thy sweet spirit, love, is taught...." —L. Taylor RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN KANAB STAKE: | Sister Elizabeth Stevenson addressed the sisters. Referred to the importance of Relief Society work.... Every virtuous woman should belong to the society. Spoke of the necessity of being chaste and pure and making right marriages. There is a great mission for all mothers. Help the daughters to become good wives. All be missionaries.... Keep the confidence of your children, and teach them to be pure and holy, prayerful and modest.... Sister Harriet Brown... Remembered the hall and house where the first meeting of the Saints was held in Nauvoo.... Felt deeply interested in the welfare of the young people. Our children are our first care and will be great blessings if we train them properly.... —Persis A. Spencer, Sec. Page 94 MB. ROY E. (VIRGINIA EPPERSON) JAMES of Salt Lake City recently spent two years in 'Tapei, Formosa, where her husband was deputy director of the Mutual Security Mission in China. She studied Chinese culture and spoken Chinese, taught English in her home to wives of Chinese dignitaries, was one of two foreign members on the YWCA board of Tapei. She started a project to have hard-of-hearing Chinese — students tested and hearing aids obtained for them, and she founded a project to acquire record players and records for the blind as a means of education and pleasure for those underprivileged but earnest people. JOAN SUTHERLAND, coloratura soprana, in November sang at the Metropolitan Opera the role of Lucia di Lammermoor and won one of the greatest ovations in the seventy-seven year history of that famous house. GNES DE MILLE, niece of the late famous moving picture producer Cecil B. De Mille, is not only one of today's finest choreographers and dancers, but she also has written two successful books and a number of very good magazine articles. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon D*: HURUTSTIATI SUBANDRIO, assistant minister of health in the Indonesian Government, and wife of Indonesia's foreign minister, recently accompanied her husband to Washington, D. C. She then came to Utah to visit with Dr. Virginia Cutler, Dean of Brigham Young University's College of Family Living. They became friends while Dr. Cutler was doing important work for the United States Government in home economics in Indonesia. Dr. Subandrio says they are working hard in her country on a ten-year plan to eradicate malaria, which has been killing about 50,000 people annually. '§GRANDMA (ANNA MARY ROBERTSON) MOSES," famous American artist whose "primitive" pictures hang in museums in many countries and are reproduced on greeting cards, died in Hoosick Falls, New York, December 13, 1961, at the age of 101. She began fulfilling her long desire to paint at the age of seventy-seven. Freshness, simplicity, and nostalgic memories of a way of life traditionally dear to her home country marked her work. She possessed courage, originality, and great strength of character. Page 95 er a EDITORIAL 9 VOL 49 FEBRUARY 1962 Refinement of the Soul Through Sribulation HERE ought to be a club composed of women. Who have lost their homes." The voice of the sister who spoke held a half-laughing, half-sad note. "Yes," she continued, "we lost our home when the children... Were young, during. The depression, and I will never forget the heartache." Her words started a recital of sobering experiences from those who were sewing together, yet, again and again the conviction was voiced, "It was terribly hard at the time, but I learned a lot and gained understanding. In a way it was a blessing in disguise, as I look back. Of course, it didn't seem so at the time." As one reflects on the purpose of life, it is not a matter of wonder that trials, sorrows, temptations, and bitter experiences are mixed with opportunities, contentment, peace, and joy. The great prophet Alma, refined by his own bitter, youthful experiences declared, "And thus we see, that there was a time granted unto man fafter the fall] to repent, yea, a probationary time, a time to repent and serve God" (Alma 42:4). The Heavenly Father is no respecter of persons, for every one in this world is his spirit child. Each one was tested in the spirit world, and only the two-thirds who were obedient were allowed to come to this earth and receive mortal bodies. So important is the faithfulness of his children in this second estate, Page 96 that those who keep their second estate are promised that glory shall be added upon their heads forever and ever. The Lord must have a tried and tested people. His ommiscience gives to each of his children in this temporal world those experiences which will develop each child to his fullest potential. Of the Savior it is written, "Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered" (Heb. 5:8). Suffering — mental, spiritual, and physical — teaches obedience, if accepted in the spirit exemplified by the Savior, "not my will, but thine, be done" (Luke 22:42). Holy writ also says "he suffereth the pains of all men, yea, the pains of every living creature, both men, women, and children, who belong to the family of Adam" (2 Nephi 9:21). In every tribulation, trial, sorrow, and pain, strength to endure may be sought from the Father in the name of his Son who went below all things that he might rise above all things. Although, at times, one may feel that one is alone in his weight of trials, one may comfort himself with the knowledge that none escapes the sins and sorrows of this world. One reads the solacing and encouraging words "blessed is he that keepeth my. Commandments, whether in life or in death; and he that is faithful in tribulation, the reward of the same is greater in the EDITORIAL kingdom of heaven.... For after much tribulation come the Dblessings" (D & C 58:2, 4). Experiences in mortality, accepted in humility, add greater faith, deeper repentance, a stronger power to overcome the temptation, less desire to judge others, a clearer understanding, refinement, and heightened joy. And in the midst of every testing in the world one may 97 possess, through righteousness, that parting gift of the Savior — "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you.... Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid" (John 14:27). The acceptance of daily trials and anxieties and _sorrows, cheerfully and uncomplainingly borne, refine and shape the individual to endure to the end and gain eternal life. —M. C. S. Siege of Water Lael W. Hill Winter is king in your castle now, you have said; Tower and garden whiten and are still. Yet, every night I walk up the orchard hill And hear the rustle of young leaves overhead. Behind your wall only cold hands, you declare, Command your guardian stones to uniform frost. Yet the words you say drift over like petals, lost From lilac-wind warm as May upon my hair. So you are betrayed: spring has appointed spies To creep thin as ivy up your citadel, To open the secret passage, the hidden cell. Soon, banners of purple will guide our waiting eyes. She Second Mile Nancy M. Armstrong "And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain" (Mt. 5:41). Ape second mile, the mile of one's own choosing, assures the victory. The second mile changes acquaintance into friend, affection into love, quarrel into reconciliation, resentment into forgiveness, duty into joy, failure into success, existence into gracious living, prejudice into understanding, belief into faith. Yloteds TO THE FIELD Hymn of the Month—Annual List January - December 1962 'THE Church-wide congregational hymn singing project, inaugurated by the Church Music Committee, will be continued during the coming year, and all auxiliary organizations have been invited to participate. The purpose of this project is to increase the hymn repertoire of the Church Stake Relief Society choristers and organists are requested to give assistance at leadership meetings to ward choristers and organists in carrying out this members and to place emphasis on the message of the hymns. Project. January February March April May June July August September October November December Page 98 The Lord My Pasture Will Prepare Joseph Addison — Dimitri Bortniansky God of Our Fathers, Whose Almighty Hand Daniel C. Roberts — G. W. Warren Come, O Thou King of Kings Parley P. Pratt He Is Risen Cecil Alexander — Joachim Neander O God, The Eternal Father William W. Phelps — Felix Mendelssohn God of Power, God of Right Wallace F. Bennett — Tracy Y. Cannon God Moves in a Mysterious Way William Cowper — William B. Bradbury How Great the Wisdom and the Love Eliza R. Snow — Thomas Mcintyre God Loved Us, So He Sent His Son Edward P. Kimball — Alexander Schreiner I Know That My Redeemer Lives Samuel Medley — Lewis D. Edwards Now Thank We All Our God Martin Rinkart — Johann Cruger Oh Come, All Ye Faithful a She Winter Trees Vesta N. Fairbairn Nourished by hidden springs, Cradled by mountain breeze, And warmed by summer sun The little new-born trees— The cedars, firs, and pines— Are sleeping now below A blanket, soft and white, And tucked beneath the snow, - 113 She Blue Gingham Dress Betty Lou Martin T was only by accident that Becky found the blue gingham dress, fading now with age. She had been cleaning out an old trunk that she had brought from her Grandmother Arnold's house when she had died. She smiled when she saw the dress and held it fondly up to her, then she caressed it lovingly. "Hmm," Becky sighed, "did I ever have a waistline like that?" She folded the dress neatly, and turned to put it back in place. "What are you doing?" Becky's ten-year-old daughter Kay _interrupted her mother's thoughts. "Oh, just dreaming, dear." Becky spoke softly. "Dreaming of a time long ago. I guess that mother will have to make you a blue gingham dress someday, but you're far too young now." "What do you mean, a blue gingham dress, Mommy?" Kay questioned. "Is that what you were putting back in that old trunk when I came in?" "Yes, Kay," Becky answered. "That dress has many old memories for your mother." "Tt just looks like a plain, old dress to me," Kay said. Becky laughed. "You know, it is funny, dear, but your mother thought that very same thing at one time. Believe me, it isn't any ordinary dress." Kay sat on the floor beside the trunk and eyed her mother curiously. "Were you very old when you wore that dress, Mommy?" "Well, Pll have you know that I was a lot older than you are, young lady." Becky settled down beside her daughter and gently laid the dress in her lap. As she glanced down at the dress, the years swept away, and she was a young girl again, living with her Grandmother Arnold and reliving the happiness, the dreams, and the anxieties that are a part of the young. I a '7 PURN around once more, Becky," Mrs. Arnold said, looking thoughtfully at her granddaughter's blue gingham dress. "Now, Becky, I think that if I take it in a little more in the waist and make it a tiny bit shorter, it should be just fine. You can take it off now, dear." Becky Arnold walked swiftly to her room. She could hardly hold back her tears. Mrs. Arnold, her grandmother, was so dear, and she had tried so very hard to please Becky since she had come to live with her, but she did want a new dress. Becky's parents had both been killed in a boating accident when Becky was nine years old, and since that time Mrs. Arnold had been as a mother to her. Times had not been easy for them, however, but they had always managed to have enough for the necessities, even though Becky couldn't have many clothes. Becky had always worn her cousins' castoffs and very rarely did she get a new dress. Since her grandmother's health had failed, Becky endeavored to support them both on her salary as an office girl at the local lumber yard. Becky wasn't ungrateful for all Page 99 her grandmother's tireless efforts, but just this once she wanted a new dress for the dance on Friday night. She had thought that she had enough money put away to buy the material for the dress, when the washing machine had broken down, and it had taken every penny she had saved to have it repaired. Neither Becky nor her grandmother had expressed her disappointment that Becky couldn't have the new dress. Instead, Mrs. Arnold had remodeled the blue gingham dress that Becky's cousin had given her some time before. When Friday night arrived, Becky wasn't in the least excited about the dance. Her friends had been chattering all week in anticipation of it, and it seemed to Becky that every other girl had a new dress for the occasion. It's no use, Becky thought, as she surveyed herself in the blue gingham dress. No boy will ever ask me to dance wearing this. Becky pictured her grandmother slaving tediously over the sewing machine, doing the best she could with what she had. It hasn't been easy for Grandma either, and she doesn't feel too well most of the time. I should be ashamed of myself for acting so ungrateful. Maybe Grandma would like something new herself once in a while, Becky thought. Becky ran a comb through her short, dark hair, smoothed her dress, and walked into the living room where her grandmother sat reading. "You look very lovely, dear." Mrs. Arnold smiled at Becky. "The blue in your dress makes your eyes apear even more blue." Becky smiled back at her grandmother, even though she thought that Mrs. Arnold was just trying to be kind. "Thank you, Grandma." Becky kissed her grandmother tenderly on the cheek. "The dress turned out much better than I thought it would. It's just fine." "['m glad that you're pleased, dear." Mrs. Arnold seemed relieved. "Have a nice time tonight, won't you?" ECKY met her two friends, Cathy and Janet, at the corner, and together they walked to the dance. It was a warm, lovely night, with the stars winking down like thousands of miniature lights in a field of black velvet. Becky felt as if she could walk all night in the calmness that surrounded her. Janet, a small blonde girl with a sweet-featured face, broke the silence. "You really look nice tonight, Becky." "Yes, you do, Becky," Cathy, the tallest of the three girls, added. Becky frowned. Why do they all try to be so kind to me? She thought unhappily, I know very well that my dress isn't as pretty as theirs. Why do they have to say anything at all? The dance had just begun when the girls arrived. Couples swung by, happily swaying to the music. Becky only wished that she, too, could join in the gaiety of the group. "Well, why can't I?" she mused. "After all, I'm not going to let this old blue gingham dress spoil my fun." Becky's frown changed to a radiant smile, and soon she, too, was swaying happily to the music in her modest blue gingham dress. Then Mike Anders asked her to dance, and for a moment she felt her smile fade, and anxiety set in. However, 100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 THE BLUE GINGHAM DRESS in the presence of Mike, her skepticism soon vanished, and once more she was caught up in the magic of the evening that had prevailed before Mike had asked her to dance. Twenty-year-old Becky had wanted to meet Mike Anders since he had moved to Pleasant City a year ago. His tall good looks had appealed to her since the first time that she had seen him. Becky danced as she had never danced before, and her young heart was full of the wonder of life and the goodness that it had to offer, if one only bothered to look for it. When Mike asked to take Becky home from the dance, her evening was complete. Cs ECKyY shut the lid on the trunk down and slid it back in place. "It's time to start dinner now, Kay. Your father will soon be home, and he'll be hungry." "My, how we've changed over the years," Becky teased Mike at dinner that night. "And you're even more handsome now, Mr. Anders." "T guess that's my cue to tell you that you're even more beautiful than when I married you, Mrs. Anders." Mike winked at Becky. Becky had matured into a beautiful, gentle woman, happy with her husband and family. She could never cease to wonder that God should bestow so many blessings upon her. Each moment of her life became a treasured and happy segment that added together into a glorious existence. After dinner, when the dishes were done and Kav was in bed, Becky and Mike were sitting out on the porch in their favorite spot, 101 the porch swing. The aroma of honeysuckle filled the air, and the crickets in the distance sang their enchanting song to the night. Becky felt calm and relaxed and totally at peace with the world. Mike has done this for me, she thought to herself. It was then that Becky casually mentioned the blue gingham dress to Mike. He seemed somewhat surprised. "I didn't know that you were wearing a blue gingham dress that night." "You didn't!" It was Becky's turn to be surprised. "I thought that everyone noticed the dress that I was wearing that night." "Of course I noticed that you were neat and modestly dressed, but I was too dazzled by the shining radiance of your face to notice what the dress was like that you were wearing."" Mike was serious as he took Becky's hand. Becky was startled and then she laughed. "After all the worrying I did about that dress. I thought that everyone would notice that it was made over, and how shabby I looked at the side of all the other girls in their new dresses." "Let that be a lesson to you, Mrs. Anders," Mike added. "It is the way a person is on the inside that determines whether she is beautiful or not." "That it is, Mike," Becky agreed, "but still, I think that someday I'll get Kay a blue gingham dress." Mike laughed. "Well, if you must, but just promise me that you won't until she is about say — twenty?" Becky laughed, too. "I promise," she said. Make Ge Out of Imagination Sylvia W. Dixon OW long has it been since you took time truly to anticipate something? Close your eyes a moment and let yourself drift into the enchanting world you knew as a child. Remember the wonderful expectancy of everything — the shiny new shoes that you would wear with pride to Sunday School — the tantalizing taste of that last piece of cake that might be yours after the company departed — the marvelous torture of waiting for Christmas? Recapture the wanting you knew as a child — the unmatched desire of wanting to make something for Mother, some wonderful thing she would lovingly display and, then, though everyone else was there, her eyes would hold for you alone that loving ""Thankyou" look that means so much to us all. Now we are ready to use what my Mother called "Make-it-out-of-imagination." Perhaps it was pioneer austerity that started it, the severe simplicity of the times she grew up in, but she believed anything could be made from something — and do you know — it can! Walk with me through your home swinging your mental searchlight into every corner. Ask yourself, "What makes beauty?" Is it the slender liquid gracefulness of a taper in a crystal candlestick? Well, you can't blow glass, but wait, you can put together things that will add up to the same graceful effect. Start by turning things upside down, dishes, bud vases, the shiny collar that fits around a pipe as it enters Page 102 the wall. Experiment. It's fun — it's therapeutic — and can be profitable when making gifts or decorative objects for the home. All worthwhile things are the result of knowledge, plus effort, plus talent. We must also add accident, plus inspiration, for many of the things we value most are the product of someone's imagination and inspiration after an accident or unintended turn of events in some process. 'To make things that will satisfy you and not just waste your time, you must deliberately hunt for inspiration. OST of us have one or two sherbets left from a set or some odd glass coasters, maybe a tall crystal saltshaker, the top of which is dented. Take the top off, and see how lovely violets look in this tiny slender vase. Or place the salt shaker on the turned-over glass coaster (Figure 1). Figure 1 CANDLESTICK made from a salt shaker MAKE IT OUT OF IMAGINATION My glass coasters were edged in filigree silver and dear to me because they were among my parents' wedding gifts, but the crystal bases in them were cracked. The salt shaker hid the cracks. (There are many things you can use other than a salt shaker, of course. I have successfully used two glass furniture casters, plus one stubby little dime-store salt shaker.) Using a good grade of jewelry cement, and carefully following instructions on the tube, cement the shaker to the coaster. Next, turn a small glass caster (such as you would place under a chair leg) upside down and cement it in place on top of the shaker, to hide the threads that held on the silver top. This also provides a level top for your candlestick. Decide which size candle will look best on the base you have created, find a lid from a cosmetic bottle or spray can, cement it firmly to the glass caster, place your candle in it. Anyone who has known and loved your Mother would be thrilled with such a gift, made with odds and ends that were hers. Figure 2 CANDLE HOLDER made with bottom of old lamp for base AN old floor lamp or light fixture dis- - mantled is a veritable treasure chest for making bases for candles or centerpieces. An oriental-shaped candle looks most appropriate on a base made by turning a lotus-shaped brass ornament from an old lamp upside down and securing it to a flat-topped drawer pull (Figure 2). Most candlesticks of this type have a sharp point to insert into the candle to hold it securely. Where this is lacking, use florist's clay. 103 A drawer pull is placed above the base of the old lamp, and the candle itself is made by pouring wax into a cookie sheet and putting it on the candle in layers to build the shape. Figure 3 CANDLE HOLDER made from chair leg discarded old chair will yield a beautifully turned leg,' which, if fitted with a heavy base and spray painted, will make an elegant stand for a fat Christmas candle. Saw the chair leg to the desired length, remembering that two or three inches will be required to fit into the base. If you don't have an old lamp base for it, make one from plaster of Paris. Use a bowl or a cake pan for a mold, remembering to provide a hole in the center in which to place your dowel, or chair leg. (This can be done by placing the dowel or leg end in a plastic bag and easing it straight down through the plaster of Paris, holding it until the plaster sets.) Duplicate the shape of your base in the top piece on which the candle will rest. This can be made of plywood, edged with metal molding (bought on spools in almost any store). Drive a fat short nail through the plywood top, directly in the center, before attaching it to the base so that the candle can be pressed down onto the nail. The top piece can be attached with two long wood screws (on each side of the nail) or with contact glue. Spray the whole stand gold. For Christmas, pine cones and a green satin bow will look festive with a fat red candle (Figure 3). For a wedding, paint the stand white, antique with a little gold spray, and twine flowers down the stem. Arrange tapers of various lengths on the top (Figure 4). Figure 4 CANDLE HOLDER decorated for a wedding Purchase a plain round globe (called a tose bowl) and a package of colored, pearllike flat rocks sold for use in fish bowls. Separate the rocks, using two shades of one color or two complimentary colors. I used green and blue with a few lavender ones. Dip each pebble in jewelry coment and place carefully inside the rose bowl in a mosaic pattern pleasing to your eye. I placed them in a random fashion about one-fourth of the way up the bowl. My teen-age daughter Marianne enjoyed helping with this, and even your little ones will love separating your rocks. When the glue was completely dry, I poured pale green wax in carefully, not quite to the top of the rock design, then inserted a fat birthday cake candle in the center of the wax for a wick (Figure 5). Any small glass dish turned upside down will Figure 5 CANDLE HOLDER made with a rose bowl make a nice base for it. Before cementing the bowl on the base, insert several loops of shiny nbbon in a complimentary color between the two. You may not like all the objects you create, but you and your family will develop an awareness of the beauty and utility in everything around you. Ask yourself "What else would this be good for?" Or "What else could I use here?" It is an enchanting hobby and a worthwhile way of alerting ourselves to the potential in life. Being able to make "anything out of something," or "something out of nothing," may be a very valuable exercise for all of us. 104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 Salt-Pork Griddle Cakes Pioneer Pancakes Cuet SwWITELu ¥, |b. Salt pork, chopped very fine 2 eggs, well beaten ¥% c. Hot cider % ¢. Sugar ¥% tsp. Mace % tsp. Salt 1 c. Buckwheat flour 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Buttermilk ¥% tsp. Baking soda Chop up the salt pork as fine as you can while the cider is coming to a boil. Add the salt pork to the cider. Add the mace. Stir in the flour and add the buttermilk slowly. Mix well. Beat eggs and stir in sugar, salt, baking powder, and baking soda. If the batter is too thick at this stage, add % cup plain milk, until batter is of desired consistency. Preheat an iron griddle or pan and brush on a bit of bacon fat, and then spread the batter. Turn heat down, as these griddle cakes must be pan-baked slowly for best results. These griddle cakes must be tasted to be fully appreciated, as they are different, and the salt pork makes them so. Serve in the usual way with your favorite syrup or honey. These salt-pork pancakes were invented by the first Latter-day Saint women crossing the plains toward their new, as yet unfound, home in the West. There was a great shortage of food, so with the ingredients they had in their wagons, the pioneering women created these wonderful salt-pork pancakes. Your family, too, will consider these a life-saver food for a special breakfast. In the original pioncer recipe, the eggs, buttermilk, and sugar were left out, and molasses was substituted for the sugar. Cauliflower Casserole Edna Lind Cole 1 cauliflower, medium size "2 c. Cheese, cut fine or grated 1 c. Celery, coarsely cubed % ¢. Potatoes, cold mashed 1 c. Canned tomatoes, chopped i tbsp. Butter 1 medium-size onion, cubed 1 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 sprig parsley, cut fine % c, milk, seasoned with salt, pepper, 1 green pepper, minced paprika. Add 2 hard boiled eggs, chopped four rosemary leaves. (one to put inside and one to garnish on top) Cook cauliflower in salted water. Use all leaves, except stiff outer leaves. When done, break up flowerets with fork. Chop leaves. Add lemon juice and blend in all the other ingredients. Arrange in casserole dish. Sprinkle some cheese and paprika on top. Bake 20 minutes. Garnish with parsley and chopped egg. Serves four. Page 105 She Houdinattie Maryhale Woolsey HE spelling of the name was Mother's guess, and nobody ever questioned it. It was, she explained, a mental picture of a word somehow derived from the name Houdini, the famous magician Grandfather greatly admired. "Sure the handiest man ever I heard of!" he used to say. And that Houdinattie was the handiest, Mother thought, of all Grandfather's tools. It was a special kind of hammer, all metal, shiny nickel finished, shaped like a long letter "T',"" with its stem split at the bottom. Its crossbar, heavy and squared at the ends, made the double hammer head, and the split stem made the claws. Not curved as all the usual hammers' claws, but flattened to sharpness at their ends. They could pry up nails and loosen nailed-on box covers the quickest and cleanest any hammer ever could. It had an unusually good balance for nail driving, too. Whoever had the Houdinattie, would be certain to nail together the most boxes of anyone in any given period of work time. In fact, it seemed that anything you did with hammers could be done faster and more easily with the Houdinattie. Boxes were what it did the most of, because Grandfather was a "bee man" and used thousands of boxes every year to ship his honey crop. 'The boxes arrived by carload lots, pre-cut, but flat, and Grandfather put his youngsters, both girls and boys, to the job of nailing them together and stacking them at one end of the big honeyPage 106 house to be filled during the harvest season and have the covers nailed on — again, often by the sons and daughters. When a box had to be opened for inspection, that Houdinattie was the only tool anybody ever dreamed of using. The Houdinattie was Mother's favorite tool. She had liked carpentering, to an extent unusual for a girl, and often talked of learning to build things a lot more fancy than boxes, when she got bigger. "And when I grow up and get a home of my own, a Houdinattie is going to be the very first tool I buy!" she used to declare. Well, the time came. That is, the time when Mother married and started housekeeping — and collecting tools to put up shelves and build bookcases and cupboards and things. But, to her great disappointment, a Houdinattie was far from her first tool. The stores in the small town where her husband's work took them, had no Houdinatties and didn't even know what a Houdinattie was. Mother had to be content with an ordinary claw hammer, until some time when Father could get one for her when he went to a bigger town. It was when he questioned how to spell it, that Mother realized she had never seen the word in print — and discovered there was no such word in the dictionary. ATHER never could find her a Houdinattie. Some years later, Mother had opportunity to seek for it in big hardware stores in Ogden THE HOUDINATTIE and Salt Lake City. Nowhere could she find a Houdinattie, and among all the nice polite salesmen she talked to, there was not one who had the slightest idea of what she wanted. Even though she sometimes made a little sketch of it, they would simply shake their heads. Of course, her search never became what you might call determined. The ordinary hammer served well enough for Mother's simple carpentry. The Houdinattie was something to run onto some day and rejoice over. It wasn't even on her mind enough to make her remember, at letter-writing times, to ask Grandfather about it. Almost six years passed before Mother made the long journey back to Oregon for a visit. The first time she wandered out to the honeyhouse, there in the tool cupboard just inside the door, she saw that bright, shiny Houdinattie. "Oh, Papa!" she exclaimed. "I'm so glad to be reminded of something I kept forgetting to ask you in my letters.... I've wanted a Houdinattie ever since I got martied, but I've never been able to find one in any store I've been to." "Where did you look for it?" "Why, in the hardware stores — the same places I've bought the other tools I have. But nobody, anywhere, seemed to know anything about Houdinatties. Grandfather sat down suddenly on the nearest nail keg. "Houd— that what you asked for, Houdinattie?" he wanted to know. His cheeks were pinking rapidly and his mouth twitching at its corners. "Why, of course. That's what you always...." Mother's voice 107 failed her as a mortifying thought numbed her mind — and as Grandfather's mouth opened wide to emit a great roar of laughtcr. It grew and grew until it seemed quite to overwhelm him. His pink cheeks deepened to purple; he swayed helplessly and slapped his thighs with his big hands. At last Grandfather calmed down a little, enough to say, between gusts of laughter, ""That's what I — was guessing... Oh, in those big stores! Wish I'd been there to see some of those salesmen's faces!"' Mother felt her own cheeks start to burn hotly. Not until that moment, she told us afterward, had she remembered Grandfather's habit of nicknaming things. The "whatchacallit"... "That thingamumbob." But he would call them by their right names sometimes. "You always called it — that, Papa. Never once, anything else!" "Sure." Grandfather mopped his forehead with his big, blue bandana handkerchief, and chuckled. "Lots handier than its rightful nomenclature." He pulled himself up from the nail keg, went over to the tool cupboard, and _ reached down the shiny tool. "Inspector's hammer, this thing is, daughter. A man as busy as I, just hasn't time to bother with a mouthful of a name like that, all the times I'd be saying it. But that's what it is: inspector's hammer. I sure would like to have seen those clerks when you asked for a — a Houdinattie. Why, girl — if I had known vou wanted one that bad, I would have bought you one from the BeeKeepers' Supply House a long time ago!" We Help Build a Church at Paonia Violet M. Evans E were told it would be a W day and a half travel. We knew the name of the town, the name of the branch president, and had the blueprints along. It seemed as if we were heading toward the unknown. What were the people like, what, the town? What obstacles would interfere with the job? We passed, blithely enough, through the familiar towns of Malad, Brigham City, Bountiful, Salt Lake, and Provo. Then, the desert! I said: "It is fascinating to me, that on up ahead is a trailer space just waiting for us, as if it were fate that we occupy it." I went on: "Paonia! Paonia! We are not even sure how it is pronounced! What if it is one of those squeezed-in, smoggy, coal mine places?" The pick-up did not answer, but went along faithfully pulling the loaded trailer. More desert! More dried-up vegetation. "What if Paonia is just some more of this desert!" I exclaimed, wildly. My husband assured me that 5,600 feet altitude did suggest "in the mountains." We were both worried whether there was a trailer park with modern hookups. Thinking of the supermarkets and laundromats, I said: "We could hookup at Grand Junction!" Lynn replied, laconically, "Too far!'" I tried again: "Delta?" He replied again: "Too far!" The monotony of the desert does tend to make one irritable sometimes. AlPage 108 though I am unusually kind to my good husband, I said: "Oh, heap big Indian Chief, far too wordy!" We had planned to get to Paonia before dark, but taking two hours rest brought us in when it was getting late. My husband inquired at a filling station about trailer parks. The considerate man got his motorcycle and went ahead of us to a trailer park among some cottonwood trees a mile out. There were six neat-looking mobile homes, widely spaced. And there was our patient "spot," waiting for our arrival at the far left, with a patio pavement! The next day was Memorial Day. We spent it getting orderly and clean. 'Towards evening, Lynn telephoned the president of the branch, who lived about twenty miles away. When Lynn came back, I said, "What did he sound like? I hope he is not the glamorous sort!" My husband said in astonishment, "Well! What do you mean?" I recovered with, "Oh, I want him to be ordinary like me." He said with surprise, "You are not ordinary!" Which was flattery, indeed! Lynn said, "He's dropping by after Mutual to meet us!" I did not see how Lynn could watch TV so calmly after supper, knowing this touchy meeting was coming up. So much depends on a building superintendent and _ his wife getting along smoothly with the people they come among. WE HELP BUILD A CHURCH AT PAONIA The branch president turned out to be natural, sincere, and a very likable person. He told us that there was a full time carpenter available, and a good project clerk, also. These two facts were an immediate comfort! He and Lynn talked for some time about the project and possibilities, and then Lynn said, "Let's go see some of those people you mentioned, if you have the time." I did not mind being left alone, for I had told my husband to forget that he had a wife until the church was built and to make blood-brothers of. All the men with whom he would have to work, HE next day, Mr. Phillip Ellgren, who is a high councilman and a man capable of being a building superintendent himself, and my husband got the two necessary buildings on the lot. They ordered a power pole and telephone, and the next day went ahead with removing a fence and leveling the lot. There was a considerable amount of measuring to do, and some adjustment pertaining to boundary. I began to content myself by getting acquainted with my neighbors at the trailer park. The husbands all worked at the Paonia Damsite. The dam had been "building" for two years and would be finished in about five weeks; then, some of the men expected to be transferred to the Crawford Dam. A Curecanti Dam was going to be built, also. There were eight or more coal mines up the canyon which supplied work for a good many men. 'These coal 109 mines were in pleasant surroundings, and were not obnoxious. There were two mountain passes which would be interesting drives. Cherry, peach, apple, and pear orchards, with irrigation ditches full of running water, were all around Paonia. Not too far away were beautiful mountains. We could not have had a happier assignment! When Sunday came, we went to the meeting place. It was a back hall above a drugstore, but was not used by any other group. The meetings followed consecutively, as so often they do where members have distances to come. It was fast Sunday meeting. The saints loved their president, Brother Farnsworth, and his lovely wife and family. 'The meetings were especially fine. On the way home, Lynn and I agreed that we had never met a friendlier people. At four o'clock that afternoon the members met and the ground was dedicated. 'The two missionaries who were leaving said that it was possible that there would not be any more missionaries in that area until after the church was completed. Brother Farnsworth dedicated the ground in a sincere and reverent prayer. After the dedication, Sister Ellgren invited us over for ice cream and cherry cobbler. After much getting-acquainted talk, some colored slides were shown of a trip the family had taken to Glacier Park and to the West Coast. The evening had been most pleasurable. A feeling of great appreciation came over me for the friends we were making — helping to build a church at Paonia. Cafe Curtains Are Versatile Shirley Thulin wrt is the most popular, the most decorative, the most functional, and least expensive window treatment today? There's only one answer — Cafe Curtains! Why so popular? Because they are at home in many rooms, from attic bedroom through kitchen, bath, or basement laundry room. They are decorative, because you can use your imagination and make them gay and colorful, whimsical (from comic prints as for children's rooms), sedate (as for dining rooms), and bright as sunshine for music or sewing rooms. How about functional? Cafe curtains really are! If you move a lot, they are your only answer. You can make them fit a new set of windows by raising or lowering the rod. They can cover the whole window, or three-fourths of the window, or half of the window, or only the bottom fourth if you so desire. You can have them in one, two, or three tiers. You can let them hang straight, tie them back, or part them. They do away with the need for blinds, too, and can be hung on any sturdy curtain rod. They are by far the least expensive curtains, because they can be made from inexpensive prints, from bedspreads, from unbleached muslin, from tablecloths, or, for small windows, from remnants. How to Make Plan double fullness for the width ef your window and measure the length, plus hem and facing, to estimate yardage required. Wash and press the material first, unless you are sure it won't shrink. Before making the points, make a narrow hem along both side edges and a wider hem across the bottom (figure 1). Rccccctc Figure 1 Make a narrow hem along both edges of the curtain, and a wider hem along the bottom. Lay the material out flat on the table and, using a paper panel the same width as the hemmed material, divide it into equal parts and draw reverse scallops three inches deep (figure 2). Now trace with a dark pencil, scallops along the unhemmced top edge of the material on the wrong side. Be sure to measure from cach point to the bottom of the material to be sure they are even Page 110 CAFE CURTAINS ARE VERSATILE 1 rr 3 INCHES | DEEP Figure 2 Make reverse scallops three inches deep for the top of the curtain. Cut a piece of material, full width by three inches deep, for the facing. Lay this under the edge with the scallop lines, face to face, so the pencil lines show. Baste them together across the top and bottom to hold them securely, then sew by machine on pencil lines. Next cut out close to the edge around the scallops, leaving about onefourth inch seam. Turn the piece inside out and press down with an iron along the stitching of the scallops. Then turn up one-fourth inch along the bottom edge of the facing, leaving a one and one-half inch hem at the deepest point, and stitch by machine (figure 3). Ee a ae ae FACING Figure 3 Make a facing for the scallops for the top of the curtain. If you would rather, you can cut out the points and bind them with bias tape of matching color, so the tape only shows on the wrong side. If you want them to hang especially well, press them into pleats by folding the material from each point to the bottom of the curtain (the way you used to make a paper fan when a child). This enhances the appearance and the hang of the curtain. Attach a ring to each point and hang the rings over a rod. A Legacy of Lilacs Pauline L. Jensen A LL day we drove through a steady downpour of rain, and it was late afternoon when Martin, my husband, and I entered the town where I was born and grew to womanhood. After an absence of over twenty years, I was going back to see the house in which I'd lived so many years, and the grounds where my brother Tom and I had spent countless happy hours. The thought of this return had sustained me all day, and pushed into the background the bitterness I had felt ever since Martin had received word, a month earlier, that we were being transferred to another town. "TH not go," I had stubbornly maintained. "We've spent ten years of backbreaking work and hard-toget dollars making this place into exactly what we want. I can't walk away and leave it for someone else to enjoy." "We have no choice," Martin had answered patiently. "And, this, after all, is a promotion." "But our yard," 1 wept, "our beautiful yard! The moonflowers on the garden wall, and the tamarisk below our window. How we've loved that in the early spring — the first feathery blush of the season!" I broke into fresh sobs. "These things are old-fashioned, Martin. No one else will want them. They'll tear them up and replace them with exotic plants that haven't their beauty." In the end, I'd done as I knew I would do. And now we were on Page 112 our way to the new home, with this overnight stop on the way, suggested by Martin, I was sure, in the hope that it would divert me from the grief of closing the door on a loved phase of living. I couldn't tell him how badly I needed to find something here in this little town. Something vague and unexplainable, but a something that would bolster my sagging spirits. "See anything familiar?" Martin asked, bringing me back to reality. I shook my head. The avenue we were driving along had been a lovely street with wide lawns and beautiful trees when I last saw it. Now it was lined with drive-ins, a theatre, filling stations, garages, a miniature golf course, and motels. "Here,' Martin exclaimed, braking the car to a stop, "this motel looks all right, and it has a vacancy sign. How about it?" I nodded. I waited, as Martin registered, and then came back to the car for the bags. In the room, as soon as Martin had deposited a bag on the chair, I flipped the bag open and took out a pair of low-heeled shoes. I glanced at my watch. It was almost six o'clock and the rain had stopped, but the May dusk was beginning to settle down. "Do you mind, Martin," I asked, pulling on the shoes, "if I go to the old neighborhood alone? Somehow, I'd like it that way." "Of course! I understand!" and I blessed my husband for this understanding. The faces I saw as I walked along A LEGACY OF LILACS were unfamiliar. I passed the spot where the old grade school once stood. A new building, of light brick and stone had replaced it. An auditorium stood on the ground where we played baseball in the summer, and fox-and-geese in winter. My heart pounded as I approached the corner. For just beyond it was the house — our house that I'd thought of so many times in the years past. As I came in sight of it, I closed my eyes, prolonging that aa to which I had looked forward. I gasped when I opened them. The white picket fence that Tom and I had painted, Tom Sawyer fashion, was gone, and a low redwood one stretched decorously across the front. HE house! This couldn't be the big, square, utilitarian one where I had spent so many happy hours! A long portico extended across the front, and the shuttered windows gave it a look of southern grandeur. Gone was the old bay window, my mother's delight, and instead a large picture window overlooked the front yard and garden. Not the yard and garden I had known, with zinnias, marigolds, and nasturtiums, but a clipped lawn with rose beds and sundial. My eyes burned with tears. 'There was nothing here to remind me of those happy years. Somehow I had expected it would look the same. I had hoped to see a collie, like old Ginger, come bounding out to meet me. There was nothing that bore evidence of the kind of living we had known. Slowly I walked past the yard, 113 searching, longing, for something familiar. I turned the corner, feeling lost, forlorn, and old. We leave a place, I thought, and someone comes who changes it beyond recognition. Nothing remains of the old. Is this, I thought with heavy heart, what will happen to our tamarisk and moonflowers? Suddenly I straightened. 'There was something familiar. The scent of lilacs! Lilacs, fresh-washed in the rain! I saw them, then, a long row extending full length across the back of the yard. My mother's lilacs. For it was she who had planted them and tended them until their feet were firmly rooted in the ground. I recalled the time of planting. The nimble fingers, long since stilled, had placed each shrub carefully in its appointed place. "Don't work so hard," my father had gently chided her. "If my plans work out, we'll be gone from here before those lilacs bloom, and you won't be able to enjoy them." I remembered, as if it were yesterday. My mother had laid down her trowel and looked up at him, her Scotch blue eyes twinkling. "Then I will have left a legacy of joy to others. A legacy of lilacs." Tears stung my cheeks. I seemed powerless to move from the spot where I was standing. Suddenly, a light flashed on in the kitchen and the door was flung open. A slender, dark-haired woman stood silhouetted there a moment. Then, walking lightly, she crossed the patio and, flinging wide her arms, she breathed deeply of the lilac-scented air. "Jim," she called back over her shoulder, "Jim, do come out and join me. The fragrance of these lilacs is divine." I stepped back in the shadow of a tree, and watched a tall man stroll through the door and join her. I saw him put his arm around her waist, and then they walked toward the lilac hedge. I felt like singing. In spite of portico, sundial, and rose garden, these people kept and loved the oldfashioned lilacs. It could well be that those who followed us would like our tamarisk and moonflowers. I turned and started running. I must hurry, hurry back to Martin. I must tell him what had happened, and how my heart was lightened. For we, too, had left a legacy. Not one of lilacs, but of lowly tamarisk and moonflowers, for others to enjoy! A Lift for Your Laundry Janet W. Breeze DRY YOUR SWEATERS ON THE LINE BUTTON, button, — where did it go? Next time one of those little round things with the holes in it pops off, tape it (as soon as possible) to a file card and identify its mghtful owner. No more hunting for lost buttons. Oe ee When washing sweaters, dry them on the line this easy and wrinkle-free way: pin two old nylon stockings to the line side by side. Cross the stockings over each other and slip through the arms of the sweater. Pin the toes of the stockings to the line. A a 2 Fill an empty window spray bottle with water for a quick extra sprinkling while ironing. We oe Re OF You can carry those snowy white gloves safely in your purse if you put them in a small plastic sandwich bag. X * ek kK R Prevent the loss of baby's and children's little socks by washing them together in a closed bag. 114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 'Sweeter the Thoughts of Love Expressed P Mabel Law Atkinson WEET are the thoughts of love, but sweeter the thoughts of love expressed." At different times when I have seen the lack of communication between older parents and their children, this quote has come to my mind, and I have sensed its full implication. It is easy to tell our small children of our love for them, and to kiss away the stings of their small failures; and for them, in return, to put warm little arms around our necks, shower us with kisses, and say the magic words: "I love vou, Mommy," or "I love you, Daddy." But far too often the years, with their speed of living and their many outside interests, silence the utterances of such thoughts — although we still think them — and the doing of little things that endear and enrich each day's performance in the great, continuous drama of life. This was brought forcibly to my cognizance as I watched a young matron going through her mother's "things" after her death. In the "secret" drawer of her mother's desk, she found a few letters and cards which proved to be those her mother had specially cherished because they spoke her children's love to her. Among them was a page from a letter this daughter had written to her mother when but a young girl, one line of which read, "I really do love you, Mama." 'T'ears flowed freely as the daughter, herself a mother, said, "Had I only known!" I remember the day I visited an old, old lady. She proudly showed me the card she had received that day from her son, a professor in a university, and asked me to read it aloud to her. Of course she had read it already many times, but she wanted to hear it again. So I began, "Dear Mother." Instantly she stopped me and said, "You read it wrong. He wrote, Dearest Mother." 'That one word, or rather the adding of est, meant all the world to her in affection value. I recall listening to the experience of a lovely, mature Latter-day Saint young woman whose father had recently passed away — several years after her mother had left them. In teaching her Gleaner class in the Mutual Improvement Association she said, "I shall tell you this sacred experience of mine that you whose parents are still living may fill their lives with joy by showing and expressing frequently your love and appreciation for them, which they yearn to hear. "One night, a week before my father's passing, I gave him his medicine and his glass of warm milk, his alcohol rub, straightened his bed, fluffed his pillow, and made him as comfortable as possible. When I said good night and asked him if there was anything else he would like, he smiled weakly and answered, "Yes, my dear, just one more thing — a kiss.". Sweeter the thoughts of love expressed!" Page 115 Poarl Bunnel Tlewell Specializes in Knitting Sweaters and Making Hairpin lace EARL Bunnel Newell, Orem, Utah, is mistress of many hobbies. She has made hundreds of yards of exquisite hairpin lace and many doilies of similar stitches and patterns. Her home and the homes of her relatives and friends are decorated with her handicraft. She crochets and embroiders, makes artificial flowers, footstools, wall plaques, pillow tops, and sews numerous varieties of aprons. She knits sweaters in many different patterns, and makes baby bootees and shawls. She has pieced and quilted a star quilt for each of her married grandchildren, and is busily engaged in making quilts for the cight unmarried grandchildren. Mrs. Newell is an expert gardener, and her indoor plants, including many varieties of African violets, are as lovely as her outdoor garden, where she specializes in roses. Mrs. Newell has been a visiting teacher for more than fifty years, and attends Relief Society regularly. She has pieced more than twenty-five quilts for Relief Society, and is active in all the work-meeting activities. At seventy-six, she has no plans for retirement — only plans for trying to find enough time to take care of all her regular work and all her hobbies. Signs Along the Way There are so many road signs — pointers ahead to happiness, peace, understanding, and inspiration. All can be found in the Book of Books, offered by the great Master. —Pauline M. Bell Page 116 Sow the Field With Roses CHAPTER 2 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Nina Karsh, thirty-nine, horseback riding in the Malibu Mountains of California, becomes lost. She meets Tomas Novarro, whose grandmother's house she has just rented. He owns considerable surrounding property, and other property in Mexico and Canada. Mr. Novarro talks with Nina about the newspaper account of her dismissal as a nurse's aid from the local hospital, and Nina explains the circumstance. OMAS Novarro stood in the T darkness. He held a sleeping boy in his arms. "Mr. Novarro?" Nina fell back as he strode into the living room. He placed the child gently on the couch, covered him with the silk afghan Nina kept there. He stepped back. His eyes were on the boy's sleeping face. "My son," he said heavily. "I have brought him to you." Nina stood hesitantly beside him. The boy was very small, about four, she would say, the age of Danny when he came to her. But this was no robust, raucous, demanding child. Even in sleep, he was different, frail, his hair a pale drift on the pillow, unchildlike hollows under the long lashes. Fh.. Iedon''t understand, Mr. Novarro." Nina said. "You are to take care of him for me. His mother was killed two years ago... An accident. She was riding and the horse fell into the canyon. She should not have been there at all, but she was very brave, very headstrong." Nina flung out her hands. "But you don't know me!" "T have made inquiries." He leaned down to tuck the quilt closer about the boy's shoulders. "You will have none of the usual difficulties, the child does not speak, moves very seldom, asks nothing." "Asks nothing!" He said bruskly, "For a long time he has been like this. I have spent a great deal of money... Many doctors. 'They have names... Emotionally disturbed... Perhaps... Ora birth injury... Or...." He shrugged. "We are not so far as we think from the dark ages." He sounded bitter and angry. "Tm sorry," said Nina. She was. But she had no intention of becoming involved with this unpredictable man and his problems. "It is quite impossible." Novarro said curtly, "You are in urgent need of funds. I will pay you well." Nina stepped back. "Mr. Novarro, people don't just leave their children with... With strangers." He said harshly. "I know everything I need to know about you." He took a list from his inside pocket. "Here is his doctor's name, the diet for the boy, my attorney, Manuel's phone number." He looked about the room. "You keep it very well, like she did, my grandmother.... Good things happened to me in this house." They were silent. "There are many very capable people." She had hit on a wound. He started up wader it. She said Page 117 quickly, "I am tired... You cannot know how tired. I have nothing to give to anyone, not now." The child stirred and lifted the long sweeping lashes. Nina started. The boy's eyes were like his father's, the same clear gray, the same shape. The eyes regarded her blankly, without curiosity. She wondered if he saw the room, really. He looked about him without interest. Nina looked up into Tomas Novarro's face, and the naked anguish written on it shook her as nothing else had. "Very well... If you like, you may leave him for a day or two. I'll see how we get along." "Tam going away. You may get in touch with my attorney, or with Manuel." He moved toward the door. "I am like you... Emptiness...." His hand swept the room. "But Iam a man and I will fill up the chasm, with work. I have a great deal of work waiting for me." He was angry, anxious to be dominant again. "I do not surrender to sterility, to brokenness. That is for woman." INA said heavily. "I have told you I would take him. What is there you wish to tell me about him? What does he like to eat or do?" "T don't know. I have kept away from him. I couldn't stand the pain of waiting and wondering. I don't know." He opened the door. "You will receive an advance check in a day or so." The great door closed under his hand. Nina listened to the sound of his hard footsteps on the long patio, and the sound of them grinding gravel underfoot, the sudden roar of a car's motor. She went back to the boy. Stared at each other in silence. "It is time for bed," Nina said hesitantly. He did not answer, only waited. "Can you walk?" She took his hand, and the boy sat up. She urged him gently to his feet and led him to the small room across from her own. He went quietly. He did not seem to notice the room which held starkly enough only a narrow bed and a chest of drawers. 'The blind was up and the hibiscus bush brushed against the window. Another child would have shown fear. Joseph did not seem to know fear. Nina knelt and unlaced his shoes and drew them off. The boy's father had brought no bag with him. He would probably send it over in the morning. She unbuttoned the small shirt and helped him out of trousers and socks. She drew back the covers and motioned him into bed. He did not seem to notice the gesture. Nina lifted him onto the sheet. "Good night, Joseph." She stood in perplexity above him, then she leaned over him, thinking to show him a small tenderness. He cowered away from her, clutching the blanket to him. No sound, only the hunching of his small body in the corner of the bed and his great eyes on her face. "I didn't mean to hurt you, Joseph... A kiss...." His eyes shone in the half-light, his breath came quickly. Nina stood uncertainly by his bed, then she left the room. She did They 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES not turn off the low lamp. In her own room she wound the clock and set it for six, undressed in the dark. It was disturbing, having the child there. She was angry and humiliated that Tomas had pried into her financial affairs. When her father was alive... When Danny was with her... It had been different. But people had a sixth sense about a woman alone. 'They seemed to know she had none to defend her. They took advantage in small, mean ways. Sometimes it was terrifying to be a woman alone in the world, in this fierce and cruel time. Was there a sound from the boy's room? Nina stood silent, listening. She moved on tiptoe across the hall. But the boy was lying where she had left him, clutching the quilt to his chest, wide-eyed and wordless. HE went back to her own bed. This was impossible! She would take him back in the morning, call the lawyer and let him come and get the child. She turned restlessly on her pillow. The wind stirred through the windows, bringing the soft whinny of Dominick, bringing the fragrance of the orange blossoms. It was life, she felt, flowing through the room, life. Life that took from one what it pleased to take and brought to her that which was far from her desire. Nina trembled under the soft quilt. What irony! She had cried out for another Danny and, instead, she had been given this sick, chained child. In the room she had the feeling that something was demanded of her, something greater than she had depth to hold. She turned on her side. She would call the lawyer in the morning, the very first thing. 119 Over the telephone, Mr. Anderson was sympathetic, but vague. No, he knew very little about the child, had never seen him, as a matter of fact. 'Tragic case. It had been a great blow to Tomas Novarro. He cleared his throat and was hearty, "A fine man, Tomas Novarro." "A fine man," said Nina acidly, "does not leave his child with a stranger." "Mr. Novarro's judgment is excellent. However, if you insist, I will get in touch with him, explain that you are unable to do the job." "Not unable," said Nina angrily, "unwilling. I... That is, my life is extremely difficult at the moment. I don't feel able to cope with complications." And the child was a complication. Nina looked across the room where the child sat in the deep wing chair in the dining room. He sat silent, unmoving. It rasped on her nerves, this silence, this unchildlike _passivity. Especially, since she had the impression that when she was out of the room he was different. She blew out her breath. Danny had been like a hummingbird, darting and skimming through the days, enchanted by everything. "... VAs seon' as Ivam able»to contact Mr. Novarro, I will get in touch with you." Nina hung up the telephone with an angry click. This was going to be one of those hurting, frustrating days. I won't do it. She went to the great door and flung it open. The boy's bags were there. A note was attached: "I rang, but you did not answer." It was signed Manuel. "Hmph! Rang indeed!" A nicker from the corral sent Nina in that direction. How could she keep Dominick now? She would have no time to ride. She could do nothing with the child here. She would be afraid to leave him for a moment. Even at the corral there was to be no peace. A boy of twelve or thirteen was sitting on the top bar talking to Dominick, feeding her an apple. NINA glared at him. "Who are you? And what are you doing on my land?" She stopped. She sounded just like that Novarro man. Well why not? Why should she be the one to keep a gentle candle burning inside herself, when everyone else she met seemed determined to be ugly? The boy leaped down from the bar and came around to her. He was quick and dark, with wide white teeth and blue, alert eyes. "Gee, lady, I just came up to see Dominick. Frank told me you were going to buy her. I wanted to see what she thought about it." Nina blew the hair out of her eyes. The last thing that would charm her was whimsy. "Dominick told you she was eager for the change, no doubt?" she asked softly. He nodded. "Gosh, yes! Why shouldn't she be? What a great place to live." Nina followed his envious glance as it swept over the stretch of hills and valleys below, blue and purple and amethyst, down to the road that wound its way from the sea. "This is wilderness," the boy exploded in rapture, "pure wilderness." "Where do you live?" When she was a child she had known women with sharp tongues like this. Now she knew why, being honed as they had been on the sharp edge of days. The boy was subdued, "Down on the beach... In an apartment. It's real great... Or would be if I had a surfboard, or if Nicky would let me use his. He won't." "Who is Nicky?" "My half brother. His father gives him everything. Mine is stony broke. Isn't that my luck?" Nina said, trying to piece together the picture his words presented, "Your mother is... This is her second marriage?" "Yes, and it's almost over, and Pll bet my father won't pay three hundred and fifty a month for me, like Nicky's does. I guess ['ll just keep on being a burden, until I can work, that is. I plan to work real soon, aS soon as anybody will take me." He looked crestfallen for a moment. "They say I'm_ too young." Nina said faintly, "Come in and have a glass of milk and some cookies. Shouldn't you be in school?" He gave her a quick grin. "T should, but it's the last week, and I'm flunking out anyway. You won't tellioneme:.. 2" "T don't even know your name," she said reasonably. The boy regarded her narrowly. Nina smoothed her skirt, at a loss to know if she should put on a forbidding air, but the sharpness of his face disarmed her. "Anyway, I wouldn't tell." HE relaxed. "My name is Tom Benedict, and I sure would like a glass of milk and some cookies. I'm famished." He pointed to his 120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES bicycle circled in the dust. "It was real steep getting up here." "T should think you would be exhausted." 1 He looked with unabashed love at Dominick. "I had to see her. She likes me... She really does. Dominick is a boy's name, you know. They should have named her Susie. I like Susie." "T like Dominick," Nina assured him. "You can always call her Miss Dominick, that is, if it bothers you, the name I mean." His laughter whooped on the soft air. He gave Dominick a last fervent embrace. "Good old Dominick, you don't care if I flunk out, or if I'm not as smart as my brother, do you, nice old horse?" "Tll... Pll make you a sandwich," said Nina faintly. "Better leave your bicycle there." The boy followed her to the house. He used the side lope that Danny had favored when he was half-grown. "Wipe your feet, Tom." The boy cheerfully complied. Nina opened the great door gently, not wishing to disturb the stranger child if he had fallen asleep. She stood transfixed on the threshold, her eyes riveted on the mirror in the hall. The mirror made visible the far corner of the living room. It showed Joseph sitting where she had left him in the far corner of the living room. On his quiet lifted wrist rested an enormous butterfly. Joseph was utterly absorbed in the lovely winged thing. He lifted the forefinger of his free hand and touched with infinite gentleness the poised wings. Nina stepped back. Vo "What's the matter?" Tom whispered. Nina shook her head for silence. She looked again into the glass, but in the brief interval the picture had changed, the butterfly now fluttered on the curtains, and the boy sat limply, his eyes on his empty hands. Nina went on tiptoe into the room. Tom followed, not understanding, but sensitive to the alien mood. "Joseph?" Nina leaned down to him. The child regarded her blankly. "Are you hungry, Joseph?" He. Did not reply. "Is he yours?" Tom Benedict was. Compassionate. Nina turned to him. She took a deep, glad breath. "Yes... He's mine... For awhile." Tom Benedict regarded Joseph with puzzled, resentful eyes. "Lucky stiff." Tom swung out his arms. "Look at all he's got!. He doesn't have to live in an old apartment with someone who...." "Tom!" He regarded her with adult eyes, strangely at variance in his young face. "You sure don't know much about things, do you?" "But Tom...." "You don't know much about people either." Nina forgot to be angry. His words stopped her. I really don't, she thought. I have lived in a very small country with father and Danny and the grocery boy and the doctor and the brief bright nods at Sunday School or sacrament meeting. I don't know about people who live in this furious, feverish world. I don't know about boys. whose fathers pay $350 a month and boys whose fathers pay fifty.... I don't know about boys who live on beaches, or in back rooms, like Joseph. She stood very still... The forgotten children.... Could I learn? She wondered. Is it too late to learn? Tom Benedict ate with the innocent savagery of the young. He grinned at Nina over the tuna sandwich, "Good." She poured more milk into his glass. She was not hungry herself, and it was not yet time for Joseph's lunch. "How old are you, Tom?" "Twelve... Almost thirteen... Another ten months. I look thirteen already, don't 1?" "Yes," Nina said. He did. He seemed incredibly mature to her, a cynical bystander in a wise and painful age. He tossed her word pictures of his world... Smooth, square. Cool... Old words with new meanings. His problem was, he confided, not only his extreme youth, but his ever-present poverty which prevented the acquisition of a surfboard. NINA listened gravely. A surfboard, she gathered, was the status symbol of his older brother's gang... Or if I could even get a switch blade...." Having controlled her horror, having learned that the chance of Tom's acquiring this smaller badge of maturity was extremely remote, Nina, decided to treat the matter lightly. "Well, David had only a sling shot, and he made history." "David who?" "David the shepherd, the one who killed the lion with it." The boy was all ears. Heard of him." "You think you have troubles," Nina said severely, "this boy had a king hunting him, armies after him, a giant to overcome." "Giant?" His tone was skeptical, but his eyes brightened. Nina told the story of David and Goliath, heartened to see that even in this new age it had tremendous appeal. Tom paid her the supreme compliment of holding the unbitten sandwich to his mouth for the last few paragraphs. He sighed and resumed his lunch. There was a silence in the little kitchen. He shook his head after a time. "Wouldn't work... Not now." "You just don't get it, Tom. It wasn't the sling shot, actually." Tom considered. "You mean there had to be that something to "Never guide the rock... Or David's hand?" Nina was delighted with his astuteness. "It was his believing... His faith." Tom nodded briskly, "The positive approach... I read an article on it." Nina gently let the matter rest. Tom rose. "You got company. Car coming." He slid out of his chair and went to the window. He turned away in disappointment. "Just old Doc Jonathan." He turned to the door. "I'm leaving. The Doc's always mad at me for something. He lives by us, and he — raises orchids." He turned to the door. "Thanks for the sandwich Zz RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES though, and I sure liked your story, but I don't think the kids would go for a sling shot... Thanks just the same." "Wait!" Nina was astonished at her own appeal, transparent in her voice. The boy paused in the doorway. He made her think of a faun, edged there in the light, with the secret 123 kinship in him for flight and hilly places. "Would... Would you like to tide Dominick for a little while?" Radiance and unbelief. "You'd let me?" "For an hour... Yes." A wild whoop and he was gone. The knocker sounded from the big door. Nina went to answer it. (To be continued ) Words After Snow Ida Elaine James This season of white fortitude shall melt At last into a tender time of bloom, An hour less visioned than obscurely felt, After long months of chaste and frozen gloom. Insistently the heart, cloaked in despair, Scents fragrance subtle as the breath of hope, Moving through branches, pulseless yet, and bare, Over the winter's chill and empty slope. There will come beauty from this barren hour, A peril-sweet interval when children sing Beneath the dogwood's luminous ivory flower; When faith shall come to warm awakening, To roll the stone of winter's blight and doom Away at last from spring's beleaguered tomb. With Nobleness of Fleart Pauline M. Bell Oh, youth, wait not until the years shall prove the way. Seek now, with all your strength the path to joy, With nobleness of heart and love of honest toil. Why wait to mar your strength with little gain? Work cheerfully this day and find your worth. You shall not seek in vain, Fulfillment's at your feet — If you reach out and seek. FROM THE FIELD | 2 mac, General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES men umm sh Path R. = RAROTONGA MISSION, DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS AT CONVENTION Left to right: Ruth R. Reeder, President, Rarotonga Mission Relief Society; Emily Williams, Ngatangiia District Relief Society President; Tareta James (seated), President Vahua Avarua District Relief Society; Teei Oiaua, Avarua work director; Araia John Mateara, President, Arorangi District Relief Society. Sister Reeder reports: 'A one-day convention was held at the Avarua chapel, the first of its kind in the mission. Sister Reeder spoke on the theme of the convention 'Our Blessings Through Service to Others. Demonstrations on how to make jelly, banana bread, aprons, and stocking dolls were given. A beautiful display of work done by the sisters at their work mectings was shown. It consisted of quilts, grass skirts, shell articles, knitting, applique, and embroidery work. "New ideas, new enthusiasm, and a desire to serve well were gained from the convention." Page 124 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 125 waa Photograph submitted by Lavinia B. Jackson EL PASO STAKE (TEXAS) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 1961 President Lavinia B. Jackson is standing in the fourth row, at the right; chorister Barbara Jean West stands behind President Jackson in the fifth row. Organist Jenny Lawson and pianist Barbara Johnson are not in the picture. Photograph submitted by Adelheid Post BERLIN STAKE (GERMANY) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR THE FIRST STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE October 18, 1961 Adelheid Post, President, Berlin Stake Relief Society, reports: ""The accompanying photograph shows the Singing Mothers of the newly organized Berlin Stake on the occasion of the first quarterly conference. Eva Marie Birth, seated at the left on the front row, directed the chorus. The visiting Authorities for this conference were President Henry D. Moyle and President Alvin R. Dyer. They were accompanied by Sister Moyle and Sister Dyer and Virginia Marsh and Janet Nielson, daughters of President and Sister Moyle. "This chorus was first organized to present the music for the organization of the Berlin Stake on September 10, 1961. Elder Delbert L. Stapley officiated at the organization of the stake and was assisted by President Alvin R. Dyer. The sisters felt it a great privilege to be asked to participate in these two important events." 126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 x Photograph submitted by Uarda Conner ALASKA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION September 18, 1961, Anchorage, Alaska Front row, at the right, left to nght: Anna Peay, Counselor, Alaska Stake Relief Society; Uarda Conner, President, Alaska Stake Relief Society; Orson Millet, President, Alaska Stake; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society; Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society; Wells C. Bowen, High Councilman, Alaska Stake; Ida Stoddard, Associate Counselor, Alaska Stake Relief Socicty. Sister Conner reports: 'This is a picture of the first Relief Society Convention of Alaska Stake. President Belle S. Spafford of the General Presidency of Relief Society, and Counselor Marianne C. Sharp were in attendance." poe Na re ear: Photograph submitted by Geraldine H. Bang BRAZILIAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY RECEPTION AT MISSION-WIDE CONFERENCE March 16, 17, 18, 1961 a erter Geraldine H. Bangerter, President, Brazilian Mission Relief Society, reports the varied activities and the helpful addresses and demonstrations presented at a three-day Relief Society Conference in Sao Paulo, Brazil: "Members of Relief Society from branches as close as Pinheiros and as far away as Belo Horizonte and Aracatuba were NOTES FROM THE FIELD 127 welcomed. Sister Bangerter challenged the members to double their membership by finding lost or inactive members, and enlisting the sisters who have recently joined the Church. 'Life in the Church Is a Job in the Church' and 'Dignity in Your Calling' were subjects discussed by Gerta Kerns, Secretary, Brazilian Mission Relief Society, and Trelva Wilson, First Counselor. A look at the literature and social science courses was presented, and a consideration of the work meeting lesson plans was followed by 'A Peek at Work Meeting.' Eleven members from various parts of the mission shared their talents with everyone, in an effort to bring new ideas into the bazaars. "A one-hundred voice combined Singing Mothers chorus presented a special program on Friday night, directed by Mary Vassel. Catharina M. Abondanza accompanied at the piano. A lovely reception concluded the conference as a fitting touch to end a very successful "Congresso' in the Brazilian Mission." ss RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING PRESENTED WITH KOREAN DOLL June 1961 Left to right: Elder Gordon B. Hinckley of the Council of the Twelve; President Paul C. Andrus, President, Northern Far East Mission; Frances Andrus, President, Northern. Far East Mission Relief Society; President Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society. From his tour of the Northern Far East Mission in the spring of 1961, Elder Hinckley brought back a beautiful Korean doll dressed in red satin, made by the Relief Society sisters of Korea, and presented the doll to President Spafford during the Mission Presidents Seminar in Salt Lake City, Utah, June 26 - July 3, 1961. The doll's costume is exquisitely made, and includes a handbag and beautifully designed sandals. 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 Photograph submitted by Thelma W. Fetzer BERLIN MISSION, LEIPZIG BRANCH SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR LEIPZIG DISTRICT QUARTERLY CONFERENCE October 22, 1961 Thelma W. Fetzer, President, Berlin Mission Relief Society, reports: "You can imagine our joy at receiving this picture from behind the Iron Curtain. The music they are holding is "When Mothers Sing,' composed by Vivian P. Hoyt of Juab Stake, and translated into German by Hildegard Teuscher, a young convert now living in Hamburg. The sisters expressed their appreciation for this beautiful song and for the tie it signifies between them and their sisters in the outside world. This group is one of seventeen Singing Mothers choruses from the forty-five Relief Society organizations in East Germany. We are thrilled and grateful to be able to make this report." Photograph submitted by Lois W. Ohsiek HONOLULU STAKE (HAWAII), MAKIKI WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PROGRAM, March 1961 Lois W. Ohsiek, President, Honolulu Stake Relief Society, reports a successful anniversary program in the Makiki Ward: 'The ward has been organized four years. Annually on this day, the Hawaiian sisters take charge and provide Hawaiian entertainment and a poi luncheon. Each year the program gets better. This year Sisters Nama- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 129 kalua and Karratti were in charge of the program. Eleven Hawaiian sisters, wearing colorful muumuus, sang and danced. Sister Golda Hyde Gordon presented the literature lesson on Ralph Waldo Emerson and made an outstanding contribution to the program. A piano solo was given by Adelaide Fernandez, who is eighty-four years young. Her music was amazing, and would have been a credit to an accomplished pianist sixty years younger. A poem to Relief Society on its 119th anniversary, written by Maggie Hill, was read by Beverly Wilson, who was dressed in pioneer costume. Maurine Deen sang her own composition 'Island Memories,' accompanying herself on the ukelele." Photograph submitted by Nada R. Brockbank SCOTTISH-IRISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY FLOAT MADE FOR THE LORD MAYOR'S PARADE, Belfast, Ireland, May 13, 1961 Pictured as costumed for a long trek, are: Joan Farbus; E. Gamble; E. Bruce; M. Brookes; Susan and Kay Brookes; Simone Farbus; Sally Jane Gamble; Vivian Friers. Nada R. Brockbank, President, Scottish-Irish Mission Relief Society, sends the following excerpt from the Belfast Telegraph newspaper report of this entry in the Lord Mayor's parade, titled: "It's Still Tough Going West." "It's tough, traveling west in a covered wagon — whether you are heading for Salt Lake City or for the Ormeau Embankment. "The hazards of a journey from Dundonald were fully experienced by the Relief Society of Ireland's float which set out for the Lord Mayor's show last Saturday. Reports have just filtered through to me. "The float — a covered wagon complete with pioneer family, fire, pots, cradle, butterchurn, and two lads with rifles to ensure 'safety in the home' — was making good progress to the assembly point when disaster struck. "A wheel sheared off. With true pioneer spirit, they set about repairing it. Even though it turned out to be a major engineering task needing expert help, the wagon was soon rolling again. "But it arrived five minutes too late for the judging — and all three judges commented that they would have had no hesitation in awarding it a major prize. "It happens like that — traveling west!" Sister Brockbank reports: "We are having good success in our missionary eftorts in Ireland, thanks to our Singing Mothers, and the work and efforts of our Relief Society sisters." 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 = a cubsiiaaed y Evaletta G. Thompson UNIVERSITY STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUS PRESENTS MUSIC FOR CLOSING PROGRAM May 28, 1961 Front row, left to right: Sharon Shields, stake organist, at the piano; Carol Crist (in black dress), stake chorister; Karen McFarland; Carol Peck; Arlene Lee; Carolyn Wanlass; Joan Miles. Second row, left to right: Marilyn Conger; Grace Vlam, stake social science class leader; Maureen Clark; Pat Kimball; Carma Heywood; Donna Fullmer; Shirlene Fairbourn; Elaine Ellis. Third row, left to right: Belva Barlow, Second Counselor, University Stake Relief Society; Sylvia Janson; Karen Williams; Rosalin Anderson; Claudia Goates; Ann Jamison, Secretary, University Stake Relief Society; Shirley Hess; Emma Jean Haight; Noreen Hess; Lynne Topham. Evaletta G. Thompson, President, University Stake Relief Society, reports: "This is the first chorus organized by this stake Relief Society (stake organized in February 1960), and the two numbers presented were artfully done under the direction of Carol J. Crist, chorister, and Sharon R. Shields, pianist. The chorus sang 'Lift Thine Eyes' a capella, and 'Eye Hath Not Seen.' The closing program was a spiritual experience, with Lida Prince as the principal speaker. Refreshments were served in the recreation hall, which had been tastefully decorated with many bouquets of fresh flowers in yellow and lavender colors. Lovely background music was furnished by a string trio. The eighty-five young Relief Society sisters, members of the stake presidency, high council, and bishoprics who attended were richly rewarded. "The chorus is composed of young unmarried college girls and wives of students attending the University of Utah." Clouds By Celia Luce [" takes clouds to make a really beautiful sunset — clouds as well as sunshine. Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 40 — Put the Kingdom of God First Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 56) For Tuesday, May 1, 1962 Objective: To emphasize the importance of taking up one's cross. HE revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants studied this year were received during a four-month period, from March through June 1831. We have learned that the law of consecration was in effect, and that people were called to repentance because of slothfulness and selfishness. The revelation for study in this lesson is a call to repentance to certain individuals and also to classes or groups, arising principally out of a need to live the law of consecration. (Additional background information is found in Lesson 37.) Specifically, however, Section 56 was received because of an inquiry by Thomas B. Marsh concerning his mission, due to the failure of Ezra Thayre, his companion, to perform the missionary service to which they were called by revelation. (See D&C 52:22.) With a background of rebellion on the part of Ezra Thayre, as just noted, and also because of another circumstance arising out of his failure to participate fully in the law of consecration (Ibid., 56:8-10), the Lord reminds those of his Church that his anger is kindled against the rebellious and the time will come when this class, the rebellious, "shall know mine arm and mine indignation, in the day of visitation and of wrath upon the nations" (Ibid., Se )e Take Up Your Cross An important truth follows the Lord's statement regarding the rebellious, which emphasizes a need on the part of everyone who professes to be a follower of Christ. Our salvation is dependent upon how well we follow the Savior. He who does not do so, will not be saved in the celestial kingdom. Thus we have this truth: And he that will not take up his cross and follow me, and keep my commandments, the same shall not be saved. BePage 131 hold, I, the Lord command; and he that will not obey shall be cut off in mine own due time, after I have commanded and the commandment is broken (D & C 56:2-3). As one considers the full importance of this message, he is reminded that man is free to choose good or evil. Men are responsible for the choice made according to the law under which they live. For a Latter-day Saint, as in the case of Ezra Thayre, commandments are given with promises of blessings commensurate with the law obeyed. The commandments of God are really opportunities for man to become free from barriers to attain the highest measure of salvation. When a commandment has been broken and not repented of, the Lord says that in his own due time the violator will be cut off from his kingdom. But what does it mean to take up one's cross? Instructive in answering this question is an examination of some scriptures which bear upon the meaning of the verse from this revelation. It is apparent that to take up one's cross is to follow the Savior devotedly, obediently, in service and consecration. Upon one occasion Jesus rebuked Peter by reminding him that "If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me" (Mt. 16:24). By inspiration, the Prophet Joseph Smith continued this admonition as follows: "And now for a man to take up his cross, is to deny himself all ungodliness, and every worldly lust, and keep my commandments." To be a true disciple of Christ is to follow him regardless of the cost. Freedom can come to us only by breaking the shackles of sin, of habits detrimental to eternal welfare. Is it easy to follow the Lord? The Savior knew that if man wanted to find release from the bondage of sin, he could find it by faith in him through his redeeming sacrifice for man. Are not his words as true today as when uttered centuries ago? (See Mt. 11:28-30.) The words of President Joseph Fielding Smith should give us food for thought on this question. When a man confesses that it is hard to keep the commandments of the Lord, he is making a sad confession — that he is a violator of the Gospel law. Habits are easily formed. It is just as easy to form good habits as it is to form evil ones. Of course it is not easy to tell the truth, if you have been a confirmed liar. It is not easy to be honest, if you have formed habits of dishonesty. A man finds it very difficult to pray, if he has never prayed. On the other side, when a man has always been truthful, it is a hard thing for him to lie. If he has always been honest and he does some dishonest thing, his conscience protests very loudly. He will find no peace, except in repentance. If a man has the spirit of prayer, he delights in prayer. It is easy for him to approach the Lord with assurance that his petition will be answered. The paying of tithing is not hard for the man, fully converted to the Gospel, who pays his tenth on all that he receives. So we see the Lord has given us a great truth — his yoke is easy, his burden is light if we love to do his will (The Way to Perfection, page 150). Follow the Christ During the time of Joseph Smith, the expression "to take up one's cross" was apparently not uncommon. We know that Newel Knight, a frequent attender at some of the early Church meetings, when asked to participate in prayer at these meetings, "said that he would try 132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 LESSON DEPARTMENT and take up his cross, and pray vocally during meeting" (D. H. C. 1:82). How well do we members of the Church take up our cross in accepting the responsibilities of membership and the callings that come to us in our branch, ward, or stake positions? Here is what Elder Mark E. Petersen wrote about those who follow Christ: If we are truly to follow him, we will take his advice in which he tells us to seek first the kingdom of God. He actually meant that we should give it first place in our lives. We should have "'no other gods before him," neither should we have any habits, or tendencies, or desires, or practices, which are given preference to our religion. In times of decision, when we must make up our minds whether to go one way or another, let us remember this requirement of the Lord for his followers — put the kingdom of God FIRST (Your Faith and You, page 142). The first miracle in the Church resulted from Newel Knight's resolution to pray. What actually happened was that his uneasiness of mind because he did not accept the invitation to pray in a meeting, created a situation where he became possessed of a devil, causing him to request deliverance by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Prophet replied: "If you know that I can, it shall be done"; and then almost unconsciously I rebuked the devil, and commanded him in the name of Jesus Christ to depart from him; when immediately Newel spoke out and said that he saw the devil leave him and vanish from his sight. This was the first miracle which was done in the Church, or by any member of it; and it was done not by man, nor by the power of man, but it was done by God, and by the power of godliness; therefore, let the honor and the praise, the dominion and 133 the glory, be ascribed to the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, for ever and ever. Amen. The scene was now entirely changed, for as soon as the devil had departed from our friend, his countenance became natural, his distortions of body ceased, and almost immediately the Spirit of the Lord descended upon him, and the visions of eternity were opened to his view (D. H. C. 1389). Newel Knight did take up his cross and obediently performed his duties as directed by revelation. He was told to remain with the saints of the Thompson Branch (Ohio) and lead them to Missouri. (See D & C 56:7.) Not long after the Prophet arrived in Missouri, this group, led by Brother Knight, arrived in that land. Subsequently, he served in other capacities in the Church in taking up his cross. "T, the Lord, Revoke" In verses 4, 5, and 6 of Section 56, the Lord revokes some of the commandments which had been given previously to Thomas B. Marsh, Ezra Thayre, Selah J. Griffin, and Newel Knight, and gave them other appointments. 'The revocation of a commandment might seem strange to some, in view of some scriptures which indicate that the Lord is unchangeable. (See James 1:17.) In this revelation, it is stated that "Wherefore I, the Lord, command and revoke, as it seemeth me good; and all this to be answered upon the heads of the rebellious... (D & C 56:4). (Read Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 322.) There is security in obeying the commandments of God. He has declared that his promises will not go unfulfilled (D & C 1:37-38), but if man rejects the law, he forfeits the opportunity to have that security which is based upon obedience. (See D & C 82:10; 130:20-21.) In Section 56, Ezra Thayre was called to repentance because of his. Attempt to repudiate a land contract made with the Church at Thompson, Ohio, where the saints were attempting to live the law of consecration (D&C 56:8). If he did not repent, he was to be paid the amount involved for the use of the land by the saints and be cut off from the Church. (See verse 10.) The following verse in this revelation points up the necessity for all men to observe the law given or suffer the consequences. "And though the heaven and the earth pass away, these words shall not pass away, but shall be fulfilled" (verse my" The truth thus stated is particularly important at this point in the lesson because of the discussion on the revocation of commandments. Again, when men disobey, judgment follows, unless repentance is forthcoming. Although the truth that the Lord's words shall not pass away is about Ezra Thayre, there is a universal application to all men who come within the sphere of the gospel plan. In a sense, our eternal welfare is in our hands as Latter-day Saints, but only if we keep the commandments. On the other hand, if we reject the word of the Lord, the penalty is certain. In verses 12 and 13 of the revelation, the Prophet is told that he should furnish the money to recompense Brother Thayre and payment would come to the Prophet in Missourl. Those who would assist Joseph Smith in defraying — this expense by their contributions would receive land in Missouri in return — "For according to that which they do they shall receive..." (verse 13). True Repentance As we have already noted in this revelation, there are truths found in it which have application to members of the Church other than those to whom the revelation was specifically directed. In reference to verse 14, it is apparent that it could be applied to all saints today, as well as in 1831: Behold, thus saith the Lord unto my people — you have many things to do and to repent of; for behold, your sins have come up unto me, and are not pardoned, because you seek to counsel in your own ways (Ibid., 14). Do these words apply to the membership of the Church today? This is a question for each Latter-day Saint to ask himself or herself, not his neighbor. There is the answer to this question on page 324 of the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary in regard to the two sons. (See Mt. 21:28-29.) In this revelation concerning the saints at Thompson, Ohio, it might be stated: "Our Lord, who told Peter, the Apostle, that he had yet to be converted (Luke 22:32), also taught the Colesville Saints [originally from Colesville, New York] that they, though members of the Church, had many things to repent of" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 324). Of these members in Thompson who had not organized under the law of consecration, there was need for repentance since the Lord had _ not pardoned them. 'Their besetting sin as a group was that they sought 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 LESSON DEPARTMENT to counsel in their own ways. Is it also true today that many Latterday Saints believe that we can use our own judgment concerning keeping the laws of God although the Lord has spoken directly against "our counsel," as we ignore his words in the revelations? "And Your Hearts Are Not Satisfied" Joy or happiness comes to the member of the Church who faithfully obeys the commandments of the Lord. There is no lasting joy for one who veers from the commandments after having tasted the fruit of the gospel. Consistent with the background of this revelation where men of wealth had not fully subscribed to the fundamentals of the law of consecration, there was reason for the following condemnation: Wo unto you rich men, that will not give your substance to the poor, for your riches will canker your souls; and_ this shall be your lamentation in the day of visitation, and of judgment, and of indignation: The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and my soul is not saved! (D & C 56:16) Under the perfect law designed to prepare the Lord's followers for the celestial kingdom, there would be an equality of wealth commensurate with the need of the individual and his family. It was the prophet Benjamin of The Book of Mormon who taught his followers that to retain a remission of sins it was necessary to give of one's substance to those in need. (See Mosiah 4:26.) In doing this, one is to exercise wisdom, "... For it is not requisite that a man should tun faster than he has strength. And again, it is expedient that he should 135 be diligent, that thereby he might win the prize; therefore, all things must be done in order" (Ibid., verse 27). An orderly way by which members of the Church may discharge their obligations to the needy is through the organized Welfare Program of the Church. Material wealth or "riches" may canker or corrupt the soul of man. (See James 5:1-3.) The wealth of this world is not to be treasured above the wisdom of God, advised the Savior in the Sermon on the Mount. (See Mt. 6:19-21.) Wealth Evaluated What is the curse of wealth with so many people? Indulgence in the pleasures of the world, the desire for wealth giving rise to dishonest ways of obtaining wealth, and a disregard for fellow men, are but some of the possible evils of riches. It takes a strong Latter-day Saint to remain true to the faith when wealth comes his way. 'The counsel of the Savior, while in mortality and also after his resurrection, should continue to be the guiding tule to follow. It is, seek the kingdom of God first. 'The riches of this earth should be a means to an end. The only true criterion for the Latter-day Saint is to consider the things of this world from the point of view of eternity. Riches are designed for the building up of the kingdom of God and its members. All temporal possessions are the Lord's, for we are his stewards. (See D &C 104:13-17.) Wo to Rich and Poor When the Lord condemned the tich of the Thompson Branch (D & C 56:16), strong as that con- 136 demnation was, he did not censure them only, but the poor were also at fault. The main reasons for the failure of the United Order at this time were that many, in addition to the rich, did not give of their substance to the poor. Notice in verse 17 the number of reasons why the poor contributed to this failure: Wo unto you poor men, whose hearts are not broken, whose spirits are not contrite, and whose bellies are not satisfied, and whose hands are not stayed from laying hold upon other men's goods, whose eyes are full of greediness, and who will not labor with your own hands! Too often we associate poverty with virtue. 'The poor are not blessed in the sight of the Lord because they are poor. A purpose of the law of consecration was to raise the standards of those in need of temporal goods that they might more fully enjoy the spirit of the Lord. Poverty can and often does result in the sins mentioned by the Lord in this revelation. The Welfare Program of the Church today is intended to assist the needy in maintaining the true spirit of the gospel. The poor in this revelation are charged with desires and actions which conflict with contriteness of spirit or humility and a lack of the desire to repent. What are these sins? Their "bellies are not satisfied," with their earthly possessions; therefore, their "hands are not stayed from laying hold upon other men's goods," stealing; their "eyes are full of greediness." Covetousness, envy, jealousy, or the desire for other people's goods are not uncommon vices in the world; and, also, the Lord said they "will not labor with your [their] own hands." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 May not this be the basis for some of the poverty in the world? True happiness cannot be found in dishonesty, greediness, or laziness. Certainly, the fulness of the gospel is not lived when these sins remain a part of our makeup. Blessed Are the Poor Who are the poor, or the rich, for that matter, who are blessed? Only those who are pure in heart and who come unto Christ receive the blessings prophesied in this revelation. (See D & C 97:21. What are the blessings for the poor who are the pure in heart?. They shall see the kingdom of God coming in power and great glory unto their deliverance; for the fatness of the earth shall be theirs" (Ibid., 56:18). Faithful Latter-day Saints, living or dead, will have the privilege of seeing the Lord come with the kingdom of heaven merging with the kingdom of God on the earth. "For behold, the Lord shall come, and his recompense shall be with him, and he shall reward every man, and the poor shall rejoice" (Ibid., verse 19). Yes, the fatness of the earth" — its bounties — will be possessed by the pure in heart when the Savior comes, and rejoicing will be found on the earth. Those who are not counted worthy to stand in that day will be recompensed for their works of unrighteousness. (See Ibid., 29:11-13; Alma 41:3-6.) What. Shall be the final blessing for the pure in heart who have come unto Christ? And their generation shall inherit the earth from generation to generation, forever and ever... (D & C 56:20). The earth in its celestialized state will be the home of those who lived: LESSON DEPARTMENT the celestial law. (See Ibid., 88:15-20.) The glories of eternity will be theirs — all knowledge, with the opportunity for endless advancement. (See Ibid., 130:7-11.) Questions for Discussion 1. What does it mean to take up one's cross? Justify your answer from the scriptures. 2. According to Elder Mark E. Petersen, 137 what does it mean to follow Christ? Be specific. 3. Tell about the first miracle performed in the Church in this dispensation, and how it is related to the objective of this lesson. 4. When does the Lord revoke a commandment? 5. What is true repentance? 6. When are the rich (in worldly goods ) under condemnation? When are the poor under condemnation? What is your understanding of the place of wealth in the gospel plan? Visiting Seacher Nlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 40 — "Continue in Steadfastness" (D & C 49:23). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, May 1, 1962 Objective: To show that steadfastness is one of our most important character traits. TEADFASTNESS is a character trait loved both by the Lord and by one's fellow men. It is a synonym for dependability, faithfulness, firmness in the right. It means determination in adhering to sound principles. Those who are steadfast are unwavering in the face of temptations and obstacles. Steadfastness is one of the primary essentials for accomplishment. Unless we have this quality we are uncertain, easily swayed, and do not possess the perseverance to follow through to the end and to accomplish those things we set out to do. Steadfastness and conviction are closely interrelated. One cannot be steadfast unless he has strong convictions to which to adhere. Applied to the gospel, steadfastness means obtaining a strong conviction or an unwavering testimony of what is right, and then having the courage and the will power to live accordingly. On his ninetieth birthday, a loving father called the members of his family together to give them the benefit of his venerable wisdom. In respect to steadfastness, his counsel to his children was: "What means most to one when life is viewed from a long perspective is the assurance that one has never surrendered when the storms of life have beaten upon his face; and that he has always stood steadfast for the right.... In the battle of life, the capacity to fight to the last rampart is the all-essential thing (HiNcKLEy, Briant S.: That Ye Might Have Joy, page 32). Probably the most classic example of steadfastness in the face of adversity is found in the story of Job, as told in the Old Testament. Job was an upright and honest man who feared God and was greatly loved and blessed by him. Because of his righteousness, Job had _ prospered greatly in the land. Satan taunted the Lord and claimed that Job's righteousness was due only to the fact that the Lord had given him great wealth and steadfastness. To test his servant, the Lord put everything that Job possessed in the hands of Satan. And, one by one, his possessions, his children, and even his health were taken from him. In the face of all this affliction Job remained solidly steadfast. He did not waver in his own convictions nor in his faithfulness to the Lord. He staunchly maintained, "My lips shall not speak wickedness, nor my tongue utter deceit... Till I die I will not remove mine integrity from me. My Sep cen I hold fast, and will not let it go. (Job 27:46). Job remained steadfast because he had an unfaltering testimony and an immovable conviction. He knew that his Redeemer lived. (See Job 19:25.) If we would build steadfastness into our lives, we must strengthen our convictions of what is right. On this foundation we will avoid uncertainty and wavering and will realize "... He that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed" (James 1:6). Let us apply to our lives the message as found in the D & C 49:23. Let us "continue in steadfastness" in being good neighbors, in being kind and understanding, and in giving devoted service to others and to the Church. Indigo Gladys Hesser Burnham Blue is a summer night As sunset turns to dusk, As evening vapors waft along The rose's cloying musk; Blue is the melting snow After icy chill; As hearts that have known searing grief Yet hearken to God's will. 138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 Vork Tlecting— Attitudes and Manners (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Mecting) Discussion 8 — Hello and Goodbye Elaine Andersou Cannon For Tuesday, May 8, 1962 Objective: To encourage the development of one's best behavior. One of the most important rules as to manners is to be, for the most part, silent as to yourself. Say little or nothing about yourself, whether good, bad, or indifferent; nothing good, for that is vanity; nothing bad, for that is affectation; nothing indifferent, for that is silly (David Hume, from The Dictionary of Thoughts). GAIN, we emphasize the importance of placing oneself second to the interests and comforts of others. This time we deal with conversations, introductions, telephone tactics, and other situations where verbal exchange is conducted between two or more people. The reminder to think of others first may seem tiresome but, if conscientiously practiced, the rules governing various forms of talking among people will be more easily followed. Dinner Conversation Formal dinner conversation is conducted by the host speaking to the lady on his nght first and the hostess with the gentlemen. On her left. Guests will follow this example around the table. When everyone is familiar with this rule of etiquette, the conversation goes more smoothly and no one is left out. Midway through the meal the procedure is reversed and the guests, being knowledgeable in this social grace (and let us hope we all are), co-operate and shift their converSation accordingly as soon as opportune. 'This, of course, should not be a rigid performance, but a mental guide. One should never worry about opening the conversation with what has become known as a "cliche." Actually, mundane as they may seem, topics such as weather, the house decor, and the current news are useful openers and friendly talk can move on from there. It behooves all, however, to fill their minds with good thoughts to share with others and then take advantage of situations where conversational experience can be enjoyed. In a social conversation, always give priority to the other person's remarks by refraining from interrupting any speaker. Remember, a good listener is always a delight; however it is discourteous to both hostess and guests to remain silent and unresponsive all the time. Make every effort to show interest and enjoyment of the association, to do your share in building the conversation and adding to its pleasure. When opportune, accept the challenge by commenting or questioning intelligently, for the art of conversation is a two-way exchange. Telephone Tactics The ring of the telephone can be thrilling or chilling, depending on what you anticipate. The way you answer can cause a similar reaction— depending on how you sound. (Neither worry, concern, nor presPage 139 140 sure of time and problems in the home should be reflected in one's tone of voice in answering the telephone. To avoid this, no matter what confusion may exist when the telephone rings, just before removing the receiver, take a deep breath, and with full, even forced, composure, let your voice assume a friendly, pleasant tone.) The telephone can be a blessing or a curse, depending on how it is used in the home. Because so much of our business, social, and even spiritual affairs are conducted over the telephone (as well as the annoying commercial calls we may receive these days), it is well to learn proper telephone procedure. One never really knows who may be on the other end of the line. Even an anonymous political canvasser, in reality, may be someone who knows you very well. So, it is wise never to be rude nor abrupt. You are judged solely by your voice and what you say on telephone exchanges, so care should be given to these points. Be careful to take messages and relay them properly. Fully identify yourself when making calls, except, perhaps, to immediate family members or very close friends with whom you have frequent contact. Your first name is not enough. The person you call may know two or three others with your same name. Using only your last name is improper, too. Rather, say "This is Susan Smith calling. May I speak with Mrs. Brown?" It is most inconsiderate to initiate a call and then ask the one who answers, "Who is this?" Rather ask "Is this such and such a number? May I speak to so and so?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 Phone calls should be limited in length. It is always thoughtful to say, "Thank you for calling" when closing the conversation. Introductions The secret to successful introductions is to remember that the person for whom respect should be shown has his or her name mentioned first. Usually, it is the woman's name. However, in the case of a Church authority or prominent civic official, his name is mentioned first. It is perfectly proper merely to say, "Mrs. Jones this is Mr. Anderson," leaving off the trite (and often confusing) "May I present?" It is less formal at a social gathering where the people are to be in each other's company for the evening, to say, "Mary, this is Mr. Anderson, John, this is Mrs. Jones." They will call each other Mr. And Mrs., however, until the woman suggests that the man may call her by her first name. The person making the introductions may follow up with a brief bit of identification about each person to help them converse more freely. For instance, one might say, "Mary is our Relief Society president. John, are you still teaching a class in Sunday School?" It is helpful to review the rules of etiquette which are meaningful today. Everyone should be mindful of undesirable tendencies or relaxations in conduct that may have crept into one's life. Any effort we put forth for self-improvement, to become more poised, gracious, gentle, or get along with others more harmoniously is indeed worthwhile. of iterature—America's Literature Comes of Age Lesson 32 — Edgar Allan Poe — Artist of Word and Sentence (1809-1849) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 413-457) For Tuesday, May 15, 1962 Objective: To see in Poe's writings an attempt to attain perfection in literary craftsmanship and to recognize his art as an escape from his own conflicts. ARE, indeed, is the person who, upon a first reading of either Poe's poetry or prose, remains indifferent to him. From his first line, his unique word-tone music and image bring us into a realm of melancholy magic entirely his own: Ah, broken is the golden bowl! The spirit flown forever! Let the bell toll! — a saintly soul floats on the Stygian river; And, Guy De Vere, hast thou no tear? — weep now or never more! See! On yon drear and rigid bier low lies thy love, Lenore! Come! Let the burial rite be read — the funeral song be sung! — An anthem for the queenliest dead that ever died so young — A dirge for her the doubly dead in that she died so young. —"Lenore"' In both prose and poetry Poe strove solely for a unity of effect. In prose he strove to intensify horror, fear, guilt, revenge, or madness until the reader would be enabled to realize an awareness of the truth which these effects convey. His poetry achieves its own special sphere of excellence by creating the effect of melancholic, ethereal beauty, usually best conveyed through images of death and classically beautiful women who love or die majestically but forlornly. As Poe explained so meticulously in "The Philosophy of Composition," he considered each word and each image with greatest care, and chose it only when he was certain that it contributed to the total effect of the poem. While we might possibly doubt whether his most famous poem, "The Raven," actually was composed as he claimed (see text, page 457), we cannot doubt the precision of his mind after reading the following poem in which the first letter of the first line, the second letter of the second, the third letter of the third, etc., spell out the name of Frances Sargent Osgood for whom this memorable valentine was contrived: A VALENTINE For her these lines are penned, whose luminous eyes, Brightly expressive as the twins of Loeda, Shall find her own sweet name that, ~ nestling, lies Upon this page, enwrapped from every reader. Search narrowly this rhyme, which holds a treasure Divine — a talisman — an amulet That must be worn at heart. Search well the measure; The words — the letters themselves. Do not forget Page 14] The trivialest point, or you may lose your labor. And yet there is in this no Gordian knot Which one might not undo without a sabre, If one could merely understand the plot. Enwritten upon this page whereon are peering Such eager eyes, there lies, I say, perdu, A well-known name, oft uttered in the hearing ». Of poets, by poets; as the name is a poet's, too. - Its letters, although naturally lying — Like the knight Pinto (Mendez Ferdinando) — = Still form a synonym for truth. Trying!. You will not read the riddle though you do the best you can do. Cease When such a feat is accomplished within the added disciplines of a regular metrical structure as well as an abab, cdced, etc., rhyme scheme, we are ready to admit with no reluctance that Poe's tales of ratiocination [reasoning] were the _ first detective stories (and still some of the greatest). Similarly, at the time when his interest in cryptography [code deciphering] was keenest, he not only wrote "The Gold Bug," but challenged the readers of Graham's Magazine to submit a cryptogram which he could not solve. Of the hundred received he solved all but one, and proved it to be unsolvable. When he was but twenty-one, Poe wrote a sonnet ""I'o Science" which first expressed the resentment he felt as the practical, earthly spirit of science encroached upon the contemplation of ideal beauty, which he considered to be the highest universal vision granted only to true poets: Science! True daughter of Old Time thou art! Who alterest all things with thy peering eyes. Why preyest thou thus upon the poet's heart, Vulture, whose wings are dull realities? How should he love thee? Or how deem thee wise, Who wouldst not leave him in his wandering To seek for treasure in the jewelled skies, Albeit he soared with an undaunted wing? Science is no new force, but "true daughter of Old Time." 'Thus the conflict between these two methods of defining reality is an ancient one and, for those who seek a higher beauty than earth can afford, inevitable. Science is of the earth, which Poe felt to be a corrupted mass, indeed a strangling, suffocating environment for the poet. Denying not only the method of science, but such "earthly" forces as emotion and even truth, the poet Poe sought to escape into the sublime realm of "ideality." Refusing to trust conventional uses of symbol or allegory, Poe hoped to attain a spiritualized beauty, "the handiwork of the angels that hover between man and God." No poet ever held a grander concept of the poet's destiny than did Poe. His art became his life, for through it he found his only means of escape from the sordid realm of mediocrity. But once having given birth to so exalted a vision, the contrast between actuality and ideality became too great. Hence arose one of Poe's greatest paradoxes: repudiating in his art anything earthly and dedicating himself solely to the pursuit of another worldly beauty, he nevertheless, adopted the method of science as the means of achieving his goal. 142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 LESSON DEPARTMENT While the end of his poetic technique was a sublime, musical indefiniteness, the means for accomplishing his end was first to calculate the effect he wished to achieve within the poem, then to invent or select words whose vowel tones and combined rhythmic and tonal patterns would create the classically restrained and cold melancholy which he considered the aura of beauty. While his poetic effect could not be more romantic, Poe's method of creating was analytic, coldly aloof, and precise. In exposing the technique whereby his most famous poem, "The Raven," was put together, it is to be his design... To render it manifest that no one point in its composition is referable either to accident or intuition — that the work proceeded, step by step, to its completion with the precision and rigid consequence of a mathematical problem. Although Poe had written many years earlier that "a poem is opposed to a work of science by having for its immediate object, pleasure not truth," the point of differentiation is concerned with end, not means. Thus, in both, Poe was consistent. While for the major portion of his adult life Poe was but secondarily a poet and primarily a writer of prose, his genius in combining his poetic theory and actual writing in such poems as "To Helen," "Annabel Lee," '"Ulalume," and_ especially "The Raven," prove his achievement to be unique. When read aloud, their penetration into the realms of our inner selves is unforgettable. Poe's explanation of the structure of "The Raven" (dedicated to Elizabeth Barrett Brown- 143 ing) has been discussed more widely than any other poem-analysis ever written in the English language. No equivalent exists for such lines as the final stanzas of his most successfully contrived "The Raven": "Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!" I shrieked, upstarting — "Get thee back into the tempest and the Night's Plutonian shore! Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken! Leave my loneliness unbroken! — quit the bust above my door! Take thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!" Quoth the Raven '"'Nevermore." And the Raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door; And his eyes have all the seeming of a demon's that is dreaming, And the lamp-light o'er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor; And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor Shall be lifted — nevermore! (Text, page 452). Poe's Tales Nathaniel Hawthorne and Edgar Allan Poe mutually respected each other, but parallel achievements in almost simultaneously developing a form of writing — the short story (pioneered by Washington Irving) were worked out independently of each other. Both were meticulous revisers and polished craftsmen who planned their work most exactingly, then wrote to make each word, each description of person or scene, each dialogue, contribute directly to the story's central purpose. But while Hawthorne's chief concern was to fashion a complex inter-relationship of character and event which would best give life to his integrating moral insight, Poe ignored all moral issues and was concerned with the over-all effect of the story. For him poetry excelled in creating beauty, while fiction best created an awareness of truth. But Poe's definition of truth is a narrow one; the "effects" which appear repeatedly in his best-known stories are horror, fear, guilt, murder, revenge, death, decay — all usually given reality through the sensory and psychological perceptions of an overly sensitive, morbidly self-conscious central character or narrator. Each story is created to bring about those effects of character, mood, and tone, which either lead to the destruction or the decay of the obsessed central character. Thus, in reverse pattern from his poetry, tirelessly Poe made peace with the actual physical world which had so trapped him and ignored him, by destroying it symbolically. In these explorations of his own subconscious mind, Poe leads us beneath the peaceful surface of man's nature. He explores the possibility of actions of persons obsessed with some driving, even wild passion, as in "The Tell-Tale Heart," "The Black Cat," and, more important, in "The Fall of the House of Usher' and "Ligeia." A close parallel is ""The Masque of the Red Death," an allegory representing the terrors which Poe saw in a diseased society ordinarily concealed beneath the luxurious trappings and frivolous pastimes of our masked, concealed lives. "The Fall of the House of Usher" In 1839, Poe wrote "William Wilson," a story which directly influenced Stevenson's "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde," and Oscar Wilde's "Picture of Dorian Gray." In "William Wilson," Poe states most plainly the dual nature which, in greater or lesser degree, mortal man exemplifies. In "The Fall of the House of Usher" (text, pp. 416-424), young Roderick's own inner apprehensions and final decay and death are symbolized in two other "selves": his twin sister Madeleine, and the ancestral house itself, which, at the story's end, sinks "slowly and sullenly" beneath the waters of the "deep and dank tarn" which surrounded it. In this gloomy, intense study of selfdestruction, we see, perhaps, the best-known example of Poe's futile yet powerfully detailed desire to escape the inherited corruptions of the past, only to succumb, finally, to the grimly triumphant specter of the here-and-now. Always in Poe's stories there is the fleeing, the plunging (as in "Descent Into the Maelstrom'), the maddened desire to escape; it is in the ethereal beauty of the poems that fulfillment comes. Thus the two complement each other. From the first words of the story, Poe's skill at creating the effect he desired is almost oppressively evident: During the whole of a dull, dark, and soundless day in the autumn of the year, when the clouds hung oppressively low in the heavens, I had been passing alone, on horseback, through a singularly dreary tract of country; and at length found myself, as the shades of the evening drew on, within view of the melancholy House of Usher. I know not how it was — but, with the first glimpse of the building, a sense of insufferable gloom pervaded my spirit. I say insufferable, for the feeling was unrelieved by any of that half-pleasurable, because poetic, sentiment with which the mind usually receives even the 14 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 LESSON DEPARTMENT sternest natural images of the desolate or terrible. I looked upon the scene before me — upon the mere house, and the simple landscape features of the domain, upon the bleak walls, upon the vacant eye-like windows, upon a few rank sedges, and upon a few white trunks of decayed trees — with an utter depression of soul which I can compare to no earthly sensation more properly than to the after-dream of the reveller upon opium: the bitter lapse into everyday life, the hideous dropping off of the veil. There was an iciness, a sinking, a sickening of the heart, an unredeemed dreariness of thought which no goading of the imagination could torture into aught of the sublime. What was it — I paused to think — what was it that so unnerved me in the contemplation of the House of Usher? It was a mystery all insoluble... (Text, page 416). The "eye-like windows" and the "unredeemed dreariness of thought" parallel similar qualities in Roderick and prepare us for his entrance, just as the description of his twin sister symbolizes his own malady and prepares us for their simultaneous deaths. But it is Roderick himself who totals within himself all the evils of the house, the dying sister, and the evils of the inherited past. "The Gold Bug" "The Gold Bug," an example of Poe's more objective short stories, is a tale of buried treasure and cryptography. The setting is on Sullivan's Island, near Charleston, South Carolina, where Poe spent a dreary winter of army assignment. Legends 145 of pirates combined with Poe's flair for solving ciphers make this story, written some years later, one of intense fascination. Poe made full use of the haunted sand dunes and the lonely seascape to produce an eerie atmosphere for this tale of mystery. Some literary critics, considering Poe as one of the few great innovators in American literature, credit him with inventing (as much as one person ever invents a species) the detective story, and with introducing the adolescent adventure tale. Such favorable literary criticism states not only that French symbolism, with its emphasis on the suggestiveness of music, began when French poets accepted Poe's logical formula for a poem, but also that Poe's influence upon popular literature has been great. Regardless of Poe's life, motives, or history, the greatest contribution he has made to American literature is his complete dedication to his art and the resulting power of his page to absorb the reader with another glimpse into the mysteries and fascinations of the human heart, as it quavers and throbs through mortality. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How does '""The Raven" conform to Poe's "Theory of Composition'? 2. Illustrate Poe's word-tone music with examples from his poetry. 3. What were Poe's contributions to literature? Social euveo=—alire Place of Woman in the Gospel Plan Women and Church Activity Lesson 7 — Fullness of Life and Exaltation Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Tuesday, May 22, 1962 Objective: To stress the importance of obedience to law in attaining the blessing of exaltation and to summarize woman's place in the gospel plan. The goal of the L. D. S. Family is to "... Bring to its members such lives as will enable them to return to the inner circles of that celestial home from which they came, — a dwelling with the Heavenly Father and Mother throughout the eternities" (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., The Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page 808). "TI, the Lord, Am Bound When Yee Do Wihat DiS Bim. BEDIENCE to the commandments of God is prerequisite to all the blessings promised to mankind. In Section 130 of The Doctrine and Covenants, verses 20-21, we read: There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated. There are many promises in the scripture to the "chosen people," but in each case to realize the blessings they must hear the word of the Lord, know his mind and will, and apply it in their lives. Marriage is a command of God. We are forcefully reminded by revelation that there is a particular kind of marriage (temple marriage ) for us if we would receive the fulness of his blessings. The privilege of going to the temple to be martied is dependent upon conformity to the highest standards of human behavior, such as living the law of Page 146 chastity, which is purity in body and mind; and possessing a firm testimony of the divinity of Christ and his gospel plan. It would seem that right living prepares the way for divine guidance in our lives. Also, that assistance or blessings do not come to us without a concerted effort on our part. 'There are two verses, 18 and 19, of Section 130 of The Doctrine and Covenants that should be quoted: Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come. Then, our attention is called to the fact that blessings are all predicated upon the fulfillment of the law. This is an appeal to the intelligence of men and women and the use of intelligence to the realization of their greatest possibilities. The Lord is willing to help where intelligent effort is made. LESSON DEPARTMENT Fulness of Life Essential to Exaltation Any person building a house will set down some specific plans according to which he hopes to achieve the objective. The more important the physical structure and the more costly, the more detailed and elaborate the plans and the blueprints. This, then, gives direction to the structure. 'There may be necessary changes and adjustments but, in general, the house will be like the plans. With good plans and good artisans, together with carefully selected material, it becomes an actuality. It will be no better than the planning, the craftsmen, and the material used to make it. This is, to some degree, analogous to the process of developing a successful family and qualifying for the blessing of eternal life. The big task comes in training and developing the personality under divine principles. 'There is the never-ending responsibility of developing self-control, unselfishness, and in making adjustments to the ever-changing relationships of personalities in a house. It is the difficult task of developing the technique of "we" and "our" in meeting problems and satisfying needs; the maturing of like interests into common _ interests through the sharing of common experiences in every phase of life; in general, it is reducing to a minimum the basic differences and increasing the individual capacity of making adjustment to each other. Nothing worthwhile is attained without personal effort. We don't find perfection, we make it. In ideal family relations there is no substitute for the art of adjustment which depends upon the maturity of the 147 individuals, which, in turn, is dependent upon a life developed from good, wholesome living. To the couple who have lived fifty years together, through hardships and success, sharing in full the realization of their religious ideals and goals, there is an important significance of "'at-one-ness" referred to in the idea of "one flesh," quoted in The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 49, verse 16. They have not only become sure of each other, but have become so much a part of each other through their sharing, working, planning, and adjusting that certainly, to them, there is full realization of the "at-oneness" idea. 'This "at-one-ness" is the product of successful living together. It is a growing feeling of indispensableness, knowing no end. The above type of experience is an explanation of how the Lord can be bound. The blessing is theirs in the full realization of each other's value. It is the value of good living expressed in a degree of perfection. The harmony of their lives together is the preparation for eternal marriage. The plan of life and salvation might be compared to a magnificent organ with all the perfection in sound known to the skill of organ makers. If a baby presses the keys one may get squeaks, discords, and chaos, so far as music is concerned. A person with a few organ lessons and a little knowledge of music can produce limited harmony and melody. The true value of the organ and its possibilities to make beautiful music increase as the knowledge, training, and artistry of the player increase. So when the truly great organist plays upon the same instru- ment, there is a full expression of the tone quality and harmony, and the great possibilities of the organ are fully realized. So with life, particularly with married life. In the wisdom of the Creator, each individual has the potential greatness that can only be fully realized in successful marriage. It can be enriched by knowing what to do and doing it. The instructions are thorough and complete from the great Designer. In this way God is bound. He has defined the rules of life and life eternal, pointing out the way to accomplish them. If we apply these principles, the results cannot fail, the promised blessings are ours. The degree of success varies with our individual capacities to understand and to do. The Eternal Nature of Marriage As the statement at the opening of this lesson by President Clark points out, the goal of the family is so to organize the lives of the members that they return to their Heavenly Parents for eternity. This statement implies the importance of the here and now. The blessings of the everlasting covenant of marriage are not all for the next world. In reality the blessings and promises of the next world cannot be attained unless we are living the laws here. Man is that he might have joy here and now, and have it more abundantly. The whole program of the Church is to insure its members a rich, full life. If this is attained here, then the promises of eternity have real meaning. There are blessings in store for all who keep his commandments. From the writings of President Joseph Fielding Smith, special encouragement is given to the righteous women of the Church. He says: Now, just one more thought. You good sisters, who are single and alone, do not fear, do not feel that blessings are going to be withheld from you. You are not under any obligation or necessity of accepting some proposal that comes to you which is distasteful for fear you will come under condemnation. If in your hearts you feel that the Gospel is true, and would under proper conditions receive these ordinances and sealing blessings in the temple of the Lord, and that is your faith and your hope and your desire, and that does not come to you now, the Lord will make it up, and you shall be blessed — for no blessing shall be withheld. The Lord will judge you according to the desires of your hearts when blessings are withheld, and He is not going to condemn you for that which you cannot help ("Elijah, the Prophet and his Mission," Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine, January 1921, page 20). The promise of the future life is glorious beyond our power to understand. "Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him" (I Cor. 2:9). Summary 1. The Eminence of Woman As a summary of the first two lessons, may we point out that, like man, woman is a creation of God. She was given as a helpmate of man in a partnership responsibility for subduing and populating the earth. In the plan of creation, God gave to woman a place of exceptional eminence. The importance of the responsibility given her complements the assignment given to man. Marriage is ordained of God. In fact, it is vital to the fulfillment of the plan of life and salvation. The fulness of the Priesthood can only 148 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 LESSON DEPARTMENT be attained through successful temple marriage. This places woman in a most strategic position — a position of honor, glory, and vital importance, and with all this, is the responsibility of being a successful partner. There is in the relationship a unique element of equality, meaning evenly balanced or proportioned; having competent powers, ability, or means. While Adam was designated as the mouthpiece of God, Eve was designated as the mother of men. This set up a balance and a division of responsibility which provides a basis for sound family organization. Only with her can man obtain exaltation in the celestial kingdom. 'Truly, she is the leading lady in the drama of life. She holds equal responsibilities for the accomplishment of the purpose of life, "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." Together, and only together, can the full realization of the destiny of the human family be achieved. 2. Service, the Mission of Motherhood Childbearing is a woman's unique service. Providing a clean, healthy Body and a sound mind are most essential; however, being well-born is far more inclusive. It is being born into a home and family where the parents are qualified to provide healthy stimulation to the growth and development of each child spiritually, intellectually, and temporally.; As the mother exercises judgment, wisdom, and care in selection of food for her family, she must also use judgment, wisdom, and care in selecting the spiritual and mental 149 stimulation of her family. So also must the greatest care be used in providing and directing the social contacts of the child. The major part of a mother's service is developing the child's judgment so he can learn to choose for himself. Child development is the constant challenge of the mother. Discipline is bringing one's mental powers under control and directing them into useful channels. The ideals, values, and objectives of the society in which one lives can, through discipline and obedience, become a part of the child in infancy and remain for life. The person who is most free is the one who knows the law and obeys it. Moral values represent the wisdom of time-tested behavior; moral values represent the best judgment of man in tune with the mind and will of God. There is and must be for us a divine tone in the moral values of our society. Homemaking is largely the creativeness of the mother. It is, in reality, a joint father and mother responsibility, yet it is the artistry, personality, and industry of the mother that predominate. Besides the beauty of the physical setting, she is responsible for the things in her home and elsewhere that stimulate the mind and spirit of her children. What they, the children, read, think, hear, and see, they become. To meet her challenge, mother must be constantly alert to her own mental stimulation. Her personal improvement helps in the direction of the children and, eventually prepares her with interests and expressions of her talents which can fill her life when the family is gone. ———-----------+ SACRED MUSIC FOR THREE PART LADIES CHORUSES — COME, YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER — Madsen... W00000..... C N °o <m. GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH — Schreiner...........30 =... GO YE FORTH WITH MY WORD — Madsen..............---. + tS) wn a. IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS — Madsen....25 — INCLINE YOUR EAR — Wilkes.25 — IN THY FORM — Madsen.........20 _— LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY — Stephens............ 20 _ LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS — Elgor __...... U... 25 a. LORD, HEAR OUR PRAYER — A ————————E—.20 as. LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE — Madsen.....20 a. OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane.25 | =< THE 23rd PSALM — Schubert....25 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY ' 15 £. Ist South | Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. ' {; 1 On Approval OO Charge | © Money Enclosed 1 ' ' 1 I ' ity & State 15 E. Ist South | salt Lake City 11, Utah | 3. Women and Church Activity In every successful pioneering movement women have played a most important part. Without the anchorage of home and family many major projects would have failed. From the beginning of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the leadership has recognized the important place of women and organized them for more important and effective expression. Women are vital to the successful functioning of the Church auxiliary organizations; they are a major influence in the family; and, without them, the fulness of the Priesthood blessings cannot be realized in this world nor throughout eternity. As the Church has grown older, the Relief Society has grown to meet the expanding demands of the women and the need of sympathetic understanding by all the members of the Church. By answering the calls of the Priesthood, the women have successfully participated in all the auxiliary organizations of the Church. Their service extends to missionary, temple, and genealogical work. The activity of the women in the Church program is a manifestation of dedication to a great cause. The blessings in store for the women of the Church are limited only by the degree of effort they put forth to build the kingdom. Every blessing of the Priesthood is open to the faithful woman. If she works and lives according to directions given her in the gospel plan, her happiness and the happiness of her family are assured. 'Time, conditions, and the wisdom of God will secure the promised blessings for righteousness. 150 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 LESSON DEPARTMENT Thoughts for Discussion 1. How important to happiness in daily life is the law of obedience? 2. How important are thinking and planning to a successful marriage? 3. What is the relationship of the fulness of the gospel plan to joy and happiness in the here and now? 4. How does the promise of happiness in the gospel plan refer to the next world? ——~ Po rtratt Rose Thomas Graham Great-grandmother wore a wig As white as snow. Why should she cover soft brown hair, T'd like to know? A tiny patch of black Beside her chin Made all the fairer my Great-grandma's skin. Her silk lace shawl was fastened With a brooch. A footman helped great-grandma To her coach. 151 Ask about our Special Hawaiian Tour for June Tour includes four islands. Scenic Northwestern Including World's Fair, departing June 30, 1962. Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour Leaving July 30th. For further information regarding your travel please write or call! MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 6-1601 HU 5-2444 AM 2-2337 gimetivonn in Seb ruary Eva Willes Wangsgaard Winter's not sad. Winter's all aglow With moon-fired stars in the crisping snow And deep underneath May has started to grow. Listen a moment and you may hear The blades uncurling, each growth-wise spear Which multiplies green for a whole year. Winter's a shiny white valentine With a sparkling, glittering lace design, A bold, sharp curve on a warm heartline, You can't see the heart, but you can trace The red, red drops that drip on the lace From firethorn's wounds to earth's secret place. Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Mrs. IsaporaA LYMAN Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. EvizaBetH JANE TAyLor McENTIRE Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Exiza JANE Witcox Sparks Los Angeles, California Ninety-five Mrs. Cora SIDWELL BUTLER Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Barty SMITH Randolph, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Carouine Pratt Kinc PrincLe Midvale, Utah Mrs. Mary CaroLineE MortTEeNSEN CROWTHER Manassa, Colorado Mrs. Saray EvizABETH BROWN WILLIAMS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. FLORENCE JANE ALEXANDER CurTIS Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Carrie Victoria Boyp STEWARD Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Estuer Ricxs Linrorp Logan, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Rose Evita HA Jacksonville, Florida Mrs. EMELINE BincHAM Woop Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Jux1a Lottie Brim Bacu Oakley, Idaho Mrs. Sara ArTHUR NELSON Cedar City, Utah Page 152 Mrs. EMMA SLADE CARROLL Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Epirx Hitton CHENEY San Leandro, California Ninety Mrs. Mar Harrison SMITH Springville, Utah Mrs. CHARLOTTE Witson NICHOLS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Grace Gates GriFFIN Springfield, Missouri Mrs. Mary M. Hickerson WaADLEY Pleasant Grove, Utah Mrs. Emma OTTESEN HALVERSON Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Otive Louise Harris VINCENT Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Loretta JOHNSON Oakland, California Mrs. Jonannan M. Sorenson PETERSON Logan, Utah Mrs. CHARLOTTE WILson NICHOLAS Salt Lake City, Utah _— Little Brown Curls Evelyn Fjeldsted The shawl around her baby's head. Enclosed her like a little tent. We looked into the tiny gap, That only mothers can invent. Her mother raised her toward the light. "Her hair is curly, too," she said, "See here on top it curls the most." And then she tucked her into bed. She smiled a bit and yawned, then dozed; | Her mouth was like a pink bud closed. The mother was so young — she touched Her baby's curls with loving care. Yet, we saw only straight brown hair. To us, curls were invisible. e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 0.00. 035 150 to 300 miles..........220. Ah) 300 to 600 miles......... Ty. 45 ts) 600 to 1000 miles 54 1000 to 1400 miles 0.22....64 1400 to 1800 miles —...00...00000020.. 76 Over 1800 miles........ 02 eee.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Mexican Tour Leaving early March Mexico City, Cholula, Pueblo, Taxco, Cuernavaca, Acapulco, Archaeological Ruins Northwest Banff-Lake Louise Tour Including World's Fair at Seattle leaving June 23 Shorter trip World's Fair leaving middle of June Ask about our Alaska and Hill Cumorah Tours ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 VV Lowest Prices VV Largest Stocks V Most Variety V Newest Ideas ZIM'S For Bazaars — Gifts — Handicraft Days— LOOKING FOR NEW IDEAS? YOU'LL FIND THEM AT ZIM'S THE BEST IN HANDICRAFT SUPPLIES — ESTABLISHED 1932 SEND FOR OUR LATEST CATALOG — FREE MARBLE "JEWELRY," PLASTIC FILM-SUPPLIES AND INSTRUCTIONS, FOAM AND TOTE BAGS, TIER HANDLES, BASKETRY, MOSAIC SUPPLIES, DOLL AND ANIMAL FACES, COPPER TOOLING, TEXTILE PAINTS, "IRON-ON" TRANSFER PENCILS, ALL FLOWER SUPPLIES, POPSICLE STICKS —EVERYTHING IN HANDICRAFTS Wholesale to Dealers — Discounts to Groups 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah | Second Class Postage Pai | at Salt Lake City, Utah | | LNGS|-E £l-165-41450 SEP 62 Timely and Challenging LDS Selections OD Biieseh OD OM il Ci OE BRE, —_. 1. CONTINUING THE QUEST HUGH B. BR President Brown is an uncommon man who speaks dyna ically, frankly, and with magnificent fervor. He reads th way, too, and here is a new collection of sixty-eight selection (Conference Addresses, radio speeches, writings, etc) by Pres' dent Brown with wide appeal to all ages — drawn from a ric full life — that challenges, offers warmth and comfort, giv real and solid hope to all who are sincerely searching a: seeking. 534 pages. $3.9 2. PIONEER THEATRE IN THE DESERT ILA FISHER MAUGHA In early March the Pioneer Memorial Theatre on the Unive sity of Utah campus will be dedicated. Exactly a hundre years prior to this dedicatory date the old SALT LAK THEATRE first opened its doors. Be sure to read this unusu and colorful account on the old Salt Lake Theatre, the Soci Hall, and about all theatricals throughout Utah in the ear days — the dramas and comedies, performers, etc. Rar ur usual photos highlight this' absorbing book. 44 East South Temple Sali Lake city, Utah e € e e @ eeseeeoeeee Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find [[] check [] money order [_]I have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed............ For encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 Name........................-2+-+. Address... 0.02.20 eee Gily,..,.. I.:. M.-..-.. A. @Zone... State......... Residents of Utah include 3% sales tax. SSSHSHSSHOHSESHSSHSHSSHSSSHSSSSSESSSSHSSSSHSSSHSSHSSESESESSSTEOCE '® ee aR 4 ' - "~ e Fa. - ¢. Ey ot: nt Po To a Child Dorothy ]. Roberts Scars: now the brown dirt road winds Only in remembrance, and far away — The horse my father drove and I beside him, The crystal atmosphere, the liquid lay Of meadow larks, and farther west The curlew's poignant cry — All are severed veins of time.... Child, ringed by sidewalks, neat and dry, And formal lawn, meadowless the young years Pass for you. Woodless you walk, Not among the toes of trees where violets Grow wild and fragrant in the spring. Grieving, I watch you, mourning how You will never grieve for that Earth-nearness I grieve for now. The Cover: Bryce Canyon, Utah Color Transparency by Don Knight Frontispiece: Child Looking Toward the Spring Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From Near and Far The Relief Society Magazine was introduced to me by Elder Dale E. Skinner when he taught me the gospel. Ever since then I have been attracted by the pretty covers of the Magazine and the nice stories. Most of all, I have been uplifted several times by President Belle S. Spafford's messages. When Elder Skinner finished his mission and went home, his loving mother gave me the Magazine as a Christmas gift for one whole year. And today I have just received a note saying that one more year is given to me by her. I have never received a better Christmas gift than this one. What a help and a blessing the Magazine has been to me! It has been a constant source of inspiration in my task as a Relief Society teacher. —Sheila Tseng Hong Kong, China Since the publication of my poem "Idyll Moment" in the February 1961 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, several of my parents' friends have told them that the verses were used at programs honoring elderly people, or at golden weddings. 'Thanks so much for giving us this pleasure. I realize more than ever to what extent parents live vicariously in their children, and how much we are obliged not to fail them. —Marie C. Webb Provo, Utah I have only been taking The Relief Society Magazine for the past three months, but I really enjoy it and look forward to receiving it, especially since we live so far from the church, about twenty miles. My husband is in the service, and we cannot attend church as often as we would like to. The Magazine helps to make up for this. I love the covers on the Magazine. The November 1961 cover (from a painting of Nauvoo, Ilinois) was especially beautiful. I enjoy the poetry in the Magazine very much. —Dons Moore Rocky Point, New York Page 154 I just want to take a minute and put in a good word for The Relief Society Magazine. Someone sent me a_ subscription when I began my mission over eighteen months ago. I was so impressed with the cover pictures that I began cutting them out and giving them to contacts. Then I started glancing at the poetry and some of the articles. Then I was sold! You certainly have a publication to be proud of. It is a testimony in itself. I am sure the Lord is pleased with the missionary labor it performs, and with the high class literature it provides for the women of his Church. —Elder Farrell M. Smith Mettmann, Germany I am delighted with the first prize story "Ten Dollars Will Buy Many Things" (January 1962, by Mary Ek Knowles). Mary's mother, Nellie Worthen Ek, was my dear friend and lived with me as a gitl. May I also say how much I enjoyed the very unusual and significant poem "The Other Mother" by Miranda Snow Walton (first prize poem, January 1962). I have read this poem to many of my friends over the telephone. —Mrs. Edith Hunter Lambert Salt Lake City, Utah Congratulations on the new look the January issue has. It hardly seemed that the Magazine could be improved. It has become an accepted part of my life. Thanks, also, for the wonderful pictures of places I have seen. Hardly an issue comes that I cannot say to my husband, "Do you recognize this?" Then each page unfolds a message, for which I am grateful. —Mrs. Zerelda Sapp Fort Jones, California I surely appreciate the beautiful covers on the Magazine. Our sisters enjoy the stories, poems, and especially the lessons. —June N. Ashton Poplar, Montana THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - Marianne C. Sharp - - c = - Louise W. Madsen - - = = - Hulda Parker: - = = a z Edith §. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt ary V. Cameron - President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Leone G. Layton Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Evon W. Peterson Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Aleine M. Young Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Josie B. Bay Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny S. Kienitz RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - = = = o 2 - = S S Associate Editor - - - 2 2 5 - - General Manager - - - s - < - - Marianne C. Sharp - - Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford NO. 3 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES 'Where Your Treasure Is" Sterling W. Sill Leadership by Example.. Mildred B. Eyring The Young Child and His Books May C. Hammond The Red Cross — A Universal Symbol Do You Want to Increase Relief Society Attendance? 0.000... The Lamplighters iFred A. Bantz aMargaret Fitzpatrick Alice Gubler 207 FICTION Cheshire Cat — Third Prize Story Linda §. Fletcher Good Morning, Mrs. Romaie! _onana atedMabel Law Atkinson Betty Lou Martin So Great the Calling aavaallMargery S. Stewart 216 Sow the Field With Roses — Chapter 3. GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far Sixty Years Ago... Woman's Sphere Editorial: ''We Must Cherish One Another' Notes From the Field: Relief Socety Activities Birthday Congratulations 154 - a 186 a Ramona W. Cannon 187 —Vesta P. Crawford 188 Christine H. Robinson Released From the General Board of Relief Society —..0.... 189 Notes to the Field: Index for 1961 Relief Society Magazine Available...........:... 190 iHulda Parker 222 a. A 232 FEATURES FOR THE HOME aan a.. Linnie F. Robinson 196 About Grandmothers Beverages Before a Dinner Winnifred C. Jardine 204 Bits of Odds and Ends... WWW.0... Janet W. Breeze Stuffed Toys Are Delightful 000000000. A Shirley Thulin 211 Johanna Sofie Farstead Specializes in Hardanger Work To Follow the Flowers Dorothy J. Neilson 230 POETRY OCS bane e ncn cce ce cccn cece nen cee nenecececeensecevnaeeenesececensasesceueseancensustiasons-tisesessonsntneceseonsPatricia Robinson King 165 WEVMASSOTTI OM ann ca ee aneanecnecceecnecumeeceseneeeeeecnecneeeceanennessoessogenueeceeanesuetatssetssteneecatenesssesasenesIda Elaine James 172 Night Rain _ Sylvia Probst Young 173 Ownership Claim. Maude Rubin 201 Another Spring.... ———Annie Atkin Tanner 202 View From the Pass Martha Tucker Fugate 210 Mrs. Teacher Olive C. Wehr 221 Communication...... Snowdrops Viola Ashton Candland 228 = Ethel Jacobson 231 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Copyright 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 155 Anna B. Hari Blanche B. Stoddard Winniefred 5S. VOL. 49 Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue To a Child — Frontispiece Splendor Born The Passing Day ooon.. OccececccceccececeseenenseceneeneeeenececeeseeseeneeeecseeesTo a Yellow Crocus -0..0...2.21cceece His Art Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Pearle M. Olsen MARCH 1962 191 Dorothy J. Roberts 153 Eva Willes Wangsgaard 162 Lila L. Smith 165 Hazel Loomis 179 Gladys Hesser Burnham 185 "Where Your Treasure Is" Elder Sterling W. Sill Assistant to the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Magazine Department of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 28, 1961.| lege of meeting with this fine group of Relief Society workers. My contacts with the Relief Society have all been very pleasant. My mother was a Relief Society president when I was young enough to go to the meetings with her. My wife has also served in the presidency of the Relief Society. I was a bishop for ten years during which time I had a very happy Relief Society experience. And Elvira A. Coles, the first Treasurer of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, was my great-grandmother. I would like to congratulate you upon being an active part of this great organization that is doing so much for people. I am something of a hero worshipper to begin with. There are very few things that give me the thrill of satisfaction that I get from the contemplation of someone who can do things. There is an old saying that if you want something done, get a busy man to do it. I suppose this proverb would be considerably improved upon if it said, if you want something done, get a busy woman to do it. But a still better means of accomplishment would be just to hand the job over to the Relief Society. I heard of a stake conference some time ago where the stake president said to Brother LeGrand Richards, "I want you to know that the Page 156 | fase of very much the privibrethren are directly behind the Relief Society." And Brother Richards said, "I'll say you are. You are fifty years behind." I have been asked to say something about your particular work of selling The Relief Society Magazine. I ought to say before I begin that I have a rather unusual kind of taste distortion, so that if I were turned loose just to have fun, where all I had to do was to enjoy myself, I would go out and collect money from people. 'This disposition has been developed by a number of very interesting experiences in this field. Sister Sharp mentioned that I had had something to do with financing the construction of a building at the University of Utah. I interviewed 704 people seeking a financial contribution. I was turned down 447 times. If you would like to have an interesting experience, get yourself turned down on some proposition 447 times. But because one person may turn an idea down, doesn't necessarily mean that everyone will turn it down, as 257 people gave me over $400,000. Of course, your ratio of getting subscriptions to the Magazine must be much higher than that. But I mention this because I think the best way to convert someone to something is to get him to put some money into it.. In one of the greatest of truths Jesus said "... Where "WHERE YOUR TREASURE IS" our treasure is, there will your heart be also" (Luke 12:34). Let me give you some practical examples of this idea in actual operation. A few General Conferences ago Elder Bruce McConkie told of a bishop 'interviewing a boy who was to be ordained a deacon. But at the same time the bishop talked with the boy about preparing for a mission. The boy hadn't thought much about it because he didn't know where the money would come from. The bishop suggested that maybe the deacon ought to start a savings account and use the years between twelve and nineteen to get his missionary funds in the bank. The fact that this deacon then adopted a definite program for putting a part of his newspaper route money in a missionary fund is about the best guarantee that I can think of that he will not disqualify himself in the meantime. Here is another example. When plans were being made to finance the Los Angeles Temple, President Noble Waite was put in charge of collecting a part of the money in the temple district: The people living there were invited to sign pledge cards. A twelve-year-old boy came to President Waite and said that he would like to sign up to pay seventyfive dollars. He came from a poor family who had already agreed to pay a substantial amount, and President Waite thought that this additional contribution might be too much. But the boy seemed to know where he was going, and so President Waite permitted him to sign a pledge card. Then, week after week, he sent in his payments until the pledge was redeemed. Then he returned and told Presi- 157 dent Waite that he would like to sign up for another seventy-five dollars. In time this was also paid. Someone has said that "What we give we keep, and what we keep we lose." That is, it will always be true that this boy has $150 invested in the Los Angeles Temple. But more important than that, his heart goes with his treasure. His contributions will help him to be married in the temple. A number of years ago I happened to be the bishop of a ward during the period that a meetinghouse was being built. We felt that the best possible way to increase interest and develop loyalty to the Church was to make sure that everybody had a substantial financial interest in the ward. Even very young children should be encouraged to earn and invest some money in the Church. We called on one family where the father had been inactive all of his life. His wife was a nonmember and none of his children were interested. We told them that we had come to talk with them about making a contribution toward the erection of a new meetinghouse. The father said, "I don't understand why you should come to us. We are not active in the Church, we don't work in it; we don't attend, and we don't pay any money. Why do you think that we should make a contribution?" We said to him, "We will be glad to explain it to you. You have just said that you don't pay any money, and you don't do any work in the Church. We pay money and do work, too. If you don't do any work, why shouldn't you pay twice as much money?" 158 That sounded like a reasonable proposition to him, and so he gave us $500. Then we said to him, "Brother Jones, we have no way of knowing whether or not this is a sufficient amount of money. But there is one way we can find out." Then we told him what the Lord had said about where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. And we said, "Now, if we have collected enough of your treasure, then we know that your heart will be with the Church, and you and your family will be at Sunday School next Sunday morning. However, if we don't see you there, we will know that your heart is not yet in the Church, and we will keep coming back until we have enough of your treasure to bring your heart in, also." I mention the financial aspect because your money philosophy will be very important to success in your particular work. Because our money philosophy is often very weak, many of our worthwhile projects fail. And while the financial consideration involved in subscribing to The Relief Society Magazine is not a great one, yet there are many times when your failure or success will depend upon your money philosophy. Of course your responsibility as Magazine agent is not merely to collect the money — it also includes makin sure that the Magazine will be fully utilized. HINK of the possible effect that your personal contact may have in the lives of the women of the Church as a result of your talking to them about the educational, religious, and other advantages of reading. One of the things that we need more than most other things RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 is to learn how to get the most practical use out of ideas and ideals available through the printed page. Woodrow Wilson once said, "The greatest ability of the American people is their ability to resist instruction." That is also one of our most serious problems in the Church, and I suppose that most of us as individuals have our full share of that unfortunate talent. One of the greatest opportunities of a mother is to get the night kind of ideas and ambitions into actual operation, and you can make them available in permanent, usable form. I have attended a great many conventions over a long period, and almost always when something is said that is thought to be important, someone asks, "Couldn't we have a copy of that? Couldn't it be written down so that we can go over it and absorb it and think about it and improve our lives by it?" The Lord has always seemed very anxious that important things should be written down. He said to John the Revelator, "Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter...." In giving the vision known as the 76th Section of The Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord repeated on four different occasions in verses 28, 49, 80, and 115, that Joseph and Oliver should write the vision while they were still in the spirit. And the Lord wants you to make great experiences and great ideas available to others through this Magazine. The best way to get people to subscribe to and read the Magazine is in this face-to-face kind of contact. The doctor can carry the spirit of health right with him as he sees his "WHERE YOUR TREASURE IS" patients face to face. He would not be nearly so effective if he merely called them on the telephone or put an ad in the newspaper or made a public health announcement. Most of the important things that happen to us come by means of personal contact. A _ genealogical worker once called on me and started me on the idea of doing temple work. In a personal interview, Elder Adam Bennion helped me to develop a reading habit when I thought I was too busy to read. In your subscription-getting interview, you can plant some seeds that will change the lives and habits of people. [* I were going to work in the Relief Society and had my choice of assignments, I can think of no assignment that I would rather have than to be Magazine representative. I was the bishop for a number of years, and I never felt that I ever did much good merely announcing the page of the song, etc. If I ever did any good, it was out in the homes of people who were in need of help. Of course every assignment in the Church is important. A teacher has a great calling. She may have ten or twenty people in her class. But if you sell a Relief Society Magazine subscription, by this one act you may make available an entire Magazine full of articles every month for twelve months to a number of people. Think how long it would take a teacher to get over that much material. But, in addition, your subscriber has a permanent word-for-word possession, so that she can come back to these good ideas again and again. Now, how do you make a sale? Of course that depends to some ex- 159 tent on each individual situation. But the first step is to believe in the Magazine. About the most marvelous power that I know anything about is the power of conviction. If you sincerely believe something, those with whom you talk will believe it also, and they will be changed and benefited by your faith. But you must first get a firm conviction in your own heart of the worthwhileness of what vou are doing before you can do very much for anyone else. For your consideration, let me give you "The Big Four" of success, negatively stated. 'That is, there are only four reasons why you may not succeed. 'They are as follows: You may have — i. An inadequate prospect 2. An insufficient exposure 3. An ineffective presentation 4. An indifferent representative 1. An Inadequate Prospect There may be some people who could just not possibly be interested, though you will find very few of these "china-egg prospects" in your work. Most of your interviews will hatch. President John 'Taylor once said that there was no one who could not be appealed to by the gospel, if the nght person made the right approach at the right time. 2. Insufficient Exposure It takes time to get a mind properly warmed up. To some extent everyone resembles a thermometer. If you ask them to subscribe when they are thirty-two degrees below zero, they will decline. But their situation can be changed by building a fire under their interest. Don't just assume that the advantages of 160 the Magazine are clear to them. Go over the various points of value with them. Minds can be changed. Oscar Hammerstein once said, "A heart can inspire other hearts with its-finer'' I once heard of a farmer who wanted to sell his farm. He hired an advertising man to write the copy for the paper. The farmer told the advertising man about the various good features of his farm, and after these had been written up in interesting language, the advertising man checked with the farmer by letting him read what had been written. When the farmer read about all of the wonderful features of his farm, he became so excited that he would not sell it for any price. The same thing happens when we sufficiently expose people to the gospel. When I was on a mission many years ago I memorized the Fourth Section of The Doctrine and Covenants. 'The Fourth Section consists of only seven sentences, made up of 145 words. You can read the entire Section in three-quarters of a minute. I thought I understood everything about the Fourth Section, and then one day I heard President Joseph Fielding Smith talk to a group of young missionaries about the Fourth Section of The Doctrine and Covenants, and as the light of his experience and interest shone on the Fourth Section, I felt a new influence in it that I had never known before. Of course it sometimes takes time for this interest to mature. That is why re-calls are so often necessary. If you need to call back a few times, the increased exposure makes it so much the better. Remember that what you are doing is very important, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 and your objective is not merely to get a subscription — it is to get this Magazine and a desire to read it into the hearts of people in such a way that they will read it religiously and profitably every month. No devoted, effective effort is ever lost. It has been said that the smallest bird cannot alight on the greatest oak without sending a vibration to the furthermost root end. Success is accumulative. I once heard a man telling about the number of calls he made when he was courting his wife. Someone said to him, "Why didn't you just call on her once?" I suppose that when some of you were being courted, he had to come back as many as two ar three times before he got the job done. 3. Ineffective Presentation Number three of the big four is an ineffective presentation. Some procedures get better results than others. You may be interested in an ineffective presentation made by Moses. When Moses started across the desert leading this great horde of Egyptian slaves, he needed someone who knew the desert to act as their guide. There was a man liying on the edge of the desert by the name of Hobab. Moses said to him, "Hobab, come with us and we will do thee good." But Hobab said, "I will not go." Even Moses got himself turned down because he said the wrong thing. But Moses needed Hobab, and so he made another try with a different approach. This time he said, "Hobab, come with us that thou mayest be as eyes to us in the wilderness." 'That is an entirely different appeal, and almost before the words were out of his "WHERE YOUR TREASURE IS" mouth, Hobab had his hat on and was ready to go. We have these same two approaches in use in the Church. In trying to get someone to attend Church, we sometimes say, "Come to Church, and we will do thee good." We mean, "It will be a good thing for you to associate with nice people like us." That may be all right, but not many people are warmed up by that kind of an appeal. Suppose, as Moses did, we try the service appeal and say, "Come and teach this class. We need your leadership. We need your friendship. You be our eyes in the wilderness." 'That is, to let them do something is usually much more effective in getting interest.. An Indifferent Representative The fourth of the big four considerations determining failure and success is found in the representative herself. 'The most deadly of the big four is to have an indifferent representative, one who herself is not properly organized or interested. The fires need to be burning brightly in our own hearts before we can ignite the fuse of interest in someone else. We need to have the spirit of success ourselves. Jesus said the kingdom of God is within you. That is where all accomplishment is also. I would also like to suggest that time and place of the interview are 161 also very important. I have heard of someone trying to collect money or sell someone a subscription as they were about to go into sacrament meeting. I think that the church grounds should be a sanctuary. People go there for another reason. This timeliness of your contact will be very important. That is, if you ever try to sell someone the Empire State Building, don't try to do it while he is running to catch a street car or listening to the concert. Now, to sum up, if you will perfect the big four in their positive aspects, then every family in the Church will have The Relief Society Magazine.. I would like to close with one of the most interesting of all ideas. Someone has said that the greatest invention of all time took place at Platea 2500 years ago, when an obscure Greek perfected the process of marching men in step. That is, when it was discovered that the efforts of a great group of people could be co-ordinated and focused upon a single objective, that day civilization began. What a thrilling idea if all Relief Society Magazine representatives could march in step to reach a complete success where all of the women in the Church not only subscribe to the Magazine, but fully absorbed the great ideas therein every month. And may the Lord bless you to this end is my prayer which I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. 162 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 ARRANGED FOR THE ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, September 1961 This inspirational display, arranged by Melicent Anderson, Counselor in Cache Stake (Utah), Fourth Ward Relief Society, was first featured at a special program in that ward, and was later displayed at a Cache Stake leadership meeting. The Magazines are opened to special articles which appeared in the 1960 issues. The pictures in the background are framed covers of The Relief Society Magazine, designed for use in home decoration, as well as for use in Magazine displays in the wards and in the stake. The decorated jars were made for saving coins for Magazine subscriptions, and the bag was made from directions in the July 1960 Magazine. Refreshments served at the ward meeting and the stake leadership meeting were made from Relief Society Magazine recipes. Alice D. Griffin represented Cache Stake as Magazine director at the time of the arranging of this display, and Diana Willie was the Magazine representative for the Fourth Ward. Pearl R. Haddock is president of Cache Stake Relief Society. > Splendor Born Eva Willes Wangsgaard These sink in glory like a falling star: A murky day that sunset gold retrieves, A year beneath her cloak of golden leaves, And waves that break where jutting mountains are. But these are born to splendor as they wake: The virgin year with snowflake-threaded hair, A dawn in June in balsam-scented air, And mountains on which waves and years must break. Leadership by Example Mildred B. Eyring Member, General Board of Relief Society [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 27, 1961.| Y brothers and sisters, I am M grateful for this opportunity to testify to you my conviction that God lives, that he is our Father, that Jesus Christ is our elder Brother and Savior, and that this is truly his Church. I am grateful that he has given the authority to act in his name, to his worthy sons here on the earth. I am grateful for the leadership of the kind, wise, devoted men who have been called to stand at the head of his Church, his kingdom here on earth. I honor these men. There is an old Chinese proverb, which says, "He who tells me of my faults, is my teacher. He who tells me of my virtues does me harm." Perhaps that is drastic, but there is a core of truth there. I am sure most of us would want to qualify it somewhat. We must recognize our faults, if we are to correct them, and undue praise can be harmful in some situations. Today, I shall not praise our virtues, but rather I shall ask that we all appraise ourselves and perhaps recognize some of our weaknesses. I speak to myself, as I speak to all of you. I hope that we may learn together. Most of us have held positions of leadership in various organizations within the Church, and we know the particular responsibilities of those positions, but I would like to suggest that every individual always is a leader, because every individual everywhere has an influence, good or bad, on all those who see or hear about him. The more widely we are known, the greater is our influence. None of us can escape this responsibility. Cain's question, "Am I my brother's keeper?" must be answered in the affirmative. I am mv brother's and my sister's keeper. I help to make them as they are. With that thought in mind, I would like to examine the Tenth Commandment: "Thou shalt not covet." 'The dictionary tells us that to covet means to desire inordinately something that belongs to another. This commandment, then, it seems to me, is telling us to avoid envy, to avoid undue concern about our material possessions or our positions, in modern parlance to avoid trying to keep up with the Joneses. I believe that much of the evil and misery of the world today stems from widespread disregard of the Tenth Commandment. 'Too many people, too many of us who would not lie or steal or break the other commandments, seem to be unaware that we are ignoring this one. Avarice, envy, selfishness are grievous sins. They are underlying causes of crime, of financial indebtedness, of poverty, of broken homes, of war, indeed of all of the evils that are opposed to the laws of God. Page 163 164 Since I am my brother's keeper, I am sure I have a double responsibility regarding this commandment. Not only must I control my own inclinations to covet, I must also consciously avoid exciting covetousness in others. If I must have status in order to satisfy my ego, I believe I should gain it by rendering service to others, or by creating something which will improve the world. In other words, I believe it would be better for me to find satisfaction in what I am and what I can do, rather than in the things that I may possess. It would be better for me and for those I influence. Paul spoke truly when he said "the love of money is the root of all evil" (Timothy 6:10), and I believe that the Tenth Commandment is largely about just that. We should appraise ourselves regarding it. NOTHER expression we frequently use is peculiar people. The colloquial meaning of the word peculiar is queer or eccentric, and unfortunately that meaning has been accepted by most of us. And, because we do not want to be considered queer, we try verv hard to appear to be like everyone else. We try to avoid seeming peculiar. But the true meaning of the word is special, distinctive, particular. The ancient Israelites were told "the Lord... Hath chosen thee to be a peculiar people unto himself, above all the nations that are upon the earth" (Deut. 14:2). "And the Lord hath avouched thee this day to be his peculiar people... And that thou shouldest keep all his commandments" (Deut. 26:18). If now, in modern Israel, we can properly claim to be God's chosen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 people, we must be willing to be distinctively his and to keep his commandments. To do so, in the materialistic, agnostic world of today, we must be willing to be different. In fact, we must insist on being different, in many ways, from most of the people about us who do not share our beliefs and standards. We must, in our everyday lives, adhere to the standards that God has set for his special people, regardless of what others may do. If, to order milk or fruit juice instead of tea or coffee or cocktails, or to decline the proffered cigarette, or to refrain from using profane or vulgar language, or to dress modestly, or to keep the Sabbath day holy, or to obey the law of chastity; if, to obey any of the commandments of God, makes us feel queer or uncomfortable, it is time that we change our attitude or our associates or both. We must be willing to de clare with Paul, "I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ," and mean it. If we are to be his chosen people, we must be peculiarly, distinctively his. Most of us here today are leaders in Relief Society, and as such we not only have the responsibility of leadership, which is common to all, but we have the specific responsibility to plan and conduct our activities so that all the women of the Church, by following our leadership, our precept and example, may reach the ultimate objective of this organization. 'The inspired Prophet Joseph Smith said, "This society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." Physical needs must be met, of course, but poverty of the mind and spirit is as real as physical poverty, and in many places is more LEADERSHIP BY EXAMPLE prevalent. It also must be relieved if souls are to be saved. 'That is our assignment, and our first step in filling it is to make sure that we are keeping all the commandments. Only then can we lead others in the right direction. 165 I pray that our Heavenly Father will bless each of us with the wisdom and strength to keep all his commandments, to be distinctively his people, to be good leaders. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Contrast Patricia Robinson King Where I was born the hills were humps, Hardly more than gentle bumps That nudged each other all the way Until they edged down to a bay. Where I was born the grass was deep, The nights were cool, and the sea could keep The earth back with a cove and sand, Marking division of salt and land. Where I live now the plains are wide; They almost tuck the world inside. The roads stretch out and I can see One hundred miles in front of me. Where I live now, the world is high And mountains reach to split the sky. One world was neat and circumspect, But here life is the architect. This throbbing land still calls to those Who blend their poetry with prose. The Passing Day Lila L. Smith I have no qualms about the passing day, Unless I sit, and let it waste away. Shird Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Cheshire Cat Linda S. Fletcher LINDA S. FLETCHER my family," mused Edeth, remembering her reading session with Tommy the evening before, as she automatically performed her early morning household duties. "I come into the consciousness of Neil and the children only when they want something, and then, chiefly, as a Face with a constant Smile, since I try to meet their need cheerfully." "Is my lunch ready?" inquired her husband, appearing in the kitchen doorway. "Yes, to be put into the box. Could you please do that?" she replied, pointing to a pile of waxed paper wrapped edibles. Page 166 4 'Ts like that Cheshire cat to Neil's eyes focused on her as if he saw her for the first time in many days. "I suppose I have time," he murmured vaguely, and proceeded to do the job he had never been asked to do before. "He really saw me whole, I do believe!" Edeth exulted, inwardly. Just then Baby Kirk gave the lusty, imperative call which announced he was awake and, with a quick peck at her occupied husband's brown cheek, and a hasty, "Goodbye, have an interesting day!" she hurried to the nursery. She had just lifted the baby from his warm nest, when she heard hurtying footsteps descending the stairs, and her oldest of four, Lana Ann, went past the door and into the bathroom. Edeth sighed as she thought it would be another hour, at least, before she would see the girl again. Lana Ann had the maddening habit of running the tub full almost to overflowing and then luxuriating in her bath as long as she possibly could. Edeth had finished feeding the baby and was tying Tommy's shoes, when Melanie, her ten-year-old, came rushing downstairs in what her mother called her "tornado mood," and burst out: "Mother, do come and find my stockings! I haven't one pair in my drawer!" "Did you bring them from the rack?" asked Edeth, with the even- CHESHIRE CAT ness of tone which betrayed how desperately she was trying to control her temper. "No — didn't you put them into my drawer?" returned Melanie, a note of perplexity in her voice as she focused her wondering eyes on her mother. "No, dear," Edeth replied. "You remember I told you last week that you would have that job in the future." "T guess I didn't hear you!" wailed Melanie. "Could you bring me a pair just this once and then Pll go down after school and get the others?" she coaxed. Edeth started toward the basement door and then halted abruptly. "You have time to go down and get them," she told Melanie, firmly. HE youngster started to protest. Then she looked her mother up and down, as if really seeing her for the first time, and turned silently toward the basement door. She went on through it and then bounced on down the steps to the laundry room below without further comment. "I do believe she, too, saw me," Edeth mused. "The Cheshire Cat seems to be completely materializing!" Melaine shortly reappeared, both of her hands full of hose. She promptly dumped them on the davenport in the living room and proceeded to choose a pair from the lot. A wail burst from her lips as she examined the two she had chosen, "There's a hole in the heel of each of these! What am I going to do? Could you...?" She broke off her request suddenly as she looked doubtfully at the parent who had 167 abruptly become a Person who might not like to do her mending. "Choose another pair," suggested Edeth, "then separate the hose into two piles, one of the whole stockings and one of those which need mending. Put the good ones away and repair the others after school." "But I want to wear the red pair!" protested the girl. "Perhaps the holes won't show!" "In the heel?" Edeth's tones were incredulous. Melanie looked guilty and then broke into the smile which usually won her point. "Couldn't you just — er — pull them together?" she persisted, but wavered as she studied her mother. "Not this time,' Edeth replied firmly. "Please choose a pair you can wear and then do with the others as I suggested." With many starts and stops and puzzled glances at her parent, Melanie finally disposed of the stockings. Just then Lana Ann burst from the bathroom. "Mother, why didn't you remind me I was staying in the tub too long!" "But there's a clock in there — right in your line of vision," Edeth reminded her quietly. "But I had my eyes closed!" wailed the girl. "T have told you very often to be conscious of the time," her mother reminded. "Yes, but you've always..." Lana Ann broke off, as she looked into Edeth's calm eyes. "T know — and I was thus at fault," the latter responded. "May I serve notice now that in the future I shall give you full responsi- 168 bility for getting yourself up and off to school?" The girl looked searchingly at her and then, with another anguished glance at the clock, hurried to finish her preparations for school. Wil the family finally off to their daily activities and the baby asleep, Edeth was free again to pursue the thoughts which had presented themselves earlier. While putting the house to rights, she reviewed the beginning and erowth of the condition in which she now found herself — that of being a nonentity to her own family. She realized that she was thus failing those whom she loved best. I have permitted the demon monotony to get me in his clutches, I suppose, and have been too much occupied with the many things. Now, I must find the way to introduce a new mode of living into our disordered and confused lives. My family needs a mother, not a mere housemaid! The doorbell rang, as if in sympathy with her problem. The Relief Society visiting teachers were calling with a special invitation for her to attend the meeting to be held on the following evening. "We're having an evening session this week so that those women who work or for other reasons are unable to attend our regularly held meetings may come. "We do hope you will join us, Sister Lindley. The social science lesson is to be discussed this time. It concerns spiritual living, and these lessons have proved to be of great interest to the women." "I'm going to come," Edeth heard herself asserting, firmly. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 The family were much surprised to have Mother come to dinner the following evening all dressed up. She was wearing some beautiful crystals in her ears and around her neck, and her dress was of the kind which would muss and wrinkle easily. She usually wore clothes that would withstand such things, and her earrings were usually left in the jewel case because the baby insisted on pulling them from her ears. "Aren't you taking the baby?" asked Melanie, rather awed by Edeth's grandeur, and yet feeling that she should try to keep things normal. "No. I think I'll leave him home and have Daddy take charge of getting him to bed while you and Lana Ann wash the dishes and tidy up. And Tommy will need a bath, too," she continued, turning to Neil. "Do you think you can manage all night for a little while?" she asked brightly. "I — suppose so — yes, of course," he answered, so taken aback by her light-hearted assumption that he could take over for her with no trouble, that he was completely jolted out of his usual absorption in the evening paper. "I was going to watch the football games, but...." "You'll have to see television as I usually do by snatches," she smiled. "But the girls will help, and you'll have things done up in no time at all! Oh, I must hurry! Is the car out front?" "Are you driving?" asked Neil. "Why, you haven't driven...." "I haven't forgotten how!" she replied airily, as she put on her coat, lightly kissed each one goodbye, and went out to the car, leaving a rather CHESHIRE CAT speechless and nonplused family behind. ND the lesson was indeed just what she needed! She drank eagerly of the living water, for which she now realized she had thirsted a long time. Concepts were presented which challenged her, and she felt that she really must be religiously mature enough not to be satisfied with the status quo and able to put good intentions into operation. Such a person would not be a nonentity anywhere. She was particularly impressed by the idea: "The religiously mature person has a sense of the glory of life" She recalled how much she had felt this in her girlhood and in the early years of her married life. She must and could bring this sense of glory into her home. Her face was aglow as she expressed to the class leader the joy the lesson had given her and then said goodnight to the serene and happy women all around her. They had been, for the most part, partakers of the satisfying fare of which she, Martha-like, had been depriving herself. As she drove home, she told herself: "I must find out more about this spiritual living. I am so far behind! I really sold my womanly birthright when I thought I was providing well for my family's material needs, at the expense of their spiritual well-being." Her exhilaration was dampened, however, by the conditions which confronted her at home. She had never seen her house so untidy, nor the tempers of her family so unpleasant! Neil was slumped in his big chair, as if in the last state of 169 complete collapse. Tommy was calling for a drink, and the girls were arguing angrily over what program they should see next. "None at all," Edeth told them quietly. "Turn it off." The girls were surprised into silence by her calmness. She usually shouted at them, Edeth remembered with some shame. Melanie, after an appraising glance at her mothers face, pushed in the button. "Come, it's bedtime," Edeth told them, as she guided them toward the bedroom they shared. 'There she noted the utter confusion of school books, toys, clothes, and miscellany. "Put all of your toys into the chest," she directed Melanie. "Lana Ann, arrange your books so that you have those you need for school together." MEANTIME, as the girls silently followed her direction, Edeth was helping, too. By the time the youngsters had finished their assigned tasks, the room looked almost tidy. As they undressed, however, clothes began dropping everywhere. "Please put your soiled clothes together into a pile to bring down to the hamper in the morning. Get out the clean clothes you will need and have them ready to wear. Then you can dress more quickly in the morning." "That's a good idea, Mummy," Melanie approved, for she had a sense of order, which, Edeth thought ruefully, hadn't had much encouragement. All the while she had been listening with half her attention, to Tommy's demands. The sounds from his room now died out, and she 170 realized that Neil had finally handled that situation, as she had hoped he would. Now the girls were ready for bed, and both literally jumped into the cozy resting places. "No prayers?" Edeth asked. Apologetically, they both crawled out. As they knelt to pray, the mother realized that it had been many months since she had been present at her daughters' going to bed. | She walked to the window and looked out and then up. The glory of the heavens took her breath away. It was a moonless night, and the dark blue softness was aglow with gently winking gems and scintillating dust. As the girls rose from their devotions, she called softly: "Come here!" They came silently and gazed in awe at the wondrous sight. "The heavens declare the glory of God...." Edeth repeated softly. "He really knows a lot, doesn't he?" Lana Ann affirmed, rather than questioned. "And he is our Father, and so it follows that we can learn a great deal, too," her mother added. Then she kissed her daughters — now very thoughtful little girls in their soft pajamas — and lovingly tucked them in. "It's comforting to have you tuck us into bed," affirmed Lana Ann, and Melanie added her heartfelt, "Oh, yes, indeed, Mummy!" Edeth gave each another big hug in return. As she descended the stairs, she thought, this has truly been a spiritual experience! Neil was stretched out in his chair, his feet on the hassock and his eyes closed. She went over and dropped a light kiss on his lips. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 As he started up, bitter phrases began to tumble from him: "How can a man rest in bedlam? I thought the baby would never settle down." And then, as his wife continued to regard him sweetly, making no reply, he smiled ruefully. "TI should have been able to bear up for a couple of hours under what you have to put up with all the time, practically. But, Edeth, don't you think our children ought to be more orderly and less demanding? They go through the place like small whirlwinds." "I must surely concentrate upon teaching them order," Edeth replied. "You agree, do you not, that it is the basis of all spiritual living?" "What do you mean?" asked her husband, nonplused. Edeth made herself comfortable on the davenport and then told him of her experience at the meeting that evening. "I am surely going to try to put a spiritual and creative foundation under our lives, since we did not establish it as a rock upon which to build before. Will you help me?" Neil considered what she had said. "You women do not hesitate to set yourselves real tasks, but what you have told me makes sense. Of course I'll help as much as anyone can who has to be pretty well wrapped up in material things." Edeth was very tired, but she got out the Bible — how long it had been since she had last opened it — and turned to The Psalms, from which she read some loved passages. Then, her soul akindle with the beauty of the lofty phrases, she again went to the window to spend a few thoughtful moments enjoying the glory before her uplifted eyes. CHESHIRE CAT The peace and wonder she had invited into her heart enabled her, a little later, to fall sweetly asleep. FTER a day which had been more tranquil than was usual in the Lindley household, Edeth proposed to the family at dinner that they establish a regular Family Hour in their domicile. "This is the evening which has been left open in our ward for such gatherings, but we haven't made much preparation for it. But could we have a family council and plan together how our home can be happier and more orderly and peaceful? Then we'll all try to live up to the rules we make." "T hate rules!" protested Lana Ann, "and I want to go over to Ruthie's tonight." "Just give me a chance," pleaded Edeth. "I know you want our family to be happy. We need to plan for this, using all of our ideas. You come tonight, and if you don't like what we do, you won't need to come again." Why did I promise that? She asked herself, appalled. But Lana Ann agreed, reluctantly. "Well, what shall we do?" | "You girls make out a list — a sort of Ten Commandments for parents. Dad and I will tell you some of our ideas and plans." Intrigued by the assignment, the girls were home early, and Edeth was thrilled to notice two earnest blonde heads bent over pencils and paper. Everyone helped to get dinner over and then the family assembled in the living room. "It looks nice in here!" approved 71 Lana Ann, her eyes going at once to the bouquet of bright flowers Edeth had ordered for the occasion. "And it's so clean and orderly!" added Melanie, and then to her mother, "You look nice, too. Your hair shines like — like the Revereware!" The family all laughed together at this homely comparison, and Edeth felt that she was beginning, at least, to be recognized by her family as a person, and smiled her pleasure. Seated around the table, the Lindleys began the serious business of planning for their future peace and happiness. The rules which emerged from their earnest discussion were simple, providing for mutual consideration and spiritual living. 'They would attend to their Church duties — together, would have their family prayers, and provide for sensible TV viewing. They would do mote singing together, with Mother at the piano. "Can Mummy really play?" asked Melanie, wonderingly. Nor did they forget the "creative" activities. 'They had often talked of making puppets and a stage for showing them. Edeth had even written a script or two. They were all enthusiastic about continuing this project. And there was handwork they could all do to beautify their home. "And let's enjoy our fine records and good books together more often," Neil contributed. Both Lana Ann and Melanie were impressed when the council concluded its work. They all felt that peace and order had begun to come into their abode, and Edeth knew 172 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 that she was no longer a nonentity now disappearing, Cheshire Cat was there. Banished from the Lindley houseThe incomplete, now appearing, hold forever. Linda S. Fletcher, 'Tacoma, Washington, tells us that, next to her family, she is most devoted to teaching and writing, with a greater allotment of time and energy to her teaching activities. She has taught in all the auxiliary organizations of the Church open to women. She was the first president of the Seattle Stake Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and at present she teaches Sunday School and Seminary classes, and is the literature class leader in the Tacoma First Ward Relief Society. Mrs. Fletcher is the author of many published poems, short stories, and articles, and two plays. Her work has appeared in the Church magazines and in many other publications. Three of her poems have received awards in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. She feels that a place among the women waiters of the Church is an attainment which gives thrilling soul-satisfaction. Mrs. Fletcher's husband is Roland E. Fletcher, a retired building contractor. They are parents of two children: Dr. J. Eugene Fletcher of the faculty of Eastern Washington State College, and Gweneth F. Liljenquist, a former teacher in the Tacoma schools. There are nine grandchildren. Gay Assertion Ida Elaine James My winter tree is touched with fire — A cardinal zigzagged from a wire And gripped its thread-like tiny feet Around a twig of crystal-sleet. Oh, what intrepid spirit he Must have to brace the winter cold As though to cheer the tree and me, Clinging with such ardent hold, While from the bursting httle throat His song denies the doleful note. Ty Piiteuraghic Associates VIEW FROM THE TREES Looking toward the San Francisco Mountains, from near Flagstaff in the high plateau country of Northern Arizona. —- Night Rain Sylvia Probst Young Py 5 Here, in this deep night gloom the wild winds die; And suddenly across the arid plain I hear the marching rhythm of the rain, Rain — silver miracle — gift of the sky, Gift to the dormant seed that now will know The touch of life. Soon tender blades will stand As promise of the fruitage of the land — Each winter tree will leaf again and grow. Night — rain before the golden morning charm Of jeweled droplets glowing... The caress Of crisp, cool air, and sky blue loveliness, The soft serenity that follows storm. With winging birds, my heart is lifted high... Rain — harbinger of spring — gift of the sky. The Young Child and His Books May C. Hammond Assistant Professor of Education, Brigham Young University There was a child went forth every day, And the first object he look'd upon, that object he became, And that object became part of him for the day or a certain part of the day, Or for many years or stretching cycles of years.... —From Leaves of Grass, by Walt Whitman ALT Whitman wrote these W words many years ago. Modern educators appreciate their significance perhaps more than did the generation who first heard them. Whitman, in_ this poem, enumerates the many things that become part of this child. He names the parents, the teachers, "all the changes of city and country." He does not specifically mention books, but no one familiar with the ways of a child with a book will doubt that books, also, become part of that child "who goes forth every day." Another poet, Dylan Thomas, made the statement that he was as much a part of the books he had read as of the food he had eaten. Next to people, books offer the most satisfactory companionship and, as do people, they undoubtedly do much to influence the lives of children. A home without books can, indeed, be a_ barren place. Books, in a home where there are children, should be considered as necessary as are the dishes on the table or the food in the refrigerator, and they should be taken as much for granted. The early experiences of children are adult controlled; their experiences with books depend almost entirely upon the parents, and chilPage 174 dren's attitudes toward books are usually the parents' attitudes. If we want children to be receptive and eager toward books, we must, ourselves, show that feeling. Clifton Fadiman, in a _ recent newspaper article, expressed his satisfaction that the good old custom of grandmother's day, that of families reading together in the home, is becoming popular again. He tells us that mothers, and even fathers, are setting aside a few minutes each day for family reading. Many parents have always recognized the value of reading to children; but the busy lives they and the children lead have often made this valuable home experience seem almost impossible. Young parents often ask, "When should one begin reading to a child, and how long should the reading continue?" Children as young as one year enjoy the rhythm and the sound of words as the mother reads to them. Mother Goose rhymes are excellent material for these first experiences. As soon as the baby can recognize familiar objects in pictures, he is ready for his first picture book. The Baby Book of the Little Golden series is an excellent first book. At two years, many children are THE YOUNG CHILD AND HIS BOOKS 175 Hal Rumel THE WONDER AND DELIGHT OF MOTHER'S READING The Cecil E. Lloyd family, left to right: Susan; Elizabeth; Luacine S$. Lloyd, the mother; Jennifer; Tracy, holding baby Margaret. Ready for simple picture books with some text. Marjorie Flack's Ask Mr. Bear is a good example. At three or four years, children enjoy being a member of a family reading group, if the age spread of the group is not more than three or four years. For young children the reading period should not be too long. Older children may enjoy a reading period as long as forty-five minutes. A parent should never read to children if he (or she) is "bored" with the reading. Children are very quick at catching the mood of the reader. An adult should be able to read a beautiful picture book to children with something of a child's wonder and delight. ARENTS may make a special occasion of bringing home a beautiful book. It may be a birthday or a Christmas present. It may even be a surprise "unbirthday" present. Three or four good books a year will soon build a library for a growing family. It is a mistake to 176 provide too many books for the young child. It is much better to have a few really good books which may be read over and over and looked at again and again. Children should grow up with books that are their own, and these books should be good books. Parents often say, "But good books are so expensive." This is true, but if parents can afford a doll or a toy truck at $9.95 and more, surely a good book, now and then, should not be considered an extravagance. For the parent who would like to build a home library but feels inadequate in choosing books, we offer a few suggestions. Choosing a book for a child should be a very special matter. We cannot generalize too specifically about age interests. Each child is an individual and should be treated as such. The quality of the book should be high, but being of high quality does not necessarily imply that it is a "classic." Perhaps it has not lived long enough. Being new or old makes no difference to children. Peter Rabbit, now nearly sixty years old, is still, for young children, as fresh as the dawn. In choosing a new book, however, one should be sure that glitter and sophistication do not take the place of the real and lasting qualities that distinguish fine books. Hans Christian Andersen's story of the jeweled bird and the little brown singer who was the real nightingale, should teach us that in choosing books, as in choosing other values in life, we must "lose not the nightingale." The child's first book is, of course, the picture book. When confronted with the hundreds of books in this category, in book stores, in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 drugstores, even in supermarkets, the average parent is often totally at sea. At this age, the child's taste in stories and in pictures is not very discriminatory. But this is the golden age for beginning to develop taste and, while some of the inexpensive little books usually brought home are illustrated by good artists, even in selecting these, a parent should have some standards of selection, if she is to avoid the trivial and the worthless. In the past few decades the picture book has come into its own. Many foremost artists and illustrators have turned their attention to ~ illustrating books for children. Such © well-known artists as Lynd Ward, Robert McCloskey, Louis Slobodkin, Ludwig Bemelmans, and many others are writing and illustrating — children's books. From these artists and others, then, we expect good art and we expect, also, qualities that have special appeal to children. Picture book must be judged from two aspects — the pictures and the text. Good pictures will often sell a book of poor quality, while a fine story may go unnoticed if it lacks appropriate illustrations. Certain qualities in the picture have proved universally popular. Children want an honest interpretation of the text. The technique used will vary according to the nature of the text. An honest interpretation does not imply that the picture must be realistic. The lovely pictures by Marcia Brown for Cinderella are not realistic, but neither is the story. The fairy-like quality of the pic tures is in perfect harmony with the story. THE YOUNG CHILD AND HIS BOOKS Children like the pictures to be closely synchronized with the text. Pictures are usually on one page, with the text on the opposite page. As the child hears the story of the old man's search for a cat in Wanda Gag's Millions of Cats, he delights in the rhythmic pictures that show exactly what is taking place as the story unfolds. Children like humor, but the humor must be on their level of understanding. A book often contains humor for adults as well as for children. Ferdinand, by Munro Leaf, is a good example. In reading the book'to children, the reader will note that children take, in all seriousness, many situations that adults find humorous. Children do not respond to satire or to the subtle situations that adults find so funny. Children want action. Just as they demand something doing all the time in the story, they also like pictures that show this life and action. The vigorous, swirling movement in the pictures, as Mary Ann goes to work in Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel, constitutes a great deal of this book's appeal. Children like a storytelling quality that enables them to read the book over and over through the pictures, after having once heard the story. In Angus and the Ducks by Marjorie Flack, the child is never in doubt as to the development of the story. 'The pictures tell it almost better than the words. Children like detail, but not so much detail that it becomes clutter. The pictures must be kept clear and simple with, perhaps, some little "Jovable" details that a child will want to examine again and again. 177 Of course, children delight in bright colors, but they will settle for black and white, if the other qualities are present. Millions of Cats needs no color to give it popularity. Make Way for Ducklings. Is very satisfactory, with its action and humor and its lovely brown tones. THE text is fully as important as the pictures and demands as careful evaluation. The plot is usually quite simple but, at the same time, it may involve such essential meanings of life as security, love, approval, and acceptance. The plot is written with drama, the words are expressive and are fraught with meaning. 'The story must sound well. It will be read over and over, and the words must produce a thythmic whole that matches the text. Reading should be effortless because the text moves smoothly. The development should be crystal clear with few sidetracks and no moralizing. 'The plot should be lively and full of action and, in place of moralizing, there is often that bit of "lighthearted wisdom" so beautifully exemplified in Peter Rabbit and in the more modern Finders Keepers. Children get the point without obvious moralizing. Children want, first of all, keen enjoyment in their stories. Generally speaking, the story should have a happy ending. But children must learn to cope with disappointments and unhappiness, so an occasional story with a little sadness children will take in their stride. "The Little Match Girl" and "The Steadfast Tin Soldier" are popular in spite of the sadness. When the sadness is so prolonged as to become 178 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 morbid, as in Oscar Wilde's beautiful that produce fears — mild shivers, story "The Happy Prince," we can perhaps, but not fears. Well decide to leave it for older chilPaul Engle expresses so beaudren and adults. Tifully, in this short poem about his One final word seems advisable. Own daughter, the way of a child Children should not have stories with a book. We share it with you. Books were the actual world she touched and knew Where trolls were real and friendly goblins hid Under the bed, and green dragons blew Smoke from their mouths and talked the way she did. Wolves between the covers of a book Wandered all day their safe, familiar land, Brown squirrels came down from colored trees and took Imaginary acorns from her hand. She became those books. She was the girl Locked in the high tower in the gray Scotch highlands. She was the fisher's wife with a crown of pearl. And when they told her of the shipwrecked man Named Crusoe, she became herself the island, The beach, the footprint where the stranger ran. —(Copyright 1945 by Paul Engle and reprinted from American Child, by Paul Engle, by permission of Random House, Inc.) BIBLIOGRAPHY Of Books for Young Children ANDERSEN, Hans CurisT1AN: The Steadfast Tin Soldier, ill. By Marcia Brown, Scribner, 6-10. The Emperor's New Clothes, ill. By Virginia Lee Burton, Houghton, 7-10. The Ugly Duckling, ill. By Johannes Larsen, Macmillan, 6-9. Arsutunot, May Hitz, compiler: Time for Fairy Tales, Scott, Foresman. Time for True Tales, Scott, Foresman. BANNERMAN, HELEN: Little Black Sambo, ill. By the author, Lippincott, 4-7. BemMELMans, Lupwic: Madeline, ill. By the author, Viking, 6-9. Madeline's Rescue, ill. By the author, Viking, 6-9. Brown, Marcarer Wise: The Runaway Bunny, ill. By Clement Hurd, Harper, 4-6. Burton, Vircinté Lee: Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel, ill by the author, Houghton, 5-8. The Little House, ill. By the author, Houghton, 5-8. Ets, Marie Haui: Play With Me, ill. By the author, Viking, 3-6.: Mr. Penny, ill. By the author, Viking, 6-8.: Nine Days to Christmas, ill. By the author, Viking, 9-12. Friacx, Marjorte:.... Ask Mr. Bear, ill. By the author. Macmillan, 3-7.; Angus and the Ducks, ill. By the author, Doubleday, 4-7. Wait for William, ill. By the author and R. A. Halberg, Houghton, 4-8.: The Story About Ping, ill. By Kurt Wiese, Viking, 5-8. Gac, Wanna: Millions of Cats, ill. By the author, Coward-McMann, 5-8. Tales from Gumm, trans. And ill. By Wanda Gag, Coward-McCann. Gramatky, Harpre: Little Toot, ill. By the author, Putnam, 5-7. Kietinc, Rupyarp: Just So Stories, ill. By Nicholas Mardvinoff, Garden City, 8-12. Lear, Munro: The Story of Ferdinand, ill. By Robert Lawson, Viking, 5-. Lipxinp, Wituiam: Finders Keepers, ill. By Nicholas Mordvinoff (Will and Nicholas), Harcourt, 4-7. McCtiosxkey, Rosert: Make Way for Ducklings, il. By the author, Viking, 4-8. One Morning in Maine, ill. By the author, Viking, 3-7. Time of Wonder, ill. By the author, Viking, 6-9. McDonatp, GoLpEN (pseud.): Little Lost Lamb, ill. By Leonard Weisgard, Doubleday, 4-8. Mining, A. A.: The World of Pooh, ill. By Ernest Shepherd, Dutton, 8-12. Potter, Beatrix: The Tale of Peter Rabbit, ill. By the author, Warne, 3-8. Rey, H. A.: Curious George, ill. By the author, Houghton, 4-8. Seuss, Dr. (THEoporE GetseL): The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins, ill. By the author, Vanguard, 5-10. On Beyond Zebra, ill. By the author, Random, 5-10. Upry, Janice May: A Tree Is Nice, Harper, 4-7. Warp, Lynp: The Biggest Bear, ill. By the author, Houghton, 5-8. To a Yellow Crocus Hazel Loomis You are heart and sound of gray larks, singing, Of melting snow, of freshets rushing by. Gone is a night of winter's dying embers; You are the sunburst in a leaden sky. You are hope — a gentle pathway turning — The first step — the faith that comes before; Gold cups that rise like gleeful children, Expectant, wait outside your door. My door is open wide with wonder — Do winter's scars need healing hands to save? Then, when I see the crocus blooming, I feel his sandal on the wave. THE YOUNG CHILD AND HIS BOOKS 179 Good Morning, Mrs. Romaie! Mabel Law Atkinson OOD morning, Mrs. Romaie, (> and the best to you! — Susan Romaie. Maurine, the second Mrs. Romaie, was straightening the bottom drawer of her husband's chiffonier to make room for his freshlv ironed shirts when she read this greeting on the back of the framed picture of his first wife she found beneath the odds and ends hastily stored away for further sorting. At the sight of the beautiful face, she was surprised to feel little twinges of jealousy gnawing within her, twinges she thought she had conquered entirely before her marriage. She stopped short and told herself sternly, "Maurine Romaie, you must eradicate these small jealousies. You knew Robert loved Susan when you marned him. That was one reason why you loved him, for deep in your soul you knew he would likewise love and cherish you. And you know the surest way to keep Robert close is to open your heart to Susan, as well as to her children, whom you love already. You cannot, being you, settle for anything less." After a few long moments Maurine had herself in hand and emerged from her struggle triumphantly, saying, "You are far too lovely, Susan, to be tucked away. Robert, bless him, must have put you in the drawer thinking I would rather not have you looking at us." She was smiling softly when a new thought paled her cheeks, "Suppose Robert, himself, did not Page 180 want to be comparing us!" It was only a small struggle this time, for with calmness in her voice, she said aloud, "You shall not be hidden away, Susan. What matter if you are more beautiful than I? What if you were Robert's first love? He has love enough for us both. He is still yours, Susan, but he is mine now, too." <A faint smile curved her lips as she continued, "Shall we call him ours?" The greeting lured her to a second reading and a third. Then she looked long and earnestly into the face of the first Mrs. Romaie. A beautiful and strong face it was. In it she read love and laughter, warm friendliness and understanding. 'To think Robert had chosen her after such a lovely wife had passed away a year before, leaving him with a four-year-old daughter and a threeyear-old son! "Good morning to you, Susan. I do so want to be friends. Help me, will you?" Susan's serene smile reassured her as she placed the picture on the dresser. "But why did you write such a greeting? It must be your writing, for it isn't Robert's, and it does have your name signed to it." That night, after the children were asleep, Maurine asked, "Robert, why did Susan say good morning to herself?" Robert's eyes had a startled expression, as he looked up from the book he was reading, "Did you say what I heard, Maurine?" "Yes, exactly what you heard. Do GOOD MORNING, MRS ROMAIE! You know why Susan said good morning and wished herself the best?" At his uncomprehending expression she arose and said, "Come, I'll show you. But tiptoe past the children's room." WHEN the two stood in front of the dresser, Maurine spoke, and the twinges of jealousy were but tiny electric rivers running up her spine, "She is beautiful, Robert, and so lovely. But tell me why she wrote as she did on the back of her picture." Robert turned the picture over and read the message. His eyes still retained their bewildered look as he answered, "That is Susan's writing. Strange I hadn't noticed it was there before. Guess I never looked at the back. And if Mrs. Moore, our housekeeper, ever did she said nothing. She seemed to think it best never to mention Susan. She never knew how I longed to talk about her. And she was not one to be a teller of tales outside the homes where she worked. I put the picture away the morning we were matried out of consideration for you." "Darling!" Maurine kissed _ his forehead, then spoke softly, her eyes glowing, "I think I know the reason. Perhaps it seemed a miracle to her, too, that you should choose her from all the women you knew. Perhaps she wrote what her heart was singing, that she was Mrs. Romaie. You see my heart sings the same way. It will always be a miracle, your choosing me to take her place beside you. Not her place, really, for always I want you to keep a special place in your heart just for her." 181 Robert kissed her gently. His voice held overtones of reverence as he spoke, "There is plenty of room left for you, my dear. I have watched you, Maurine, in these weeks since our marriage, watched your struggle to overcome yourself in truly taking Susan's place. I know it hasn't been easy, but you have managed it. Always you have been able to conquer your natural little jealousies or worries or imagined worries, and kept sweet and smiling. But don't try too hard, my dear, for I love you for your few frailties, if they can be called such. The children adore you. As I watch you caring for them tenderly, I choke up a bit. How did such a good thing happen to me, little Miracle Mother? That is the name I have chosen for you, darling." "How lovely, Robert!" Her eyes filled, "And I didn't know you had noticed. I thought I had concealed my little discouragements and let only my thankfulness for our martiage, our good marriage, shine through. For my own sake, for my own happiness, I must conquer myself and be the wife and mother I desire to be, and make Susan a part of her children's lives." "You are beautiful, Maurine, with your deep spirituality illuming your countenance. How blessed I am in having you! You give of yourself so freely. You seem to truly love little Mike and Francie." "They are yours, you know, yours and Susan's." Impulsively she turned to the picture and said, "I love your babies, Susan, and your Robert very, very much. You don't mind, do you?" 182 HE next night after Maurine had tucked the children in and was telling them a bedtime story, Francie's eyes sparkled and she exclaimed, "Why, there's Mommy!" "You mean Mother," Michael said gravely, indicating Maurine. "No, mean Mommy! There, on our dresser! Her picture! 'That is Mommy, Mike, but you don't remember her very well." She spoke soothingly to her little brother, then burst into tears, jumped out of bed, and ran to the dresser where she cried, "Oh, Mommy, I miss you!" Quietly, Maurine gathered her in her arms, and little Michael, too, and explained gently, "I put the picture on your dresser to make you happy and to keep you remembering your beautiful first mother. You will always remember her, Francie, and we must help Michael to know her. She is still loving you, even though she is with Heavenly Father. And she would want you to keep on loving her." Maurine rocked them until Michael fell asleep, then whispered to Francie, "We better put him in his little bed now." "Let me look once more at Mommy," Francie whispered, then said sleepily, "Mother, I'm glad you brought Mommy to our room. I won't feel alone now with her smiling at me. See, she's smiling at you, too. 'That means she likes you. I won't miss her too much any more. You are our mother now and I love? You. "I love you, too, Francie, very much. The picture can always be yours. I'm glad I have a little daughter and a son." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 A year sped swiftly, a year filled to the brim with joys and little sorrows; with laughter and a few tears; with welcoming a new little son and building a family held together by the cords of love and unselfishness. How precious to have three children and Robert to love! And Susan also! For through the trying hours, her sweet understanding face came more and more to give her healing; and her cheerful, "Good morning, Mrs. Romaie, and the best to you," often gave the lift she needed to go happily through the days that did not have enough hours to accomplish all the tasks to we deiite. "Francie is such a help, and little Mike, too," she said gently to Susan one day. "And I'm keeping them near to you. Francie is going to look like you, beautiful and gracious, and Mike is so like our Robert. And I hope you like my little Bobbie." There were tears in Maurine's eyes on the late August morning when she stood before Susan's picture, after finishing tidying up the room which belonged entirely to Francie now; tears bright as diamonds, as she said, "Susan, your little girl started school today. I wish you could have seen her with her hair in ringlets and her eyes shining. She loved her pretty new dress. I made her four new ones. You should have seen her eyes as she watched me sewing them. No, it wasn't too much extra work, for she took care of Bobbie like a regular little mother. "Shall I let you in on a secret, Susan? When Michael gets old enough, I shall make him four new shirts. His eyes were so wistfully expectant as he asked, "Mother, in GOOD MORNING, MRS ROMAIE! One more year will you make me four new, pretty dresses like Francie's to start school with?' that I smiled and answered, 'Yes, Michael, if you want me to then, I will." T was two years and another little son later when Maurine, after making Mike's bed, entered Francie's room to find the bed made and the room in perfect order. She looked earnestly in the face of Susan and said happily, "You are still very much a part of us. This morning as he left for his first day at school, Michael said, 'I wish Mommy could see me now. She would think I have a pretty new shirt.' No, Susan, I did not need to talk him out of having me make him new little dresses, for this summer he confided, 'I guess I'll have you make me four new shirts. Boys don't wear dresses." Such a charming little man he is, Susan! And baby Niel is adorable and has Robert's eyes and firm chin. Think of it, a daughter and three sons already! Was ever a woman so blessed!" Time ceaselessly rolled on, and the years wrought their miracles and brought their problems. There was the time Michael boasted to his two brothers that he was wearing a suit bought in a store, while theirs were homemade. Mother-wise, Maurine had let the matter drop when Niel had smiled angelically and answered, "But Mother made ours!" and soon the three were the best of pals again. 'The time Maurine found a sobbing Francie kissing her Mommy's picture and saying, "Mother is too busy to hold me on her lap and kiss me any more." Maurine had tiptoed away and solved her problem by giving in- 183 creased affection and _ attention. When Robert brought friends home to dinner and found the house untidy and the meal not prepared, she had despaired of ever measuring up to Susan's efficiency, but her husband's laughter and his help had taken the tragedy from the experience. His siege of pneumonia brought her near the breaking point, but it gave her a clearer perspective of how dear he was to her and his family. It was then that Susan's compassionate face had assured her all would be well and the love between them deepened. Maurine felt Susan's eyes had an added glow of understanding the morning she sat before her in Francie's room with her third child, a baby daughter, in her arms, and spoke reverently, "Oh, Susan, you should see her! How near to heaven she has brought us. Our Robert called me 'Little Miracle Mother' again after we returned home from Sunday School and fast meeting yesterday. I hope you know the joy we experienced. Why? Because in Priesthood meeting, Robert ordained Michael a deacon and he passed the sacrament in Sunday School and in sacrament meeting. (He has a new Scout uniform all ready and waiting. ) "And, Susan, Robert blessed our baby. We named her after you. You don't mind, do you?" HE baby was asleep in her arms, so Maurine laid her on Francie's bed, then again sat before Susan and mused thoughtfully: "She is a clean, sweet, and beautiful girl, Susan, your little Francie. Fourteen! Imagine! And bubbling over with joy and laughter and charm. She 184 was yours before she was mine, so help me keep her always as sweet as she is now." Susan's eyes and her smile seemed to say serenely, "And she was God's before she belonged to me. The three of us, along with Robert, should do all nght." Maurine picked up the portrait and dusted it with her apron. When a fleck or two of dust refused to yield, she slipped the picture from its frame to dust the inside of the glass. As she did so a letter dropped in her lap. "One of Robert's I imagine," she said as she picked it up. To her surprise it was addressed: To the Second Mrs. Romaie. She stared incredulously then spoke, "Why, the letter is for me!" Quickly she opened the envelope, removed the sheets and read rapidly, her eyes fairly racing over the words. Pale with emotion, she spoke in an awed whisper, "Susan, you wrote this ten years ago, less than a month before your death." Robert had told Maurine they had both known her days were numbered for almost a year before leukemia finally claimed her life. "How brave you were, Susan!" Maurine's voice was gentle, "And how unselfish! No wonder you seemed to leave the sweetness of your spirit here in this home." 'Tears of joy were flowing as Maurine reread the letter, slowly savoring every word: Te you, the second Mrs. Romaie, I am writing this. I leave in your keeping my greatest treasures, my husband and my children. They will love you. How do I know? Because my Robert will choose the best possible person to take my place in the home and be a mother RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 to our Francie and little Michael. And be assured he will love you. You will have a more difficult task than I have known, for you will have to weld two families into one. How I shall love you! If you should get discouraged, remember I, too, have known discouragement. Perhaps at times you will experience fleeting small jealousies because of me, as I did because of Robert's mother, wondering if I could ever measure up to her. But they will pass, for Robert's love is deep and tender and abiding. Now, dear future mother of this home, I say this to you in love and humility and gratitude: Here is my little Francie. Take her, mold the pliant clay of her soul into a lovely woman. Keep her as pure as the hlies in canyon streams and guide her into the temple, where she will be married to a man likewise pure. And here is little Michael. Tenderly lead him to see the beauties of creation. As he grows, teach him to know God and to love the gospel and all people. Finish the task I have begun. Robert will help you, and our Father will assist you both. My Robert I leave you also. Enjoy all of him, his deep voice, his laugh that is music; explore the depths of his soul and know the meaning of companionship. I bequeath these treasures to you; and someday may you and Robert, together, return to me with our children. May my greeting to you on the back of this picture help you to accept each day's challenge with a song in your heart. I have a picture of you in my mind. During the long months of knowing, I have created an image of you. Shall I tell you that you are beautiful, that the beauty of your soul shines through your features, and that I know you are lovely? Shall I tell you your name? I am very sure of it, for it is Mother. So good morning, Mrs. Romaie, and the best to you! — Susan. AURINE sat forgetful of time, letting her being fill with peace. Then she spoke softly and her words were like a prayer: "Dear, dear GOOD MORNING, MRS ROMAIE! Susan: Morning sings in my heart. I will continue to love and cherish our treasures... Our treasures.... And when the time comes, I hope to send back to you, a daughter, a mature woman innocent in wisdom; a son who is a man, clean and purposeful; and our Robert who will be the Robert you knew, only magnifed. "To think you thought of me, the second Mrs. Romaie, even before you left us! Thank you, Susan! Thank you!" She put the picture back in its frame and in its place on the dresser and the precious letter in her pocket to share with Robert later. "Nearly time to prepare lunch," she said softly as she looked at sleeping little Susie. "I'll lie down and rest just five minutes." 185 'HUSH, Daddy!" It was Francie who held her finger to her lips as her father came in at noon. "When I came from school, I found Mother and Susie asleep in my room. I'm getting lunch on for us. Mike, Bobbie, and little Niel will be coming soon." Robert kissed her tenderly as he said, "My little girl is growing into a beautiful and thoughtful young woman." Quietly he entered the bedroom and stood for a long moment looking down at the two loved sleepers. Gently he touched his small daughter's cheek and kissed Maurine lightly as he whispered, "Little Miracle Mother!" His Art Gladvs Hesser Burnham When I behold the sunset's flame Reflected in the lake's calm face, And know the hills' encircling arms Protect with strong embrace This tranquil scene, I feel the might Of loving thoughts around my heart, For God's great canvas spread for me Insures my knowledge of his art. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NATIONS" CLARA BARTON OF THE RED CROSS: It will be interesting to our readers to learn that we have seen and conversed with the world-famous Clara Barton, of the National and International Red Cross.... Miss Barton's health is much improved since last spring, when we visited her at her home in Glen Echo.... At that time she showed us all her jewels and badges of honor given by the great people of different countries, in recognition of her grand services in times of great distress and calamities.... Miss Barton is a quiet person, very unassuming, makes no pretentions to greatness or honor and is reluctant to admit that she has done anything worthy of such praise and commendation.... Her only object... Has been to help suffering humanity. —Editorial VISITS BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY: In the society official visits are made by at least two members of the General Board from time to time to conferences of the society in different localities, and uniform instruction is given, so that all may work in harmony... Each stake receiving at least one or two visits a year, even though the distance is great. During the year 1899 the branches of the society in England, Scotland and Wales were visited, and more recently the Scandinavian countries have been visited by sisters from Utah. Mrs. Lucy B. Young was appointed while residing temporarily in Germany to preside over the branches in that country and also in Switzerland. The branches in the Sandwich Islands are also presided over by a president from Utah. —Official Report WORK OF WOMEN It is a happy faculty Of women far and wide, To turn a cot or palace Into something else beside; Where brothers, sons and husbands With willing footsteps come, A place of rest where love abounds, A perfect kingdom — home. ALPINE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: The stake officers were all present and all the presidents of the wards.... President Standring welcomed the sisters and was pleased to see so many present. President Sarah Foutz reported Pleasant Grove Ward. The sisters are laying up wheat and relieving the poor... Were united in their labors. President Martha Woolley reported Linden. They are a small ward with sixty-one members.... President Isadora Beck reported Manila. They are all united and have good meetings. Visit the sick and help the poor. American Fork First Ward reported by President Orpha Robinson. They had bought five tons of coal for thespa@or.... Page 186 RS. MATTIE C, SANFORD, eighty-three years old and a member of the Emerson Ward Relief Society, Salt Lake City, won an award just before Christmas classifying her as the top international woman in stereo (three-dimensional) photography. Eight men have received the same award, presented through the Photographic Society of America, the largest photographic association in the world and international in scope. Mrs. Sanford is the association's official Utah representative and attends every national convention. She took up photography as a hobby when she retired from schoolteaching. She still tutors many pupils. OAN SUTHERLAND, | thirtyfive-year-old Australian soprano, made her debut at the Metropolitan Opera House, November 26, 1961, in Lucia di Lammermoor. Seats sold at $25 each. The entire audience rose and shouted acclaim in the most sensational debut in decades. Miss Sutherland made a record before Christmas, singing in The Messiah with the London Symphony and Chorus. "Her soaring soprano... Makes the rendition especially memorable," wrote one critic. Her very recent recording of Lucia has been called "the best ever made." Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon IRGINIA TANNER'S Children's Dance Theatre group, of Salt Lake City, Utah, which won national recognition last summer when appearing in Massachusetts and New York City, will dance in Seattle, Washington, next spring, in connection with its World Fair. The Dance League of the Seattle Symphony Orchestra made the contract with them. Miss Tanner has been asked to present at least one number which reflects some aspect of Mormon philosophy or history. RS. ANNE FREMANTLE is a British, Oxford-educated novelist, critic, and biographer. She now lives in the United States and is author of Desert Calling. Number of women on the international scene who are champions in various sports and are also noted for their beauty and their culture are: Francine Breaud, French ski champion; Khuko Inoue, Japanese champion horsewoman; Molly Wallace, red-ribbon Dublin horseshow winner; Gloria Barcenas, top golfer in Spain, where women have only recently been permitted to share the links; Countess Jacqueline de Fels, French shooting expert; Italian Princess, Doris Pignatelli, water skiing prize winner; Lori -Miller, of California, American skier. Page 187 C—> _ EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 49 MARCH 1962 "We Must Cherish One Another' This institution is a good one... We must cherish one another, watch over onc another, and gain instruction, that we may all sit down in Heaven together (Lucy Mack Smith). N the 24th of March in the year 1842, the mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith addressed the sisters present at the second meeting of Relief Society. 'The organization was one week old, but its purposes and prospects were already well advanced, and a realization of its sacred mission was apparent in the words and in the work of those sisters who had been blessed to begin the weaving of a long enduring and radiant tapestry. How well Mother Lucy Smith understood the basic purpose, when she said "that we may all sit down in Heaven together." 'The sisters seemed to know that Relief Society was no ordinary organization, for the Prophet had called them together "after a pattern of the Priesthood." Thus called, the members of the first Relief Society turned their busy hands to the nearest practical needs, and their hearts to the cherishing of one another. For centuries women had needed an organization whereby their yearnings for rendering service might be strengthened and multiplied by united effort. In the times of the former days upon the earth, there were many women, such as those spoken of in the First Epistle to Timothy, who "brought up children Page 188... Lodged strangers... Relieved the afflicted... Diligently followed every good work." 'There was the beloved Dorcas who lived in the city of Joppa and made clothing for the poor, a woman who was "full of good works and almsdeeds which she did"' In Rome there were Phebe and Priscilla who opened their homes to the meetings of the saints, and in Thyatira, there was Lydia, a seller of purple, "whose heart the Lord opened." These women were of the lineage of devotion which has _ characterized noble women of all ages. Rejoicing in their opportunities for service in the restored Church, the women of Kirtland and Far West and Nauvoo observed with diligence each opportunity to make an offering for the welfare of the Church. Some offerings were small — a pound of butter for the poor, a bushel of corn for the needy, red yarn for making mittens. Others opened their homes to orphaned children, to helpless ones among the aged, to converts without means. To those who longed for a wider field of service, for growth and development through association with their sisters, the organization of Relief Society on March 17, 1842, came as the fulfillment of a great desire — EDITORIAL — as the wide doors opened upon their future. Then a woman might say in full truth, "Now is my hand made strong and my arm extended." The prints of those footsteps along the streets of Nauvoo on that springtime day one hundred and twenty years ago have never ceased to set a pattern in the journey of women toward earthly fulfillment and eternal progress; those faces, glowing with purpose and promise, were so radiant that a lasting joy now shines upon the faces of thousands of Relief Society women in many lands. 'Those voices which sang "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning" were, in their intent and spirit, the lineal progenitors of voices raised by the Singing Mothers of these latter days. On that springtime day, in that distant year, the great river that flowed past Nauvoo 189 and surged in flood tide to the sea, was compared by the first President of Relief Society to the new organization of women. And now, one hundred and twenty years beyond that March day in Nauvoo, the world-wide sisterhood, the circle of charity and companionship, is known for good works in three hundred and fortyeight stakes of Zion — in more than three thousand wards — in hundreds of mission branches throughout the world. At this time and always, we remember that joy and service are one, that deep comfort and fulfillment come to us through following the words of the Savior which he spoke in Nazareth of Galilee: "He hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted... To set at liberty them that arc bruised" (Luke 4:8). —V. P.'G. —_> Christine H. Robinson Released From the General Board of Relief Society T is with a sense of loss that the General Board of Relief Society announces the release of Christine H. Robinson from the General Board as of January 31, 1962. This release was necessitated by her recent appointment by the First Presidency to serve as a member of the Adult Correlation Committee of the Church Co-ordinating Council. Sister Robinson was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society on May 26, 1948. At the time of this appointment she had had fifteen years of experience in Relief Society work in both ward and stake organizations, which, with her great leadership ability and creative talents have enabled her to give valuable service as a member of the General Board. Sister Robinson has given devoted service on many General Board committees, particularly to the theology, work meeting, convention, conference, and visiting teacher committees, and for the past six years she has written the visiting teacher messages. She wrote the home management discussions "The Art of Homemaking" for 1950-51. She also prepared the script for the visiting teacher film "Unto the Least of These." Her 190 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 humility, spirituality, creativity, and discriminating taste have been valuable in forwarding the work of the General Board among the Relief Societies throughout the world. Sister Robinson has also served as a representative of the General Board on many community-sponsored organizations. She is at present serving as an individual on the boards of the Community Service Council and the United Fund, and is first vice-president of Traveler's Aid. Although the loss of the work of Sister Robinson will be great, it is realized that her outstanding capabilities will be of enduring worth as she assumes the new calling on the Church Co-ordinating Council. The love and respect and best wishes of not only the members of the General Board but also the sisters throughout the Church are extended to Christine Hinckley Robinson as she leaves the Relief Society General Board for this new, important assignment. Notes TO THE FIELD Index for 1961 Relief Society Magazine Available OPIES of the 1961 index of The Relief Society Magazine are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. The price is twenty cents, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1961 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertisement on page 231.) The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.75, leather $4.20, including the index. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the.1961 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. THE RED CROSS — A UNIVERSAL SYMBOL Fred A. Bantz Volunteer National Co-Chairman for Members and Funds HE Red Cross is perhaps the most nearly universal of all lay symbols — the one most welcomed by and recognized by all mankind. In every section of the Nation, in every corner of the world, the Red Cross stands for neighborly help wherever there is human need. For United States servicemen, servicewomen, and their families, beset by problems resulting from separation, the Red Cross provides friendly counsel and guidance and, in emergencies, rapid communication and financial assistance. It performs these acts by direct mandate of its Congressional charter. For disaster sufferers, also by charter mandate, the Red Cross is the source of food, shelter, clothing, medical and nursing care, and help in returning to their pre-disaster way of life. For the ill and injured, the Red Cross collects more than 2,500,000 pints of blood a year; distributes most of it to hospitals, and uses the rest also for the benefit of mankind — by making blood products available to hospitals and health agencies, and for research into new uses of blood. To help keep Americans safe and healthy, the Red Cross provides safety and home nursing instruction. Last year it trained young people and adults who earned over 3,000,000 certificates by completing its courses in first aid, small craft, and water safety, care of the sick and injured, and mother and baby care. The Red Cross provides opportunities for young people in serving with adults in its programs, and thereby helps train the nation's youth for tomorrow's leadership. Some 2,000,000 volunteers of all ages participate in Red Cross services. By working with its sister societies in other lands, the American Red Cross helps meet human needs throughout the world. Support of the Red Cross, with money, volunteer service, and donations of blood, will give you a sense of participation in its great work. Po Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue The April 1962 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four outstanding short stories being presented. Look for these stories in April: "The Mischief Makers," by Dorothy Clapp Robinson "Timber," by Ilene H. Kingsbury "A Name Before the Lord," by Ellen Taylor Hazard "The Loving Faces," by Betty Lou Martin Page 191 So Great the Calling Betty Lou Martin 'THE old model sedan drove slowly down the gravel road. The tires made a crunching sound on the loose gravel. Eleanor Coleman was thoughtful as she maneuvered the car along, and the quiet beauty of the fall day did not even penetrate her thoughts. Why did they have to ask Chris? She thought. There are so many things that we need to do now, and besides our children are so young. Why, Jess is only ten, Sherri eight, Barbara five, and the twins two. Eleanor frowned. Chris is too young to be a bishop. He will just have to tell them no. She knew that Chris felt very humble at being asked to fulfill such a vital position in the Church, and that he fully realized the weight that would be put upon his shoulders. Chris had known from the beginning that Eleanor was against it, and that if he accepted the calling that it would be without her consent. Once again Eleanor reviewed her thoughts as she drove in front of their white frame house. It was a small house, with a white picket fence in front of it. The yard was neat, but Eleanor just hadn't found the time to plant the flowers that she wanted. The house itself would soon need another coat of paint, and they needed to add another bedroom. Chris was planning to do that himself in the spring. Eleanor sighed. It was difficult enough to get things accomplished without Chris taking on more responsibility. "Mother, Mother!" Barbara ran Page 192 with her arms outstretched toward her mother, "I didn't mean to." Eleanor knelt down beside the child. "Now wait just a minute. What's the matter here?" Eleanor wiped the child's tear-stained face. "Tl tell you what's the matter." Jess marched out of the house. "She picked up your rosebud vase and threw it, and she broke it all to pieces." "I didn't mean _ to, Barbara sobbed., Knowing her mischievous ten-yearold, Eleanor surmised that Jess had done something to provoke the incident. "'All right, Jess, I know that Barbara didn't break the vase just for the fun of it. What did you do to her?" After Eleanor had _ straightened the situation out between the children, she began preparing supper. Chris would be home early, and then he had to return to the store to do some extra work for his emMother," ployer, Mr. Harrington. Before Chris left the house that night he turned to Eleanor, "Eleanor, I've got to come to a decision about being bishop. You know how I feel about it, dear, but I don't want to do anything that will displease you. After all, I'll need your help and support very much in this calling. [ll have to rely upon you a great deal." Chris stopped speaking and looked at his pretty, darkhaired wife. "You know very well how I feel about it, Chris. I told you the other night. I think that you are too young. Later on, when we're older, SO GREAT THE CALLING I'd say fine, but nght now I just can't. 'There are so many things that we need for the children and the house needs fixing. I just can't see you tying yourself down at this time." Eleanor turned her back on Chris, and she heard him quietly close the front door. Eleanor scraped the supper dishes and put them in the sink, and then leaning upon the cupboard, she bent her head and sobbed. She didn't know why she felt so antagonistic toward Chris' becoming a bishop; she just did. They had worked so hard and tried to save as best they could, but it had been one thing after another. First Jess had to have his appendix removed; then Chris was injured on the job; Shertie had to have her tonsils out; and now this. Suddenly the whole ordeal seemed to close in upon her, and for the first time since she could remember, exhausted, she left the supper dishes in the sink, put the children to bed, and then retired herself. She knew that Chris would be disappointed that she hadn't waited up for him. HE next thing that Eleanor remembered, she heard Jess and Sherrie tip-toeing about the kitchen. "My goodness, what time is it?" she called as she hurriedly jumped out of bed. — "It's almost time to leave for school," Sherrie replied, unconcerned. "Daddy told us to be very quiet and not to wake you up." "Tm sorry, Mom," Jess added. "T didn't think that we were being too noisy. The twins are still asleep, and Barbara has had her breakfast. Daddy fixed our breakfast for us just before he left for work." 193 Eleanor looked about her. The dishes that she had left in the sink the night before had been done and carefully put away. She felt a tinge of guilt surge through her. She knew that Chris worked extra hard, too, and that at a time like this, she should not burden him with extra problems. It was very difficult to concentrate on her work that day. Barbara and the twins seemed to get on Eleanor's nerves; usually they didn't bother her at all even at their noisiest. Finally, in desperation, she reached for the telephone. "Hello, Mother, would you mind taking the children for a couple of hours? I have some things that I want to do, and I just can't see taking them with me." "Of course, dear,' was the warm reply. "I'm going to bake some cookies this afternoon, and the children can help me." "Oh, you don't know what you're in for, Mother," Eleanor commented, shaking her head. "Yes, I do, dear, and I think that I'm going to enjoy it." Eleanor's mother added, "Is something wrong, Eleanor? You don't seem to be yourself." "Nothing's wrong, Mother. It's just that I'm a little tired. We have been so busy lately." "Well, it will do you good to leave the children with me for a couple of hours. Twin boys are enough to make anyone tired." Eleanor spent the first hour looking at material for a new dress for each of the girls, and then she browsed around the dress shops looking at the new styles, knowing very well that she could not afford a new dress. Slowly the tension of 194 the past few days seemed to leave, and she began to feel more relaxed once again. She even enjoyed the brisk, fresh air of the golden fall day. N the way back to her mother's house, Eleanor decided to stop at the supermarket along the way. As she was wheeling her cart down the aisle, she saw Sister Carter walking toward her. "My, aren't these stores lovely, Eleanor? My goodness, we certainly have a variety of things to pick from nowadays." Sister Carter smiled. "I don't see you doing your shopping here very often." "No, I just don't have the time to drive clear over here too often, with the children and all that I have to do, Sister Carter." Eleanor paused. "How is everything with you and Brother Carter?" "Oh, just fine, dear. We both keep very busy, but happily so. Brother Carter does so enjoy his new position in the high council of the stake." Sister Carter went on talking. "I suppose now that Bishop Sloane is moving they will be reorganizing the ward." Eleanor panicked momentarily, and then gained her composure. "Yes, I guess that they will. I don't envy the bishop that they choose, however." "Why, my dear?" Sister Carter seemed surprised. "It's the most satisfying experience any person can ever ask for. My husband was bishop years ago when we were just rearing our family. I know that the Lord blessed us and helped us. I believe that we were more happy and contented at that period of our lives than we ever have been since. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 Even though our children were young, we all worked together and helped one another. We made a game of thinking of ways we could help Brother Carter out to make his position just a little lighter. The children did things in the home that ordinarily would have been left for their daddy to do, and together we all progressed and were rewarded greatly. I sometimes wish that we could go back to that time in our lives, but then there isn't any good in wishing for that. Time moves along too swiftly." Sister Carter seemed to be deep in her own thoughts. "I guess that you do get out of it just what you put into it," Eleanor said more for her own benefit than for Sister Carter's. "That's very true, Eleanor. When a bishop has good counselors and the members of a ward really get behind them and support them, there just isn't any limit to what they can do." Sister Carter glanced at her watch. "Oh, my goodness, I didn't realize what time it is. Brother Carter is sitting out in the car waiting for me. He will think that I got lost." Sister Carter called back to Eleanor, "It's been nice talking to you." "T've enjoyed talking to you, too, Sister Carter," Eleanor called to the lovely, soft-voiced lady. "Just how much you'll never truly realize," Eleanor added to herself. HE anguish of the past few days was forgotten, as Eleanor drove toward her mother's home to get her children. Now she felt that she could plan for their future. She knew how very much Chris would SO GREAT THE CALLING need her help to sustain him, and she promised herself then that she would do all that she could to be an asset to him. The children's constant chattering did not bother her at all that night as she prepared Chris' favorite dishes. She even found herself humming as she went about her tasks in the kitchen. "Mother," Barbara inquired, "how come we are going to eat in the dining room tonight?" Jess interrupted, "Yes, and how come we are going to use your best silverware and dishes?" "Yes, and we never use your best tablecloth except at Christmastime," Barbara added. "Something funny is going on around here." Eleanor couldn't help smiling. What an inquisitive lot of children she had. "It is a surprise for Daddy." "T don't care what the surprise is." Jess eyed the big chocolate cake on the table. "I just want a great big piece of this cake, after I have some fried chicken, that is." "That you shall have, my young man, if you will help Mother get the children ready for supper." Eleanor playfully ruffled Jess' hair. "Barbara, you can help me here in the kitchen, okay?" When dinner was ready, Eleanor put on a fresh print dress, combed her black hair, and lightly touched her lips with lipstick. She was excited and happy. Her cheeks had a rosy glow. That night when Chris entered his home, soft candlelight surrounded him, and soft music played in the background. 'In one fleeting glance he took in his surroundings, and then his eyes rested upon Eleanor. 195 "What's the occasion?" He couldn't hide the surprise upon his face. "Are we expecting company for supper?" Eleanor took her husband to one side, "Chris, I feel that I owe you an apology for acting the way that I have. I'm very pleased that the Lord wants you for his work. I know that I behaved very badly, and well — this is just my way of showing you how wrong I was." 'There were tears glistening in Eleanotr's eyes. Chnis put his arms about his wife. "Don't think I don't understand what you were going through. I just know that everything will turn out fine. I didn't want to turn down such a wonderful calling for your sake and the children's sake. I know that the Lord will guide us and bless us." "T know it, too, Chris," Eleanor said, squeezing her husband's hand. "With you by my side, Eleanor, I feel even more assured. I'm so thankful for you." Chris' expression showed his humility and love. Jess marched into the room, stood before his parents, and placed his hands upon his hips. "What we want to know is, what's the surprise for Daddy? No one seems to know around here." "Yes, they do, dear. Your father and I know, and someday soon we will tell you children." "Oh," Jess said, satisfied with his mother's answer. "Can't we eat now, Mom? 'That chocolate cake sure does look good, and I'm too hungry to care about anybody's surprise." Eleanor and Chris laughed as they clasped hands and together walked into the dining room to join their children at the table. About Grandmothers Linnie F. Robinson AST summer I was at a lovely garden party, and by the time the delicious food was all eaten and everyone had met everyone else and had chatted together, we were in a mood for music. The hostess asked her young daughter to play some records of familiar songs and lead the group in singing together. Accordingly, the daughter complied, but in the first song (which must have been her very first try out-of-doors), her voice sounded thin, as did the voices of the others, which were also a bit too far away for best results. She began to waver and looked rather uncertain about going on. 'The mother, who is not an accomplished singer herself, stood perfectly still and smilingly expected her daughter to hang on with her job; but the grandmother, with the priority of age, moved out of the crowd nearer to the grandchild's side and joined her own voice with the granddaughter's, as if it were something they did all the time. The granddaughter rallied immediately, and the singing went off famously. But at the end of the singing, I saw the granddaughter squeeze her grandmother's hand, and I saw the smile the granddaughter received — there was perfect understanding between them. I have another dear friend who has a number of granddaughters, small and large, each one distinctly different but equally lovely. I am often invited to her daughter's home with her when they are having guests. Always there is one who comes to my friend for love and Page 196 creeps into her arms. This one, just five, is an exquisite child, almost too beautiful, and very sensitive. On one occasion I heard her say to her grandmother, "Sometimes when Mommy is cross I love you best." And I heard my friend answer, "I know, dear, that is just the way I felt when I was about your age, but I think you are growing up beautifully, just like a little lady, and I think you do everything your mother wishes, and you get better every year. I can see that before long Mommy won't even need to get cross ever, will she, love?" She kissed the child's forehead, and the little one was healed of her wound whether real or imaginary, and because of the grandmother's words, she felt better towards herself and acted like a little lady all evening. As we were leaving I heard the child's mother say to my friend, "Haven't the children been sweet? Before you came I spoke sharply to Sistie — I was nervous — I wish I wouldn't. She is such a good little girl — as they all are." My friend said: "I think you surely do well, my dear. It looks as if you get closer to your children all the time. Remember to breathe a little prayer when you get nervous or worried, and you will see how calm you can remain." Another time, a petulant young teenager, wanting complete independence, told my friend that she could hardly stand to practice any more and was going to quit. Her grandmother said, "You know, my ABOUT GRANDMOTHERS dear, that is the way I felt when I was your age, and I began to have tantrums — something they say I had never had as a baby, and my mother let me quit. She simply said "Yes." You can't know the hundreds of times I have wished that she had somehow found a way to have kept me at it. At least that is how I have felt since I grew old enough to know that those things I was eager to do didn't really count at all. I have met many others who are bitter about things they quit that would mean so much in their homes today and in everyday life. I somehow hope you will be able to see better than I could at your age. I have been so proud of you." ATER on that day, the teenager's mother asked her to help accompany a distinguished and beautiful singer who was there and had agreed to sing. The daughter picked up her violin and played almost professionally well, and with such feeling for the singer's every variation that she said she wished she had her two accompanists to take with her everywhere she went. I saw the teenage girl flush with pride and look at her grandmother. I think the girl saw for the first time the pleasure in her mother's and grandmother's faces. And then I thought of my own grandmother, the one who lived up through the orchard from us, if you took the short cut, which I always did. I never knew, I ran so fast, if my feet touched the ground or not. I marvel as I look back on those days that she was never cross with me. And then I always ran so fast and fell pell-mell against her door 197 — I marvel that she always opened it so quickly. I was so welcome at her home. I never thought to question that. I never thought about the fact that she was such a little grandmother, and her great front door was heavy to swing, or that there were times when she must have been busy or very tired. It amazes me, too, that she never hurried me home. During school days it was quite late when I got there, and sometimes my parents were too busy to notice I was missing, but grandmother never sent me home until I wanted to go or my parents called my name. Grandmother visited with me. It is queer how she always had a book ready for me to read. She used to make some remark about the very kernel of the book, and then ruminate about some question half to herself and half to me, and I would be off to explore it myself. It was odd that she always had gingerbread cookies on hand, since she did not eat things like that, at all. And strange that she had time to teach me, in the summer, all there was to know about her beautiful flower garden. I remember kneeling with her to plant some bulbs among the showers of bleeding hearts — I remember the dampness and the coolness of junipers with violets at their feet, and the hummingbird that nested in that garden. Strange that grandmother knew about teenage problems, although no one called them so then, and she knew how to banish them, too. What would a child do without a grandmother? Do You Want to Increase Relief Society Attendance? Phoenix Stake, Capitol Ward Children Lead the Way With Volunteer Teachers Margaret Fitzpatrick ARKING the completion of its first year, Phoenix Stake, Capito] Ward Junior Relief Society is "an unequivocal success," according to Relief Society President Alice Rhotan, and co-ordinator Margaret Fitzpatrick. "The children get their mothers out of bed in the wee hours of Relief Society day so that they won't miss their own classes!" And, if for some reason, a mother is unable to make it, the matter becomes a pint-sized tragedy, with the youngsters assuring their teacher on the next occasion, "It wasn't my fault — I really wanted to come." The Relief Society nursery is a program to insure that preschool children of Relief Society mothers have a planned program of their own, instead of merely being attended by baby sitters. 'The nursery became a reality in Capitol Ward last September. Mothers were asked to volunteer to teach this class, each for a fourweek period. In the beginning the activities included an opening prayer, a hymn, a fun song, a flannel board story, finger plays, a snack, participation in a handicraft, a nap, marching to and playing in a rhythm band, a read-aloud story, and a closing prayer. Later, this program was to broaden to include science, social Page 198 science, and art, as well as storytime, thythm, and more varied handicraft. Almost immediately the rowdiness typical of "nursery time" disappeared. With an organized teacher in charge, prepared and well supplied with materials, the youngsters settled down to being constructive and creative, and thoroughly to enjoy themselves. They were no longer helpless children dragged away from mother and deposited willy-nilly in a nursery to cry and fret. Indeed, they have become junior members of a real organization who are proud of their membership, and, reversing the usual order, insist on bringing mother to Relief Society, with prodding remarks, such as, "Aren't you ready yen Success of the program in Capitol Ward can be attributed to the wholehearted moral and financial support given it by Relief Society. The first thing the Relief Society did was to organize a birthday present party which resulted in a new record player, records, children's books, coloring books, crayons, paste, paper and scissors, and play dough. But that was only the beginning. Not having to pay a baby sitter, Capitol Ward diverted such: monies towards additional weekly supplies, including such things as flour, salt, butter, eggs, popcorn, food coloring, and contact paper, as well as basic brushes, construction paper, corks, and pipe cleaners. ANOTHER important factor was the contribution by mothers of materials ordinarily discarded: spools, cartons, felt, nylon stockings, odds and ends of fabrics, pie tins, walnut shells, buttons, bits of yarn, feathers, all kinds of small boxes, ribbons, toothpicks, fancy paper, cards, and wooden ice cream spoons. "In fact," says Sister Rhotan, "no Relief Society child would allow his or her mother to throw anything away." All things, no matter how insignificant, had a use, the children knew. Egg cartons and toothpicks could be transformed into caterpillars to be painted with tongue-between-teeth concentration. Salt boxes and construction paper became totem poles, windmills, and lighthouses. Bags became — with a snip or two — crowns, helmets, caps, guided missiles. Milk cartons could be made into flower baskets and ship bases. Walnut shells, with a snip of tissue paper for sails, could be used for skimming water in pails, and, with a bit of felt, could be changed into turtles. Soon the Relief Society nursery was functioning as a kindergarten education. Class time was divided into six separate activity periods: storytime, science, social science, art, thythm, and handicraft, and included opening and closing prayer — plus a snack. Each period was sandwiched between brief physical action games. Within this framework, the teacher used the flannel board, blackboard, pad sketches, and puppets in dramatizing kindergarten level, as well as Bible and Book of Mormon stories. In science, for example, the nursery not only dealt with the story of weather and missile projection, but when it came to current events and interplanetary exploration, they did it in this fashion, the teacher had the children put self-made helmets over their heads and balloon projected paper missiles in their hands, and then took them on an imaginary journey to several other worlds in the galaxy. Social science pivoted about home and community life, and the activities ranged from group baking, corn popping, clay making, to group project painting and story dramatization. In art, the children potato and stick printed and brush painted. This coming year, finger painting and spatter painting will be added. Handicraft included clay modeling, pipe cleaner projects, standups, button people, paper dolls, boats, peg art, three-dimensional paper work, as well as hand puppets, flowers, parachutes and cork, spool, and felt toys, Indian headdresses, helmets, flower baskets, zoo cages, pin wheels, and many other articles. FoR thythm activities, the record player was a boon and was used, along with the rhythm band, for coordination games and folk dancing. Capitol Ward found that the volunteer system worked admirably, each teacher preparing and carrying out a full program. However, when DO YOU WANT TO INCREASE RELIEF SOCIETY ATTENDANCE? 199 200 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 PHOENIX STAKE, CAPITOL WARD RELIEF SOCIETY NURSERY Left to right: Shelley Russell; Barbara Archer; Julie Whitefield; Joe Marshall; Celeste Fitzpatrick; nursery leader Anne Wilson; Darrell Shumway; David Wolfe; Melodee Parker; Kevin Shumway. One mother volunteered on a fulltime basis, it was found the children gained in a sense of security and permanency. In this case, it was Sister Anne Wilson who spoke about the difference between the time before and after the planned nursery. "Like all mothers, I have been called on occasionally to baby sit in various wards and, like most mothers, have come out of these sessions exhausted, frustrated, distressed by a sense of inadequacy. In spite of improvised programs, including manual skills such as dancing, skipping, even simple acrobatics, storytelling, game playing, and singing, again, like most mothers, I found the children almost uncontrollable, some dreading the time, others being resentful and coming to the nursery to let the steam out of their systems, wornout and miserable. "But now these youngsters look forward to Relief Society day, and feel a love for the organization and respect for the very room they work in. From here, surely will come future dedicated Relief Society members and interested husbands." The success of the nursery is due primarily to two factors: First the willingness of Relief Society to supply the necessary materials and to give financial support. Without this, it would have been hard to have anything but a primitive program. And second, the enthusiasm generated by the Relief Society president and co-ordinator and their wholehearted moral support. All the things that appeared as if by magic, and that seemed to happen so effortlessly, were the result of their combined labors — the arrival of supplies, the actual buying of needed items, the regularly anticipated snack. President Rhotan assisted and upheld the program, always making sure that the necessary speaking time was allotted our liaison officer. "That's how I always thought of Sister Fitzpatrick," President Rhotan said. "It was she who gave the enthusiastic talks that spurred the sisters to bring supplies, and the children love her as the good provider, for it was she who scurried back and forth each week with the good things of life — punch and cookies. 'That was a high spot in the day's activities and cannot be minimized. The Relief Society even saw to it that there were second helpings." And those weekly supplies! The cellophane paper, the glue, the balloons and contact paper, the flour, the fish sinkers, whatever we asked for, it was Sister Rhotan who went shopping for us and saw to it that it was delivered in time to be ready for classwork. What do the children themselves say about the Relief Society nursery? "It's more fun than anything else! Here you get to do things." And the mothers? They couldn't wish a better thing for every other ward. Ownership Claim Maude Rubin This place was mine—I bought it, held the deed To house and lot, to willow tree and roses... But all the legal steps have still not freed The title clearly, for there's one who poses, Slim and business-like upon the roof— Who struts in confidence that he's the owner; Although he holds no papers, vocal proof Asserts possessor's rights; claims mine the honor To live here on his bounty. Through white nights, His argument sings on... Through sun-warm hours. I listen—then break down and grant his rights Of ownership: the house, the trees, the flowers Belong to Mr. Mockingbird. My votes Deed him the place—he pays in golden notes! DO YOU WANT TO INCREASE RELIEF SOCIETY ATTENDANCE? 201 Another Spring Annie Atkin Tanner Oh, winds of March, Sweep from the corners of the wall, The withered, brown-dry leaves, The faded flowers of the autumn days; Take from our minds The little fears that mar our days And dim the splendor. Of the stars. Let wind-swept night,. _ The newly furrowed fields, the gray-white birds, Free us from useless doubts - And every: petty thing. May we find a yellow crocus Under winter weeds, ~ And know again there is another-spring. Page 202 H. Armstrong Roberts NG ANOTHER SPRI Page 203 Beverages Before a Dinner Winnifred C. Jardine ¢é HAT shall we serve as a beverage or an appetizer before dinner?" is a question sincerely asked by Latter-day Saint women whenever they are entertaining. There are a multitude of answers. Some of them are found in the following recipes. Remember that beverages and appetizers served before a meal should be light enough and sparing enough to "pique'"' the appetite rather than to satisfy it. And the flavor should contrast with other flavors of the meal. This is what makes an "appetizer." CRANBERRY E. GGNOG 2 eggs % c. Lemon juice* % c. Sugar 1% c¢. Orange juice™ 8 Juice" % tsp. Salt 2 c. Cranberry juice (*In all recipes calling for lemon and orange juice, reconstituted frozen or canned orange juice and frozen or canned lemon juice may be used, as well as the freshly reamed juice. ) Beat eggs until thick; add sugar and salt. Blend in fruit juices and pour over cracked ice in glasses. Makes five 8-oz. Glasses. Hor Sricep Fruit Puncu 2% c. Sugar 1 whole piece ginger root 4 c. Water 4 ¢. Orange juice 2 full-size sticks cinnamon 2 c. Lemon juice 8 allspice berries 2 qts. Apple cider 10 cloves Combine sugar and water; boil for 5 minutes. Remove from heat and add spices. Cover and allow to stand in warm place for 1 hour. Strain. Just before scrving, add juices and cider and bring quickly to boiling point. Remove from heat and serve at once. Makes 25 servings. Party Pinx Drink 4 c. Rhubarb, cut up (1% Ibs.) 2 ¢. Sugar 2 c. Water ginger ale Cut rhubarb in 1-inch pieces. Combine sugar and water, add rhubarb, and simmer until tender. Strain (saving rhubarb pieces for pie or cobbler). Freeze juice. To serve, spoon frozen rhubarb juice that has been softened to mush into glasses and fill with ginger ale. Makes about 6 cups. Page 204 BEVERAGES BEFORE A DINNER 205 Banana Crusu 4 Cc. Sugar 5 crushed bananas 6 c. Water 4 ¢. Pineapple juice 2% ¢. Orange juice ginger ale or substitute % ¢. Lemon juice Make syrup of water and sugar by heating until sugar is dissolved. Combine with remaining ingredients and freeze. Fill glasses half full of banana freeze, softened to mush. Fill glasses full with sparkling water, ginger ale, or other colorless soft drinks. Makes enough to serve about 35 people. If desired, color fruit slush and serve with mint as a garnish. MuLtep Apricot NECTAR 6 c. Apricot nectar 2 whole sticks cinnamon (or a 46-0z. Can) 15 whole cloves % lemon, sliced 8 allspice berries Combine all ingredients in heavy saucepan and bring to boiling point. Simmer gently 5 minutes. Remove from heat, cover, and allow to stand 30 minutes. Strain. If desired, sweeten to taste. Heat before serving. Makes about 5 cups. RASPBERRY FLOAT 3 3-0z. Packages raspberry- % c. Lime juice flavored gelatin 2% c. Orange juice 4 c. Boiling water 1% c. Lemon juice 1% ¢. Sugar 1 qt. Ginger ale 4 c. Cold water 2 10-0z. Packages frozen raspberries Dissolve gelatin in boiling water; add sugar, cold water, and juices; cool, but do not chill or gelatin will congeal. (If it does congeal, heat just enough to liquify.) When time to serve, pour punch into punch bowl. Add ginger ale and frozen raspberries. Stir until raspberries break apart and are partially thawed. Makes about 4 quarts. GraPE COOLER 2 6-0z. Cans frozen lemonade concentrate 2 qts. Grape juice Dilute lemonade only half as much as directed on can. Pour into ice trays and freeze. To serve, spoon frozen lemonade, softened to a mush, into glasses and fill with grape juice. Makes about 16 servings. Tomato Juice CockTAIL 2 ¢. Tomato juice 2 tsp. Finely minced onion 2 tsp. Vinegar 2 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 tbsp. Sugar % c. Diced celery %, bay leaf 206 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 Mix ingredients. Let stand in refrigerator 30 minutes; strain. Serve cold. For variation, juice may be frozen to a mush and served in sherbet glasses. Makes 5 to 6 servings. Tancy TOMATO JUICE VARIATIONS 1. To each cup of tomato juice add % teaspoon of anchovy paste and a little lemon juice, salt and pepper to taste. Mix paste with a little juice first, to thin it, before mixing with entire amount. 2. Combine equal portions of tomato juice and canned bouillon; heat. 3. Combine equal parts tomato juice and sauerkraut juice; add Worcestershire sauce to taste. Chill. 4. Combine equal parts tomato juice and clam juice; season with minced onion, salt and pepper. Bits of Odds and Ends Janet W. Breeze al One knitting needle. Prevent your precious tools. Make double rows such an occurrence by literally filing of slits im a 9" x 12" manila folder. Insert needles and mark size number. Store crochet hooks the same way on a file card. YP Fold a piece of paper as you would to make a fan and use it for a holder when } lining up those broken beads to string.. Slip a pillowcase over the leaf of your ' sewing machine to prevent soiling and - slipping of fine materials. For that runaway ball of string, cut a piece of cardboard to fit inside a pint jar lid. Put the string in the jar and extend the end through a hole in lid. The same can be done with crochet cotton or knitFILE FOR NEEDLES ting yarn if it's a small enough ball. The Lamplighters Alice Gubler T is twilight and the hungry baseball players are straggling home to their evening meal. They had such fun today. There are always all sizes and all ages of home folks out there playing. It doesn't make any difference who comes to play in our friendly little town. I like to sit here on my front porch because it is in the very center of things, where I can actually listen to the heartbeat of my home town. Tonight I can hear Wickley's cows mooing in the pasture. A cricket chirps in the elderberry bushes, and there is the twittering of sleepy birds in the honey locust tree. Little girls are laughing and flitting like butterflies on Ed Gubler's lawn, and I can hear a dog barking somewhere along the canal bank. Dennis Church is trudging by with his milk bucket. Above the hill, a lone star appears — the first star out tonight. Twilight deepens and lights come on in the houses along the hillside. I wonder what it was like when the first lamps were lighted in this little valley? Fancy takes me back, and I see the rabbit brush and the greasewood growing all around me. I can see my own dear mother-in-law polishing her lamp chimney and _ trimming the wick to light her lamp. Susanna Gubler — the first woman to make a permanent home here in La Verkin. I wonder how she felt. It must have been lonely, but still she was so anxious to move into her own little rock house that she hitched up the team and loaded her belongings into the wagon all by herself, even to her Home Comfort stove. No one knows really how she did it. It took two men to unload it. A few months later another lamp was lighted in La Verkin, when Aunt Mae Gubler came here to stay. There were others who played a vital part in this drama, who have gone on, leaving their rich heritage and hallowed memories. As I sit here musing, my heart plays strange tricks — I see the beloved faces of those who were here. I pull myself back in my reminiscing and turn my thoughts to those early pioneers who are still living with us today. After Aunt Mae, came Allen Stout's family in 1902, bringing their daughter Gretchen, who is now lovingly known as Sister Stratton. In the spring of 1903, Thomas Judd, the founder of La Verkin, brought his family here to live. Still with us is his daughter Kate 'Thompsen who has been a vital part of our town ever since. 'That same year William Sanders brought his wife Sarah Amelia. She was expecting a baby when she came. It was that fall that the first child was born in La Verkin — a little girl, Rosalba, to Susanna Gubler. Six days later, Amelia Sanders bore a son, Moroni. Two new little babies born in the wilderness as it were. As I sit here on my porch musing, I hear water running in at the head of my garden. It has a merry, laughing sound. Water? What Page 207 208 did they do for water with which to bathe those new little babies when Rosalba and Moroni were born? They must have dipped it up from the ditch and settled it. My goodness! And the doctor! I know they didn't phone him — and he didn't rush to their aid in his car, not then, and there was no convenience of a hospital delivery room. I know the answer to that one. Aunt Mae earned the right to be everybody's Aunt Mae, for she was the doctor and the nurse, while this little town was coming into existence. Women had to help each other then. [N the early spring of 1905 Arthur Woodbury folded his tent at Photograph by Car] Laird RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 Shem and brought his wife Harriet and his small children to La Verkin. They say the tent was large, and when it was pitched and boarded up, it became the scene of many happy parties. I know how good those parties must have been. When Aunt Hattie set her mind to any social affair, it had to be good. From the deep south came the Segler family to join the saints in La Verkin in 1907. With travel so slow, and roads so dusty and rough, I often wonder how Hardy and Jim ever found LaVina and Myrtle. Hardy must have had to go out and around by Short Creek to Mt. Carmel, and Jim's wagon had to creak over the Black Ridge. Courting PIONEER HOME IN LA VERKIN, UTAH Once occupied by the Ben DeMille family. THE LAMPLIGHTERS Se cocraph = G arl Laird HOME OF WILFORD AND KATE THOMPSEN IN LA VERKIN, UTAH This is the only pioneer home in La Verkin which is still occupied. Would have been pretty serious business in those days. But they found their brides and brought them here to help pioneer our little town. So here they are — our pioneer women who are still living among us today: Susanna Gubler, Aunt Mae Gubler, Amelia Sanders, Gretchen Stratton, Harriet Woodbury, Kate Thompsen, Myrtle Segler, and LaVina Segler. These are the people who lit their lamps in our valley years ago and helped push back the desert. They are the women behind the men who brought the river through the tunnel, coursing like lifeblood through an artery, to nourish the orchards and vineyards. 'They are the women who filled the corn shuck and straw ticks that their men might rest come night, and sewed rag rugs to brighten their homes; who bent over the old washboard with aching backs. They are the women who were sustained as auxiliary heads and officers and teachers, shouldering as high as five offices for one person at a time, so that their children might be taught the gospel. They sat in worship in the old bowery, until the little rock schoolhouse came into being. As I sit here reminiscing, I see the new wing of our church house take the form of that little rock building. It was there that the first little girl and the first little boy learned to 210 read and to write. It was there they learned to love music, drama, and dancing. HE sons of the women who lit the first lamps in our valley have gone out to be leaders over the face of this land. Among them are doctors of science, medicine, language, dentists, professors, bakers, star athletes, farmers, engineers, missionaries, bishops, stake clerks, Sunday School — superintendents, music directors, and merchants; and their daughters are following their footsteps in leadership. They are the loving wives who light their homes for their men coming home when the sun has gone to rest. Also among them are teachers and skilled career women, too. This little town is deeply rooted in the love of those who pioneered it. Shoulder to shoulder, they RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 toiled, establishing a bond between them that has never been broken. That is why people say "Those La Verkin people are like one big family." We sit together on summer evenings on the church patio for entertainments. Our women cook food for ward dinners and their families come out and eat together. A breeze rustles the bamboo canes by my house. 'There are myriads of crickets chirping at the stars. 'This is my home town, where there is music, and laughter, and love. From all the windows across town shine the lights of these gentle people. I breathe a silent prayer of thanksgiving for those first lamplighters in our valley, for they have surely fulfilled holy writ which says: "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven" (Mt. 5:16). View From the Pass Martha Tucker Fugate The foothills step up to the heights In shaded velvet folds, And who can guess what green delights Each hidden valley holds? Stuffed Toys Are Delightful Shirley Thulin GTUFFED toys make delightful and much appreciated gifts for children's birthdays, special occasions, and always for Christmas. These cuddly toys make perfect gifts for children who are ill, and grandmothers will find that stuffed toys will please the children when they come to visit. Relief Society women make stuffed toys for bazaars and find that they are best selling items. Dolls First, let's make the most lovable, the rag doll. You can find patterns for all kinds of dolls in the pattern books at your local yardage counters, so let's take a look at the general directions for making rag dolls. The best material to use in making rag dolls is unbleached muslin, or, to make a beautiful doll with a hint of a blush, use pale pink Indian head, or a used piece of pink sheet. Figure 1 THE DOLL'S HAIR Made of rug yarn and stitched into the seam on the top of the doll's head. The hair for your doll, as with the hair on your little girl, is the crowning glory, so here are some tips. Use rug yarn, and stitch the pieces of yarn right in with the seam on the top of the head of the doll. You may stitch the strands of yarn on the head after it is stuffed, or you may want to make the hair out of an old black stocking. 'This is done by making a long skull cap from the stocking, attaching the top of it to the top of the doll's head, and then cutting fringe all around. Cut the front shorter, making bangs (Figure 1). If you are going to paint the face on, do it before stitching the head together. But, if you want to make the eyes of buttons, and the ears, mouth, and nose embroidered, you can do it after the doll is stuffed. Try making a funny face, using felt pieces, for a change (Figure 2). Children love to see a comical face. Figure 2 THE DOLL'S FACE The features may be painted or embroidered. Be sure to sew the doll together with good strong thread and with tiny stitches. Use quilting thread. Clip the corners and the round parts every little way, so they will be the right shape and not bind or pull when you turn it right side out (Figure 3). The best stuffing to use for all stuffed toys is the orlon from a quilt batting. You also can use old nylon stockings. Make the doll's clothing removable, and make several changes for her so your child will get the most pleasure from her doll. Page 211 212 ST a Figure 3 SEWING THE DOLL TOGETHER Use quilting thread. Clip the round parts of the corners so that they will be the right shape and not bind or pull. Figure 4 A HANDSOME DUCK The duck's body is made from a man's work sock. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 How to Make a Duck Now let's make a handsome duck (Figure 4). His head and body are made from the top of a man's sock. After stuffing the duck, tie a string about a third of the way down to divide the head section from the body (Figure 5). His perky cap is made from two pieces of bright striped cotton or denim (Figure 6). Just stitch all around, leaving a little place to turn and stuff. Sew to his head. Stitch a little pompon atop his stuffed cap. Make the pompon by winding some yarn around two fingers about twelve times, then tie in the center and fluff into a ball-shaped pompon. 'Trim and _ stitch tightly to the top of the cap. The bill is made by sewing two half circles of yellow felt together, leaving an opening to turn at flat place (Figure 7). Make two of these. Stuff them and stitch them to the face. Make his tail the same as his bill only not as long and make his wings the same, only larger. His webbed feet are cut from felt scraps, too. Cut them in shapes as shown in Figure 8. Now, make big soulful looking eyes of blue felt and stitch in place, and sew a row of colorful small buttons down his Figure 5 MAKING THE BODY OF THE DUCK Sew across the bottom. Stuff the body and stitch the top together. Tie a string one-third of the way down to divide the head section from the body. STUFFED TOYS ARE DELIGHTFUL Figure 6 MAKING THE CAP The cap is two oval picces of material stitched together and turned. CJ Figure 7 THE DUCK'S BILL Cut four duplicate pieces of this pattern. Sew two pieces together for the top of the beak and two together for the bottom. Figure 8 THE DUCK'S WEBBED FEET Cut four pieces of this pattern, and make each foot double. We OR Ke Ok front. He is now ready to become a popular gift. A variety of cute animals can be made from this same basic pattern. Just gather felt, colorful bits of material, buttons, and whatever your imagination dictates, then start stitching. The pointers to keep in mind are few. Keep the clothes for stuffed toys colorful and the facial expressions interesting. Do this by making the eyes big and the mouths turned up in smiles. 213 Figure 9 A SITTING SANTA CLAUS Made from a child's red cotton stocking. How to Make a Santa Claus Next is an ideal Christmas gift or table decoration. This attractive sitting Santa is fashioned easily by any home sewer from a child's red cotton stocking (Figure 9g). White orlon yarn makes the hair and beard of this cotton stuffed cutie. You will also need one red cotton sock with the turned down cuff (not the kind with the elastic top). A a= -Yn—— [> cy, '— Vs? Figure 10 MAKING THE SANTA CLAUS Mark the leg of the stocking into half and quarters, and the foot of the stocking into thirds. Small figure at right represents the toe of the stocking. 214 Scraps of black oilcloth are used for his belt and leggings. You will need 3 white sequins and 4 tiny gold-colored beads. Fight black beads are needed to march down Santa's coat. You will also need some orlon white yarn or White cotton for the hair and beard. 1. Fold and mark the foot of the stocking into thirds and the leg into half and quarters, then cut off the toe on the line of the first third. Cut this in half lengthwise. Cut foot on top and bottom folds, a trifle beyond the second mark. Turn inside out (Figure 10). 2. Fold cut edges together to form legs; stitch around crotch, rounding at ends for feet. Stitch toe sections for arms. 'Turn all sections right side out (Figure 11). Figure 11 MAKING THE ARMS AND LEGS FOR THE SANTA CLAUS The toe sections of the stocking are made into arms for Santa Claus, as shown in the small drawing at the right. 3. Stuff legs and body up to half mark. Using thread doubled, tie securely at half mark to form neck. Stuff and tie on quarter mark for the head, winding thread tightly up about one-third the distance to sock top (Figure 12). Knead into sitting position with sock heel as seat of pants. 4. Stuff arms (sock toes) and_ turn. Draw up open ends. Sew firmly to body. 5. For hands and feet, wind yarn tightly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-MARCH 1962 Figure 12 STUFFING THE BODY OF THE SANTA CLAUS The neck is made by winding thread tightly at half mark of sock, and the top of the head is made by winding thread one third the distance to the sock top. Several times around the ends of the arms and legs. 6. For base of beard and hair, make a circle of small running stitches with the yarn on front of the head in the proper place for the face (sort of an outline around the face). Work from the outline to the edge of the head thick loops of yarn, making a single, short, tight stitch after each loop (Figure 13). Cut the loops, trimming shorter on the top for hair and flaring at the sides to full length at the bottom for the beard. Fluff out. Figure 13 MAKING THE BEARD AND HAIR Thick loops of yarn are stitched close together. STUFFED TOYS ARE DELIGHTFUL If you use cotton, just stitch where needed to the head. 7. Sew on white sequins with a bead at center for the eyes and one bead for a nose. Embroider the mouth. Embroider down the front and across the bottom of the jacket in outline stitch with yarn. 8. Turn the top of the sock down, making tapered pleat at the back to fit 215 the head and form a pointed cap. Tack invisibly. Make a pompon and stitch to top of hat. G. Cut oilcloth belt and leggings. 'Tack the belt in the back; lap, and fasten in front with gold sequin and bead. Lap and tack the leggings in back. Using yarn, whipstitch to ankle yarn. Sew on beads for buttons. Johanna Sofie Sarstead Specializes in Hardanger Work pee NNA Sofie Johansen Farstead, Creston, British Columbia, Canada, specializes in making the lovely hardanger work, a craft of her native land, Norway. She also crochets, knits, embroiders, and makes many useful and decorative articles. Given away sixteen tablecloths and eleven stoles. She has Many missionaries in the AlaskanCanadian Mission are wearing socks knitted by Mrs. Farstead. Mrs. Farstead came from Norway with her husband and homesteaded near Prince Albert, in the northern part of Saskatchewan. Widowed just before the last of her ten children was born, Mrs. Farstead took care of the farm and provided the advantages of an education for all her children, who are now well established in business and the professions. Busy and happy, at the age of eighty-six, Mrs. Farstead believes that her hfe has been enriched by her devotion to her family, to her friends and neighbors, and her activity in the Church. Her hobbies have been an additional joy generously shared with her many relatives, friends, and neighbors. Sow the Field With Roses CHAPTER 3 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Nina Karsh, thirty-nine, horseback riding in the Malibu Mountains of California, becomes lost. She meets Tomas Novartro, whose grandmother's house she has just rented. He owns considerable surrounding property, and other property in Mexico and Canada. Mr. Novarro talks with Nina about the newspaper account of her dismissal as a nurse's aid from the local hospital, and Nina explains the circumstance. Novarro brings his motherless, withdrawn son Joseph and asks Nina to take care of him. Reluctantly, she agrees to look after the boy. She is visited by Tommy Benedict, a young boy from an unhappy home who has taken a great liking to Nina, and enjoys riding her horse Dominick. Car up the perilous roadway to the hilltop house. He looked coldly at the pandemonium of color and line and vista stretching to his right. People ought to leave hills for trees or goats. 'Tomas Novarro's people must have been mad to have built a house so high and so far. Another thing that made Craig Jonathan feel pettish was his errand. He wanted nothing to do with Nina Karsh. The Valley Hospital was still buzzing with her dismissal, people took sides. Doctor Jonathan remained utterly aloof. It was an unfortunate matter. He liked the hospital to maintain its starched monotony and let the troubles come in with the patients. He took off his glasses and slipped them into his pocket. It was an absent-minded gesture that made the nurses smile. WithPage 216 Picts Jonathan edged his out glasses his face was younger and less stern. The immaculate crew cut of his graying hair sprang austerely up from his wide, lined brow. His eyes were gray and tired. To be in pediatrics was to surrender such luxuries as sleep. He nosed the car into the nartow plateau beside the garage and reached for his bag and got out. Tomas Novarro played chess well and the dinners at the big house were unfailingly interesting, but the care and keeping of Tomas Novarro's son was a nagging and painful thorn in Doctor Jonathan's mind. The case made him feel helpless and he very seldom felt helpless. Tomas Novarro himself was often as painful a problem as his son, and more unpredictable, such as leaving the boy with a strange woman, especially a woman like Nina Karsh, leaying him and going off somewhere without seemingly another thought. It was all wrong, completely wrong. Doctor Jonathan shrugged his displeasure. Novarro would save himself and his son all this upheaval, if he would consent to place the child in an institution and, well... Forget him was a strong phrase. Doctor Jonathan avoided it. But this! He looked about him at the long low lines of the house, at the bougainvillea spilling its purple profusion along the rooftree and around the stone chimney. What did Novarro expect to gain by leaving his son with Nina Karsh? From what Doctor Jonathan had SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES seen of her at the hospital, she had nothing of fire or brilliance. As he vaguely recalled Nina Karsh, he had a quick vision of a small white person, who owned nothing spectacular in the way of figure. Her hands, as he recalled, were square and capable and she did have rather nice eyes, tender, intelligent, and a fine shade of blue. But she was an ordinary woman... A composite of dozens one saw daily, single women, gentle faced, a little humble, a little puzzled by the complexities of being forty and alone. He pressed his finger with unnecessary vigor on the bell. HE passing wind brought him the sweetness of orange blossoms and pinks, a hummingbird darted around the hanging basket. Despite himself, Doctor Jonathan felt peace invade him. The door opened. Nina Karsh smiled at him briefly, "Yes, Doctor?" He eyed her sourly. She was prettier than he remembered, and her hair was quite remarkable in color and sheen. He found himself staring at it, trying to decide if it was more gold than red or rather a particularly brilliant brown. Her gaze was blue and direct. He found himself straightening _ his Shoulders. "Tomas Novarro asked me to look in on his son. I am Doctor Jonathan." "I remember you." She flushed but did not lower her eyes. It was embarassing. What did She expect of him? Comment? Commendation? Belief in her? He cleared his throat. "Quite, quite." She lifted her chin. She was a proud woman then, not accustomed to the role of being questioned. A7 "Hie is in here" She Jed the way to the living room. He followed her slowly, looking about him. 'The room was charming, no doubt of that, cool, peaceful, boasting flowered chintz slip covers and polished tables which mirrored the low bowls of pansies and pinks. He peered at the bookshelves and at the paintings on the walls. They were boldly initialed. "Yours?" She nodded. "A hobby of sorts." More than a hobby, he would say. He felt an unwilling respect nudge aside his preconceived opinions. The woman had talent, real talent. The boy was lying slackly in the big chair by the window. She knelt beside him, took his thin, stiff fingers in her own. "Doctor Jonathan is here, Joseph." Doctor Jonathan forced heartiness. "How are you, young man, enjoying life?" He opened his bag, not waiting for a reply, which he knew by past experience, would not be forthcoming. He made his examination carefully, pleased to note the faint flush on the thin cheeks. "You've: had him in the sun?" "This morning, for a little while." "Excellent." He watched her with the child. She was quick but sure in her touch. Joseph submitted without tenseness. "No... Don't bother to undress him. I gave him a thorough checkup two weeks ago. This is routine. Does he eat well?" "No, very little." He rose, frowning. He tapped the stethescope on his palm and looked about him. The portrait above the fireplace caught his eye. It was of a man in his late sixties. "My father," she said, "one of. 218 his last good days. I didn't really capture him, but then what canvas could?" "It's quite good." He was dismayed at his own tone. He sounded stuffy. "Kind of you." He sighed. 'There would be then no rapport between them. Best to get the business over with. "The boy is quite a handful for anyone, and I'm afraid the case is hopeless." "I beg your pardon?" "Never matured... Doubt that he will." HE said quietly and with great firmness, "Joseph will be entirely well." "Indeed?" He was instantly alert. He placed his glasses on his nose and looked at her closely. She tilted her chin. "T said Joseph will be well." She plunged into a hurried account of the boy and an encounter with a butterfly. He listened impatiently. 'That was the trouble with women like Nina Karsh, they rode their own off-beat theories with the vigor of a small boy on a horse. It was that same impulsiveness that had led to the incident at the hospital. "You live alone?" he asked. "Yes. My nephew, Daniel Brooks... | reared after his mother died, but he's away at school now. I don't believe he'll be coming back, so I suppose I am quite alone." He pulled at his lip. It was an obvious situation. Lonely, unhappy, she jumped at the chance to do something challenging, to be needed. Suddenly and unexpectedly, Doctor Jonathan felt pity flood him. She would give all she had, and she would receive nothing in exchange. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 Nothing. There was only disillusionment and bitterness ahead for her. He found himself saying, "Don't ask for the impossible, Miss Karsh, and don't" his voice was firm, "give too much of yourself." He cleared his throat. "Don't waste yourself." She met his gaze with a hot anger plainly visible in her eyes. "Forgive me, Doctor Jonathan, I do not agree with you on any single point." She was emphatic. She looked young, terribly involved, standing there beside the boy. She made him feel old and, yes, cruel, neither emotion conducive to well-being. She knelt beside the boy, cupped his chin in her palm. "We'll walk in the hills, Joseph, in the mornings, early, and after it rains. We'll find wonderful things... You andI... And Ill tell you stories. I know a thousand stories." Doctor Jonathan wrote out a prescription and gave it to her. She rose and went with him to the door. "How long have you known Joseph?" "Two years." "And he has always...?" "Always," he said firmly. "Don't hesitate to call me, and I'll be dropping in again in a few days." Doctor Jonathan drove slowly down the hill. He fought against an urge to turn and go back, find out what she was up to. There had been a squared determination about her. She was, without a doubt, a woman determined on a course. OM Benedict brought a frolic: some Dominick back to the corral. He stabled her and made his way to the kitchen to voice his thanks. Nina drew him inside. "I'm afraid SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES there's a hitch to it, an hour of baby sitting?" "Sure I would. Have you got a television?" "In the den, just off the living room. I won't be long." Tomas Novarro's house was old and large and very beautiful. Nina was enchanted by the beauty of its Spanish lines. 'The tile roof was richly red, the blue painted iron scroll work against the white stucco walls made her think of pictures she had seen of Spanish castles. Manuel came to the door. He looked troubled at the sight of her, but not surprised. "Come in, Miss Karsh, you have troubles?'"" He looked at her anxiously. "No troubles, Manuel, just questions." _ His breath exploded in relief. "Questions? I answer! I answer." He led her across the wide hall to a large room, rich with gilding and red velvet. Nina followed him silently, testing the lushness of the rugs under her feet and trying to identify from afar the painters of the great dim canvases, gold framed, on the wall. "A Goya!" 'she marveled, and _forgetting Manuel, went to stand before it. "Mr. Novarro brought it home with him some years ago, from Paris, I think." Manuel pointed to a brocade chair. "Would you sit here, Miss Karsh." Nina sat primly on the rich fabric, crossing her feet precisely, folding her white gloved hands in her lap. She should have worn her navy blue, this light sprigged cotton seemed countrified and simple in the great, elegant room. 219 "You wanted to ask me about Joseph?" She leaned forward. "Mr. Manuel, I want to know everything about him." Manuel sat back. "Iam sorry. I do not have all the reports... All the papers." "Reports? Papers? Who took care of him?" Manuel shrugged. Nina lifted her brows. Understand." "Tomas Novarro wished nothing left undone for his son. There were many nurses. 'They did not like it here. Too lonely. There were many maids. 'There were schools. There were clinics." "But what were they like, all these people?" "There was an English nurse." Manuel counted on his fingers. "No baby should be picked up. There was a young lady from Santa Monica, who was studying psychiatry. She was very efficient. We did not speak to the child, because we were all giants and terrifying to him, she said." Nina sighed. Manuel nodded. "We did everything they said. We had scales to measure lunches and suppers, special clothes and special blocks and special disciplines." "Disciplines? What sort of disciplines?" Again Manuel shrugged. "It was behind closed doors. The child cried. We could not enter. Then Mr. Novarro became afraid. He sent for my mother." Manuel moved restlessly. "But she was very old, my mother. She fed the child and bathed him, but she was tired. It "Many." "T don't 220 was all out of her, the tenderness. She had had many children and many grandchildren. She was tired." INA stood up. "Mr. Manuel, would you please show me Joseph's room." He looked puzzled, but rose with alacrity and led the way upstairs. Joseph's room was in the left wing. Manuel explained the distance by saying that Joseph had cried a great deal, in the beginning, and the brilliant young woman, the one from Santa Monica, had said he must not be held or pampered in any way, because the wise men had discovered this was not only unnecessary but harmful. "Indeed," said Nina frostily, "and what did Mr. Novarro think of that?" "He was too lost in grief to notice," Manuel said gently, "besides, child raising is for women." With effort, Nina restrained the caustic comment leaping to her lips. A remembrance of her own father's tenderness and concern loomed tall in her mind. She felt an icy disdain for this Tomas Novarro. Joseph's room was dark and impressive, with somber Spanish chests and a great carved bed. "There is a closet full of toys," Manuel said hastily. "We have put them away, but you may have them, if you like." "Who played with Joseph?" "Played with him? He had his toys, Miss Karsh, everything that money could buy." "Thank you," Nina said, "you have been very helpful. That is all I wish to know." Manuel followed her out to the car, helped her in with grave courRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 tesy. "You may come any time, Miss Karsh, Mr. Novarro said you are to have whatever you like. He said we're to send you Elissa, the second maid. She is a very good cook." "Fine," said Nina. "I can use her." She started the motor with | a roar that sent Manuel leaping for | safety and spun down the driveway in the direction of her own hilltop. Tom Benedict looked up reluctantly from his cowboy and Indian show. "He didn't even wake up." He looked at her narrowly. "You got something moving in your sweater, Miss Marsh." Nina laughed and drew out the small, white, fluffy kitten. "T bought him... On the way back." Tom cried out and reached for the small squirming puff and held it, mewing plaintively, against his face. Nina watched the tenderness melt away the wise old look that had been there before. If a kitten could do this for a boy, a big boy like 'Tom! She could scarcely wait for Joseph to waken from his nap. Then she dressed him, fed him milk and crackers, and led him outdoors. Joseph obeyed her mutely. He allowed himself to be placed in the blue canvas chair. The afternoon sun made a nimbus of his light hair. Nina knelt beside him. She took the kitten from her pocket. "Look, Joseph, look!" The boy seemed unaware. "Joseph, it makes a singing." She rubbed the small body against his cheek. OSEPH put up his hand and touched the kitten. He let his hand drop, all interest gone. The released kitten leaped, mewing, t SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES the ground. Nina sat back on her heels, bewildered and disappointed. The kitten rubbed against her _ ankles. She picked it up and held it in her hands. "There... There," she crooned to the plaintive cry, "at's all right...." She sat suddenly still, aware of Joseph's interest. But Joseph was looking at her, not the kitten. In his face was an expression she could not read, but expressive it was, a shadow, a movement. 'Trembling, she placed the Kitten back in his hands. He paid no attention. When her voice stilled, the light went out of his face. What was it? Not her Imagination, surelv. There had been a flicker of life, of interest. But when she looked at him again he was inert, dull, and heavy. It was when she talked to the kitten. Nina took the kitten back. She crooned over it, but she watched Joseph's face. Tell me, Joseph, she asked herself, is it because I talk to the kitten? Is it amusing? No. That isn't it. It's something 'm doing with my voice. But what? What is it? What reaches him? She held the kitten to her face, making a little wordless song. Joseph held her with his eyes, large, misty, infinitely 221 Nina put the kitten down and took Joseph into her arms. He said no word; he made no outcry. He burrowed against her, his eyes closed. Nina held him in silence, trying to understand. Leaves dropped from the chinaberry tree, a squirrel frisked from the juniper, to the left the windmill turned lazily over the well, from far below came the faint echoes of car horns and motors. Nina was oblivious to all around her. Something strange was happening between her and Joseph, a communion between them, a warm peace in the burden of his head, a stirring in his hands like the tendrils of a young plant reaching up. Flow strange, she thought, our emphasis on words, our insistence that communication be in syllables and sentences. Joseph is talking to me without any sound. He is telling me that he must begin from the beginning, from the baby part of it. She held him in aching tenderness. I am telling him, by my holding him here, in the sun, in the afternoon, that I understand him, that I will not fail, that he can begin to believe and to open, for there is nothing to make him afraid. (To be continued) sacl. > Mrs. Teacher Olive C. Wehr "Don't you have anv children?" Women always want to know — They don't mean to be unkind — And I always answer, "'No, " just "No." (There are no words for sorrow. ) But it's always in the back of my mind To answer truthfully, "Oh, yes, For the past twenty years or so, I've had hundreds of them, no less! 1" General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Hazel K. Woolley WEST CENTRAL STATES MISSION, GLENDIVE BRANCH. (MONTANA) RELIEF SOCIETY FASHION SHOW, June 1961 Front row, left to right: June Hennebry; Kathi and Cheri; Dorothy Getz; Cheri and Mary Anderson. Back row, left to right: Helen Ness; Joy Jensen; Beatrice Mitchell; Bernice Orcutt; Wanda White; Edythe Brown; Marjorie Zolman. Hazel K. Woolley, President, West Central States Mission Relief Society, reports that this was the first fashion show presented by the Glendive Branch Relief Society. Each member who sewed a dress or a suit for hersclf also modeled it. The show featured two mothers and daughters numbers. The objectives of the sewing program, Sister Woolley explains, are to stimulate a desire among the sisters to sew for themselves and their families, thus developing and improving their talents; to promote a closer feeling of sisterhood by working together, helping others, and sharing ideas; and also, by such means, to help cut expenses in the family budget. The narrating for the fashion show was done by Edythe Brown. Following the show, a social hour was enjoyed and refreshments were served under the direction of Myrtle Batesole. Page 222 ) | | NOTES FROM THE FIELD 223 Photograph submitted by Donna T. Smart EMIGRATION STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) LUNCHEON HELD IN RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING, May 25, 1961 Left to right: Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society; Dean B. Norberg, former president, Emigration Stake Relief Society; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society; Wilburn C. West, former President Emigration Stake, now President of the Eastern States Mission; Donna T. Smart, President, Emigration Stake Relief Society. Sister Smart reports: "For the recently appointed stake board, this luncheon and reception was a successful and enjoyable endeavor. We planned and cooked for some 220 people. All of the members of Sister Norberg's recently released board, with one exception, were present to be feted and honored. The members of the General Board of Relief Society who reside in our stake, six in number, were present, with the exception of Sister Winniefred $. Manwaring, who was attending a Relief Society convention. We were highly honored and favored by the presence of General President Belle S. Spafford and her Counslor Louise W. Madsen. "In the true spirit of Relief Society, some of our talented sisters added musically to the afternoon. The combination of piano, two violins, and flute was unusual and lovely. The Singing Mothers, directed by the new chorister Maurine Lyman, beautifully presented three numbers. The highlight of the afternoon was the talk by Helen Spencer Williams, a member of our stake, who spoke of the faith-promoting experiences in the restoration of the Bee Hive House. Sister Williams was a member of the committee which supervised the work of restoration. "In keeping with the pioneer theme, we draped the tables in blue and white checked cloths — made by us — and we used gold accents for our Relief Society colors, as well as pioneer dolls for centerpiece interest. Our serving girls were dressed in checked gingham aprons and sunbonnets. "We were grateful for our traiing and traditions in Relief Society, as we planned, sewed, decorated, cooked, and programmed this first real activity of our new stake board. The helpful, willing spirit of our sisters in the gospel is truly inspiring." 224 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 Photograph submitted by Amy P. Willis CHEYENNE STAKE (WYOMING) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, May 27, 1961 Amy P. Willis, President, Cheyenne Stake Relief Society, reports: "In the second year of our stake's organization, approximately 150 visiting teachers were honored at our convention, the theme of which was 'Visiting Teachers Around the World.' Special awards were presented by the stake visiting teacher message leader, Jeanne D. Alley, to forty-three visiting teachers who reached the goal of one hundred per cent throughout the year. Represented in the picture are part of these sisters, and because of great distances to travel, others were unable to be in attendance. As a conclusion of the program, a skit was presented to introduce the summer messages." BS nse Sa eae a Photograph submitted by Gloria M. Dil AUCKLAND STAKE (NEW ZEALAND) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD ASSEMBLED AT STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY FUNCTION Front row, seated, left to right: Gertrude Murfitt, First Counselor; Gloria M. Dil, President; Airlie Eagle, Second Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Hine Amy, work meeting leader; Muriel Hay, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 225 Secretary-Treasurer; Polly Paniora, theology class leader; Anita Chate, social science class leader; Marguerite Ottley, Magazine representative, April Garlick, literature class leader; Grace Bratton, visiting teacher message leader; Evelyn Kennerley, organist; Ata Pedersen, chorister. Gloria M. Dil, President, Auckland Stake Relief Society, reports that this picture represents the first complete board of the Auckland Stake Relief Society. For the occasion, cach ward was assigned a demonstration on each function of Relief Society work. "The Relief Society presented an evening's entertainment and instruction for the fathers and familics of all the Relief Society women in the stake at the stake center. The stake board class leaders prepared teaching aids showing the guests the scope of work covered in our lessons. Each ward and branch was assigned an item, some depicting the work and advantages of the development of talents. A sponge cake competition, one section for a plain sponge cake, and one section for a decorated cake, showed that the sisters are really accomplished cooks. Our Singing Mothers presented two numbers, and the children enjoyed several games." Photograph submitted by Berenece B. Darley HYRUM STAKE (UTAH), HYRUM SECOND WARD PRESENTS "RELIEF SOCIETY YESTERDAY, TODAY, AND FOREVER" AT ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL, March 14, 1961 President Vesta R. Allen stands second from the right in the front row of the sisters who are standing; Virginia N. Larsen, Second Counselor, stands at the right in the same row; First Counselor Alta L. Petersen stands second from the left in the second row; Secretary Della A. Nielsen stands at Sister Petersen's right. Berenece B. Darley, President, Hyrum Stake Relief Society, reports: "This year the Hyrum Second Ward had, as their guests for the anniversary party, the other two Hyrum wards Relief Society sisters. One of the outstanding parts of the program was the presentation 'Relief Society Yesterday, Today, and Forever.' It was not only very inspiring, telling the story of our wonderful Relief Society, but highly entertaining, as well. Everyone enjoyed it. We were all thrilled by the talent presented by these faithful sisters." 226 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 Photograph submitted by Nina H. Beecher NORTH BOX ELDER STAKE (UTAH) WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS, COUNSELORS, AND STAKE BOARD MEMBERS VISIT INTERESTING PLACES IN SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, June 27, 1961 Nina H. Beecher, President, North Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports an interesting trip: "This group traveled by bus from Brigham City to Salt Lake City to visit the Deseret Clothing Factory and International Peace Gardens. We had lunch at the Lion House, and afterwards were taken on a tour of the Relief Society Building. Every ward in our stake, except one, was represented, and all but one member of the stake board were present. It was a very enjoyable trip, as well as informative, and the sisters had a very good time." Photograph submitted by Violet W. Hulet PAROWAN STAKE (UTAH), PAROWAN FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS ELDERLY SISTERS AT SOCIAL, May 22, 1961 Front row, seated, left to right: Amelia J. Topham; Amelia P. Orton; Luella R. Adams; Hattie Holyoak. Back row, standing, left to right: Barbara Adams; Nellie Pritchard; Martha Dalton; Alice Holyoak; Nettie Robinson; Sarah Connell. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 227 Violet W. Hulet, President, Parowan Stake Relief Society, reports that a party was held for all ward members, May 22, 1961, honoring the faithful sisters assembled for the above picture. "The total of their ages is 819 years. All have been active, not only in Relief Society, but in all the other auxiliary organizations open to women in the Church. They represent stake Relief Society presidents, ward presidents and counsclors, organists, class leaders, and work meeting leaders." Verses extolling the work of each sister were read in tribute. Photograph submitted by Joie M. Hilton NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION DISTRICT LEADERS AT RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, July 28-29, 1961 Front row, seated, left to right: Olga Hanson, Lake District; Bernice Wickham, Ontario District; Margaret Wells, South Dakota District; Greta Damstedt and Dola Hofeling, Sioux District. Second row, seated, left to right: Clara Niemi, Lake District; Norma Whitney, South Dakota District; Beth Hatch, Doris Youngs, and Jolayne Harrison, Manitoba District. Third row, standing, left to right: Valerie Spillett, Fort Williams Branch; Norma Paakanen, Lakehead District; Myrtle Halden, Dakota District. Fourth row, standing, left to right: June Benson and Betty Sievert, Mankato Branch; Beverly Harrington, Dakota District. Joie M. Hilton, President, North Central States Mission Relief Society, reports: "Pioneer week, July 28th and 29th, we held our first mission-wide Relief Society Conference. All eight districts were represented, with some seventy sisters participating. Over half of the sisters came from far distant branches, the greatest distance being from Dauphin, Manitoba, Canada, 630 miles. Informative registration slips were attached to snapshots of each sister and her entire family, and displayed beside a large map outlining the mission districts and pinpointing the thirty-six societies. The theme 'Relief Society Space Age Pioneers' was carried throughout the proceedings. The Singing Mothers in the branches had prepared the songs "When Mothers Sing' and 'My Testimony.' They sang together for the first time as a mission chorus. 'As a Voice Speaking, with taped narration, and the film 'Unto the Least of These' were presented. Highly practical demonstrations were given of sewing helps, hat making, and various handiwork. Specific lessons helps were combined with the demonstrations for all five first lessons, as outlined for the coming year. The conference was concluded with a Most inspirational testimony meeting. The reading of President Belle S. Spaftord's testimony from the Mission Presidents Seminar helped to set the high spiritual tone of the occasion." Photograph submitted by Helen H. Hawkins SPANISH FORK STAKE (UTAH), FIFTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL, March 20, 1961 Seated, front row, left to right: Maybell S. Erickson, present President; Alene T. Meldrum; Anna P. Hales; Blanche W. Gardner. « Standing, left to right: Mary E. Andrus and Thelma J. McKell. Sisters in the portraits on the mantel: Rebecca S. McKell and Annie H. Warner, deceased. Helen H. Hawkins, President, Spanish Fork Stake Relief Society, reports: "A history of this Relief Society was written for the anniversary social, and the sisters who have served in different capacities were invited to attend. As the names were read, each sister was presented with a corsage. Faithful and diligent service has been the aim of these sisters." Communication Viola Ashton Candland Words are often feeble things When we have need to speak To one whose heart is troubled Or one whose faith is weak. If eloquence is needed, Hope is a message to impart, Let spirit speak to spirit And heart commune with heart. When Christ expressed his love for us, Mere words did not suffice; He spoke by spirit and by deed, And with the voice of sacrifice. 228 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 Northwest Banff-Lake Louise Tour Including World's Fair at Seattle leaving June 23 Eight-day World Fair Leaving June 2 including Victoria, Canada Ten-day World Fair Leaving June 9 including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, and Victoria, Canada Ten-day World Fair Leaving July 6 including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, and Victoria, Canada Hill Cumorah Tour Leaving July 20 Alaskan Tour Leaving first part of July ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7TH AVENUE SALT LAKE CITY 3, UTAH Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 Gives you the ultimcte in fingertip total electric living now... And for years to come. When the future is allelectric, why buy anything but a Gold Medallion Home? UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Buy now from your dealer SACRED MUSIC FOR THREE PART LADIES CHORUSES he. COME, YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER — Madsen.................20 -... GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH — Schreiner.........30 = GO YE FORTH WITH MY WORD — Madsen.................- 25 A IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS — Madsen.25 senses INCLINE YOUR EAR — Wilkes.25 =i IN THY FORM — Madsen.......20 — LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY — Stephens.............20 coe LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS — Elgar.................- 25 — LORD, HEAR OUR PRAYER Verdi aa LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE — Madsen.....20 _s OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane.25 — THE 23rd PSALM — Schubert....25 Music Sent on Appreval Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah i 1! Please send the music indicated above.! J { '! \ [) On Approval OO Charge (1 Money Enclosed. ' ' ': ' ' |. H ': ':: i ' ' NO fo) mm ee aa a eee ae ae ae ea Se 15 E. Ist South salt Lake City 11, Utah | f Hoss IPL4) ft "] I lOO 7, S67 WG? | wi t Page 229 To Follow the Flowers Dorothea J. Neilson E arc blessed with beauty all around us during the greater part of the year, in the lovely forms of flowers. Each contributes to our enjoyment with its delicacy, its vibrant flowering, or its subtle fragrance. Each is outstanding and special in its own time, and for all we are thankful. However, if we reflect upon these bright arrays a moment with deeper thought, we find they set for us the example of life. There is the crocus, one of the earliest to bloom in the spring. It pushes ahead of the rest, as an example. Often a blanket of whiteness and cold still lies on the slumbering earth. It heeds the challenge — the dare — to begin! Its colors exhibit its character, some snowy white, others brilliant gold, and still others royal purple! None, a sign of following: this, the crocus, is leadership. Then, throughout the season of flowering, there follows a wondrous procession of enjoyment for all. And so in life do we dearly love and enjoy all those who make up and contribute something worthwhile towards the various aspects of our existence; those of the delicate spirit, soft-spoken, but deep. The one who enjoys life to its fullest, and is frank and brave. And those masses of others who are "just plain," but give to someone dear and close to them that which could be had from none other — a friendship, loval, faithful, and true. Some who are too complex to explain; others, surface lovely, but shallow and quickly fading. And yet, withall, we know that this is life and all must be a part. I think my favorite of flowers is the chrysanthemum. There are many varieties to suit each taste, from the fragile pink to the deepest bronze. Each has a heart of sunny yellow. They are the stalwarts! They faithfully grow all summer long, gathering strength and experience for their flowering. Often they meet with adversity that destroys or cripples the less hardy. 'The chill winds blow and often the freezing snow falls early to blanket them. But when the sun shines again, they are not withered and broken, but put forth their beauty for all to see. They have weathered the storm and are all the more precious for it — because now they stand alone. 'They continue to bloom, the last of the season. They are without bitterness for their experience. Vital to the end, their departure is sudden and done in full glory. That is how to live. A traditional feature of attending Conference is the very special joy of a delightful repast at... "AMERICA'S FINEST ICE CREAM STORE" Everyone appreciates the dignified and refined atmosphere that prevails. You will appreciate the beautiful enlarged store — 3 times larger. "Artistry in Pleasurefoods" HOVE, "DISTINCTIVE" () CE 6 OUR ONLY STORE — 850 East 21st South — Open until Midnight — (Closed Sundays) Page 230 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles.....0 35 150 to 300 miles.. - 300 to 600 miles.. 600 to 1000 miles 1000 to 1400 miles. 1400 to 1800 miles.. Over 1800 miles Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Snowdrops Ethel Jacobson White as the snow that lately Masked these beds, The snowdrops nod their heads To hang in a falling cadence On fragile stems, Etched and polished gems Carved from a breath of frost Into bells that ring With the sweet chimes of spring. See where each bell curls silver Fold on fold About bright tongues of gold, And crystal-pointed petals Prick the air — Snowflakes, captured there. HAWAII and the SEATTLE WORLD'S FAIR Combined in One Wonderful Trip! Leave APRIL 9TH, 1962 The day following the close of April Conference You will travel with YOUR KIND OF PEOPLE! You will visit: THE FOUR ISLANDS IN HAWAII And you will see: THE AMAZING WORLD'S FAIR "Century Twenty-one!" The program and the price will delight you! Write or call for our FREE day-by-day program that will give you all details. Address: VIDA FOX CLAWSON TRAVEL SERVICE 216 South Thirteenth East DAvis 8-0303 or Elgin 9-8493 Salt Lake City, Utah Remember... The Best in the West Travel with Us! Page 231 WORLD'S FAIR Leaving throughout summer Reserveations must be made early for these tours. HAWAIIAN TOUR June 7—June 24 L. D. S. PAGEANT TOUR July 28—August 20 For further information regarding your travel please write or call MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 6-1601 — HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Birthday Congratulations Ninety-five Mrs. SussANAH WacsTAFF McGHiE Salt Lake City, Utah 'Mrs. Sopu1A ANDERSON WoRKMAN Heber City, Utah Mrs. Detta DrucettA McKEowan Vernal, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. MINNIE PRICE Downey, Idaho Mrs. Wi1LvHELMINA FREDRIKA GUTKE PRICE Downey, Idaho Ninety-three Mrs. SarauH Francis ALLRED Fairview, Utah Page 232 Mrs. Louise BrocksaANK REYNOLDS Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Florence WESTOVER PLATT Safford, Arizona Ninety-one Mrs. Marie JORGENSEN CARLING Shelley, Idaho Ninety Mrs. ANNA Wak LEY BLOXHAM Downey, Idaho Mrs. Gitpa CurisTENA CHRISTENSON W ASDEN Lovell, Wyoming Mrs. Katie Taytor Dansir Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. GENA JOHNSON FROESER Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. EvizaspetH Hankin DEMAIN Clearfield, Utah Mrs. Marcaret Victoria Davis Malad, Idaho Mrs. Mary WELL Ls Lesser Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. EvizaBEtTH ADELAIDE WAKEFIELD WortTLey Prince Albert, Canada Mrs. Jouannan Marie LuNnpdGREEN CHRISTENSEN Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Marte JENSEN LARSEN Ephraim, Utah pa A IN LIVING SOUND is the best! It's the finest recording made, pressed on top-quality unbreakable vinyl, in THIRTY-SIX long-play hifidelity records (33% speed). Two voices alternate in the narrative. Each record ends on a chapter with a three-second pause between each chapter. Included with the handsome 2-volume album is a full-color booklet containing ten Arnold Friberg 'Book of Mormon" paintings with descriptive information. The price is modest and terms are available with no interest or carrying charges. This recording is ideal for family night, Priesthood or group study, and individual listening. @Qd SNF As low as $5 down, $5 a month Produced and distributed by DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) | have an account. Please eeeereeseeene ee eeeeneeeeeeeeeesneaeeeseeneeneee LU | ee <=: PReeeeeseseecsesereeoeer aed eee eeeeeedsFeHFeeesnsnesseeesFseeeeseseeeseneeesseseeeeeseeseaeeesne charge. Amount enclosed $.............-—— Number of sets............200.::22: sceeeceeseeeee Residents of Utah include $1.50 sales tax, $1.60 postage per set. MUMS cass nnssseussssssssssecssuncenncnsnnneeccecerecnennneneceevaneecenenssnesnsseansuasostecestees es seaascsscsssensnssnceeeneevsaseceeneessneespnssnnnsnnnnnssnansattevee rete ZONE......... STATE..... Full amount ( ), Down payment ( ). ° —: ENS-E 20-165-41450 Is your life insurance Beneficial? For the young business executive on the way up, few plans can match Beneficial's Commercial Whole Life plan. Insurance in "economy package'' amounts of $10,000 or fe 2s € Z | SEP 62 more can be obtained at substantial savings. Many policies can have an "insured insurability" feature added that will enable you to purchase more insurance in the future without new evidence of your insurability. Learn more about the features of new Beneficial Life policies that mean more benefits for you. Call your local Beneficial Life man soon. BENEFICIAL LIFE Srusanes GE Company Second Class Postage Pai¢ | at Salt Lake City, Utah % ~: ea" "& ) ~*~ Ras ue, 2: Fe ¢ Q. 2) oe a te % rf horteStary \Iss Is APRIL VOL. Opeda # Savior Margery S. Stewart So should I, Lord, Have hung upon that cross Which I had fashioned, year on unthinking year, And felt the nails' torment, The bitter burn of thirst And life's slow falling loss. Save that upon a day thou Didst quietly take my place, And died, thorned there, between the thieves, While angels wept And earth in darkness mourned The winnowed stillness of thy holy face. And on what desolate crosses Men have died Rejecting thee, thine offer and thy love.... For who is there to listen In that dark... Or be in a lighted instant at his side? For if the thief could know He steals to build the beam On which he will be nailed by and by, How fiercely he would strive To find thee past the dark deceptive dream. The cross, compassionate Lord, was never thine But composite of all crosses, such as mine. The Cover: Springtime Garden Color Transparency by H. Armstrong Roberts Frontispiece: Lilies of Easter Photograph by Josef Muench Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From Near and Far Three years ago we moved from Utah to the Northwest. Of course we were lonely and homesick. My dear parents Mr. And Mrs. Neal J. Hillyard sent us gift subscriptions to The Relief Society Magazine and the other Church publications, and they have proved to be very valuable in that they have kept us from straying into the wrong paths. The lessons in knowledge of truth and faith in each issue have given us and our home life more harmony and have kept us in touch with those we hold dear. My appreciation and thanks go to Sister Cannon for her lessons on manners and _ attitudes. They are most enjoyable and highly worthwhile to everyone. 'These lessons have been important and useful in our home. The Magazine brings the light of the gospel for us all to see and use. —Mtrs. Evelyn H. Johnson Raymond, Washington I am always interested in the covers of our excellent Magazine. 'These covers give people living so far away a little more insight into the wonderful country that is Zion. I have been a member of the Church for nearly three years, and have been receiving The Relief Society Magazine since shortly after becoming a member. It is my wish that the Magazine will continue to bring happiness to all the homes that it enters. —Yvonne Harbeck Moonah, Australia I wish to thank you for such a lovely, inspirational Magazine. I am a young mother, with three children, and I always get so much to boost my spirits from Relief Society and the Magazine. Sometimes we mothers tend to become spiritually and intellectually dulled from the humdrum routine of household problems, and I am thankful for the Relief Society's choice of lesson materials to help pull us out of our so-called "ruts" that we tend to slip into. —Jacqueline Overson Mesa, Arizona Page 234 I love the Magazine, with its wonderful lessons — especially the Visiting Teacher Messages. 'They seem to be just what is needed at this time. So many sisters tell us, as we do our teaching, "How do the women who plan these lessons know just what we need each month?" I love the counsel and advice given by our General Authorities, and the stories are very interesting to me. —Mrs. M. P. McOmber Hamilton, Montana I was surprised and pleased in reading the "Sixty Years Ago" page for August 1961 to see the note about the organization of the Relief Society in Kansas City, Missouri, in August 1901, as it was 1903 when my grandmother, Mrs. Malvina T. Chrisp, joined the Church, and I know it wasn't long until she joined our wonderful Relief Society organization. I enjoy the Magazine, and was particularly impressed with the serial "Because of the Word" (concluded in January 1962), by Hazel M. Thomson. I would like to commend the authors, also, of these outstanding stories: ''Aunt Mattie's Retirement List' (October 1961), by Klea Evans Worsley; "A Feather in Her Hat," (June 1961), by Sylvia Probst Young; and "A Parable for Polly' (September 1961), by Maude Proctor. —Mrs. Mary Taylor Versailles, Missouri I was impressed with the beauty of the November Relief Society Magazine cover, showing a painting of Nauvoo, Illinois. Thank you for printing this and also the beautiful Madonnas featured on the December covers. Each month I am amazed at the beauty and quality maintained throughout the Magazine. The literature course has been a great joy to me, especially the opportunity to study America's literature. I am grateful to Elder Jacobs for the wonderful way in which he prepares these lessons. —Joann R. Hoover Junction City, Kansas 7 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp. - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker. - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer; Anna B. Hart Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Elizabeth B. Winters Edith S. Elliott Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron LaRue H. Rosell Florence J. Madsen Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt Jennie R. Scott Leone G. Layton Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Alice L. Wilkinson Blanche B. Stoddard Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen LaPriel S. Bunker Evon W. Peterson Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Irene W. Buehner Aleine M. Young Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Irene C. Lloyd Josie B. Bay Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny S. Kienitz Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor = < = - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford Genera! Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 49 APRIL 1962 NO. 4 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Welfare and the Relief Society Howard W. Hunter 236 She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part I — Emmeline B. Wells................ Preston Nibley 240 Thanks for the Magazine Linnie F. Robinson 253 Cancer Education, Research, and Service ~ = - Rutherford L. Ellis 259 MMS OUIMISTON) Gl MISSION. -.-0--c-ncccencceca-cecoee--ocaete-cceceeeecenceusetaceceaeaeecenesensueccuarrateceeeoveuseenotlAgnes K. Morgan 265 A Latter-day Saint Schoolteacher in Beave>, Alaska o. N.... CeccceccccceeeeeeeeceeeeeElizabeth P. Zabriskie 267 FICTION—SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORIES EE Dorothy Clapp Robinson 243 Timber o. Oo eeeee cece aeIlene H. Kingsbury 248 A Name Before the Lord... Ellen Taylor Hazard 260 Mie Oving FACS _....-_.-ecccessceescenseeeenceceeceee-e-cancece veeteteessvistewewewe. Betty Lou Martin 291 Sow the Field With Roses — Chapter 40 o. U.. C. C. CcccccccccecssececeseceeceeseseceseeeeceeteeseneenaseeeMargery S. Stewart 296 The Mischief Makers IF kaa) IN (Cryo belle 4c Ul oe 6 a ee 234 Woman's Sphere 2o. Neeeececceccecenceneeececeseneeeceeeeecseeeees: a cote Ramona W. Cannon 255 Editorial: 'I Will Pour Out My Spirit)' 2. Cece ccececccceceecececeneteeteeeeceeeee —_Marianne C. Sharp 256 Notes to the Field: Lesson Previews to Appear in the June Iscue -' The Relief Society Macgerzime 29 eee een eect enenencnencceteeee Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities.... Birthday Congratulations BNSIINCHIZICS SETIROTIS no... E a cnnn--ceceeeceneeceeneoecnesceceecncovecarececeneenesdeieeevens-susiteceve-eeecesceesCaroline Eyring Miner 266 A Compliment Cast on the Waters 20......... Cccccccccceccesececeseeee ses coeeeeeevoeeseeveeeecueeaEvelyn Dorio 271 From My Window I Watch — cases.... Cleo Jones Johnson 272 Candy for Your Easter Basket oo.... C. CceccccccssccececeosecosececececececeseescascaseesesasseosesseseeaeeesCaroline L. Naylor 274 Two Recipes for a Luncheon..........., _ _ Ruth L. Jones 275 Recipes From a Pioneer Kitchen — es.. Anne McCall 276 The Little Silver Thimble 220.... O. Cccccccccccccccceeeeeeeeee Sherry Crookston 277 Housekeeper in co Hurry noice cece ceseseeesesenesevescnsecacavnsesesenensuenscensnensasacesecsseseses Janet W. Breeze 278 Anna Eckloff Makes Her Life Happy With Hobbies 280 Keep Your End of the Handle Up..0.0.0.0......... Olive Sharp 281 What Did You Sea) ee eee eeeMaude Proctor 282 Grade "A"._..... Er -Mary C. Martineau 286 Potted Plants Complete a Picture ooo. Eie. EcccececesececeococosecesesesesssenesesscesseececseseeEva Willes Wangsgaard 288 es — _..... Melba Larson 295 Savior Fa OMNIS OVS CE) «an cnnacaccasecesorsas.-. Nase-tecvencassaceoes-socenssiligerenaeencancusecsctllltcesceseeeceeceeMargery S. Stewart 233 Music, by Padda M. Speller, 257; Starless Interlude, by Annie Atkin Tanner, 258; Doing Good, by Catherine B. Bowles, 259; Point of View, by Gladys Hesser Burnhan, 264; I Would Follow Thee, by Mildred Wentworth, 265; Fame''s Prayer, by Leora Larsen, 270; Enough, by Hazel Loomis, 273: No Half Loaf This, by Virginia Newman, 275: Note to Carvel, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 277; From My Window, by Evalyn Sandberg, 289; The Blossoming, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 284; Return, by Henrietta B. McNeely, 287: Prelude to Easter, by Linda Clarke, 290; My Legacy, by Maude Rubin, 302; Grandmothers Know, by Christie Lund Coles, 31]; Beauty, by Ida Isaacson, 312. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Copyright 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20e a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 11038, Act of October 8, 191%, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 235 RMBSDY, YECLS AGO _.... N..... Csec--ccccctescccccenseccceesessncessuscese--sseeerscsnenseoceneareercessesneserecoennenecersesacateee 294 Elder Howard W. Hunter Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 28, 1961] ' ©) HE Church Welfare Plan in its present form and organization came about twentysix years ago. 'This was a renewed emphasis of a phase of the gospel which has always existed. Since the beginning of time men have been commanded to be their brother's keeper, and God's children have always been expected to help one another. 'This thread has been woven through the loom of the Old Testament, the teachings of the Master during his personal ministry, through the writings of the New Testament, and throughout the history of The Book of Mormon. The revelations of these latter days are replete with these admonitions. Since the organization of the Church in 1830, the history of the Latter-day Saints has been influenced by the principles which have now been codified into the Welfare Plan. Not long ago I was reading the words of Brigham Young spoken from the pulpit in the old 'Tabernacle here in Salt Lake City nearly one hundred years ago. This is what he said: I am now going to preach you a short sermon concerning our temporal duties. My sermon is to the poor, and to those who are not poor. As a people, we are not poor; and we wish to say to the Bishops, not only in this city, but through the country, "Bishops, take care of your poor."... We have among us some Page 236 brethren and sisters who are not strong, nor healthy, and they must be supported. We wish to adopt the most economical plan of taking care of them.... In the spring have these brethren sow some broom-corn, — they will enjoy working a little out of doors in the nice spring weather, — and then in fall they can make brooms with the corn. By pursuing this course a Bishop will soon be able to say, "I have accomplished a good work; the brethren and sisters whom I had to help are now in a condition to help themselves." In a short time, if their labor and time are wisely employed, you can build for them the finest house in the ward. Now, Bishops, you have smart women for wives, many of you; let them organize Female Relief Societies in various wards. We have many talented women among us, and we wish their help in this matter. Some may think this is a_ trifling thing, but it is not; and you will find that the sisters will be the mainspring of the movement (Journal of Discourses, Vol. 12, pp. 114-115). There is nothing old or old-fashioned about the Welfare Program The principles are old, but the challenges are new. 'These words of Brigham Young are as up-to-date as if spoken today in this Tabernacle. There was an echo from these words of Brigham Young when President Heber J. Grant announced to the Church in the October Conference in 1936, the. Establishment of what we now refer to as the Welfare Program. He stated that the "primary purpose was to set up, in so far as it might be possible, a system under WELFARE AND THE RELIEF SOCIETY which the curse of idleness would be done away with, the evils of a dole abolished, and independence, industry, thrift and self-respect be once more established amongst our people" (Priesthood and Church Welfare, page 19). At the following conference, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., spoke on this subject saying: First, and above and beyond everything else, let us live righteously, fearing God and keeping his commandments, that we may in part claim his blessings as of right, and not as of mercy only. Along this way only lies happiness and salvation. Let us avoid debt as we would avoid a plague; where we are now in debt let us get out of debt; if not today, then tomorrow. Let us straitly and strictly live within our incomes, and save a little. Let every head of every household see to it that he has on hand enough food and clothing, and where possible, fuel also, for at least a year ahead. You of small means put your money in foodstuffs and wearing apparel, not in stocks and bonds; you of large means will think you know how to care for yourselves, but I may venture to suggest that you do not speculate. Let every head of every household aim to own his own home, free from mortgage. Let every man who has a garden spot, garden it; every man who owns a farm, farm it.... We must purge our hearts of the love of ease; we must put out from our lives the curse of idleness... (Conference Reports, April 1937, page 26). We often refer to the Welfare work of the Church. The word work creeps in with the word Welfare, and the two seem to be associated together. We know we must work for the things that are worthwhile in life, and if the Welfare Program is to be worthwhile and succeed, we must couple work with high ideals. Faith without works is dead. In the same sense, our suc- 237 cess in our Welfare endeavors can only be accomplished by work. You who are in leadership in the great Relief Society organization, and who give leadership to the great Welfare Program, know the power there is in banding together for the noble purpose of helping those in need. I talked to a man not long ago who works in a machine shop fabricating a little electronic element which is about the size of a dime. He told me that these were used in nearly all of the missiles and rockets which are shot into space. I asked him how this little part was used in the operation of the rocket. He said: "I haven't the least idea. All I know is that it goes inside of the rocket." I am inclined to think that some of us are this way in the Welfare Program. We accept an assignment to pull weeds, peel fruit, clean fish, harvest crops, or some other task, but we do not see the end results of our labor as it fits into the great whole and becomes a component part of the finished product. Most of you sisters have been in the bishop's storehouse and have seen the foods and commodities as they are collected from all parts of the Church where they have been produced. You have seen shelf after shelf of items produced by our people, which look as lovely and inviting as the products on the shelves of the big supermarkets. As we look at this great assortment of finished items, we see more than cans and boxes and packages. We see the labor of hundreds of people who have worked together for a common purpose. When we realize that the little can we so lovingly packed with fruit 238 or vegetables went on to take its place with nearly two and a half million other cans produced in the Program last year, we catch the vision of the vastness of our efforts. Relief Society presidents last year signed orders on the storehouse of the bishops for a million quarts of milk, a million pounds of flour, a million and a half pounds of potatoes, a million pounds of dressed meat, and large quantities of all kinds of food, clothing, and commodities produced by our own hands. Last year we helped in some way about one hundred thousand persons. 'This is big business when we combine all of our smaller groups into the one great effort. Is it really work? I know it has taken hours and hours of thought, preparation, leadership, and encouragement, in addition to the time spent in producing the product. But there is the other side of the ledger — people working together in the vineyard of the Lord. I know you have come home tired and weary from the cannery or the sewing room, but as we look back, haven't some of our happiest days been those where we have worked together to be of service to someone else? Haven't we all been blessed by our willingness to work that others might receive? 'This is the spirit of the great Welfare Program. Those of you who are Relief Society presidents have had the opportunity of working with the bishops and of going into the homes where there has been need and making the determination as how best to help those who are less fortunate. I know it has been time consuming, taking you away from your own homes and taking you away from your pleasures RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 in life, yet a great blessing has come to you by administering to their needs. I served as a bishop for more than six years, as a stake president for ten years, and eight years as a chairman of a welfare region. With the many Relief Society presidents and counselors I worked with during those years, I have never heard one of them complain or say she was not happy in the work which had been assigned to her. I am grateful to our sisters for their support of the Priesthood. Is there greater pleasure and joy in the Welfare Program than there is work? It is true our work benefits others, and the Lord has said: "It is more blessed to give than to receive." The great joys in life come from giving, and the greatest gift is the giving of ourselves, our time and energy and efforts. Isn't it a good feeling to know that our efforts have resulted in doing good for someone else? When we go to sacrament meeting and realize there are people seated with us in the chapel who are being helped and blessed by reason of the fact that we are willing to give, doesn't it all seem worthwhile? I have never been on a gloomy welfare project. I have climbed trees and picked lemons, peeled fruit, tended boiler, carried boxes, unloaded trucks, cleaned the cannery, and a thousand and one other things, but the things I remember most are the laughing and the singing and the good fellowship of people engaged in the service of the Lord. It is like the little boy who was carrying another little boy on his back. "Isn't he heavy?" someone asked. The little fellow answered, "No, he's my brother." WELFARE AND THE RELIEF SOCIETY As a woman, a wife, and a mother, and the keeper of the home, there are so many things that you can do to keep in tune with the spirit of this great program, and as officers in the Relief Society, it becomes your privilege to teach these principles to your sisters. Some of the most important ones might be summarized as follows: 1. Righteous living. If we keep the commandments of God, he will bless us with spiritual prosperity. 2. Every person self-sustaining. Church members should sustain themselves to the extent of their ability by their own labors. The Lord has said we shall not be idle. 3. Avoid public relief. We subscribe to the principle that we are our brother's keeper. We should be self-sustaining if possible. Children should be taught their responsibility, where parents are unable to provide for themselves. 4. Avoid debt. President Clark has said: "Let us avoid debt as we would avoid a plague. Where we are now in debt let us get out of debt." 5. Have enough food, clothing, and necessities on hand to take care of any emergency. We should be able to sustain ourselves for at least one year. 6. Live within our income. Families should budget their income so that desires are kept within the ability to pay. 7. Help provide employment where necessary. The Church has always counseled and recommended that mothers be in their home with their children and not seek employment outside of the home. Women should not be unnecessarily employed. 8. Save. Regardless of the size of our income, we should budget our affairs that 239 we might set aside some portion. 'This becomes our security and independence. G. Strive to own our own home. Stability comes to the family which owns its own home. We should strive to free our home from mortgage and debt. 10. Gladly accept welfare assignments. Working together in the program brings the strength we need to produce for those who may be less fortunate. 11. Keep the law of the fast. We will be benefited spiritually, and sufficient means will be in the hands of the bishops to take care of all the poor. 12. Be a living testimony. We should so live the principles of the Welfare Program that our example will inspire others. I am grateful for the inspired leadership which has formulated the course of action that teaches us to help those among us who need assistance. 'This is religion in action. This is the course ordained of God from the very beginning. I am grateful for the devoted sisters who stand with the Priesthood, and in their compassionate services and _assistance, strengthen the great cause in lifting our brothers and sisters by temporal means to spiritual heights. May we have the vision to clearly see the road ahead. God lives and this is his work. I bear witness that the Welfare Program comes to us by inspiration and revelation. It is part of living the gospel. I pray the Lord's blessings upon us as we continue to serve him and keep his commandments, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian Part I — Emmeline B. Wells THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH From a painting by Lewis Ramsey might have been seen an elderly little lady, entering or leaving the Hotel Utah, in Salt Lake City, where she made her home. She walked quietly and slowly, and usually, in summer, wore a Paisley shawl over her shoulders. She was Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, General President of the Relief Societies of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In her day she had been a brilliant and capable woman. Now she was well past her eightieth year, but she kept steadily and faithfully at her tasks until her Page 240 A BOUT fifty years ago, there strength was exhausted. I think "Aunt Em," as she was familiarly known to her friends, was just past her ninety-third birthday when she died in April 1921. I was always interested in our Church history, and on two or three occasions, when I saw "Aunt Em" sitting alone in the lobby of the Hotel Utah, I went and sat down beside her and asked her a few questions. I remember that she told me that she had left her home in Massachusetts as a young convert to Mormonism, when she was fifteen years of age, and with her mother had moved to Nauvoo, Illinois. Then I asked her, "Did you ever meet the Prophet Joseph Smith?" She replied, "Oh, yes, I knew him quite well, and on several occasions I sang and recited for him." Then she told me about the Prophet, his marvelous personality, his friendliness, kindness, and his great ability. Finally she remarked, "In all my experience I have never met another man like him." Recently in going through the volume of The Young Woman's Journal for December 1905, I discovered on pages 554-556, the following interesting article, which | "Aunt Em" had written and published, at that time, as a tribute to the great Prophet of the nineteenth century. Part of the article is reproduced here. | SHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH "Journeying from my home in Massachusetts to Nauvoo, Illinois, with a company of Latter-day Saints, we were joined in Albany by some Elders returning from missions in the Eastern states. Among them was the late Jacob Gates, who was accompanied by his wife with whom I became well acquainted enroute. Sister Gates talked a great deal about the Prophet Joseph, whom she knew intimately, and when she saw that I was specially interested in him, promised me that she would introduce me to him on our arrival in Nauvoo. She also told me many things concerning his life and mission that I had not known before; and I listened carefully to all the Elders' conversation for they were full of zeal and the spirit of the Latter-day work; and of love for the Prophet Joseph. To me it was a continuous revelation; although Sister Gates seemed to think it impossible for one so young and inexperienced to realize the greatness and wonderful power of the Prophet Joseph Smith; in time I came to understand the feeling when I tried to explain to others the power he possessed that impressed the people with whom he came in contact. As we neared our destination in sailing up the Mississippi, the elders were full of enthusiasm at the thought of seeing the Prophet again.. At last the boat reached the upper landing, and a crowd of people were coming toward the bank of the river. As we stepped ashore the crowd advanced, and I could see one person who towered away and above all the others around him; in fact I did not see distinctly any others. His majestic bearing, so entirely different 241 from any one I had ever seen (and I had seen many superior men) was more than a surprise. It was as if I beheld a vision; I seemed to be lifted off my feet, to be as it were walking in the air, and paying no heed whatever to those around me, I made my way through the crowd, then I saw this man whom I had noticed, because of his lofty appearance, shaking hands with all the people, men, women and children. Before I was aware of it he came to me, and when he took my hand, I was simply electrified, — thrilled through and through to the tips of my fingers, and every part of my body, as if some magic elixir had given me new life and vitality. I am sure that for a few minutes I was not conscious of motion. I think I stood still, I did not want to speak, or be spoken to. I was overwhelmed with indefinable emotion. Sister Gates came to me and said, EMMELINE B. WELLS 242 "Tl introduce you to the Prophet Joseph now, he is here." I replied, "I don't want to be introduced to him." She was astonished, and said curtly, ' "Why vou told me how desirous you were of meeting him." I answered, "Yes, but I've seen him and he spoke to me." "But he didn't know who you were!" I replied, "I know that but it doesn't matter...." I was in reality too full for utterance.... The one thought that filled my soul was, I have seen the Prophet of God, he has taken me by the hand, and this testimony has never left me in all the "perils by the way." It is as vivid today as ever it was. For many years, I felt it too sacred an experience even to mention. It was my good fortune to go immediately on my arrivel to a home where the Prophet Joseph was almost idolized, and I heard of the wonderful power he possessed, and everything concerning him it was possible to learn. I heard him preach all his last sermons, and frequently met him and shook hands with him, and always felt in my inmost soul, he is indeed a man unlike all others. In the Prophet Joseph Smith, I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 believed I recognized the great spiritual power that brought joy and comfort to the Saints; and withal he had that strong comradeship that made such a bond of brotherliness with those who were his companions in civil and military life, and in which he reached men's souls, and appealed most forcibly to their friendship and loyalty. He possessed too the innate refinement that one finds in the born poet, or in the most highly cultivated intellectual and poetical nature; this extraordinary temperament and force combined is something of a miracle and can scarcely be accounted for except as a "heavenly mystery" of the "higher sort."... He was beyond my comprehension. The power of God rested upon him to such a degree that on many occasions he seemed transfigured. His expression was mild and almost childlike in tepose; and when addressing the people who loved him it seemed to adoration, the glory of his countenance was beyond description. At other times the great power of his manner, more than of his voice (which was sublimely eloquent to me) seemed to shake the place on which we stood and penetrate the inmost soul of his hearers, and I am sure that then they would have laid down their lives to defend him. I always listened spell-bound to his every utterance — the chosen of God in this last dispensation." The Mischief Makers Dorothy Clapp Robinson ETITIA Haworth, called Tish L by her friends, dropped to her bed and tried to find a comfortable position. "IT need a new bed." She spoke aloud, a habit she had acquired since being alone. "But then I shouldn't be napping. I should finish trimming the lawn." She sat up and pounded her pillow. "There is no point in my being so tired. I have been doing these things the last thirty years, and I love doing them." First, there had been a picnic in her back yard yesterday. Children were certainly more careless than they used to be. 'True, the chaperon had stayed to finish the cleaning the children had started, but Tish had waved her aside with: "You run along, dearie. I love doing this." And she did like doing it. And last evening Irene, Tish's daughter, had a meeting with her Cub Scouts in the basement. The boys spilled punch on the floor. It was a couldn't-be-helped accident, and the boys had mopped furiously if not too effectively — bless their hearts. Irene, knowing her mother, said, "Don't you touch this. I will be over in the morning." "In the morning" in Tish's language did not mean the middle of the afternoon. When Irene called to excuse her delay, Tish said, "T have it all done so don't worry." And not to leave any doubt that this was her day, the boy who took care of her lawn called early. He wanted to go on a hike and would not be back before day after tomorrow. Would she mind if he did it then? "You run along," she answered, "T'll love doing it this time." She had forgotten how enormous the lawn was, even when using a power mower. When they had built facing the street, Hugh, her husband, had said, "We'll put all this back space into lawn, It will be a wonderful playground for our children." It had been, and still was. The trees they had planted had grown to give shade, and the swings were still intact, and used not only by their chien s children, but by all the children from miles around, it seemed. Most of them could use a lesson on property rights. Remembering, Tish sighed. No one disciplined children any more. Mr. Brown, a real estate dealer and a friend of Hugh's, said one day, "You are virtually running a public playground. Sell this back lot to me. He had repeated his offer many times, but Tish would as soon think of selling her home. The pillow at last gave a modicum of comfort, and several times Tish thought she was going to nap, but back would come her problems. "Get rid of this big place," her children were constantly advising her. Fiddlesticks. She had been taking care of this place ever since it had been built, and she would never Page 243 244 entirely lose Hugh as long as she had it. Every foot of lawn, every room, every nail and beam, and every inch of paint spoke of him. All the gladness and the sadness of her life were part of this place. Someone in the yard next door kept hammering. When she could stand it no longer, Tish rose and went to the window. It was Bob Jennings and Mr. Brown. They were putting a sign on the lawn. Tish knew immediately it was a "For Sale" sign. OW could Bob do such a thing so soon! Only last month his mother had passed away. She had lived in that little house for at least twenty-five years, and now, Bob was trying to sell her place. It seemed nothing counted these days but dolJars. Tish thought of returning to the bed, but her conscience prodded her. All that clipping yet to be done. "T should go help Bob...." She stopped short. An idea had popped into her mind. Perfect. It would solve all her problems. She knew every inch of the little house. Times without numbers she had sat with Mrs. Jennings, helped her clean, or taken her guests into her own guest room. 'Then a really big idea hit her. Irene and Jim needed a larger house for their growing family. They had been dickering for one in a new housing project called Hill Village. Her plan would save them that expense. They could have this house, with its wonderful yard and all she would ask was that they buy Mrs. Jennings' house for her. That way Tish would really not be losing her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 home. Her piano could stay right where it was. The guest room would be there when one of her frequent guests came. "T'll wrap up the deal right now." Her tiredness had turned to enthusiasm. She went to the telephone and dialed Bob's home. "Just a moment," his wife said, "I think he is driving into the yard.... Just a moment." "Why, Mrs. Haworth. Id love you to have mother's place," Bob said when Tish ran out of breath. "Tl write the heirs today. I should have releases by, say Monday or Tuesday at the latest." "TN do it. PU do it." Tish hummed happily as she started her car. She was especially happy that she had thought of it herself. Usually, she followed pretty much what the family dictated. As she neared Irene's home, she saw a company car at the curb and Irene and Jim were standing beside it, their heads bent over some papers. Hardly waiting for her car to stop, Tish was out and hobbling toward them. Her right ankle wasn't acting so well today. "Guess what," she cried, and without waiting for their response, she plunged into the happy news. "I have this house problem solved for all of us. I don't know why I hadn't thought of it before." "We were just discussing.. Irene stopped and looked at her mother. "What do you mean?" "Well, Bob has put his mother's place up for sale. I called him." " Jim and Irene exchanged a quick look. Jim folded the papers and put them in his pocket. In words tumbling over each THE MISCHIEF MAKERS other, Tish outlined her entire plan. They would have no big payment to make, no interest to pay. All they would have to do was buy the little house for her and they could have her big place. "T wouldn't mind giving up my home," she said, slowing down for breath, "I can still enjoy it and look at what you will save." "That is very unselfish of you, Mother," Irene answered, "but it would be unfair to you, and to the rest of the family." "It sure would," Jim added, "your place has four times the value of that small place. And there would be a lot of problems involved. Besides, we were...." "Why should there be any problems? And Irene can live in her own home. She has always loved it. Haven't you?" "Of course, Mother, but I am not sure it would work out. And you would not be satisfied if you gave up the house." "Why shouldn't I...?" "We'll think about it," Jim interrupted. "We do appreciate your offer, and we will think about it." "What is there to think about?" "There are a number of angles, and we would not want to rush into a deal of this kind. We'll call you." Tish wasn't afraid of what their thinking would result in, but she was a little annoyed. The advantages were all theirs. 'They wouldn't find an opportunity like that every day. HEN next morning, Irene. "We haven't quite decided." ten o'clock came the Tish called 245 Irene sounded a little annoyed, Tish thought. The reason they were hesitating, of course, was their desire not to be selfish, and as Irene had said, there was the family, but that could be handled. A little later, a friend, Phyllis Herbert, called and asked Tish if she would ride to Dry Creek with her. They had a mutual friend who had fallen and broken her hip and would be glad to see them. Tish hesitated. It would be a pleasant drive, and she had to wait until evening for Jim's decision, but he might accidently call earlier. "Don't you trust my driving?" Phyllis asked. "Tt isn't that. Call from Jim. Portant." "For pity sake. They live only four blocks from you, and if it is that important we can drive by there." "Tll go," Tish decided suddenly. If she were out of town, Jim would know she was not trying to pressure him. "What are you so excited about?" Phyllis asked, when they were on their way. "I'm moving." Happy to have a listener Tish poured out her story. Phyllis showed a disappointing lack of enthusiasm. "Don't you think it is a wonderful plan?" "Yes, if Jim and Irene like it. I heard they had bought in Hill Village." "But this is much better for them, and I shan't have the work of keeping up the house and yard." "Would you mind my _ honest opinion?" I am expecting a It is very im- 246 "Certainly not." "Here goes then. Not your problem. But not the house." "Why — why, for pity sake, what is it then?" "That vou will have to figure out for yourself, but, remember, you can't have your cake and eat it, too." The house is The yard, yes, ISH had scarcely settled herself after her return when Jim and Irene appeared. "You have decided to take it?" Tish cried. "Well, we can't very well refuse," Jim answered, "but there will be some remodeling necessary, and since we are lucky enough to get it at your price, we feel we can afford some changes." He had a little hammer and a tape measure and went about tapping walls and measuring. Tish looked from his departing back to Irene. "What in the world are you planning?" "Well, Mother, you didn't think we would want it just as it is, did you? We are trying to decide what remodeling has to be done and what it would cost. I will have this partition taken out." Irene indicated the wall between the living room and what had been Hugh's study. Tish sat speechless. Presently Irene came back from inspecting the bedroom. "We'll make a family room out of that spare bedroom, and have it open onto a patio — we can easily build one there." She stopped and looked at the wall above the mantel. "I saw a painting that will fit chat space exactly. Mavbe I can talk the family into giving it to me for a Christmas present. And I have some carpet in mind that will RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 harmonize with the color of the painting. Then I will have those bookshelves taken out." "Irene, have you gone mad? Those shelves were built in there, one on each side of the fireplace, to extend the mantel. The mantel alone isn't large enough for our Christmas scene, the manger and all the little people...." "And the piano will go here." Irene ignored the native's scene and pointed to a wall against which there was a large davenport. "But the piano has always been where it is now. Why move it?" "That is your piano, I mean mine." HAT night Tish woke with a moan. She had seen her beloved home being torn down, first a door, then a window, then a beam. Her cabinet of figurines, collected from all over the world, was thrown from the empty doorway. Then she noticed Hugh, standing to one side watching, and every discarded board deepened the distress in his eyes. Then the house, Hugh, debris, and all began receding — further, further. She ran and ran, but could not catch up. Fully awake now, she looked about. Yes, this was her home. That had been but a haunting dream. She was in her own home and nothing had been touched. Slipping on a robe, she went into the living room and sat in the big chair Hugh had always used. She couldn't think. "They have no intention of using my home," she whispered, and the whisper was loud in the empty room. "They are even going to use the money I am saving them to tear my THE MISCHIEF MAKERS home to pieces. Never. If it is torn apart, it will be after I am dead and gone." But what could she do? She could not go on as she was. Without turning on lights, she rose and went from one window to another. At the window over the kitchen sink she lingered. The window was wide, and she could see all the back lawn and the garage. She loved this window — but where could she find an answer? HYLLIS had said something — what was it? Oh, yes, she had said the house was not her problem, but of course, it was. What else could it be? What else could it be? She repeated the sentence word by word. She asked herself questions: Why were there so many picnics in that yard and why had she had to clean up after them? Why should she cut and trim her lawn when she paid someone else to do it? Why did Irene bring her Cub Scouts here where they could spill punch? She brings them because in the beginning I insisted on it. It seemed a shame not to be using that lovely basement, and... And I wanted to be in on things. Why did I mop the floor? For the same reason that I always say, "You run along,' or "I'd love doing it this time." For the first time in days a chuckle parted her lips. She wanted to be in on things. She loved being with people, and she had been doing these chores for thirty or more years. H'm, h'm — there was her answer. 247 Because she had was no proof she could continue. She knew, now what Phyllis meant. Forget those two sentences, those mischief makers, and she could manage the house for a number of years. It was as simple as that. She would sell the back lot, right up to the garage. She could cut other corners, but she would keep her home. With sudden decision, she went to the telephone. What if it was three am? They might as well know right now that they were not using her money to remodel her home. The reason she had wanted them to have it was so she could enjoy it with them — intact. Eventually, Irene came on the line. When she heard her mother's voice, sleep left her. "Mother, what is it? Are you sick?" "Nothing is wrong. I just want you to know I am not selling my home, to you or to anyone." "You — you are not selling? You really mean that?" "T certainly do. Neither you nor anyone else is going to tear it to pieces as long as I am alive." There was silence at the other end so long Tish grew apprehensive. "You... I didn't hurt your feelings, did I? Are you terribly disappointed?" Tish could have sworn she heard a giggle. "No. No, Mother, I was just telling Jim. It is just that... Well, I mean... Well, we didn't expect your call before morning." "Now that," Tish told the dead telephone, "sounded mighty queer." ° ok Timber As Related by Ilene H. Kingsbury HEN I was just out of my teens I went to Pine Valley Mountain, in the Southern Utah country, to cook for the lumber hands. I lived in a tent and arose at four each morning to cook the usual potatoes, eggs, pork, and sometimes pie, for the hearty breakfast. This is a land of giant pines. Some of them were hauled by ox team to be used in the famed Tabernacle organ in Salt Lake City. Almost everyone in our part of the Southwest has a pioneer bedstead, chair, or butter churn made from Pine Valley pine. This mountain of trees is where the pioneers got their umber for what we now call our priceless relics. One day the logging hands were hungrily eating, when one of them mentioned a large pine standing by itself near the fork in the road. In fact, it was in the direct path of logging wagons going to the mill and could be called a nuisance. One man said he wished the miserable thing was out of the way. Another stated he was sick and tired of going around it. Half the time he nearly turned his wagon over trying to miss the thing. At that point I set down a pan of once-over eggs and announced that I could fell that tree myself. Well, you should have heard that tent full of men laugh! A girl! Saw that giant! "Well, Ill give you twenty dollars if you fell it!" yelled Jake, the camp spendthnift. "Tl take you on that!" I said. Whereupon they all shouted, slapped each other on the back, and were soon quite ready to take sides on this newest of challenges. "Why, Ill even give you twelve days to do it in," Jake promised. "Tl take you on that, too," said I. "But you'll have to fell it down canyon so it will be easy to haul off," he said. "Tl take you for that, too," said I again. What a rash team we both became! Then, thinking twenty dollars was not much for all the sawing I'd have to do, I said quite carelessly, "Guess I'll get the lumber from the tree, if I fell it"' This, more like a statement than a question. Jake felt so sure of himself, he let go with both barrels, so to speak, and spoke out, "Sure you can have the tree. And what's more, I'll even haul it to the mill. And what can be sawed out of it, you can have!" You can see how deep both of us were in this rash dare together. At this, I thought the men would die laughing. Annie, and a saw, and that tree, they cried. Whoever heard of such a thing! All for twenty dollars. Why, Annie, you can't lose money that way! Listen, *This is a true incident in the life of Annie Carter Johnson of St. George, Utah. She was born in 1877, the daughter of William Carter who turned the first sod for irrigation in the Salt Lake Valley in July 1847. Mrs. Johnson is the only Utah woman credited with making a full page in Life magazine (September 6, 1954), with her poem "Water," which was also published in the Congressional Record. Page 248 you don't make much more than that all summer! On they went. At about that moment the boss signaled for a start to the wagons and the men trouped out, each convinced that Jake's twenty was safe, for sure. _ Well, I turned to Sam, the lad who ran the dairy herd on the | mountain, and [ said, "Go find me | a good four-pound broad ax. I want to try it out. If it's sharp, maybe I could get a start before time to peel potatoes for supper." | Sam reluctantly sharpened the ax, 'but warned me that no woman | could strike off one chip from that huge, lonesome pine. "Want to offer me some money?" said I. But he must have seen the look 1 in my eye, for he shrugged and left the subject: dangling. 4 HEN I was sure all the men were out of sight and 250 wouldn't get back for a couple of hours, I took the ax and started up the road. As I neared the tree, it loomed larger than I'd ever remembered it. No wonder it was still growing on the hillside. Must have been two yards through the center from the level at which I would saw. Or hack... Or whittle... Or scratch. You can see by this time it was making me dizzy just to sight up the bark to its branchless top — eaten off by porcupines. I circled it a time or two, then, with arms outspread and pressing my body close to the trunk, I measured nearly four times around it, Almost, just almost, I admitted it wasn't worth twenty miserable, backbreaking dollars to slave over this ancient piece of forest. I figured it must be as big around as our dinner table at home in the valley. At that moment I swung the ax up to rest it on my shoulder to carry it back to the cook shack and figure out how to raise the money to pay Jake on the only dare I had ever made. But, at that instant, there came Jake himself, jogging on top of a loaded wagon. He positively leered. That look decided me! Well, he saw me strike the first blow, and I trusted he would hang around for eleven more days to see this giant crash downhill. I swung, I hacked, I panted, and all my labor merely dented the crusty bark. I little more than etched a line where I planned to part this pine in two. The chips looked pretty small and scattered. I knew then that ax swinging was not for me. So, really shouldering the ax this time, I strode resolutely back to my RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 cooking. One day was gone already, and the chips wouldn't have started a camp fire. After breakfast the second day, I said to Sam, "Get me a whipsaw. I must get on with that tree." At that Sam gave me up as a lost cause. "Whoever heard of one person using a whipsaw?" Well, I guessed I'd lick this somehow. Late afternoon came, and still no plan developed. But when Sam came around with an old, battered, rusty whipsaw and shook his head as a final warning, I thought I had it at last. E got it sharpened, which took the rest of the day until after supper. 'Iwo days gone by on the tree felling and not an inch of trunk exposed to view! I told myself not to mind the teasing of the lumberjacks, as they gave up for the night and mosied off to the bunkhouse to sleep. Poor Sam was beginning to take a conscientious view of this affair. By now he was as determined as I that the pine would come down; however, he was entirely unprepared to receive my most profound plan. You see, a whipsaw is long and slender — six or seven feet long, and with hook teeth. It has two handles, one on each end. It is meant to be used by two men, each grasping a handle, as they stand in a pit dug around the tree. They brace themselves and pull and push and press and strain, and, in due time, the sawdust gathers in little slopes beneath the blade. The great triumph is reached when the fibers _ of the tree can no longer keep the living patriarch upright. With great TIMBER noise of splintering and crashing it falls to earth. It measures its length where for centuries its shadow only has caressed. The soil. But note, it takes two men to bring it down! And I was only a gitl of twenty with never a saw in my hands before. THAT night I gave it another try, so to speak, and while I was putting some milk on a shelf for the cream to rise, I bumped my elbow, and spilled some milk, and had to wipe it up. That bump against the shelf nudged forth the idea — why not make a shelf for the saw to rest on, that is, the other end from my end. Or, since the saw had two ends, each with a handle, why not have the shelf long enough to rest whatever end I was not using at the moment. How perfectly wonderful, I said to myself, maybe this is sort of an invention! The next day, the third of the challenge, after breakfast I got Sam to help me build just such a shelf next to the tree about waist high. After that I had to go back to the cook shack to work. By now Sam just as good as told me I was addled in the head. In the interest of time, he reasoned, I had already lost one fourth of it in just thinking. When the men came in that night they let me know that the bench I had made by the tree was pretty good and would be a nice place to sit and read in the shade, but would cost me twenty dollars as a season's retreat. I said not a word in self-defense. And Sam, to his _ credit, didn't give me away. On the fourth day after my early chores, I stalked up to the tree with 251 a sort of Paul Bunyan stride. The whipsaw glistened in the sun and its teeth gave promise of good work as they caught my skirt with a sharp snag. 'Then, looking around to see that no one was near, I laid the saw teeth to the tree, the far end on the shelf; and threw my weight on the handle to give it the first push. It worked! The idea, J mean. It worked, as back and forth I pulled and pushed. In hard spots I walked around the tree to the shelf end of the saw and jerked it back through a stubborn section. I worked fast, I worked frantically. Before long, small streams of sawdust were flowing from the lengthening scratch in the bark. I think the smell of the damp, living tree slivers was the sweetest perfume I had ever inhaled. Nothing could stop me now. After an hour of this pulling, hauling, and running from on? End of the saw to the other, Sam called up the hill that I better get on down and mix the dough for tonight's bread. I looked at the size of one hour's sawing and realized that already the width of the saw was lost in the gash. (Only the silver ends grew and lessened as I gave my strength to the handles.) I forced it another dozen pushes and pulls and then went down to my cooking. For a moment Sam had me scared. "What if the tree falls up canyon?" he asked. "You won't get your twenty bucks then!" This just showed how little he knew about lumbermen's ways. You don't start sawing until you have decided where the trunk shall fall. I hadn't been in a lumber camp every summer for ten years for nothing. 252 ELL, let's get on by saying that by using every spare moment, and straining every muscle, and after blistering both hands and coming to use out-sized gloves, I knew I could finish that pine in record time. By actual sawing time, it took me three hours and forty minutes to cut through that wooden giant. I don't know how many trips it took me to get to it and hasten back to watch my pots and pans, but it must have been dozens. How happy I was when it lay there, pointing downhill, as Jake had demanded. Why, I just jumped upon its back and ran to the top end, and sat down, laughing all over. I was a little frightened, too, in a way, when I considered how huge it was — over fifty inches across — and how small I was, and how long it had grown there on Pine Valley Mountain, and how, maybe, the Lord just didn't want it ever to be cut down. That night at supper the men were praising me no end for the sawing and jokingly offered to trade jobs with me. I said all I wanted was my money and the lumber sawed out of that big trunk. Right there the whole plan struck a snag. Jake sort of stopped laughing and said he didn't owe me the twenty! I said he did, he said he didn't, over and over, until I was nearly in tears outside and crying like a baby inside. I looked down at my blistered fingers and vowed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 to get that money if I never lived another minute. The upshot of it was that Jake left the camp for a day or two. He just couldn't stand me pestering him night and morning. Finally, he came back expecting the whole thing to have blown over. But when he found I was more determined than ever to collect, and I had the word of all the boys that he did make the proposition, he just had to admit to it. It seems as if, in his mind, a game like that with a girl was for fun! But then, he had never run up against one like me! I made him keep his word, too, about hauling that tree to the sawmill, and by then he seemed pretty cured of the whole affair. And the lumber they sawed out of that controversial pine tree! The company gave me $320 for those boards, and what with the twenty from Jake, that made $340 for three hours and forty minutes work, or about one hundred dollars an hour. I almost gave up cooking in favor of sawing. They were building Dixie College in St. George at the time, and the carpenters said my lumber went into the stairway in the main building. They were in use for nearly forty years — educated steps, I always thought. Somehow, whenever I climbed those stairs I was reminded of the one and only time I staked my strength and determination for money. Somehow, | couldn't figure out whether I should have done such a thing, even for once! Linnie F. Robinson | decided to stop quilting for a moment and write a letter of appreciation - for the many fine articles published in our Magazine. I have, in my mind, written many such letters about various editorials, stories, or poems, and I have read what others have written in "From Near and Far" and mentally assented to their words. But, today, it occurred to me while I was quilting a third lounging robe that some words of appreciation ought to be written. I made two robes that were so lovely and yet so practical that I am now making a third. I got the idea in the September 1961 issue from the article by Holly B. Keddington, and decided that by quilting the robe she described, I could have something warm, yet washable and_ beautiful. I used nylon print for the top, dacron batt, and white nylon lining, so the robes will wash and wear and look lovely indeed. Prior to this I have made only wool flannel lounging robes. The quilted nylon robe makes a more practical gift, I think. I remember a few years ago an article came out showing some beautiful gold sprayed roses in a three-tiered epergne (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1957, page 802). Since I had a large box of various kinds of artificial roses stored away, I made some up, and they were lovely. I still have the gold roses tucked away, and I found that paper roses spray easiest and best. But the interesting thing about it all is that wherever I went I found that others had made these lovely gilded blossoms, too, and had read the article. I might add that my garden efforts are more successful because I read the Magazine garden articles, and they arouse my enthusiasm. I don't need to mention the food articles — as long as there are women who cook, new recipes will be eagerly sought after. I have heard all my life so much comment in praise of the Magazine that I think its worth, with some of us, is something like day and night — taken for granted. As a stake worker, I visited many wards and have heard women, as they express gratitude for the Relief Society organization, also express gratitude for the Magazine. I have heard them tell how they found stories, poems, editorials, or sermons therein that had solved some problem or had helped them in their daily life. Perhaps because I write, I have often been invited to speak in Sunday evening Relief Society programs, at stake leadership meetings, and March anniversary celebrations in other stakes and wards in surrounding areas, and I found that what was true in our stake was also true in these others. So I close with a wish that as long as there are Latter-day Saint women may there also be found the inspiration and blessing of our treasured Magazine. Page 253 sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, April 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NATIONS" THE DAY IN WHICH WE LIVE: Thousands of women have been praying for this day and age in which we live, and are now basking in its sunshine of progress and development; the prophets and seers of old, the sages and poets all down along the line have lifted their voices in anticipation of such a time, a day of freedom that has already begun to dawn; its roseate light of splendor is lighting up the everlasting hills of promise.... The faith of the many who thirsted for mghteousness has so far prevailed that greater light has come into the world and broader charity and love is being disseminated, truth that will dispel the darkness of error.... — Editorial APRIL'S AFIELD April's afield! April's in the air! Almost you may see each hour Willows that at dawn were bare, Meadows that were brown, On which the lengthening mellow day has burned, Creep into green before the sun goes down. And some black bough while mortal backs were turned, Swift stolen into flower.... — Selected RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY IN BENNINGTON, IDAHO: The sixticth anniversary of the organization of Relief Society was duly celebrated.... An address of welcome was given by President Margaret VanOrman, after which a_ program of speeches and songs and instrumental music was rendered. An excellent sketch of the life of Aunt Zina Young was given by Sister Rebecca Lindsay.... At two o'clock one hundred and seventy people were seated at the tables which were loaded with a delicious dinner.... At 3:30 the program was continued, consisting of singing, instrumental music and step dancing.... — An Observer A GIFT FOR PRESIDENT THEODORE ROOSEVELT'S WIFE: Mrs. Roosevelt has received a gift from President Diaz of Mexico, consisting of three pieces of exquisitely drawn linen. They are said to be the most beautiful specimens that have ever come to this country, and were sent to Mrs. Roosevelt as a special recognition of her encouragement to the linen workers in Porto Rico. — News Note But there is One who knoweth — thy worth the angels tell, And thy reward is doubly sure — He doeth all things well! — Ellis R. Shipp Page 254 RS. MARVIN (JOJEAN) LOFLIN was the one woman on the four-member team of Brigham Young University students who defeated four other college teams in succession on the national television program "College Bowl" — a weekly battle of brains and academic information. 'The other students were Robert Despain, Todd A. Britsch, and David Stone. On the fifth round, the "Y" students were defeated by Depauw University. Mrs. Loflin, who has a two-year old son and will be graduated in June, was noted among the students of all the teams for her wide knowledge and quick answers. She is an active Latter-day Saint young woman. The team won $6,500 in scholarships for the Bigham Young University and respect from audiences. HELEN HAYES, "Great Lady of the American Theater," is pictured as a devoted, wise, and sensible mother in an article in the February issue of Good Housekeeping by her beloved adopted son, James MacArthur. She gave him his first piano lessons; she paints and does sculpturing and designs and makes dresses as hobbies — all excellently; she has been awarded seven honorary degrees. She has recently been received with great a ae 7 i ree = oo — a ~~ 4 amt ay; ee sai me roman S opnere Ramona W. Cannon acclaim, traveling and acting with the Theater Guild, first in Europe, then in thirteen South American countries — as a representative of the United States in the cultural exchange program. MB:. WILMA RUDOLPH WARD, the outstanding woman track athlete in the United States, was voted the 1961 James E. Sullivan Award as top athlete in this country. Her runner-up was 'Tommy Kono, world champion weightlifter from Honolulu. RS. GLADYS SCHMITT, professor of English at Carnegie Institute of Technology, did a vast amount of painstaking and accurate research for her recently published fictional biography of the great seventeenth-century Dutch painter Rembrandt. 'The writing is brilliant and the facts are adhered to closely. YLVIA PORTER (Mrs. G. Sumner Collins), business columnist, and economics analyst, has a potential reading public of more than twenty-three million people. Her daily column "Your Dollar" appears In 311 newspapers, "giving her a distribution vastly wider than that of any other syndicated business columnist." Page 255 EDITORIAL cm© "L Will Pour Out My Spirit" ROM a meeting of six people in a small town in New York State to over a million and threequarter people located on every continent in the world — these figures represent the growth in membership of The Church of Jesus Christ since it was restored to the earth in 1830, one hundred thirty-two years ago this April 6. In speaking of the organizational meeting, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote: We dismissed with the pleasing knowledge that we were now individually members of, and acknowledged of God, "The Church of Jesus Christ," organized in accordance with commandments and revelations given by Him to ourselves in these last days, as well as according to the order of the Church as recorded in the New Testament (DHC 1:79). To Latter-day Saints today the growth of the Church seems phenomenal, yet to the Prophet Joseph and succeeding prophets of the Lord this growth was to be expected, for a vision of the destiny of the Church has been theirs. In 1843, the Prophet Joseph declared: Take Jacob Zundell and Frederick H. Moeser... And send them to Germany; and when you meet with an Arab, send him to Arabia; when you find an Italian, send him to Italy; and a Frenchman, to France; or an Indian that is suitable, send him among the Indians. Send them to the different places where they belong. Send somebody to Central America and to all Spanish America; and don't let a Page 256 single corner of the earth go without a mission (DHC V:368). From and even before the time of the organization of the Church, the gospel net began to draw in its own. Converts in this country and Canada and in the old countries, aflame with the spirit of gathering, sailed the oceans and rode the rivers; ox teams plodded and saints walked laboriously the one thousand miles of dry land to their resting place in the Rocky Mountains. Before his martyrdom the Prophet Joseph foretold that the saints would become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. Isaiah of ancient times had declared, And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow unto it (Isaiah 2:2). The saints have become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains, and the gathering continues but, still obedient to the voices of the prophets, the gathering of the saints in this day is in stakes, some far removed from Church headquarters, which are designated as places of gatherings for the saints, and where the greatest blessings of the sealing power have now been made available. The Savior is the head of the Church, and his mind and will are EDITORIAL revealed to the Church members through his chosen prophets. The members must have listening ears and accept the counsel, admonitions, and warnings of the present leaders and follow them implicitly. Joel spoke of the day when the Lord said, "T will pour out my spirit upon all flesh" (Joel 2:28). The wonderful progress taking place in the Church could be in fulfillment of that prophecy. As the Church spreads over the earth, so the organization of Relief Society spreads, that it may accomplish its divine purpose among the sisters and for the blessing of the Church members generally. 'The present prophet, President David O. McKay, has declared "Every Church member a missionary." If Relief Society is to keep pace in its designated place in the Church, then members will heed this injunction, a7 will be obedient to the Priesthood in their homes, teach and train their sons and daughters, as called, to go on missions, teach righteous principles and themselves lead exemplary lives. If every Relief Society member is a missionary — by precept when called and always by example — each one will then be participating in the blessings described in holy writ as "How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace" (Isaiah 52:7). This is a glorious day in which to be permitted to live, and glorious accomplishments are expected of those who are living now. May Relief Society live up to its blessings and great opportunities in this day of phenomenal growth and expansion. —M. C. S. Music Padda M. Speller The sunset on majestic peaks Glows richer than before; Sweeter sound the mountain creeks When we have music at our core. Verdant valleys greener seeming, Birds, more graceful, swifter dart, Beauty far beyond our dreaming When we have music in our heart. With humble dignity we are shod, And to nobility inclined, Walking hand in hand with God, When we have music in our mind. In melody, and sweetly, flows Life on, and when years take their toll There is joy, contentment, and repose, When we have music in our soul. Votes TO THis FIELD { i meer Unnasar 7:, j Lesson Previews to Appear in the June Issue of The Relief Society Magazine HE previews for the 1962-63 lessons will appear in the June 1962 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and the lessons for October will be in the July 1962 issue. In order to obtain the June issue of the Magazine it will be necessary for renewals and new subscriptions to reach the General Offices by the first of May 1962. It is suggested that Magazine representatives check their lists immediately so that all Relief Society members will receive all of the issues containing the lessons. It is suggested that ward presidents make this announcement in the April meetings. Starless Interlude Annie Atkin Tanner There is an hour between the close of day, And the coming in of night, When twilight drapes the granite folds of mountainsides, The darkening blue of sea and sky, The edge of desert loneliness, With a strange, translucent beauty. This is a time for quiet meditation, When tired day welcomes in the tranquil evening time, The gentle call of drowsy, nesting birds, The sighing sound of wind in willow trees, The mist-gray velvet of the changing dusk. In this hour of starless interlude, We seek for understanding and compassion, For those who sometimes walk alone; We ask for courage to meet the problems of each day, For faith and hope and peace in all the world. In the twilight hour, we humbly pray. Page 258 Cancer Education, Research, and Service Rutherford L. Fllis Chairman. Board of Directors. Amer Cancer Society GTATISTICIANS tell us that in 1962 about 275,000 Americans will die of cancer; that over the years, the disease will strike in approximately two of three American families. Lifting from mankind the burden of cancer's immense tool is one of the greatest challenges that face humanity. The American Cancer Society's Annual Educational and Fund-raising Crusade helps to meet these challenges. There has been encouraging progress. 'This year marks the 25th anniversary of the following two significant events in the American struggle to conquer cancer: 1. Enactment of a National Cancer Institute Act which created the National Cancer Institute. 2. Launching by the American Cancer Society of its first Nation-wide. Public education campaign out of which was to come a broad program of education, research, and service through voluntary support. The year 1962 has been designated "Cancer Progress Year." The objectives of the National Cancer Institute and the American Cancer Society in this year will be to report to the public on where science now stands in cancer research, to intensify the efforts being made to persuade the public to act for its own protection, to improve the care of the cancer patient, and to step up all programs to speed the final victory over cancer. There are now 1,100,000 Americans alive today, who have been cured of cancer. This means they are alive without evidence of the disease at least five years after diagnosis and treatment. An additional 700,000 cancer patients diagnosed and treated within the last five years will live to enter the ranks of those we call "cured." However, about 87,000 cancer patients will probably die in 1962, who might have been saved by earlier and better treatment. 'These needless deaths are a tragic reminder that we must redouble our efforts in this great fight. Join with the two million volunteers of the American Cancer Society and "To Cure More, Give More." > Doing Good Catherine B. Bowles The day is ended. Have you offended Someone along the way? Were burdens made lighter, Did the sun shine brighter, For the weary and worn today? Page 259 » EA looked with pride at her | first child, as he lay by her side upon the hospital bed. He was dressed in the softest of soft, new, blue cotton flannel nighties, and wrapped in one of his beautiful new blankets, all ready to make his first trip out through the sand dunes and date groves of Coachella Valley, to his home. Rea settled the collar of her dainty, fresh duster and wished that Steve would hurry. 'The later he was, the hotter it would be, and, besides, she was anxious to be home again with her husband and new baby. She wondered if the wind last night had left the usual little windrows of sand upon window and doorsill. "Hi, honey." Steve's cheerful voice spoke from the doorway. She turned quickly, "Oh, Steve, I thought you would never get here. They are about to charge us for another day, you are so late." But the rebuke was softened by her smile and affectionate kiss as he came closer. "Don't worry, darling. I have already paid the bill, and they did not charge us for an extra day!" He hugged her gently, as if she would break, and bent over to get a closer look at his son. "Mmmm, looks like Grandpa, I should say." "Oh, no, Steve. He looks like you...." She started to protest. A nurse bustled in with a wheel chair. "Who in the world is that for?" Rea protested. Page 260 "You will be tired by the time you ride all that way home, Mrs. Baker. You will wish you had this chair then," the nurse replied, helping her into the chair in a no-nonsense fashion, and placing the baby on her lap. She took them down the emergency ramp and out to the parking lot. When the outer door swung open, a blast of hot air, as though from an oven, hit them in the face. Rea gasped a little, and as soon as she had climbed into the middleaged pick-up, unwrapped the baby. Their drive took them west, past the date orchards whose lofty treetops cast a deceptively cool-looking shade within the groves, then past several grapefruit orchards, and, finally, onto a dusty road which ran erratically through the barren California desert toward the hills. At last, in the distance, she could see their own young date trees, hardly big enough yet to cast a shade, and on the other side of the road, the new little grapefruit trees, looking dusty and sparse among the barren flats. "Reason I was so late," Steve explained as they neared home, "was that we had a dust storm last night, and I didn't want you to come home to the house like that, so I went all over it before I went after you." "Thank you for doing that, Steve darling. I did hate the thoughts of the dust after that wind last night." HEY drove into the carport, and Steve hopped out quickly and A NAME BEFORE THE LORD ran around and tenderly lifted the baby into his arms for the first time. "Come to your Dad, Hy. My aren't you the big thing!" he added as he felt the smallness of his new son. A shadow crossed Rea's face at Steve's use of the name "Hy." "I didn't name him that, Steve. Remember, I said I did not like it?" she asked hesitantly. "Yes, but you wanted to name him that sissy name — what was it?" "Lanny." "And I didn't like that, and besides, it doesn't mean anything, so I just thought you had called him Hyrum." Steve looked rather impatient, but seeing how wan Rea suddenly looked, standing there in the heat, he hurried her inside and helped her to lie down on the davenport near the cooler, before he pursued the subject further. Then, with the baby still on his arm, he sat down beside her and said more gently, "Well, dear, what did you name him?" "T didn't name him anything," She said. "I thought about Hyrum, as you said to, but I still didn't like it." Then she put her hand over her mouth in alarm, "Oh, Steve, we were supposed to stop at the desk on the way out of the hospital and tell them what we had decided — and then that nurse was in such a hurry, she took us the other way, and I forgot all about it." "Oh, well, I can stop and tell them what we have decided next time I am in town," he said, mollified that she had not named his son without his consent. "Yes, I am sure we will find one we both like. I thought of a new one we had not tried before, just 261 this morning. It is Lowen, how do you like that?" "Well, not too bad, but, honey, when we have so many wonderful men in the family, and in the Church, or even in the Nation to name him after, why do we have to pick one out of thin air? I think that names have, or can have, a great influence on their owners. If we give him one like that, he won't have anyone to pattern after." "Nonsense, Steve! He will pattern after you — and what more could anyone ask?" and she pulled Steve's cheek down against hers for a moment. "If the name had not already been used by your sister, I would want him to be Stephen, like you — it is even a rather pretty name, I think." "Boys' names are not supposed to be pretty, like girls' names, honey. They are supposed to have more of a, well, a solid sound, and I think they should mean something. That is — when your name is also that of a person you admire, you will naturally try to emulate that person." Steve tried hard to get his point across. "I know that," Rea agreed, "but I think the name should sound nice, too. It is too bad your parents did not give you a middle name, we might have used that, but we will think of one yet. Don't you worry." "T wish you did not dislike Hyrum so much, though, because it is Grandpa's name, and he not only is a fine person himself, but he was named after the Prophet Joseph Smith's brother, who was a real servant of the Lord, a truly great man. Think what an example that would be to our son." 262 Rea looked thoughtful for a moment, then slowly shook her head. "It sounds so, well, old-fashioned," she said gravely, "I am sure I would never like it." Steve tried not to show his disappointment, as he rose to put the baby down and get their lunch, but it was a serious matter to him, and his usually irrepressible good spirits were subdued as he pondered the situation. Rea had joined the Church shortly before they were married, and there were many things in which her different background showed up. He had expected her to throw away a great many of her old attitudes in a bundle, and then fill the void with new, once she was baptized. Now he began to realize that each old one had to be literally pushed out by a better one, before it would give way. As Steve moved quickly about the kitchen, he resolved that he would not say anything more to spoil her first day at home. The naming could come later. When he returned to the living room with a tray for her and one for himself, he seemed cheerful once more. She responded thankfully, and vowed to herself that she would find a name they could agree upon. The days flew by. Rea gained her strength fast, for she had always been strong and athletic. Now she used her strength in caring for home and family, and even helping outside at times. The hospital sent them an urgent letter, asking that they be notified what the baby's name was, so the birth could be recorded, but they could not reach a decision. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 T last the month was drawing to a close. "We will have to decide on this fellow's name pretty soon," Steve said one morning, leaning over and chucking his son under the chin. "It will soon be Fast Sunday and time to give him his blessing and name before the Lord." "If your family only had a single name in it that sounded nice, we could," Rea said with asperity. She was sorry as soon as she had said it, for Steve's mouth drew down, and in a moment he had gone out of the door and she heard the pickup tires throw gravel as he drove out of the driveway. Oh, dear, why is it so hard for me to give in, she thought in distress, or why can't he give in? I have suggested so many names, surcly one of them would do, but no, it has to be Hyrum. The morning dragged on. At lunch time, she prepared an extra nice lunch, but Steve did not come. He was watering away down at the farthest end of the orchards, and she could not take the baby so far in the heat, so there was nothing to do but wait until he came. The afternoon was even longer than the morning. The thunder clouds seemed to be building up over the mountains, even more than usual, and the air was laden with moisture. The cooling system did not seem to help much, and she turned it off. Toward five o'clock she noticed that the sun was obscured, and soon it became so oppressive in the house that she took the baby up, putting a small blanket over her arm first, so that his little bare back would A NAME BEFORE THE LORD not be against her skin and cause him to perspire all the more, then went outside to find Steve. Flashes of sheet lightning filled the sky as she walked along on the damp earth between the rows of small trees, but she was not afraid. She rather liked the fury of the storm than feared it. She did think it better to be on dry ground, though, for fear one of the great streaks of lightning might strike near and be conducted to her. She turned and hurried to the side of the orchard and walked along there. As she neared the end of the tree rows, she looked every way for Steve, but he was not there. She could not see the pickup either, and felt very tired, and let-down. 'The baby was getting heavy on her arm, and she shifted him to her shoulder. The clouds had gathered so thickly that it would have been nearly dark, except for the continual sheets of lightning in the sky, which illumined the whole countryside in an eerie manner. 'There was a shallow draw near the end of the orchard leading to higher ground. 'Thinking she might catch sight of the pickup from there, she decided to go on up. Gusts of wind tore down from the hills, as she toiled along, making it even harder to walk in the soft sand. She wrapped the blanket about the baby, thankful that she had brought it. Soon, big, splashy drops of rain thudded down, borne by the wind. It must be raining up there, she thought idly, enjoying the huge drops on her face, but after a few more steps she heard a strange, rushing sound. In utter disbelief, 263 she saw a huge wall of water not more than fifty feet away at the head of the draw. For a split second, she watched its tumbling confusion as it broke over the edge and bore down upon her, then, with a high-pitched scream, she turned to the left and ran up the side on slipping feet, through the sand. ITH a desperate glance over the top of the baby's head, she saw she aoe not be able to get clear. Instantly she stopped, braced her feet as best she could, and, using the blanket as a sling, threw him away from her as far as she could. He left her hand just as the water caught her ankles, swirled the sand from under her feet, and, already off-balance from the throw, she fell sidewavs and rolled over and over, pushed on by the rolling water, until, miraculously, she felt a small bush under her and grasped it and held it long enough to stop her wild roll. She braced herself by it for a moment, feeling the water level subside around her as the crest passed. The baby! "Oh, please, oh, let him be safe!" she pleaded over and over as she struggled with all her might to get free, not knowing whether he had tumbled back into the water or not. Her movements felt hindered, even after the water sank away, as though she still struggled against it. She could not move fast enough. Her breath came in great gasps as she climbed to the top of the rise, and with a sob of thanksgiving saw the baby lying, face down on the ground, his blanket a few feet away, where he had rolled out of it. 264 Rushing to him, she snatched him up, fearful anew that he was hurt, but the quick jerk of her hands caused him to catch his breath, which had been knocked completely out of him. His lungs inflated, and in the next instant he screamed with all the pent-up fear a young babe can know. He lived! Gratitude flooded her being, and she sank upon her knees and gave thanks to God. SOMETIME later, Rea realized that she was sitting upon the ground, cold and shaking uncontrollably. 'The baby had cried himself into exhaustion and slept relaxed upon her lap. She put her ear to his mouth. His breathing was soft and regular. The peak of the storm had passed, and a big moon rolled high in the sky, in and out among the clouds. By its light she examined the baby more closely. His face was swollen and bruised. A knot had appeared behind his ear where he had evidently hit a small rock. The place was cut too, but not badly. 'The blanket must have still been around RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 him when he hit. Shuddering anew at thoughts of what might have been, Rea bowed her head and gave thanks again. While she sat thus bowed over the child in the most humble thanksgiving of her life, memory of the controversy between her and her husband came back to her mind. Suppose her baby had died without even a name, she thought suddenly. How horrible! Why had they been so stubborn — why had she been so stubborn? Now she saw her own attitude in a new light, as trivial and selfish. Steve was right. Their son's name should be one to which honor had already been brought through the life of a godly man who held it. When she heard Steve's voice calling her in panic and desperation, she rose and ran on swift feet to meet him. She could hardly wait to tell him, and when they drew near to each other, running and holding out the boy, she called out, "His name is Hyrum, darling." And as his arms closed around them, she knew she would love that name forever. Point of View Gladys Hesser Burnham Some folks think mountains hem one in, Obstruct a lengthening scene, Their rocky crags frown down in awe To dwarf — almost demean. These friendly arms encircle me, I lift my eyes to God; Illimitable, protective might, Their height's a beckoning rod. My Son Is on a Mission Agnes K. Morgan AS our missionary force grows, I hear many mothers tell of their sons and of their places of labor. Then I wonder if these other mothers share some of the same emotions and thoughts that are mine. When our son left, I was tired, sad, and was filled with an immense feeling of regret for all the things that I had not done; yet, I was so very, very grateful for this worthy son. I carricd a quiet joy in my heart, seeking not to be proud except in gratitude to the Lord for such a precious son. My soul knelt inside of me to thank my Father in heaven, while my head was raised high in radiance of the joy of the gospel. I was slow to clear away things and close his desk; slow to put away the evidence of his living here; reluctant at night to lock the front door and turn out the lights, for I still waited for the sound of his car and his arrival home. I prepared good family meals — the number at the table seemed small. To sustain me, there was a sweeping gratitude for worthy sons, for my husband and our other precious children; gratitude for the principles of the gospel that have made these blessings possible; gratitude that other mothers have reared fine sons to be companions to mine in the mission field; gratitude that this was our third son to do missionary work. I am so glad that I could open the door within my heart and let my son go. Now, I close that door, knowing those lovely memories behind it are always there; knowing that as I close this door, another is opening in visions of hope and love and faith, and new activity; knowing that always, with each child, doors open to new vistas and close on finished chapters, while mothers become wiser in the ways of children — and doors — and understanding. Thus we gain a fulness of living, with joy in that fulness, and a_ testimony. "For I the Lord thy God will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not; I will help thee" (Isaiah 41:13). | Would Follow Thee Mildred Wentworth Jesus Christ, Redeemer, too, I would leave all and follow you. Thou art the light upon the hill; A beacon guiding me until My time upon this earth is past. And, kneeling at thy feet at last, I hear thy sweet commanding voice Say, "Come to me. Rejoice, rejoice." Page 265 "Singing Sermons" Caroline Eyring Miner M* mother knew almost every song in the hymn book by heart. She was not a talented singer, but she could carry a tune with enthusiasm and some accuracy, and she loved to sing. Sometimes, on a Sunday afternoon, she would gather us around the piano, which had known better days, and, starting with "Abide With Me," we would sing through to "Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd," which, as I remember, was in those days, the last song in the book. "Count Your Many Blessings" was a favorite of Mother's, and she impressed its message upon us. 'There was never anyone who was more of an optimist than she. I often thought she was thankful that she didn't have anything except the spirit of being thankful. Now I know that is truly something to be thankful for. "Angry Words! Oh, Let Them Never From the Tongue Unbridled Slip," we learned as a duet, and its message sank deep into my heart. Family harmony was a reality in more ways than one. "Do What Is Right... Let the consequence follow" put the fearless militancy of the crusader into our hearts. It was Mother's Father's favorite and exemplified his fearlessness well. We were rewarded with a dime each for learning the words of this magnificent hymn from beginning to end. In our home evenings we usually sang "Love at Home," page 49. It was easy to find and could be counted upon to set the proper mood. The words were then sung automatically, but the phrases come back to me again and again with renewed significance. "There is joy in every sound when there's love at home.... Oh, there's One who smiles on high when there's love at home." "O My Father," with its plaintive melody and its bitter sweetness of sad associations at funerals was another song Mother loved to sing. 'The greatest favorite, though, was "There Is an Hour of Peace and Rest." There is an hour of peace and rest, Unmarred by earthly care; "Tis when before the Lord I go, And kneel in secret prayer. May my heart be turned to pray, Pray in secret day by day.... These "sung sermons" have stayed with me much longer than the unsung ones, maybe because I was not conscious of their being sermons at all. By contrast, 1 tremble to think of the "sung sermons" some of our children are getting from television and radio without supervision. Maybe, as parents, we had better start singing more sermons of our own. Page 266 A Latter-day Saint Schoolteacher in Beaver, Alaska Elizabeth Peterson Zabriskie HIS is our second Sunday in T Beaver, and in many ways it seems as if we have been here much longer. The time has been spent in varied activities, some new experiences, and others the usual routine business of getting settled. Our trip was pleasant, highlighted by meeting with friends in Fairbanks and spending an enjoyable evening talking over old times. We attended church in the new chapel, which was quite a change from the time when we held our meetings in the homes of members. We also visited our old home on the farm outside of Fairbanks and the University of Alaska, both showing some growth, but still familiar. From Fairbanks to Beaver we flew in an old B-17 loaded with freight and moose hunters. 'This was a rough flight, and before we reached Fort Yukon the boys were air sick. It got worse from Fort Yukon to Beaver, so I joined them, and when we finally arrived the plane couldn't land, so we returned to Fort Yukon and the "bush pilot" took us and a little of our luggage into Beaver. The weather was windy, wet, and chilly, but the faces of the people who met the plane were bright and smiling and we were happy to see them. The engineer who accompanied us from Fairbanks soon had the generator and fires going. He hired the school janitor who had been here last year, and he began hauling water. The boys, with their new friends, went rabbit hunting and returned shortly with three rabbits. These, with food left from the school lunch program, provided us with food. The plane returned in the evening with our bedding and the few groceries I had purchased in Fairbanks, and thus we spent the first day in our new home. The school is a large building and a landmark to every river and air pilot in this region. More than its size accounts for this fame, however, for to keep the generator working properly we must burn the lights all the time and they can be seen for miles. At night we turn lights on, instead of out. The water is hauled from the river in large barrels and left to stand so the dirt will settle, then it is pumped into a large tank for use in the school. The hot water tank is very small, so I must heat all water for washing and bathing. We also boil all water we drink, and even this gets pretty dark and thick toward the bottom of the jue. Im fact, at fret the bee thought it was punch, but like everything else we soon got used to it and the taste really isn't bad. Our quarters are comfortably furnished except for the curtains, and these I have ordered from a catalogue. The dishes and silver are strictly G. I. We have oil heat and so far it has been warm, except for the floors, but the boys have wool socks and if I wear two pairs of anklets it is comfortable. We have Page 267 268 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 DUS BOST OFRCE | AVER POST OFFICE IN BEAVER, ALASKA The author, Elizabeth P. Zabriskie, and her sons Duane and Sheldon are seen standing on the steps. Storm windows now, but Moses (the janitor) says there are more to go up before it gets cold. We have two bedrooms, a bath, living room, kitchen, and a little radio room where I send and receive all messages for the village. There is a guest room upstairs, and it is one of my duties to provide food and lodging for all health and welfare personnel who visit the village. Judging from the past week, we will not be lonesome, for we have had a guest nearly every night, and this week we are expecting the X-ray unit in the village. The school is the center of all village activity, and I, the teacher, am expected to be in charge of it all. UTSIDE of teaching and entertaining guests, my duties include planning menus and organizing the hot lunch program (the mothers do the cooking), arranging for movies to be shown once a week, dispensing all drugs to the natives in the village, each day report over the radio to the hospital in 'Tanana any sickness in the village, and receive instructions as to what to do about it. Each evening I have radio contact with Fairbanks to receive any telegrams or telephone messages and to send any messages from here, and there are times when the traffic is quite heavy, as the other night we were on the air from 8:00 P. M. To 11:25 trying to get three messages through. Another day one of the missionaries from the village was reported lost on a flight to Fairbanks, and we were on the air re ceiving messages until he was reported safe early the next morning. The village is small, consisting of A LATTER-DAY SAINT SCHOOLTEACHER IN BEAVER, ALASKA one-room log cabins, two stores, one of which is also the Post Office, two churches, the Episcopal and the Assembly of God. The village is located on the banks of the Yukon, a beautiful setting, with pine and birch trees surrounding it. From the front of our house we can see a few cabins and the river; from the back we can see the air strip, and the cemetery where the wind and weather have erased the names from most of the markers. This takes in the whole village, not much, but really a very pleasant place. It started snowing on September 27 and has snowed a little each day since, except today which is a beautiful sunny day, but the temperature was seven degrees above zero this morning, and even with the sun shining it hasn't risen much. We are waiting for the river to freeze enough for ice skating, which should be very soon, but they say the snow soon gets too deep, so there is really a very short time for skating, but we 269 are looking forward to that little time and so is everyone in the village. It also gets too cold to spend much time outside, some claim it has been seventy-three below, but the records show sixty-four below as the coldest day last year. The people in the village have had their dog sleds out for about a week, and Duane and I are good riders, but that doesn't satisfy Sheldon, and he is learning to drive them. We have been promised a pup right away, so we may start a team of our own, or that is what the boys are planning. Started to teach school on the second of October, with thirtyfour students, ranging in ages from six to eighteen and grades one to eight. This is not as difficult as it may sound for they are all glad to be in school, and there are only two in the third and fifth grades, so I can put them with other groups, making only six groups. The children THE SCHOOLHOUSE IN BEAVER, ALASKA The dense forest can be seen in the background. The village of Beaver is located on the Yukon River in a setting of majestic beauty. 270 are happv, friendly, and willing, which makes teaching them a joy. There are Indians, FE'skimos, and mixtures of Indian, Eskimo, White, Negro, and Japanese. I haven't figured out which is which yet, but it makes schoolteaching interesting. We are supposed to receive mail three times a week, but the weather has been so bad since we arrived that it has only been in twice, and though we can receive and send messages over the radio, it does seem quite isolated when we don't receive mail. Now that things are settling down to a routine, we can honestly say we are enjoying it, the boys learning to hunt and dog sled and making friends with the children, and I am enjoying my teaching very much. It is nice to be in a place where the people really seem to want you. In Fairbanks, on our way to Beaver, one of the brethren took us to our church and showed us the town. Since then, the three of us RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 have held Sunday School and Primary in our home. The boys have told the whole village we are Latterday Saints and what we believe. I have become very good friends with the Episcopal minister and his wife, but so far we haven't expressed our views on religion, but I have been invited to the Girls Friendly Society of the Episcopal Church to tell them about our Church. These experiences are strengthening our testimonies. Sheldon and Duane are studying The Book of Mormon. We like the village and the people very much. They are friendly and quite well educated. They all speak English. They want to be friends; they bring us moose, salmon, and slippers and mittens, which they have made. They come and ask if they can help me with anything, so I feel quite at home and among friends. I feel the Lord has really blessed us, and pray I can help my boys and myself along in our faith. Fame's Prayer Leora Larsen God, humble me through the glory of day, And cushion the cold numbness of my night With knowledge that I have not lost the way, And thou wilt keep me always in thy sight. A Compliment Cast on the Waters Evelyn Dorio D° you ever feel as if you perform the million and one tasks around the house without anyone ever noticing or appreciating it? If you didn't put fresh water in the dog's dish, poor Fido would die of thirst; if you didn't pick up throw-away papers, the front lawn would sprout newsprint; if you didn't say, ""This window screen needs replacing," your house would become headquarters for winged insects; if vou didn't.... Such was my state of mind the morning the telephone rang and a co-worker of my husband's said, "Say, what's this special flower blooming in your patio today? Your husband says it's out of this world — six inches across, maybe seven, iridescent petals, and the stamens look like a white flower growing inside a bigger flower. What do you have, there? Did someone bring you a souvenir from outer space?" "It must be the hybrid epiphyllum," I replied. And when had my husband noticed all that? "Hybrid epiphyllum!"' exclaimed the man. "That's my hobby. Will you exchange a cutting for a nice little citrus tree, tub and all? Grafted, too. You'll get oranges and lemons and pink grapefruit — maybe." After we hung up, I went outside to look at the "'outer-space" flower. It really was exquisite. Sprinkling it earlier that morning, my thoughts had been too filled with self-pity to notice. But why hadn't my husband told me how beautiful it was? Instead, he told the whole office. Just wait until he gets home! But a moment later, I thought, no, if he had praised me, I would have felt a momentary pride, and the compliment would have ended there, died there. But since he needed to express it, the whole office was sharing this spectacular blossom. In the afternoon the epiphyllum hobbyist came to take colored slides of the flower, and within a week I had received a dozen compliments and exchanged cuttings with four other office people. Besides, my patio now has a tubbed citrus tree that may yield oranges and lemons and pink grapefruit — maybe. Weeds Celia Luce A weed is defined as a plant growing in the wrong place. Even a rose can be a weed in the middle of a wheat field. I must be sure I put my efforts in the right places. Page 27] From My Window | Watch Cleo Jones Johnson ROM my window I watch the progress of a new dwelling. Several weeks have passed now. The house has taken a beautiful form. It will boast of the latest of all the modern improvements, comforts, and conveniences. The proud owners wander in and out, inspecting this, approving that. 'They dream their dreams and anxiously await the day of moving. On its plush carpets their little children will play. Around the welllighted tables the academic studies will be learned. In the gleaming kitchen the mother will prepare her excellent, well-balanced meals. The heated garage has a "do-it-yourself" corner, where Dad can putter away his spare moments. Life is good, full of comfort, hope, and dreams. The workmen hurry faster now for the strong north wind has brought its first flurry of snow. EK OK OK watch from my window and I remember the stories I've been told of other days. Seventy-five years ago my people came to this valley. With courage in their hearts and a prayer on their lips, they drove their team and wagon into the swift and turbulent waters of the mighty Snake River. They offered thanks for a safe passage across. They found their spot. They built a house. And they were grateful for the kind Providence which provided the material. 'The mighty river in its frequent rampages had Page 272 piled the trees which its fury had washed out along the banks. Time and the elements had barked the logs and weathered the wood. They cut small trees and willows to chink the big logs and they dabbed the cracks with mud. The roof had its covering of poles and dirt. They hurried the work, for winter was upon them. When deep snows covered the earth and cold penetrated everywhere, when the mournful cry of the coyote was heard close by the door, they found their feeling of security within the four walls of the crude log dwelling. The old stove, with its warped covers and broken door in front of the grate, gave not only warmth but cheer as its fire glowed. The smell of the cottonwood fuel was pleasant. The food set upon the table was simple and sometimes meager — potatoes, bread, milk, sometimes an egg or bacon. Never was it eaten without the proper thanksgiving prayer. Improvements came slowly. A wooden bucket hung on its rope near the new open well, and the barrels which had been used to haul the culinary water from the river found other uses. Inside the house the ceiling was covered with an unbleached material called factory which was whitewashed, as were the walls. A strip of homemade carpet partly covered the unmatched boards of the rough plank floor. 'The flickering light of the candle was replaced by the kerosene FROM MY WINDOW | WATCH lamp. The little house was kept scrupulously clean. Life was good, full of faith, hope and dreams. For many years this humble structure gave shelter from storm, blizzard, heat, cold, night, enemies imaginary and real. It fostered love, security, thanksgiving, vision, faith, discipline, contentment, peace. Under its roof morning and evening prayers were a regular institution, and the children were taught many lessons in early life, including thrift, dependability, self-reliance; a knowledge that all owed a debt of gratitude to the community and its members; that happiness comes through sharing, helping, giving; that pro- 273 gression is a move in which all must — give a share. The old log house is a memory now, a blessed memory to those who were reared there and to those who will come after. WR RK OK ODAY from my window I watch, and in my heart I find a prayer, "O Father, may we who enjoy the inheritance of those brave pioneer souls, prove faithful to the heritage that is ours. May we take the responsibility of teaching our children the important things in life. May we feel gratitude for that which we have. May we be worthy of thy love. Thanks for the memory of an old log house. Enough Hazel Loomis I want no more than corn to grind — Or sheep to tend. Enough, if by a scrubby tree, I sit the whole day long As mother, weaving, Hums a song. Enough, to sit for just an hour Beside my father's hogan fire — Enraptured artist, color rising in his face, Pounding silver Into lace. I need no pillow for my head, A pallet of clean sand, my bed. Where hearts glow warm — where smoke leaps higher, Enough, the peace Of a hogan fire. Atl Attitudes Even the desire to do our best brings hope and the beginning of gladness. Tich, then, shall the harvest be. How —Pauline M. Bell Candy for Your Easter Basket Caroline L. Naylor CarAMELS 1 c. Milk 1 ¢c. White syrup % Ib. Butter: vanilla lc. Sugar 1 c. Chopped nuts Mix all ingredients together over low heat, stirring constantly. Bring to boil 240° F. Remove from heat. Add vanilla and nut meats. Pour into buttered pan. When cold turn out onto wax paper and cut into small squares. CuHoco. LaTEe Cur Fupce 1 tall can evaporated milk % Ib. Butter (13 fluid ounces) 3c. Nuts 4% c¢. Sugar - 1 tsp. Vanilla 3 pkg. Chocolate chips. 18 oz. Marshmallows Boil milk and sugar mixture ten minutes, stirring constantly. Mix remaining ingredients separately, then add milk and sugar mixture. Beat and add nuts. Form into rolls or drops. Divinity 2 ¢. Sugar pinch of salt % c. Water 1 tbsp. Vanilla % ¢. Com syrup _. 1 ¢. Nuts and coconut 3 egg whites =. Chopped together Place sugar, water, and corn syrup into a saucepan. Hold above heat and stir until sugar dissolves. Place on heat and let cook (do not stir while cooking) to a crack stage 260° F. While it is cooking beat three egg whites stiffly and add a pinch of salt. When syrup is ready slowly pour it over egg whites, beating constantly, or better still, use electric beater. Beat until it is creamy and stands alone, then add vanilla and nuts. Spoon out or turn into a tin lined with wax paper. Should make fifty or sixty pieces. Add food coloring if desired. Page 274 Two Recipes for a Luncheon © Ruth L. Jones Mo. Pep SHrimp SALAD 1 pkg. Lemon gelatin 1 c. Shrimp 1 c. Boiling water 3 chopped boiled eggs "% ¢, mayonnaise 2 minced green onions 1 small glass pimento cream cheese 1 tbsp. Minced green pepper % c. Cream Dissolve gelatin in boiling water. Chill until syrupy. Add mixed mayonnaise and cheese. Whip cream lightly and fold in. Add remaining ingredients and stir all into gelatin mixture. Pour into oiled mold. Chill until firm and serve on crisp lettuce. Serves eight. Fruit Bars %" c. Sifted flour 1% c. Chopped walnuts % c. Butter % tsp. Baking powder 2 eggs, beaten % tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Grated lemon rind % c. Chopped dates 2 tbsp. Lemon juice (or % c. Coconut) % c. Powdered sugar Mix flour and butter as for pastry. Sprinkle in baking pan. Bake at 350° ten minutes. Beat eggs. Add brown sugar, dates, nuts, baking powder, vanilla. Spread over dry mixture. Bake 20 minutes more. Mix rind, juice, and powdered sugar. Spread over hot mixture. Cool. Cut into 16 squares. May be kept in refrigerator but not in freezer. No Half Loaf, This Virginia Newman Friendly were the words you said, (I'd like the recipe some day), Tendering the loaf of bread, Oven warm and savory; But let me ask you if I may, How much that gesture meant to me, How you acquired the finer art Almost a stranger, lonely too, Of nourishing the hungry heart? And gladdened by the sight of you. I never had the knack, somehow. I would repay you if I could. Oh, yes, the bread was extra good. (I'd like that recipe right now). Page 275 Recipes From a Pioneer Kitchen Anne McCall PICKLED RED CABBAGE 1 or more firm red cabbages, as: desired (shredded) vinegar to cover cabbage 2 tbsp. Black peppercorns (to each quart of vinegar) 2 tsp. Allspice (to each quart of vinegar.) salt Wash cabbage well. Put into earthenware vessel and sprinkle with salt. Cover and let stand two days. Add vinegar, black peppercorns, and allspice. Boil until well flavored. Cool and strain off remaining liquid. Place cabbage into wide-mouthed bottles and fill up with vinegar. Seal airtight. Leave for one month before using. APPLE CHUTNEY 10 large cooking apples (sliced) 1 tbsp. Mustard 5 large brown onions (sliced) 1 tbsp. Salt 3 c. Stoned raisins 1 tbsp. Pepper 2 Ibs. Brown sugar - 1 tsp. Cayenne 3 pts. Vinegar Mix and boil well. Bottle, and seal. Leave for three months before using. In a Hard Place | tee us not laugh at the small, scrubby flower living precariously away from a flower garden. It has had to fight for its chance with weeds and drought. It may be small and gnarled, but it smiles brightly in a hard place. It is the hardy one, and it has seeds that may grow tall and strong and straight, bringing beauty down the generations. Such hardy ones among people were the pioneers, who came to the hard places and made them beautiful for us, their children. —Celia Luce Page 276 Note to Carvel Mabel Jones Gabbott There is nothing I can give Except a knowing of the way The loss of one, long loved, will live Quiet at times, until a day When some small memory, quick And sharp, yet very clear and near, Breaks through the numbing hurt to prick The blank, and loose a cleansing tear, Refreshing, after a time, all living With the beauty of that life, still giving. > The Little Silver Thimble Sherry Crookston ODAY I received in the mail a small package from my grandfather, together with this epistle: Dear Sherry: Inasmuch as you are the first and oldest of the grandchildren, I thought you ae like this little memento of your grandmother. As I took it out of her workbasket and held it in my hand, I remembered so vividly the light in her eyes as she said, "Remember, dear, when you bought me this little thimble? I was struggling with the first baby dress I had ever made, and you watched me pricking my fingers as I pushed the too-large needle in and out of the dainty material. When I asked where you were going, as you put on your coat and hat, you said you would be back shortly. "In a few minutes you tossed a tiny square package in my lap. As my eager hands untied the ribbon, vou watched me with a smile. Something special, I was sure! Gift wrapped, with love. A beautiful silver thimble! How I loved it, and you. How I tried and tried to use it, how awkward I felt. You tried to show me, and we both laughed together." She soon mastered it, Sherry, as she did most of life's problems. When I recall the many beautiful pieces of handwork and lovely garments her love and skill fashioned throughout the years, as we sat together evenings and I read to her, or we discussed our plans and affairs of the day, my thoughts go out to you, and as you are planning to be married soon, may you and Bill be as happy, and may your lives be as full of the good things as ours were, is my wish for you. Lovingly, Grandfather The flood of love and memories this thoughtful little gift brings to me is something I will cherish as long as life lasts, and each time I look at it or touch it or use it, I will remember my gentle grandmother with her lovely crown of silvery white hair, and all the beauty her life portrayed. I know my life will be made richer because of one little silver thimble. Page 277 Housekeeper in a Hurry Janet W. Breeze STREAMLINE THAT HOUSECLEANING A cobbler's apron is the greatest thing ever invented, if used to its best advantage. These aprons may have three wonderful pockets which you would do well to label (1) Upstairs, (2) Downstairs, and (3) Trash, if you have a poor memory. This can be done by sewing twill tape or applying iron-on tape to the pocket and writing with an embroidery pen. As you pick little things up off the floor or off the tops of tables, drop them into the pocket for later delivery to thei: proper places. COBBLER'S APRON Page 278 A PLASTIC BUCKET FOR STORING CLEANING TOOLS A plastic bucket in the bathroom for keeping soap flakes, cleanser, brushes, sponges, etc., handy will save many steps out to the kitchen. By the way, have you ever tried using that long-handled brush for scrubbing the tub? Scrubbing the kitchen and bathroom floors can be done much more neatly and quickly if you VACUUM baseboards, corners, and other hard-to-sweep places first. Wear old cotton gloves when cleaning windows to get those corners sparkling bright. HOUSEKEEPER IN A HURRY 279 HANG A SIIOE BAG H's a shoe bag by the ironing board to hold iron-on tape, scissors, needle and thread, and other needed items for mending. Hang a shoe bag by baby's crib to hold powder, oil, cotton-tipped sticks, rattles, extra pins, etc. A shoe bag pinned to the side of a sick bed can hold numerous odds and ends. CUTLERY BOXES Cutlery boxes can be used for many things other than silverware: Mother can use them for miscellaneous items near the sewing machine, such as bobbins, needles, pins, scissors, tape measure, marking chalk, etc. A teen-age daughter can easily organize bobby pins, hair rollers, combs, nets. Lipstick, etc., in one of those handy boxes. Dad might like one in his desk drawer at home or at the office for paper clips, thumb tacks, pencils, erasers, elastics and so on, and in the basement for odd assortments of screws, nails, bolts, and nuts. MY KITCHEN, MY CASTLE yp AVE some of the water on those potatoes you're going to whip and add powdered milk for a creamy texture. Store cheese in a plastic bag in the door of your refrigerator for lasting freshness. Can't find that lid? An aluminum pie tin right side up fits into many cooking pots. The pie tin can then be used for warming rolls or left-overs at the same time. Ammonia in soapy water will easily clean the grease off kitchen walls. Ammonia left in a dish overnight in the oven will make for easier cleaning of the oven. For quick and easy cinnamon toast, keep a salt shaker full of cinnamon and sugar ready and waiting at all times. INSTANT COOKIES WITH A CHILD CHEF HAY you some "Me-do-ers'' at your house? Let them bake cookies with only slight supervision. Sounds difficult, you say? Not so with this quick and easy recipe that delights and occupies even the smallest fry. Let your pint-sized cook mix the following together in a bowl for INSTANT COOKIES: 1 pkg. Instant pudding mix % c. Salad oil % c. Biscuit mix 1 egg The dough is very stiff and is easy for CLEAN little hands to mold and shape into cookies about %-inch thick. No need to grease the cookie sheet — just bake at 375° for 10-12 minutes. Yield: About 15 cookies (more or less, depending on your cook). Anna Eckloff Makes Her Life Happy With Hobbies Aa Diceria Eckloff of Poulsbo, Washington, has found a theme to make her life happy and to enrich and beautify the lives of others — '"'Handwork for Happiness." She has made eighteen crocheted bedspreads, twelve tablecloths, many doilies, pillowslips, chair sets, embroidered tea towels, quilts, and fancy aprons. In her busy life there is no room for sadness — she has too much to do. Her exquisite work has won awards at fairs and exhibitions, and she has contributed many lovely items for Relief Socicty bazaars, where her work is greatly appreciated. "I have to hurry to get my handwork done," Sister Eckloff declares, "for it is always needed, and I have made a practice of always having some extra articles on hand." She has sewed for needy families and has remodeled clothes for them and taught the mothers to sew. Mrs. Eckloft's four children, six grandchildren, and ten great-grandchildren all have received handmade gifts from her, and many of them have learned from her to be skillful in the handwork arts. She dearly loves Relief Society and is a faithful member. She was born in Sunswall, Sweden, and has been a member of the Church for ten years — "wonderful years" — she says, for she rejoices in the Church activities of her family. > From My Window Evalyn Sandberg This moon-drenched night The sturdy oaks along our quiet lane Repeat themselves in patterned light Upon a darkened pane. Affirm to me, With whispered strength in solid presence here, That in the dark tranquility A loving God is near. Page 280 Keep Your End of the Handle Up. Olive Sharp HIS was an old saying of my Father, "Keep your end of the handle up. You are here, the same as I, and it is your duty to do your share to help keep this old world tight side up." Father was very strict with us children, and he saw that we learned to work when young, and he would say, "Learn to work when you are young, and you will always like it, and if you will do that, many interesting things and worthwhile projects will come into your life so that, at times, you will wish you had two pairs of hands instead of one." The Lord has said that if we will work in his vineyard, he will bless us with a mighty blessing... - Everyone who knows this promise should be glad to work in his vineyard. The Lord also said if we would pay one tenth of our income to the work of the Lord, the gates of heaven-would be opened and we would be showered with blessings. I wonder why so many people who know, or should know, do not keep these wonderful commandments. I feel sure they have not been taught them when young. "As the twig is bent, so the tree will grow,'' and no greater joy can come to a mother or father than to have their sons and daughters grow up to be fine, respected, honored, reliable men and women, doing their share to bring peace and happiness into this troubled world of ours. I happened to hear two young ladies, sisters they were, talking about paying tithing and wondering if they did pay tithing if their paths would be a bit smoother. Last spring I met one of them and asked her if paying tithing had helped her. She replied, "It certainly has. My husband received a raise in his salary and we have not had a doctor in our house for months. We think God did open his gates and shower us with his blessings." "How is your sister getting along?" I asked. "She can't get money enough ahead to pay tithing, so she is just plodding along," was the reply. Our children did not ask to come here, so when they do come it is our duty to give them good training for their future hfe. Our Best Is Needed Leona Fetzer Wintch HESE are times that require the best that is in us. We do not want to be "average," or "common," or "mediocre." These terms suggest sluggishness and. Drifting, not the striving and achieving that are essential to keep us free. Page 28} SRE Don Knight DESIGN OF PALMS AND CLOUDS What Did You See? Maude Proctor HIS morning when you got out of bed and raised the blind, or when you gazed out of the window over the sink as you finished the breakfast dishes, what did you see? If you are the average housewife, with the cares of rearing a family on your mind, you will probably answer, "Oh, the same old yard." And if it happens to be summer, you might think with a sigh, John has Paae 282 not cut the lawn yet, and Alan left his bike out again, and I must take care of the flower bed. Or, if it was winter, your thoughts may have run, also with a sigh, John will have to shovel the snow off those walks before school, and will Alan ever learn to put his bike away at night? And so into the day. Worry, worry. What you saw was a panorama of everyday living that immediately translated itself into work and re- WHAT DID YOU SEE? Sponsibility. 'That is good, but first let us try to see things that will lift the spirit and delight the soul. Then we can move into the duties of the day with pleasure and with courage.. The eye must be helped to see the less obvious beauties of ordinary objects about us. 'The place to begin this learning process is in an art class, preferably one in oil painting. "Horrors," you exclaim, "I can't even draw a straight line!' Of course you can't. Very few people can. But, even if you never paint a picture that gets further than the trash can (but probably you will), the rewards are great. Have you ever noticed how many shades of green there are in the tree in the corner of your yard? Look carefully, and you will become conscious of more and more shades and colors. Now look at the shape or form, the pattern the tree makes against the sky. Now glance at the color of the sky. "Why, it is blue," you say. Look again. The sky, too, may be any number of colors and shades, and they vary in color with shapes that are a delight to watch as they change and form new patterns in a way that reminds us of music or a dance. Alan's bicycle is a mosaic of light 283 and shadow that makes us think of God's world in all its beautv and order, even if it also reminds us that one son left his belongings where he dropped them, and the other son forgot to cut the lawn. As we attend an art class we come to see afresh, with more perception, and, therefore, more pleasure, the loveliness of such everyday things as the color and form of baby's red ball lying against the gold pillow on the brown couch. The subtle nuances of color in the little dish Grandmother painted when she was a girl, and cherished so carefully along the trip across the plains, will bring a sudden gift of joy as we hurry through the day. Perhaps we sense these details now, but dimly. The discipline of trying to get them on paper or canvas, the coaching and training in really seeing color, form, and line will result in such a heightened awareness of the beauty around us that we will be thankful throughout our lives for the impulse that led us to join a class in painting. Then, when someone asks us "What did you see?" we can answer with uplifted heart that we saw the heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament show his handiwork. My Prayer Grant me the blessedness that I can comfort those in need. Let my heart sing songs of gratitude at the sundown of my days. My awakening. My songs will never cease. Sweet will be my sleep and joyful —Pauline M. Bell The Blossoming Dorothy J]. Roberts I will answer you as buds now Swell and whiten in the park. Words, as these pale boughs, have waited In the stillness and the dark. Many winters I have known The mute of snow on heart and earth, But always spring came, glory-bright, Clothed in petals at its birth. Spring returns, ephemeral, Brief as moonlight in the air, A pearl-white pause the season holds Between the petal and the pear. Frail are the drifts along the fence, Triangled softly at the poles. Fragile the carpet on the lawn Under the weight of eager soles. Once where there was only silence, Words arise as buds from root. I will bring the sound of answer Before the blossom yields to fruit. Page 284 Luoma Studios SPRINGTIME IN THE WEST VIRGINIA MOUNTAINS Page 285 Grade "A" Mary C, Martineau RANDMOTHER found a theme in the wastebasket one morning, written and discarded by her grandson Joseph before he left for school. She read it, laughed merrily, and then put an "A" on it, saying to herself, "That boy is surely blessed with talent." Joseph was a kind boy who loved his grandmother very much and slept at her house every night because she was all alone and he felt sorry for her. He was her protector and her pride and joy, and she tried to be a guarantee for his success in school, waking him early, whether or no, and seeing to it that he had a bounteous breakfast, for what half-fed boy can do his best? However, on that morning when Joseph had arisen, it had not been with a song in his heart, for he had felt grumpy and he had dark thoughts. It seemed to him that no matter what, Grandmother always woke him up at 6:30. Rain or shine, she made no allowance, but prepared breakfast, urged him to hurry a little, and as a final push in the right direction, saw him to the door and wished him a happy day. He thought on that morning, I wanted to sleep, regardless of that dumb old theme I was supposed to write last night. The night before he had gone to the basketball game after MIA and had had a great time, but in the morning, although the spirit was willing, the flesh was weak, and he hated to hear Grandmother bustling about in the kitchen. When she Page 286 finally spoke to him, with the urge for action in her voice, he arose, grabbed his pen and some theme paper and wrote the following: EARLY BIRDS Bio you live with an early bird or are one yourself, you cannot know the agony that literally millions of people go through every blessed morning of the year. You see, I live with the most cheerful early bird in the Nation, my grandmother. In the summer her excuse is that the birds wake her up when they begin to chirp and sing. Frankly, I'd take my chances with the law and get rid of those birds, but it would do no good, because she rises early in the winter, also. My full-fledged early bird sings a little as she rattles the pans for a huge breakfast which she will force-feed into every individual she can. Maybe she plays a little on the piano, a little something sweet like "The Battle Hymn of the Republic," or something appropriate like ""The Caissons Go Rolling Along." At any rate, if you live with an early bird, you're stuck. Early birds come in assorted sizes, from the "just-hatched" to those with one wing dragging. Usually small children amid old people make the best early birds. The little tikes get up early so they can go and explore this wonderful new world, while the old folks want to get up early as possible to see as much as they can. But I see no excuse for otherwise reasonable adults—from teenage to fifty—getting up at the indecent hours that early birds call "the rosy light of morning." I think that modern medicine ought to invent something that either makes an early bird sleep in the morning or else invent something to protect others from them. GRADE "A* OSEPH had a glorious time writing the theme, believing every word of it as he wrote, and then went in to breakfast, gloating in his soul as he slipped it into his loose-leaf notebook. My, what a breakfast Grandmother had fixed for him. There was juice, cereal and cream, an omelet, and then toast and peaches. What a grandmother she was! He looked at her, smiling at him across the 287 all ready to go—especially with that theme written? Another "A" for me, he thought, and then Grandmother followed him to the door and said, "Happy day, Joseph." He stopped short; that was too much. What a heel I am, he thought. He ran back to his room, dumped the theme into the wastebasket, and then with "A happy day, Grandmother," he walked down the table. Wasn't it wonderful to find sidewalk singing, "Oh, what a himself bright and early and_ beautiful morning." Return Henrietta B. McNeely Wild geese crying in the night Through the darkness and the rain, Winging on their northward flight — On true course — to nest again. What sure beacon is their guide? Who leads, on the way they go, As unerringly they glide To the home they used to know? Would that I could be as sure Of my way through doubt and pain, In thy love to feel secure, Never to be lost again. Lord, if from true course I stray — In some dark hour fail to see — Let thy beacon show the way; Bring me safely home to thee. Potted Plants Complete a Picture Eva Willes Wangsgaard HEN the planting time rush is over, the workshelf and the garden house make an ideal area for caring for and displaying potted plants. 'The perennial favorite is the geranium. Geraniums offer a generous variety of color, florets, and even leaf form and fragrance. 'They may be purchased from abundant supplies of well-started slips, many already in bloom, in nurseries, florist's shops, supermarkets, and in many department stores. Or you can start slips yourself, if you have a room where plants can get plenty of light. Another favorable trait of geraniums is their tolerance for shade. It is amazing how well they will bloom if given light, fertile soil, at least monthly feedings of fish emulsion, and good circulation of air. Fuchsias, fibrous-rooted begonias, and tuberous begonias make good potted subjects, but must be chosen according to the conditions of sunlight and shade an area offers. Borders help tie a garage or workshop into a garden. Fibrous-rooted begonias offer a wide variety of kinds and colors, differing chiefly in heaviness of leaf, stalk, and blossoms. The B. Semperflorens is the favorite variety. In choosing a border a more striking effect is secured by choosing plants of the same variety and color. Some fibrous-rooted begonias have red-tinted leaves. Others are a rich, almost translucent green. Some blooms are deeply red, and they range from there down through luscious pinks to flesh pink and pure Page 288 white. A border of green-leafed begonias with a wealth of deep pink blossoms brings more enthusiastic compliments in a garden than your most exquisite tuberous begonia blooms. They are sold in flats or in individual pots, but either way, they are very tiny when set out around Mother's Day in the Intermountain Area, or whenever danger from frost is past. 'They should not be placed closer than twelve inches, however, because at late July or early August they have grown into beauteous mounds of generous blooms, making a compact border. They bloom constantly, from an inch-high start till the snow covers them or the frost nips them. Fibrous-rooted begonias are shade loving and thrive best with only morning sun or filtered sunlight. The begonias in the border in the picture would have been happier and would have made a better showing had they been planted in a raised border. The easiest way to keep a raised border raised is to enclose it. If you are handy at masonry or can afford to hire a mason, a stone enclosure is beautiful and most permanent. But 2" x 8" redwood slabs are inexpensive, readily available, light to handle, and easy to nail. They hold up very well, too. I order mine cut to fit the needed length and mitred to fit at the corners. Then they are easily pushed into position and secured with finishing nails. It is wise to give them two coats of redwood three-in-one finish before using them. The filling soil should be POTTED PLANTS COMPLETE A PICTURE Don Peat 289 SUMMERHOUSE WITH VINES AND POTTED PLANTS made light with humus and sand. If barnyard humus is used, however, it is necessary to water it down thoroughly at least three times before planting, in order to wash away excess nutrients which might burn the tender roots. 'The soil proportion which I find brings excellent results is one-half black loam, onefourth sand, and one-fourth humus. WO advantages of the raised garden or border are: first, the roots have plenty of room and no robbing or interference from spreading roots of trees and shrubs; second, the plants get a freer circulation of air. An extensive expanse of wall in a garden is cooler and more pleasing to the eye if it is broken by vines. The trumpet vine, with its bunched amber-colored trumpets and pinnate leaves is a beauty in bloom and has the lovely habit of luring hummingbirds to enrich the garden's enticements. It has strong, spreading, tenacious roots, however, which are capable of sending up suckers as far away as twenty feet from the parent vine. The lace vine is another prolific spreader, but its large, shapely leaves and lacy racemes of white flowers are a gracious sight. The clematis is slower growing, usually, but comes in such a variety of colors and types and sends out such a generous supply of blooms that one vine makes a breathtaking coverage and a glorious background 290 for regal and Madonna lilies, as well as other garden beds. Some varieties are Ramona (Alice blue), Crimson King (deep red), Ernest Markham (red), Duchess of Edinburgh (double white), Henryi (single white), and Jackmani (purple). These flowers are two to three inches in diameter and range from four petals to seven. The four-petal flowers resemble dogwood blossoms. All clematis vines need netting or framework on which to climb. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 The ever-lovely wisteria is slow growing, but a wonderfully satisfying wall and arbor coverage, with its generous pinnate leaves and grapelike bunches of lavender to purple flowers. Leafy vines, like the vetch ivy, give a tropical greenness and lushness, yet cooling effect, all in green glossy leaves. It is an excellent background for lush blooms such as the tuberous begonias. Prelude to Easter Linda Clarke The first is one of season, when icy winds Chill the air, driving the last, lone leaf down, Leaving the tree stark, black against gray skies, Bringing the silent, silvery snow to muffled sound, Hushing protest from bird in nest and voice in lair. But season follows season and inevitably comes May. The second winter, more terrible for its subtlety, Is found within the breast of man. His cool breath Brings more desolation than January's fiercest gale, For winter of the soul breeds like from like, Generation after generation, till one breaks winter's chain And finding spring, touches finger tips with kin. The Loving Faces Betty Lou Martin HE shiny, blue car made its T way down the rain-soaked streets as if not quite certain which direction to take. The woman behind the wheel appeared to be uneasy, and a frown marred the almost Dresden quality of her face. "You look too young to be a grandmother," Mona _ Sanders' friends had told her when Mona's only child, Nina, had had her first baby. Mona had felt a little ancient at the time, too, but now, after being a grandmother three times over, she had become quite accustomed to the feeling. She was indeed a beautiful woman with her pearl-like complexion and ice-blue eyes enhanced by her now silver-gray hair. Mona worked to keep herself that way by constant diet and care. She always dressed simply and was very careful to choose the colors that she knew did the most for her. Before Nina had become a mother, Mona had always been attending meetings and keeping up to date as well on civic affairs. However, becoming a grandmother had changed things considerably. At this time Mona felt more like an unpaid baby sitter. The car continued on down the streets of Oaktown flanked on both sides by large, well-kept homes. Mona sighed. "I only wish that Nina could afford to live in the same neighborhood as we do, and afford a baby sitter also." Oaktown was a fairly large town snuggled up close to the mountains as if trying to seek protection from the elements. It was a lovely place with wide streets and big parks. The townsfolk took great pride in keeping it neat and free from debris. Fven the children were taught to help in the care of the town. The part of Oaktown that was considered to be least attractive appeared better than the average section of many other towns. Mona Sanders had lived in Oaktown all her life. There isn't a better, fresher smell on earth than after a rainstorm, Mona thought, as she turned the car onto the main road that led into the shopping section. Once again Mona felt uneasy and now slightly guilty at the thought of what she had done, but she just couldn't take it any more. Ever since Nina had had her children, she had been bringing them to Mona to tend. Sometimes it would be as often as four and five times a week. FKVERY Wednesday Nina had the habit of calling Mona to tell her that she was bringing the children over while she went into town shopping. Her excursions would usually last all day. On this particular Wednesday, Mona had hurniedly dressed and left the house before Nina had an opportunity to call. "Just once I am going to have a little time to myself. After all, I deserve it; I've reared my family." Mona swung the car into the lane Page 29] 292 leading to the parking terrace of one of the larger department stores. She wandered through the stores looking at the new fashions for spring, but the more she looked, the more guilty she felt. "I'm a fine grandmother, trying to get away from my own little grandchildren. What in the world would Nina say if she knew how I felt? I should be ashamed of myself, but I stayed home and tended Nina. I don't see why she can't stay home and tend her own children," Mona had once said, somewhat bitterly of Chris. No matter how aggravated she became, Mona could not bring herself to say anything to Nina. Nina's husband, Ned, did not make a great deal of money, and it was difficult for them to meet their needs. It was especially difficult for Nina. She had always had everything she wanted when she was younger. Now she was forced to budget her money, and she just couldn't seem to manage. Ned seemed to feel that he was letting Nina down by not being able to afford a new home and new clothes for her. Mona often thought, what Ned needs to do is to be more strict with that girl. Mona knew very well, however, that she and Chris were to blame for the way that Nina acted. If they had taught her how to share and be a little more self-sacrificing when she was younger, things might have been different today. "Why Mona Sanders, I haven't seen you for ages," a voice called to Mona. "Lillian, my goodness, how nice to see you. How long has it been?" Mona was pleased to see her longtime friend. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 "Ever since you became a grandmother — the first time." Lillian laughed. "Oh, now, Lillian, it isn't quite that bad," Mona answered. "Well, it just about is," Lillian offered. "You know, I have grandchildren of my own, but their parents know that I have my own life to lead. I love the children very much, and, of course, I like to see them, but they are their parents' responsibility, and I simply refuse to take over their obligations while they run to every social function they can think of." Lillian was noted for being able to express herself in a frank and open manner. "My, but you do sound hard, Lillian." Mona tried not to show the effect that Lillian's words had upon her. On her way home from town Mona resolved to have a talk with Nina as soon as possible. She realized now that she hadn't actually been doing Nina a favor by taking the children every time that she wanted to go somewhere. She only hoped that this time she would be able to go through with it. Many times before when she had attempted to say something to Nina, she would see the children's loving faces peering up at her, and she just didn't have the heart to hurt them. She knew now that she had been doing Nina more harm than good. Her daughter would just have to learn to face her responsibilities as other young married people had to do. MeXA had just entered the house and hung her coat in the hall closet when the telephone rang. "Hi, Mom, where have you been | THE LOVING FACES all day? I have been trying to reach you." Nina sounded annoyed. "Ann and I were going to town and have lunch today. I told her that you always take the children for me, but we ended up staying home." Mona ignored Nina's pointed statement. "Nina, I'd like to talk to you. Are you coming over after while?" Mona made her voice sound more stern than usual. "Yes, I'd planned to. I thought I''d see if Ned would take me to a movie tonight. Honestly, Jimmy has been driving me out of my mind today. I've just got to get out of the house." Nina paused for a moment. "I guess that we can drive over, and you can tell me what you want to, and then we can leave the children with you and Dad." ONA felt the anger mounting inside her until her face became visibly red; however, she kept her composure. "Nina, did it occur to you that your father and I might have some plans for this evening? When you come over, don't plan on leaving the children with us." "Well — all right." Nina seemed Shocked at her mother's remarks. "Tl see you later." Mona turned from the telephone and started toward the kitchen. "How parents can make so many mistakes unintentionally with their children Ill never know. I've tried so hard. I thought that I was helping Nina, and instead of that, I have been making her into a selfcentered individual." Chris smiled when Mona told him of her conversation with Nina. "Believe me, Chris, I'd do things a lot differently if I had them to do over again," Mona said sincerely. 293 When Nina and Ned arrived that evening with their family, it appeared that Nina had been crying. Mona felt a twinge of pity when she saw Nina's lovely, tear-streaked face. Ned seemed to be more quiet than usual, and when he spoke, he directed his words to Mona and Chris. He completely ignored Nina. Later on when Chris and Ned were talking business, Mona motioned Nina into the living room. "Nina, I want to talk to you about the childfen. Dear, its not thab your father and I don't love them very deeply, but I feel that you should spend more time with them than you do." Mona had made a beginning. "Now don't you start in on me, too, Mother. I've had just about all that I can take for one day. First Ned, then you, and Jimmy's been mischievous all day long. No one cares about me." 'The tears were already flowing freely down Nina's cheeks. Mona felt herself slipping back into the role of the consoling mother, but she squared her shoulders and looked sternly at her daughter. "Now, just a minute, dear. Many were the days when you were little that I'd have liked to have picked you up and sent vou to one of your grandmothers, but I didn't do it. I accepted my responsibility and obligations, just as you are going to do from now on. I realize that you have to have some outside interests. But you cannot do justice to your children and all your other affairs at the same time. I'm at the age now where I want to take the time to enjoy my Church and civic work, instead of hurrying through 294 it. Right now I hardly go anywhere. If you want to bring the children over, occasionally, when your father and I haven't anything planned, then we'd love to have them." Mona felt relieved as she stopped talking. INA seemed stunned at her mother's words. "Well, I never thought that I'd ever hear you speak to me that way; you of all people, Mother." Nina got up quickly. "You can tell Ned that I and the children are waiting for him in the car." Nina gathered the children together, put their wraps on them, and left. "Now, what's wrong with Nina?" Ned called. 'Oh, she's just a little annoyed at her mother, Ned. I think that she will get over it in a few days." Mona winked at Ned. "Well, at the moment I believe that she is just a little aggravated at her husband, too." Ned winked back. Mona did not hear from Nina all during the following week. Several times she almost relented and telephoned her, for she and Chris were lonesome and wanted to see the children, but Mona stopped herself in time, knowing full well that she must not give in. Then one day the telephone rang, and Mona heard the somewhat treluctant voice on the other end. "Hi, Mom, how have you been?" "Nina, well just fine, dear. How RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 have you and your family been?" It was such a joy to hear the familiar voice again. "Oh, Ned and I have been just fine, Mom.' Nina seemed to relax as she added, "The children are just fine, too," "I'm glad to hear it, dear." Mona tried to keep her voice at an even level. ""We've missed all of you." "We've missed you, too. The children are pestering me to bring them over. If you and Dad are going to be home this evening, we'd like to stop in and see you for a while?" Nina questioned. Mona couldn't help smiling. "Yes, as a matter of fact, we are going to be home this evening. We'd love to have you stop by." "If you're certain that we're not interrupting anything, then we'll see you later." Nina hung up. Mona couldn't help feeling elated at the thought of seeing her grandchildren once again. It had been difficult not to give in to Nina, but now that was all behind them. At last they could start enjoying each other as they should, and with the relationship that grandparents should have with their grandchildren. Happily, Mona began planning what her grandchildren would like for a snack while they were visiting, and happily she anticipated the joyful laughter of the children ringing throughout the house. How good it would be to see their loving faces once again! Liz aa" "Around P * r-) Px) ° rae) ° Q # e ° 5% from * G —Sottom GO * ate o Figure 1 Figure 2 Figure 3 Beach or Knitting Bag (Made from an ice-cream carton) Melba Larson Materials needed: One 3-gallon ice-cream carton One piece print, polka dot, or striped material 12 inches wide and 31 inches long (for the lower part of the bag) A circle of the print material 9% inches in diameter for bottom of carton One piece, striped, plain, or contrasting material 12 inches wide and 31 inches long (for the bag) Two pieces of contrasting material 25" long and 24" wide (for handles) Thirty-one inches of inch-wide belting Sew the strip of printed material to the strip of plain or contrasting material (Figure 1). Make a one-inch hem at the top of the plain or contrasting material. Thread in the belting and stitch securely. Make the handles double, 2% inches wide and 25 inches long, one side plain and the other side printed. Sew the handles securely 5% inches from the bottom. Slip in the ice-cream carton, twist (Figure 2), and bring the belted edge over the outside of the carton as a lid (Figure 3). Page 295 Sow the Field With Roses CHAPTER 4 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Nina Karsh lives in a small house in the Malibu Mountains of California. The house is owned by Tomas Novarro, a sad and morose man of great wealth, who brings his withdrawn and motherless son Joseph and asks Nina to take care of him. Nina agrees to look after the boy temporarily. She is visited by Tommy Benedict, a young boy from an unhappy home, on the beach. Nina tries to help him into a better life adjustment. Dr. Craig Jonathan comes to check up on Joseph's health. Later, Nina goes to the Novarro home to find out all she can about Joseph's background and _ the origin of the boy's problems. HE wind blew hot from the desert. At the beach it was a fierce 110 degrees. Doctor Jonathan drove up carefully between the perilously dry eucalyptus trees and the equally perilous oak. The whole canyon could go up by spontaneous combustion. He looked up to the hills where the bright houses leaned into the sky. People were idiotic to build here and more idiotic to stay. It had been three weeks since he had seen Joseph Novarro. Doctor Jonathan felt guilty about this, especially since 'Tomas made a point of calling him every Sunday evening to find out how the boy was doing. Craig had relayed the telephone conversations he had had with Nina. Not that she told him much. He had the feeling about Nina of an impish holding back, that all sorts of exciting things were happening at the hilltop house. Women! Doctor Jonathan wiped his forehead Page 296 with a large, immaculate handkerchief and took off his glasses. Women! Especially women who reminded him of Edith, and Nina Karsh reminded him very much of that lost and early love. Recklessly, he nosed the car through the dusty bouldered road and found the parking place beside the garage. He climbed out and looked toward the house. Oasis. Sprinklers were sending geysers of coolness over the trees and lawns. The smell of wet earth and brush was exquisitely fragrant. Again, he thought of Edith. Edith had been cool and fragrant. Edith had been laughter and all promise and all a man could ask of beauty. She had lacked only one thing — love. Hearing from this one and that about Edith's rise from wealth to wealth had given him to know that she would never have been happy as the wife of a community doctor. Still he grieved for her, thought of her, and let the empty years pass and the emptier years come, making no effort to change or fill them except with his work. He had grown so accustomed to his nothingness that he felt anger with Nina Karsh for reminding him of it. She was another one, swept on the banks of the mysterious river, while the great and the proud and the loved ones rode its crest. He made his way through the gate, turned at the sound of voices. They were in the garden, Nina SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES Karsh and the boy. Nina was wearing a blue smock. She was standing beside her easel, palette and brush in her hands. But it was the sight of Joseph that brought Doctor Jonathan to an absolute halt. He took out his glasses and _ settled them and stared again. Joseph was playing, actually, playing in the sand as any normal child. He was filling the tin bucket painstakingly with the toy shovel and then in the immemorial way of small boys, pouring the sand over himself and laughing at his cleverness. Doctor Jonathan blinked. The sound of Joseph's laughter was not quite believable. E must have made an exclamation. Nina and the child both turned and looked at him, the laughter like light on their faces. It faded. Nina's became decorous. Doctor Jonathan walked crisply down the path to them. "TI see you have made a slight progress, young man." How cold and dry he sounded. He hadn't meant the tone. He reached for Joseph, and the child screamed and flung himself on Nina, clinging to her neck. Nina flashed Doctor Jonathan an apologetic smile. "It's a phase," she said, "he'll get over it. He's afraid I'll go away from him." Doctor Jonathan asked humbly, "How did you do it?" She rocked Joseph and _ kissed him, murmuring small assurements. "I felt Joseph might have lost an age in his life...." Seeing Craig's blank stare, she quickened her voice, trying to explain. "I knew a man who had to go to work very young. He lost his boyhood, then later on aT he did very foolish things, or what seemed foolish to others, but he was trying to find what he had lost. I'm afraid I am expressing myself badly, but I feel that Joseph has lost his babyhood. Everyone wanted him to be terribly grown-up and wonderful very fast, and he missed the beginning part of life and, having lost the assurance that comes with being babied, he didn't have the courage to go on and be the next stage...." Her voice trailed off. She looked guilty. "I could be terrible wrong, but I just took Joseph back to his babyhood and let him start all over again." She looked at him questioningly. It was one of those odd tangents people got off on. He didn't know whether it was a profound discovery or not. He only knew, looking at Joseph, that the child was well on the highroad to recovery. Doctor Jonathan sighed. He hated to feel frustrated, and Nina Karsh was forever doing this to him, unsetting him, sending his mind down channels he had no wish to explore. She said, "His silence and immobility were the sands he tried to hide in... You know, like the ostrich. Joseph pretended we didn't exist, that way we couldn't bewilder or hurt him." "He hasn't tried to hide from you?" She lifted her shoulders. "After awhile he knew it wasn't necessary. I did not ask him for anything. I only gave...." She walked toward the house, making comments as she moved, and Doctor Jonathan walked behind her, measuring with a professional 298 eye the weight and height of Joseph, his clearer color and, above all, the fierce and open attachment he felt for Miss Karsh. Once in the house, Nina left them alone, and Craig was able to coax Joseph away from Nina _ long enough to give the examination which told him what he already knew — that the boy was forging ahead in every way. OCTOR Jonathan sighed and sank down in the big wing chair. He watched Joseph turn the pages of a picture book and call out proudly the names of the animals. Craig was tired and thirsty and puzzled. What had brought it about? Had Joseph been ready for the transition, and had Miss Karsh been there at the psychological moment? Or was it the mysterious healing influence that some women have, that power within themselves to enter a discordant household and put it to rights? Doctor Jonathan had known some nurses who possessed it to a remarkable degree. They could listen with the proper cluckings of sympathy to a tortured nerve-ridden patient and give him peace. Nina Karsh had it. He found himself wondering if women in the beginning before the swift strides of modern science, had possessed it even more richly. Perhaps women had surrendered more than they knew in these days of nursing homes and institutions. Nina brought in a tray of cookies and lemonade. "It's so hot," she said, "and it's such a long drive back." Doctor Jonathan drank the lemonade gratefully. It pleased her to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 serve him, her face grew bright and young. Looking at her, he realized how much she occupied his thoughts. He put down the glass abruptly, disturbed by the realization. "You were doing some painting when I came, Miss Karsh. I interrupted." She poured more lemonade for Joseph. "It was a child's portrait." "Could I see it?" "Of course." She rose at once. He walked beside her down the path. She came just to his shoulder. When he looked down, he saw that her hair was darker in the center but lightened towards the ends from long hours in the sun. There was fragrance all around them, whether of the flowers or of her, he did not know, but it confused him, the fragrance, and when his arm brushed against hers, he drew back and became stern with himself. The painting troubled him. It was of Joseph, and yet it was not. The child in the painting had great, over-brilliant eyes, wide, strained, and haggard. 'The face was pinched, as if from hunger, yet the child was carefully dressed in a white silk shirt and white linen shorts. He held a cat in his arms, Siamese, sleek and expensive. In the background were the muted gray ruins of a bridge. Niria stood with her head down, not looking at the painting, but — touching the brushes to the paint daubs on the palette. "The eyes," he said at length, not wishing to hurt her, and yet angry with her for making it necessary. "Yes? You don't care for the eyes?" SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES "Definitely not." "T don't either," she said. "But the rest is excellent. It would take only a little effort..." he broke off. She said, "You think I would be better off copying one of Reubens' children, or Romney's, perhaps?" What was she trying to tell him? He said irritably, "Who would want to have those eyes following him about?" He pointed to the canvas. "Not I," she said gently, "they accuse me." "Accuse you?" "I am tormented," she said, "by the children of our time, by the eyes of children. 'They are stuffed with murders for pacifiers, and violence for playthings, and drunkenness for amusement. 'They cry out to me, the children, for bread." "Nonsense," he said heartily, glad to be on familiar ground. "Our children are the best fed in the world." "The bread of sunsets," she said, "and mountain mornings and walks in the Sunday parks." He was silent, looking down into her eyes. Her words made a desolate beauty against his ears, like a violinist playing to a deserted house. He said, uncomfortably, "Oh, I agree that youngsters nowadays get a little too much of television and movies and things, but, on the whole, they are a lucky lot." He was suddenly impatient. "After all, they have to live in the world. They might as well get to know what it's made of." HE dipped the brush in black and deepened the lines around the child's eyes. "Then, if we insist upon feeding them with these bitter 299 breads, we have no right to complain about the size of their eyes, have we, or the shapes of their souls?" She looked past him to the sweep of the valleys below. "What is the heaviness about our necks these days, Doctor Jonathan, is it the millstones we wear?" "We are much kinder to children than in former times. I can remember my father telling me about the whalings his father gave him." "Did he hate him for it?" "Hate him? Certainly not. Grandfather Jonathan was a terrific old gentleman. When I was a child, I had the sneaking feeling that he was of the same cloth as Moses or Abraham, one of the old prophets." She put the brushes away and hung a cloth over the painting. "A child need not fear a Moses or an Abraham. A child has great need to fear us who give him, day by day, the glittering corruption." She moved back to the house. "Have you heard from Tomas Novarro?" "Yes. Iam to call him tonight." "And what will you tell him?" She walked beside him. "IT will tell him that his son is well, and that he can come and take him now." Better to make the operation quick and final. But he turned away from the whiteness that ran raggedly into her cheeks and the strickened narrowing of her eyes. "You knew this was a temporary thing." "Yes." Her voice was scarcely audible. "But it is so soon. Somehow, I did not think it would be so soon." "You have opened the door," he 300 said bruskly, "but Tomas Novarro has the right to enter the room." He turned in the direction of his car. "TI will let you know what he says." But he did not call Tomas until the next day. Then swiftly, savagely, he put in the call for Quebec and waited. 'Tomas called back at once. "Yes? The boy? He is well?" "He is very well," said Doctor Jonathan heavily. "The woman has done the impossible. You owe her a great deal." "Yes, yes, of course." 'Tomas was impatient and jubilant. "TI will return at once. He is completely well?" "No, but he is responding as a normally sick and frustrated child, not like a zombie. It will take time, much more time. But it would be wise if you came and siphoned off his affections, or he will never be able to leave Miss Karsh." "T will take him away at once." "T wouldn't, Tomas. It would be too much for the boy to take. He's found a bridge back to people, but you've got to be sure he is all the way over the bridge before you burn it." "Of course... Of course." 'Tomas was shaken with joy. "TI will do anything you say, anything, and of course, I will pay her well. You need not fear about that. Don't worry about Miss Karsh for a minute." Doctor Craig Jonathan hung up the telephone and sat back. Worry about Miss Karsh? Why should he? She was definitely "way out," all that talk about children, and the painting. He rubbed his eyes. The painting haunted him, the memory RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 of the child in the portrait, with the glazed, distended eyes. It seemed that he saw those eyes in every child he met. Doctor Jonathan sighed and picked up his hat and bag. Haunted eyes, hungry eyes, eyes that searched — for what? He answered himself. They hunted for the stuff that Nina Karsh possessed in such rich abundance, the pure and flowing love, that asked nothing for itsself, that gave and was replenished from the deep and secret springs of her being. Dr. Jonathan plunged for the door. He had better get Nina Karsh off his mind, or he wouldn't know whether he was looking at a case of measles or hives. N the late afternoon Tom Benedict climbed the hill. Nina, running to answer his whistle, saw traces of tears on the boy's dusty cheeks. She put her hands behind her back. One does not offer comfort to a boy almost thirteen. "Hot today." She pushed back her hair with her forearm. "Yeah, sure is." He slumped down in the wicker chair on the patio. Nina chose the rocker. 'They sat in silence. Nina fanned herself with the pages of a magazine. "Tt sure is an empty sort of day." He looked about. "Where's Joseph?" "Sleeping." She studied Tom. "T was just about to have some lemonade." He brightened a little. "Can I help you fix it?" On an impulse she sank down again into the rocker. "Would you mind fixing it? After all, you know this house as well as I do." SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES He was off like a shot. She heard him whistling in the kitchen. After more long moments, he returned in triumph with her best silver tray in his brown hands. The silver pitcher tinkled with ice, and the cookies were arranged in mathematical splendor. "Tom! Honestly! Nobody else knows how to do things so special." His sigh cleansed him of grief. He drank in great noisy gulps and stuffed himself with cookies. "They left dinner for me," he explained, "but I wasn't hungry." "Your mother's gone away?" "Yeah, she and my brother Frisco, for the day. They said I was big enough to stay alone... And I sure am. I'm sure big enough. I get along fine." Nina leaned back in the rocker. What was the old saw about it takes a thief to catch a thief, and it takes a person who has eaten, drunk, and lived with loneliness to know it at a glance. Nina shivered. His pain pierced her like a thousand separate thorns. She saw the specter of loneliness come out of the shadows to stand over them, the discarded boy, the forgotten woman. He said, "Heard any more good Stories about David lately?" "David?" "The one with the slingshot." She sat up straight. "Tom, would you do me a big favor?" "Sure, anything." "Come along to church with me tonight, and help me with Joseph. He's getting to be such a handful." Tom's face fell. "Well I had sort of planned...." "We could go to a drive-in afterward for hamburgers and malts." "Great... When do we leave?" 301 OM Benedict was puzzled but polite during the evening. "Never been to one of these before," he confided. He found the pages for her in the songbook, and he sat quietly during prayers, but he was plainly relieved when the services were over. Nina tried to hide her disappointment. She had hoped... For what? A miracle? Yes, she said stoutly to herself. That's exactly what I hoped for, a miracle for Tom. "That's why I brought him to you, Lord," and then, afraid that she had been murmuring, she hastily added, "but of course you know best." She followed Tom to the car. "How did you like it?" "It was just fine, Miss Karsh." "Mamma Nina, Mamma Nina," murmured Joseph, clinging to her hand. "He heard the boy next to him call his mother 'Mamma,' he's trying it out on you," Tommy explained. Don Jonas, in the act of backing out his car, halted when he saw them. "How are you tonight, Miss Karsh?" "Just fine," said Nina quickly. She was in no mood to be asked to donate four dozen cookies for a Scout cookout. Don Jonas cocked an enquiring eye on Tom. "Haven't seen you at Scout meeting." He grinned. ""Better come." "No thanks," said Tom _ with finality. "You'd still be in time for the surfboards." Tom froze like a setter. "Surfboards?" "We're making them," Don Jonas said. "Most of the fellows 302 have started. I'd take time out to get you going, though." "A surfboard of my own.... I'd be right in with the big boys...." Tommy peered at Don _ Jonas. "You're not kidding?" "Tl pick you up tomorrow at six right in front of the Malibu Hardware. Okay?" rz: 'Okay. " They drove in silence along the coast highway. The evening was just darkening. The moon came up like a giant orange ball and made a glistening road upon the sea. Tom sighed and turned to her. "That was one lucky day for me, Miss Karsh... That day I went to see old Dominick." "For me, too,' she assured him, "and I guess Dominick wouldn't lose you for anything in the world." He settled back. "You know, it's RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 the funniest thing, but when I climbed that hill up to your house I just felt real awful, like the end of the world or something, and "? Now.... He sat back in astonishment. "I feel just like licking tigers." But Nina, turning the sharp curves to the hilltop house, did not feel like licking tigers. She looked at Joseph, sleeping against her side, warm and heavy. The thought of losing him moved chill into her mind. "I can't!" she whispered. "I can't go through it again... Losing the people I love... And not Joseph. I can't lose Joseph." He turned = restlessly, awoke. "Mamma Nina!" He was frightened. Nina soothed him from the troubled dream. "It's all right, Joseph. I am here... Iam here." (To be continued ) My Legacy Maude Rubin She left this needle-case, these bits and pieces Of silks and colored woolens; half a quilt. She'd made one for the others, all the nieces And granddaughters but me.. Yet how the lilt Of her creaking rocking chair sings in my ears! I watched her sew through summer's amber hours, Through winter's long still evenings; no swift fears Hinted that she might leave me. Now the flowers In her window pot still bloom, their fragrance mine; Though this quilt is still undone, my legacy Is a memory of color, bright design, And this open Book she used to read to me. It was so I learned of love, of peace, of duty Which covered her years with their quilt of shining beauty. FROM THE FIELD [~Z General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All matcrial submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. Sce regulations governing the submittal of material for '"'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relicf Society Handbook of Instructions, RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES cg Phi Photograph submitted by Lanore S. GRAND COULEE STAKE (WASHINGTON) RELIEF SOCIETY WINS BLUE RIBBON WITH GIFT QUILT Seated, left to right: LaVera Bone, released Secretary-Treasurer; Mae Ostler, Second Counselor; Lanore S. Bowen, President; Lila Gunnell, First Counselor; Elaine Sweeny, recently appointed Secretary-Treasurer. Standing, left to right: Mable Roylance, visiting teacher message leader, Amy Kent, Magazine representative; Lorna Wiser, organist; Cora Jean Anderson, chorister; 'Thelma Anderson, literature class leader; Maxine Read, social science class leader; LaVelle Ashby, theology class leader; Fern Zirker, work meeting leader. Lanore S. Bowen, President, Grand Coulee Stake Relief Society, reports: ""This beautiful satin quilt was made to be presented to President Belle S. Spafford as a birthday gift at the Annual General Relief Society Conference. Members of the stake Relief Society board had an old-fashioned 'quilting bee' at the home of Sister Bowen. Twelve hours of stitching later, the quilt was finished and won a blue ribbon at the County Fair. The quilt was designed by Fern Tolley of the Moses Lake Ward (not present when the picture was taken), with the Relief Society emblem centering it. Much love went into each stitch in the quilt." Page 303 304 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 S\N —— Photograph submitted by Lois W. Ohsiek HONOLULU STAKE (HAWAII) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 10, 1961 Front row, center, President Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve; at President Smith's left, Sister Smith, and continuing from Sister Smith's left, left to right: Lois W. Ohsiek, President, Honolulu Stake Relief Society; Thelma Field, Work Director Counselor; Marian Nibley, Secretary-Treasurer; Christie Robertson, chorister; Miriam Lieu, organist. Sister Ohsiek reports that one hundred Singing Mothers presented the music for stake conference held May 10, 1961. They have been asked by their stake president to present the music at the same time each year for stake quarterly conference. Photograph submitted by Marvel M. Young BEN LOMOND STAKE (OGDEN, UTAH) PRESENTS PROGRAM "WORLD MESSENGERS OF LOVE AND SERVICE" AT VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION, May 6, 1961 Front row, left to right: Hilda Hinchcliffe and Kathleen Hall. Second row, left to right: Lani Lawrence and her mother Joyce Lawrence; Kim Barker; Judy Grant; First Counselor Doris Berrett; President Marvel M. Young; Second Counselor Eunice Hadley; Christina Van Hulten; Fay Brandenburg; Penny Welling; Bonnie Warnick. Third row, left to right: Astrid Vangsness; Mary Ann Hansen; Karen Woodburn; Renee Erickson; Ingeborg Hebel Adams; Josephine Gomez (half hidden); Maria Nava; Margaret Boiteaux. "This inspirational convention," Sister Young reports, "depicted the worth of the visiting teacher throughout the world, and the sweet spirit she brings into the homes of the Latter-day Saints. Our narrator was Laurine Roberts of the stake board. The NOTES FROM THE FIELD 305 women pictured, for the most part, are authentic representatives of their native land, and they wore authentic costumes. The music, which was rendered by a double trio seemed to bring all parts of the world together as one, in love and unity. They sang 'No Man Is an Island' and 'One World.' Eight women, each from a different country, in deep humility, touched each heart with their testimonies. The stories of their conversions in their native countries, and their love for Relief Society, brought tears to our eyes as we realized that we are all children of our Heavenly Father, no matter what the nationality, and the gospel makes us one. Refreshments were served by the stake board from a table beautifully decorated with little figurines from all countries, and their flags, surrounding a large world. It was a wonderful afternoon for the visiting teachers of Ben Lomond Stake." me Photograph submitted by Nelda Willis GARFIELD STAKE (UTAH), ESCALANTE NORTH AND SOUTH WARD SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR MANY OCCASIONS Standing at the right: Thelma Cottam, chorister. Seated at the piano: Arcola Gates, organist. Front row, seated, left to right: Geneal Shurtz; Betty Alvey; Rula Spencer; Alberta Liston; Eva Spencer; Roselba Griffin; Thais Griffin. Second row, seated, left to right: Loretta Shurtz; Reva Bailey; Janet Spencer; Ada Porter; LaFaye Bailey; Dawn Griffin; Fawn Mecham; Louise Liston. Third row, standing, left to right: Hilda Roundy; LaRue Griffin; Veda Mitchell; Verda Liston; Ruth Griffin; Yukon Norman; Marlene Haws. Nelda Willis, President, Garfield Stake Relief Society, reports: '"This group is much in demand in our area for presenting the music at funerals, PTA meetings, quarterly stake conferences, and Relief Society conventions. During the past year they presented the singing in the quarterly conferences held in Escalante, thirteen funerals, two numbers at our stake Relief Society convention, two numbers for our stake Christmas gift suggestions party, two numbers at a district PTA meeting, two numbers at an area soil conservation meeting, and for many other occasions. On April 29, 1961, by special request, they sang two numbers at the assembly in the St. George Temple. We are very proud of these sisters and really appreciate their beautiful singing." 306 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 Photograph submitted by Rowena J. Warr CASSIA STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION AND FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Seated back of the organ, at the left, left to right: Raola Crane, conductor; Dorothy Whiteley, organist. Rowena J. Warr, President, Cassia Stake Relief Society, stands at the left in the back row (wearing dark dress). Sister Warr reports: "All of the wards in the stake have Singing Mothers choruses." Photograph submitted by Vera B. Tibbitts YELLOWSTONE STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY OBSERVANCE, TETON AND YELLOWSTONE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION, AND FOR OTHER OCCASIONS Front row, standing, left to right, stake offcers: Eva Rice, social science class leader; Alta Murdoch, Second Counselor; Vera B. Tibbitts, President; Stella Orme, First Counselor; Sarah Allison, work meeting leader; Henrietta Bassett, Secretary-'Treasurer; Therel Ricks, organist; Lisle Andrus, chorister. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 307 Second row, sixth from the left: Martha Remington, theology class leader. Third row, at the left: Ethel Pulley, visiting teacher message leader. Back row, at the left: Elva Swensen, literature class leader. Merle White, Magazine representative, was absent when this picture was taken. Sister Tibbitts reports: "This group has presented inspirational songs for the Relicf Society anniversary stake social, Teton and Yellowstone Stake Relief Society convention, for funerals, and for the recent stake conference. Among a variety of numbers which they have enjoyed presenting was: 'Come, Ye Blessed of My Father,' composed by Florence J. Madsen." Kg ee Ma get Photograph submitted by Pauline H. Stevens BIG I1ORN STAKE (WYOMING) HONORS FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS AT LUNCHEON, August 9, 1961 Front row, seated, left to right: Fay Hartson Harris (1937-43) of Lovell, W voming, honored for outstanding service during Relief Society centennial year, and for bringing ward and stake histories up to date and compiling them in a centennial book; Hulda Morrell Lynn (1943-45), now of Compton, California, honored for her work and direction in gathering $5 from each member for the Relief Society Building; Grace Alexander Allphin (1945-1948), of Lovell, Wyoming, honored for collecting clothing which was sent to war-torn Europe. Back row, standing, left to right: Amelia Harris Robertson (1948-1955), of Lovell, Wyoming, honored for helping to raise funds for the stake house and initiating visiting teacher conventions in the stake; Helena Danialson Belnap (1955-1957), now living in Illinois, honored for the comparative chart she used to bring up attendance at Relief Society meetings; Pauline Rollins Stevens, of Cowley, Wyoming, present President. Sister Stevens reports that Sister Belnap and Sister Lynn were in Lovell, W yoming, for a visit during the summer, and a luncheon was given on August gth, honoring all former presidents. 308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 Photograph submitted by Emily S. Romish POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO) PRESENTS PROGRAM "VISITING TEACHERS OF LANDS WHERE OUR MISSIONARIES LABOR" AT MAY SOCIAL, 1961 Emily S. Romish, President, Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: ""The picture is of four sisters from each of the six wards in our stake. These sisters represented the visiting teachers in foreign countries at the May social this year. The social honored the visiting teachers, and the theme was 'Visiting Teachers of Lands Where Our Missionaries Labor,' and 'Adapting the Visiting Teachers to Each Particular Home.' Beautiful musical selections were given to correlate with the theme. The program was under the direction of Violet Hart, Education Counselor, and Julia Robbins, chorister. At the conclusion of the program the sisters gathered in the recreation room to admire a display of handwork which had been made during the winter season and to be served light refreshments. The display was under direction of Letha Stevenson, Work Director Counselor, and Edla Toombs, work meeting leader." Bs aed AS Photograph submitted by Leta C. Pugh NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, FORMER REDWOOD DISTRICT VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION, September 23, 1961 Standing at the back, left to right, former district board members: Myrtle Dillon, Secretary-Treasurer; Wanda Hodges, theology class leader; Dolly Allen, literature class leader, Dora Bingham, Second Counselor; Naline Felshaw, First Counselor; Leta C. Pugh, President, Northern California Mission Relief Society; Cynthia Schwenson, President, Redwood District Relief Society; Eldis Jensen, social science class leader; Henrietta Bown; Betty Jenks, work meeting leader; Grace Jones. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 309 Sister Pugh reports: "'At this occasion the visiting teachers of the Redwood District enjoyed a lovely luncheon prepared by the sisters of the Eureka Branch. The front centerpiece was a beautiful arrangement of large yellow chrysanthemums. Each guest was presented with a lovely carnation corsage from the district board. After the luncheon the district board members presented a short dramatization of "The Key,' showing how we can merit the key and its blessings through visiting teaching. A total of sixty-five sisters attended, representing six branches and one dependent branch. "This was the last function which was held for the Relief Society in the Redwood District. The district was organized into the Redwood Stake, October 22, 1961. We are very happy for this organization and know that the sisters will receive much. Satisfaction in being members of a stake." Photograph submitted by Josephine Prinster GRAND JUNCTION STAKE (COLORADO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 11, 1961 Front row, seated, left to right: Joyce Davis, chorister; Claudia Aubert, theology class leader; Bessie Gietz, literature class leader; Betty Christensen, Second Counselor; Josephine Prinster, President; Beulah Whicker, First Counselor; Melba Larsen, Secretary; Viona Pace, organist. Sister Prinster reports: "Our presentation at Grand Junction Stake Convention was the first time this group sang together, as it was formed from the part of Grand Junction Stake that was left when it was divided last January, and our newly acquired members who formerly comprised West Colorado District Mission. Seven of our twelve Relief Societies are represented in this chorus. Some of the sisters traveled over one hundred miles to the practices. Our stake president was so pleased with our presentation that he has asked us to sing at our next stake quarterly conference." 310 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 ce 3) eB SP ec s Photograph submitted by May F. Carr NEW ENGLAND MISSION, GREENFIELD (MASSACHUSETTS) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS QUILT TO PRESIDENT AND SISTER CARR At the left Hilda Goucher, and at the right Marion Clapp, of the Greenfield Branch, Springfield District. May F. Carr, President, New England Mission Relief Society, reports: "A handmade quilt of unique design, fashioned by the Relief Society members of the Greenfield Branch was presented to President John E. Carr and Sister Carr at the Springfield District Conference, Springfield, Massachusetts. The quilt, measuring 80 by 106 inches, represents the map of the New England Mission, comprising all of the New England States and the Maritime Provinces of Canada. Near the center is the "Torch of Truth' and the rays quilted out from the torch represent the inspiration of these leaders throughout the mission. The border of each State and Province is embroidery work. President and Sister Carr were thrilled and surprised with the thoughtfulness of this branch. It is truly a keepsake for them, and will be a fond remembrance of their labors in the New England Mission." Grandmothers Know Christie Lund Coles Grandmothers cherish The little ones; Show that they love them With cookies and buns. Grandmothers hold them Hours without end; Read to them often, Play, "Let's pretend." Grandmothers cherish them, For Grandmothers know How swift the years fly, And little ones go. Northwest Banff-Lake Louise Tour Including World's Fair at Seattle leaving June 23 Eight-day World's Fair Including Victoria, Canada leaving July 23 and August 18 Ten-day World's Fair Including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, and Victoria, Canada Leaving dates: June 9, July 1, July 6, August 1, August 17, September 21 Hill Cumorah Tour Leaving July 20 ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 Attention L. D. S. World's Fair Visitors Special Accommodations and Facilities Available to Families and Groups To assist you in arranging lodging, Seattles' two Stakes have established a Fair Housing Center. The Center is a joint project of all Seattle-area Wards. Special low rates have been set. Proceeds will be donated to building funds. Lodging of All Types 1. RECREATION HALLS — (Youth Groups) 2. FURNISHED APTS. — (Incl. Bedding) 3. PRIVATE HOMES Don't wait! Write today for Reservations and Information L. D. S. WORLD'S FAIR HOUSING CENTER 2114 Thorndyke West Seattle 99, Washington Phone: AT 4-5340 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your edilions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance trom Sait Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 2... 35 150 to 300 miles...... =, 39 300 to 600 miles 0.0.00. AS e 600 to 1000 miles 0... 54 1000 to 1400 miles —..20002 2. 164 1400 to 1800 miles... £76 Over 1800 miles.........00.........2........ 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utch Page 31] Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Mrs. EvizaBetH RusseLtt Day Hunter, Utah Mrs. ANNA GLACKEMYRE AGEE Big Lake, Minnesota Ninety-nine Mrs. FLorence Emitine RItcHie Ballarat, Australia Ninety-seven Mrs. Saran EvizABETH WILson YouNc Sanford, Colorado Ninety-six Mrs. Hattie AMELIA RusHNELL Foster Belleville, Canada Ninety-five Mrs. Atice DELAMARE Gowans Tooele, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Ovens M. PETERSON LARSON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarau H. BALLANTYNE Ogden, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Saran Firca WuHyte Cardston, Canada Mrs. Atice Couns Frost Ogden, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Diann Merritt BLAzzarD Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. EvizaBetH TaBirHa PEDERSEN BIGLER Salt Lake City, Utah Page 312 Mrs. Crara May Younc Speirs Los Angeles, California Mrs. Luena Farr Driver San Diego, California Ninety-one Mrs. Racuet Rosetta ROUVECHI Kaysville, Utah Mrs. JuLia ANGEL KNupsoN Provo, Utah Ninety Miss App1iz WatsH Belleville, Canada Mrs. AmMAnpA Moss Porter Bountiful, Utah Mrs. ExvizaBetu Mitrer Fappts Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Ipa ANN ALLEMAN TAYLOR Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. JoHANNAH LUNDGREEN MADSEN CHRISTENSEN Union, Utah Mrs. Emma Teresa Morris Thatcher, Arizona Mrs. Lois ANN TANNER Brapy Mt. Pleasant, Utah Beauty Ida Isaacson Life is filled with beauty! See it! Feel it everywhere! There may be a thousand sorrows Almost too great to bear. But God has knowledge of this And took precautions there To fill our souls with beauty So that we could bear To lift the broken willow, Find another precious stone— For he would always be with us, Never leave us all alone. —— 4. BOOKS > for the CHURCH oe PRELUDES, OFFERTORIES AND POSTLUDES — Schaum.................. 85 a. SABBATH DAY MUSIC — CY -) |.) rel.50 a SACRED HOUR AT THE PIANO— IAMTINO).....0220222essace-ooe-<-ceee-cceeseeeeeccecceeees2.00 coool SACRED MUSIC FOR PIANO j SOLO — Collins WW...1.50 oe SACRED PIANO ALBUM — Gahm..1.50 coon SACRED PIANO SOLOS — Rettenburg _............ Ee eel.00 a. SACRED PIANO TRANSCRIPTIONS — Peery __.....0000....0-.. Cceee.1.00 Do, SCHIRMERS FAVORITE SACRED SONGS — Stickles 200000.1.25 _—. SUNDAY PIANO MUSIC — Boston.... W......2. 2. 1.25 =. SUNDAY PIANO MUSIC — Presser. 1.25 a TRANQUIL HOURS — Presser.._2.00 _ TWELVE SACRED SONGS — Stickles oo. Eceleccccccccseeccecceeceeeeeeel.25 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Sa't Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. (] On Approval [) Charge (J Money Enclosed Name AILANBADULELLA 15 E. Ist South /salt Lake City 11, Utah WORLD'S FAIR Leaving throughout summer Reserveations must be made early for these tours. HAWAIIAN TOUR June 7—June 24 L. D. S. PAGEANT TOUR July 28—August 20 Hawaiian and World's Fair Tour Leaving April 24 For further information regarding your travel please write or call MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 6-1601 — HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 MUSIC FOR EVERY PURPOSE —IN THE CHURCH OR HOME =. The Gospel Gives Unbounded Strength..........0. Ccccceeeeeeeeeee.30 ome God of All Nature...............30 _ Lord God of Our Fathers.....25 pee Let Not Your Song End.........25 a Love One Another...............30 a Why a Singing Mother SHAS oon. Eee cece teeeeeeeeeeeereeenees 30 Just Off the Press! Seldon N. Heaps ORGAN MEDITATIONS FOR CHURCH AND HOME — $1.50 He will autograph all orders MUSIC SENT ON APPROVAL! Use this ad as your order! CL] Approval (0 Charge (J Cash Name Glen Bros. Music Co. 246 So. Main = Salt Lake City, Utah Second Class Postage Pai | at Salt Lake City, Utah 1. STAND FAST BY OUR CONSTITUTION J. Reuben Clark, Jr. A compilation of the finest discourses on freedom, the American way of life, and the Constitution of the United States — given by the late President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Included are such titles as "Our Dwindling Sovereignty," "Let Us Have Peace," "America — 'A Land Choice Above All Other Lands'" and "Why J Am an American." 2.95 2. SEARCHING WITH SUCCESS Archibald F. Bennett A tremendous new book for the genealogist by Archibald F. Bennett, Fellow of the American Society of Genealogists. In it, ""The Mission of Modern Israel" is clearly set forth as readers are awakened to the awareness of what they should do to find their dead and stimulated to make an intensive research for their ancestors. 2.2@ DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) | have an account. NOme oooooe ce ceeecceeceecceeecceeececsceeeseesnsanceceenssneccececaneceaecsesestecceceaesesenseesecsececasequcgesensnensccesanacenenssnaccanenanssamemenzacs Address........... Ccosceco-esseeeceseccscceccesvecccesecesecseeecensesaseceentcencenesensecsantacnnoeccesensananas#eee#oeee=e Sea Gilly... -.<ccccersezec...... 12. 2 ee Zone.........-.- Stote...........222200-------- rr Please charge. Amount enclosed $...........---.----2:0-c: e0-000- for encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 SOCIETY MAGAZINE =5 \ ee:. | VOL 49°NQ. 5'. MAY 1962 On a May Morning Ouida Johns Pedersen In my mother's land, the hawthorne Now unfolds Ineffably sweet upon the air, And lanes waken to-the fragrance Of meadows starred with Mayflower. If her thoughts turn backward To those lovely shores, where Childhood blossomed like orchards, Only a pensive glance At the cherry trees betrays it. The hour Of relinquishment has been assuaged by time. And here, her love, unfailing as the sun, Unfolds in service sweeter than the bough Of fragile bloom, strong as the root. ' Perennially, her care, wild nectar on the tongue Sucked from these stars of spring, Creates for children who surround her now Gardens of loveliness. Dearer than the shoot © Of tender green, these buds so young Are now enriched by her remembering. The Cover: Mountain Garden at Brighton, Utah Color Transparency by L. Paul Roberts Frontispiece: Lane of Blossoms in West Virginia Photograph by Luoma Studios Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From Near and Far We of the McGill Ward Seminary in the Nevada Stake of Zion wish to thank you for the serial story "Because of the Word" (concluded in January 1962), by Hazel M. Thomson. In our seminary we are discussing temples, and this story concerning the building of the Kirtland Temple fits in very well. It added color and variety to our study of temples. —LaVerl K. Harris McGill, Nevada I enjoy all the Magazine so very much, and another sister and I meet each week for our own "home Relief Society." —RMrs. Mary Ann Kohfield Norton, Kansas The covers of the Magazine are simply beautiful. The January cover picture looks so real (Yosemite National Park, California), I can almost feel the snow. The first prize poem "The Other Mother," by Miranda Snow Walton, in the same issue is certainly thought provoking. —Erma B. Braack Raymond, Washington I wish to express my appreciation for the Magazine. I enjoy taking a few minutes now and then to read a clean inspirational story. Many times I have gone to the public magazine racks for a magazine containing short stories, and I have come away empty-handed, and emptyhearted, so to say. I am a young mother with four children, and I do not have time to read book-length novels, but I do enjoy reading short stories during rest periods. —Mrs. Maxine P. Done San Jose, California The Relief Society Magazine helps to strengthen my testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ as taught in his Church. The Magazine is filled with inspiring thoughts from wonderful leaders. 'The stories contain beautiful examples of right living. —Magree G. Schaerr Kanab, Utah Page 314 Recently we had shocking brush fires which encircled our city, and a national emergency was declared. After the fires had been raging for two days, the Red Cross society found that we keep a list of nursing sisters, and we were thrilled to be able to send some of our wonderful sisters to the rescue at very short notice. The Relief Society organization is truly wonderful, and I sometimes feel that we could say that we are prepared for any emergency. We certainly appreciate The Relief Society Magazine down here in Melbourne Stake. —Mavis E. Cutts President Melbourne Stake Relief Society Victoria, Australia I just have to tell you how much I enjoyed that fine, inspiring address by Elder Sterling W. Sill, "Where Your Treasure Is," in the March issue of the Magazine. Every member of our Church should read this address. I rejoice in the Magazine, which is published especially for the women of the Church. I feel with all my heart that it should reach every home. A good book is truly a lasting gift. —cCora Daley Snowville, Utah I have never read a fiction story that could touch one's heart like the story "Good Morming, Mrs. Romaie!'' (by Mabel Law Atkinson, March 1962). I don't believe a more beautiful story could be written. Such a true picture of a wonderful life. —AMrs. Colleen L. Barnes Naf, Idaho A word of appreciation for the lovely serial "Sow the Field With Roses," by Margery S. Stewart (concluded in June 1962). With its lofty theme and crisp style, it has the impact of poetry. Our Magazine is a fitting frame for such excellence. —Evelyn Miller Sandberg Ojai, California THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford — =- Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - Louise W. Madsen - - - - - Hulda Parker - - + - - Edith S. Elliott Mildred B. Eyring Florence J. Madsen Charlotte A. Larsen ary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Leone G. Layton Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Evon W. Peterson Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Aleine M. Young Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Josie B. Bay Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny S. Kienitz RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - a ¢ 3 = - - ™ a = = Associate Editor - " = 3 = 5 7 - - General Manager - - - o o = - - - President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love c Marianne C. Sharp - Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford NO. 5 Con tenis SPECIAL FEATURES Portrait of a Mother Hazel Sowards Cannon Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society William J. Critchlow, jr. 316 Luella F. Okeson 320 Hazel Sperry Love Appointed Ae the General Board of Relief Society Contest Announcements — 1 seMary R. Young 321 y 322 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest 322 Relief Society Short Story Contest 323 Magazine Honor Roll for 1961 She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part II — Mercy Fielding Thompson.. Preston Nibley & FICTION Hand to the Plow — Part I — Ticket Wicket Ilene H. Kingsbury 330 Dog and His Maid Shirley Sargent 335 Little Teamstress Frances C. Yost 342 Dare to Be Different Mabel Law Atkinson 348 Sow the Field With Roses — Chapter 5 Margery S. Stewart 366 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 314 Sixty Years Ago -. 338 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 339 Editorial: The Cultural Values of Relief Society Louise W. Madsen 340 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Birthday Congratulations Hulda Parker 384 392 FEATURES FOR THE HOME The Oatmeal Box Violet Nimmo 334 How to Give a Magazine to Someone Who Is Ill Evelyn Witter 346 I Was Thinkin Elsie C. Carroll 347 The Reward of a Thing Well Done Caroline Eyring Miner 351 My Mother's Hands Esther H. Lamb 352 Patio Breakfasts for Summertime Linnie F. Robinson 356 Souffle Sandwich Surfside Luncheon Theme. Rhubarb Recipes... Helene B. Ray 357 Eva Willes Wangsgaard 358 race V. Price 360 A Song of the Sewing Machine Rachel Kirkham Wanlass Makes Unique Gifts for MIA Girls Shirley Thulin 362 371 Your Pre-School Playmates Janet W. Breeze 39] POETRY On a May Morning — Frontispiece Ouida Johns Pedersen 313 Memories, Lela Foster Morris, 319; The Constant Generation, Lael W. Hill, 324; The Sentinel, Zara Sabin, 325; I Love You, Florence S. Glines, 341; For Mother's Day, Dorothy J. Roberts, 351; Mine for Keeps, Ida Elaine James, 353; Spring Cleaning, Vesta N. Fairbairn, 354; New House in Old Orchard, Maude Rubin, 354; New Day, Leora Larsen, 354; Party, Christie Lund Coles, 361; Wait for Me, Sun, Mabel Jones Gabbott, 370; Seeking, Catherine B. Mae L. Curtis, 392. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Copyright 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Bowles, 391; Each Day, Page 315 Anna B. Hart Blanche B. Stoddard Winniefred S. VOL. 49 Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Pearle M. Olsen MAY 1962 Portrait of a Mother William J. Critchlow, Jr. Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Artist, Your model is dearer than any other.... Paint beauty, when painting The portrait of mother. HE lady sat across the aisle one row ahead of me in the coach I boarded one morning at Ogden. She was alone. 'The pillow in the vacant seat beside her bore mute evidence that she had spent the night on the train. She was napping when, accidentally in a straying glance, I saw a faint smile break on her thin lips. It faded, reappeared, and faded again, all in a moment, and then of a sudden it broadened almost to a grin, bringing with it a gush of tears which her eyelids failed miserably to restrain. Eyelids never were tear-tight anywav. God purposely made them that way, and hers were no exception. Obviously embarrassed, she quickly brushed them aside with her bare hands, succeeding only in smearing them all over her cheeks. I watched her dry the cheeks with a handkerchief. Her face was thin, pale, unadorned by any sort of make-up — and unmistakably sad — without her smile. Before the conductor came in to announce Salt Lake City as the next stop, she nervously slipped into her coat, adjusted her hat in the window glass, settled forward in her seat, pressed her face against the windowpane, and sat almost motionless until the train idled to a stop. She was looking for someone, of that there could be no doubt. Page 316 —Helen Gray Robertson There was a sheer look of disappointment on her sad face when she left her seat and hastily "elbowed" her way into the line of disembarking passengers, keeping the while, her eyes glued on the window. Presently, I saw, but not before she did, three women come alongside the car. One was carrying a child — a little girl. Out of the line of passengers she bolted back to the window. With rapid, violent taps on the sturdy glass, she attracted their attention and immediately the child was brought to the window and boosted high up near the windowpane. Pointing hands directed its attention to the excited lady in the car. I could not hear the women's voices but. I did read their lips, "Look, there's Mummy — see Mummy?" The child stared soberly. Could "Mummy" have been gone so long away that she was forgotten? I wondered, but not for long. Suddenly, almost explosively, the child came to life. Its face brightened — its legs began to kick — its arms stretched out to the window — its lips were crving, "Mummy — Mummy!" The child's crying intensified as the mother, inside the window, bolted back again into the line of passengers out of the child's sight. I stood aside to give her my place in the line. As she brushed by me hot PORTRAIT OF A MOTHER tears fell upon my hand. Truthfully, I do not know whose tears they were — hers or mine! Need I describe further that happy reunion? Have you ever witnessed a greater love than that of a mother for her child? Does the love of a child for its mother match it? Children have been commanded to love their mothers: "Honour (love) thy father and thy mother... (Exodus 20:12). Husbands have been commanded to love their wives (the mothers of their children): "Thou shalt love thy wife with all thy heart... (D&C 42:22). We have all been commanded to love our God: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind" (Mt. 22:37). UT where in such strong language as "WITH ALL THY HEART" have mothers ever been commanded to love their children? No such commandment comes readily to my mind nor shall I spend time searching for one because | firmly believe that God, choosing women as his partners in the creative process, tucked away somewhere in their hearts a larger spark of his divine love, which later glows to brilliance in a mother's heart, and this endowment, it seems to me, obviates the need for a specific commandment to love their children. This love is inherent. It operates automatically — even instinctively. In lower forms of animal life it jis called instinct. Hunters have told about the fury of the mother bear when her cub is molested. We have observed the mother hen scratch for worms to 317 feed her chicks, and we have seen her spread her feathered wings to provide a protective covering against cold and the night. Call it instinct or whatever else you may, I still believe the tender care and affection the mother of my children has for her children is the noblest and the greatest kind of love. It is matchless, eternal, and I thank God for so endowing her. "There is a love," said Rufus Choate, "which comes uncalled for, one knows not how. It comes with the very air, the eye, the ear, the instincts... The first beating of the heart." Edgar Allan Poe has written: I feel that, in the Heavens above, The angels, whispering to one another, Can find, among their burning terms of love, None so devotional as that of Mother. The love of a good mother stands next to the love of our Heavenly Father. If one would only give a comparable amount of such mother's love to our Heavenly Father, such devotion might well satisfy the commandment: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart.. The family is an organization. Every organization needs a spokesman. 'The father in the Latter-day Saint family, by reason of his Priesthood, is the spokesman, also the priest in his own family. 'The mother is: The Heart — There is a center to each home from which all joys must start — the center of the home? It is a mother's heart. The Co-creator — God's partners in the creating processes — the architects and builders of all humanity. 318 The Expeditor — In the absence of father, she leads the family to prayers and always to its duties. The Teacher — She teaches the little children their first prayers. She teaches by example. The mother who drinks coffee even though she denies it to her children has failed to effectively teach the Word of Wisdom. ""Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6). The Dietician — She wants her children to grow up strong and healthy. The Cook — The daughters, her assistants. The Nurse — Sickness, though uninvited, visits occasionally in every home. The Psychiatrist — Principally for her husband, for whom she is the receptacle for all his cares and most of his ill humor. Somewhere it is written that "the virtues of the mothers shall be visited on their children as well as the sins of the fathers." "A mother," says Jim Reed, "is a composite. She's your nurse when you skin your knee, your conqueror when you're across her knee. She's your provider at mealtime, your teacher for home work. She scolds, laughs, and loves." NCE when my three children were in their tender years, my wife and I joined four other couples on a two-weeks vacation tour of the Northwest. It took a powerful lot of persuading to get my wife to leave the children in the loving care of the grandparents. I am sure, there was scarcely a moment all the while we were away when the children were not uppermost in my wife's mind. Early in the second week she had a feeling that all was not nght at home. "I am needed at home," RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 she said. "Something has happened — the children are sick!" "Mamma, you worry too much," I replied, and the others all sustained me — but to no avail. So, sooner than we had planned, we started for home. I shall never forget that last, long day's drive. I was at the wheel, my wife at my side urging me on and on: "Faster, faster, don't stop for lunch — don't stop for dinner — keep going." It was late that night when grandma tearfully greeted us at the door: "We have done all we know how to do, so has the doctor. Your Bobbie is very sick. He needs you. I am so glad you're home!" Now how did the mother know that all was not right at home? Has God endowed mothers with another special gift — a something we might call intuition? Only this I know: I could have made fewer errors through the years had I substituted at times this mother's intuition for my rationalism. Intuition is kin to inspiration. Reason in itself is not a source of knowledge; it must often give way to a mother's sense of perception. You may call it intuition, inspiration, or whatever you like, but you will be exercising wisdom if you will heed it now and then. Motherhood is just another name for sacrifice—a synonym for devotion. Mothers never love too much but some love not too well. Those who indulge their children often spoil them; those who neglect them, hiring out for wages, even though the wages provide comforts, convenience, cars, or whatever else the mothers think their children need, often contribute to their delinquency. No profession, no career can PORTRAIT OF A MOTHER compare with motherhood. A mother's place is in the home. May I suggest a creed for mothers? Since to this work, Father, thou hast called me — a partner in the creation process — help me to give it all that thou hast given me of love and gentleness and insight, and wisdom and strength and patience and forgiveness. I accept the calling of motherhood as a noble career — even the holiest and the happiest of all earth's tasks. **TINHOUGHTS of mothers," said Richard L. Evans, "somehow seem to symbolize the sense of belonging; of home and family, of the love of loved ones, the lasting, healing kind of love, which Emerson said, 'is the remedy for all blunders, the cure for all blindness... The redeemer and instructor of souls.'" 319 John Ruskin wrote: "The perfect loveliness of a woman's [mother's| countenance can only consist in that majestic peace, which is founded in the memory of happy and useful years... Queens you [mothers] must always be... Queens to your husbands and your sons... Wherever a true wife [mother] comes, this home is always round her. The stars only may be over her head... But home is yet wherever she is... With a love that heals, that waits and watches, a love that gives, and does and shares, and shelters and understands...." "Thank God for mothers, you who have them. And you who have not now, thank him for such a mother to remember. And you, the young mothers who have children yet around you, God grant that you may give them such love, such memories to remember' (Richard L. Fvans). Memories Lela Foster Morris Memories I have of olden yesterdays, Leaf-shadowed lanes and flower-bordered ways; Children gathering anemones on a windy hill In early spring; I wonder if they bloom there still. Small, white-clad figures trudging up the stair, Dimpled hands folded reverently in prayer, Like sleeping angels in their cosy beds; Pale silken curls were halos for their heads. Cherished scenes of an olden yesteryear, Of all life's bliss and ecstasies most dear, Locked away in memory's treasure chest, Deep in my heart forever there to rest. Hazel Sowards Cannon Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Luella F. Okeson Instructor of English, Granite School District, Salt Lake City, Utah HAZEL SOWARDS CANNON AZEL Sowards Cannon was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society February 21, 1962. She has accepted the responsibility in a spirit worthy of a devoted Latter-day Saint woman. Among her many qualifications for the position are a truly humble attitude, a sincere love of her fellow beings, and a vital, innate graciousness of manner. Sister Cannon is the daughter of Harmon S. And Ida Rebecca Jensen Sowards. These devout Latter-day Saints settled in Vernal, Utah. Her father is a civic-minded, friendly, generous man with a distinguished record of service in his community and Church. Her mother, now deceased, was also a devout Church and civic worker; a genteel woman, sensitive to the needs of others, and creative in every phase of her life. Page 320 Sister Cannon graduated from Uintah High School in Vernal. Later, she received a degree in home economics from Utah State University in Logan, Utah. She taught at Granite High School for two years. On August 30, 1934, she was married to Hyrum P. Cannon in the Logan Temple. 'They have two children. Harmon S. Cannon has fulfilled a mission to the Eastern States and, with his sister, Ida Christine, is now attending the University of Utah. Sister Cannon has created a lovely, distinctive home for the family, and has proved that real homemaking is an art. 'True to her early training, she has always been devoted to serving her Church. She has been an active Relief Society worker, having held positions as a visiting teacher, literature class. Leader, work meeting lesson instructor, and counselor in the presidency of the Federal Heights Ward, Emigration Stake. In recent years Sister Cannon has returned to teaching school. With her keen interest in education, she enjoys this outlet and finds satisfaction in it. She taught at Olympus High School from 1954 to 1956, and at the present time is on the faculty at Central Junior High School. Surely Sister Cannon's marked spiritual qualities and extensive background in Relief Society work will enable her to be dedicated, wise, and conscientious in the performance of her new duties. Hazel Sperry Love Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Mary R. Young Member, General Board of Relief Society HAZEL SPERRY LOVE HAZEL Sperry Love was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society March 7, 1962. She comes to her new position with a rich background of training and of service and leadership in the Church. Her faith, sincere testimony of the gospel, enthusiastic willingness and capacity for work are but a few of her outstanding qualifications. Sister Love was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, to William A. And Anna Eardley Sperry in a home where she was taught the principles of the gospel and to accept every opportunity which came to her to serve the Church. She was married to J. Leonard Love in the Salt Lake Temple on March 18, 1919, and has always supported and encouraged him in Church positions, as Bishop of Yalecrest Ward, member of the Church Welfare Committee, Mission President, and in his present position as a Reginal Supervisor of Stake Missions. 'Together, they created a beautiful spiritual home for their three children, Jay L., Richard S. And Joyce (Mrs. Spencer Jenson), all of whom were married in the temple. | Sister Love brings a wealth of experience to her new assignment. She served as head of the Relief Society in the Northern California Mission when her husband presided over that Mission. She has worked diligently in all of the auxiliary organizations of the Church since she was a young girl. Her wonderful influence was felt by the young people as she served as an officer in the MIA. As a Relief Society worker, she was an outstanding visiting teacher for many years. She was a counselor and then president of the Relief Society in Yalecrest Ward, Bonneville Stake, and later served as first counselor in the stake presidency of Relief Society in Bonneville Stake. At the time of her call, she was a member of the Sunday School Board in Parleys Stake. Her rich experience, exceptional executive ability, plus her sincere testimony and genuine love for Relief Society will contribute added strength to the General Board. Page 321 324 d. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 ognized writer. In case of complete disagreements among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style g. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1962. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. The Constant Generation Lael W. Hill My father and my mother see Still, the child I used to be — And cannot quite admit that now The twig they bent is equal bough. My children; willow-lithe, behold In me a full shade, heavy, old; To tell the green years I, too, crossed Is leaf on lost leaf laid and lost. Between these young, those old, I stand, My roots in theirs twined strand with strand, And know — whatever time falls by — I was... I shall be... Lam.. JI. REWARDS OF HAPPINESS To try to discover our failings and exchange them for virtues will bring rewards of happiness in this life and throughout eternity. —Pauline M. Bell eee er era 4 Jeff Thomson SENTINEL PINE ABOVE YOSEMITE VALLEY, CALIFORNIA The Sentinel Zara Sabin Tall it stands upon the mountain's crest. Wild wintry winds, the summer's scorching sun, And storms of all the seasons strive to wrest It from its princely place. Both east and west It tops the plain, the rivers as they run, The fertile fields, in checkerboard design — (Where persevering man has hardly won His fight with nature, not to be outdone) — And spreads its branches far, a welcome sign That squirrel or nesting bird may be a guest Whenever they desire, or wandering kine May seek its shade — staunch sentinel, a pine. Page 325 She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith Part II—Mercy Fielding Thompson Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian 'THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH From a painting said to have been painted in Nauvoo, Illinois, by William Majors Page 326 Rachel Fielding Thompson, died at her home in the Sixteenth Ward in Salt Lake City, on September 15, 1893. She had lived a long and useful life. On the previous fifteenth day of June, she had observed her eighty-sixth birthday. 'The day after her death, the following appeared in the Deseret News: "Sister Thompson was widely known and highly esteemed among the Latter-day Saints, with whom she had been associated for more than a half century. She was at the time of her demise, one of the eldest members of the Church, in connection with which her life had been one of faith and noble sacrifice. She was a sister to the mother of President Joseph F. Smith. Her husband, Robert B. Thompson, who was the secretary to the Prophet Joseph Smith, died at Nauvoo on August 27, 1841." It is not my purpose here to write a sketch of the life of Sister Thompson, but only to say that for a few brief years she had the rare privilege of an intimate personal acquaintance with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and with her gift of writing she recorded and published some of her experiences. In an article printed in the Juvenile Instructor in July 1893, she tells us that she was born in England in June 1807, and that, together A dear little woman, Mrs. Mercy SHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH with her sister Mary, and her brother Joseph Fielding, she emigrated to Canada in 1832. At Toronto in 1836, she was converted to the Mormon religion, and baptized by Parley P. Pratt. The following year, with her sister and brother, she made her way to Kirtland, Ohio, the headquarters of the Church. And then she continues: "My first introduction to the Prophet Joseph Smith, was in May, 1837, at Kirtland, Ohio; and on the 4th of June, following, I again met him at Brother John Gaylard's house in Kirtland, where a small company of friends had gathered to witness the ceremony of my marriage to Robert B. Thompson, the Prophet performing the ceremony. "There were present on this occasion several of the Twelve Apostles with their wives, also the aged Patriarch Joseph Smith and _ his wife — father and mother of the Prophet — and also my brother Joseph Fielding, and my sister Mary, who soon afterwards became. The wife of Hyrum Smith. "After the marriage ceremony was over we listened with joy and profit to the words of instruction and counsel which fell from the inspired lips of Joseph Smith, each word carrying to our hearts deeper and stronger convictions that we were listening to a mighty Prophet of God. "In February 1839, while Joseph and Hyrum Smith, with four other brethren were incarcerated in Liberty jail, I accompanied my sister Mary from Far West, to visit them. It would be beyond my power to describe my feelings when we were admitted into the jail by the keeper and the door was locked behind us. We could not help feeling a sense 327 MERCY FIELDING 'THOMPSON From a Portrait in Andrew Jenson's Biographical Encyclopedia. Said to be the only picture of Mrs. Thompson in existence of horror on realizing that we were locked up in that dark and dismal den, fit only for criminals of the deepest dye; but there we' beheld Joseph, the Prophet, the man chosen of God in the dispensation of the fullness of times to hold the keys of His kingdom on the earth, with power to bind and to loose as God should direct, confined in a loathsome prison for no other cause or reason than that he claimed to be inspired of God to establish His Church among men. There also we found his noble brother, Hyrum, who, I believe was not charged with any other crime than that of being a friend to his brother Joseph.... The night was spent in fearful forebodings, owing to a false rumor haying gone out that the prisoners contemplated making an attempt to escape, which greatly enraged the jailor and the guards. 328 *¢7 TNDER these circumstances we were constrained to bid adieu to the Prophet and his brethren, and hasten our departure from Liberty. My sister was in very delicate health, having with her her babe only three months old, whom his father then saw for the first time. (This "babe" became President Joseph F. Smith, the sixth President of the Church. ) "The next time I saw the Prophet was on his arrival at Quincy, [linois, after his almost miraculous escape from Missouri, with his fellow-prisoners, in April, 1839. Soon after this, arrangements were made for the Saints, who had been expelled from Missoun, to settle at Commerce, afterwards Nauvoo, where I became more intimately acquainted with the Prophet, in consequence of my husband being employed as his secretary, and to whom the Prophet became very much attached, so much so that one day he jocosely said to me, 'Sister Thompson, you must not feel bad towards me for keeping your husband away from you so much, for I am married to him'; they truly loved each other with fervent brotherly affection. "I have seen the Prophet under a great variety of circumstances, in public, in domestic and social life and in sacred places. "T have seen him as if carried away by the power of God beyond all mortal conception, when speaking to the Saints in their public gatherings; and in less public places I have heard him explaining to the brethren and sisters the glorious principles of the gospel, as no man could, except by prophetic power. "In a social gathering of the Saints RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 at the Bowery near the site of the Temple, I saw him rejoicing with the people, perfectly sociable and without reserve, occasionally uttering jokes for their amusement and moving upon the same plane with the humblest and poorest of his friends; to him there were no strangers and by all he was known as the Prophet and friend of humanity. "I saw him by the bed-side of Emma, his wife, in sickness, exhibiting all the solicitude and sympathy possible for the tenderest of hearts and the most affectionate of natures to feel. And by the death-bed of my beloved companion, I saw him stand in sorrow, reluctantly submitting to the decree of Providence, while the tears of love and sympathy freely flowed. Joseph took charge of the funeral ceremonies, strictly adhering to my husband's wish that there should be no military or other display at his burial as had been but a short time before on the occasion of the burial of Joseph's brother, Don Carlos, both having been officers in the legion. "Don Carlos died August 7, 1841, Joseph's little son, Don Carlos, died about August 18, now, Robert B. Thompson, his faithful secretary, on the 27th of the same month, so that Joseph could feel the import of the lines of Dr. Young addressed to death: "Thy shafts flew thrice and thrice my peace was slain....' "This indeed was a time of sorrow, but I can never forget the tender sympathy and brotherly kindness he ever showed toward me and my fatherless child. When riding with him and his wife Emma in their carriage, I have known him to alight and gather prairie flowers for my little girl. SHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH "I have been present at meetings of the Relief Society and heard him give directions and counsels to the sisters, calculated to inspire them to efforts which would lead to celestial glory and exaltation, and oh! How my heart rejoiced! '¢ A T another time — at a time never to be forgotten — I was present at a meeting when Joseph knelt down with the small congregation surrounding him, when every sentence he uttered seemed to convey to my mind, and to the minds of others present, the impression that this was our last meeting together — and so it was. "A few days after this he called at his brother Hyrum's to take leave of the family previous to their crossing the Mississippi River, intending to go west to the Rocky Mountains to seek out, if possible, a place of peace and safety for the Saints. His parting words to my sister Mary, as she wept at their going, were these: 'Sister Mary, don't feel bad, the Lord will take care of you, and He will deliver us, but I do not know how.' The two brothers then started to cross the river, not knowing whether they would ever see their homes again or not. But on account of the feelings expressed by some of the brethren, who should have been their truest friends, and by their 329 urgent request, sent after them, the brothers returned to Nauvoo the following day. Watching from a chamber window I saw them being rowed in a skiff across the river, until they landed, and walked up the river bank to Hyrum's house, where they both entered, Joseph seating himself, while Hyrum made some changes in his clothing, when they both went on to the Mansion. "Although I did not know that the brothers had returned home to be taken as 'lambs to the slaughter,' my feelings were indescribable, and the very air seemed burdened with sorrowful forebodings. "The awful scene at Carthage followed in a few days, and here all men must draw the veil, for until all the truth concerning these good men, and this black deed of their murderous foes, can be told and understood, the history of this time will not be written. But the day will come when God will speak, and the martyrs and their history shall be known. "I received my endowments by the directions of the Prophet Joseph, his wife Emma officiating in my case, and in his instructions to me at that time he said: "This will bring you out of darkness into marvelous light'" (Juvenile Instructor, Vol. 27, pp. 398-400). TRUE PROGRESS qpRve progress is to start with little, apparently unimportant things — determined to keep going — to do one's very best. "Be ye perfect." The goal, perfection, for his Son said, —Pauline M. Bell Hand to the Plow PART I — TICKET WICKET Tene H. Kingsbury And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house. And Jesus said unto him, No man having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God (Luke 9:61-62). HE splintered floor of the railway station echoed the footfalls of fugitive humanity. Such furtive glances as the emzgrants were observed to chance from under their black hats were noted as momentary. It would seem that curiosity was not a virtue and that any evidence of it was to be denied these most recent ocean-wafted people. However, there is that fine margin of out of the ordinary thinkers in any crowd, and two boys of fifteen and seventeen cared not to disguise their interest in everything American. And this is what they saw: They noted the ticket wicket with cage dividers and wrought-iron severity. So many travelers had stood before this official fare window that the imprint of two shoes just a little bigger than average size was worn in the floor. In fact, one almost slid into place while cautiously asking directions, prices, and free information. The same _ indented wearing of wood was to be noted at the entrance and exit doors where the shifted weight of thousands had flowed into the station and worn to slivers the but once painted threshold. The benches of the station were fashioned after church pews; straight, Page 330 unbending, severe, uninviting. They, at least, were worn smooth from constant sliding on the surface by wide-backed European peasants and overloaded baskets, carpetbags, and cloth bundles whose four corners were tied to form a clutch knot. Under each bench was a light film of dust, a lint gently sifted there as it broke from swishing skirts and shawls and coats threadbare from unrelieved usage. Light glanced through the tall, many glassed windows. 'These were seen to be fly specked and rain trickled. This was in the traditionally unkempt appearance of public buildings where pride was noticeably absent. A_ giant heater, called a forge stove, sat in the middle of the station and obscured the view of the opposite side of the room. Depending on the season, the woodbox was either bursting with stove lengths or brown and bare. It was scarred and beseeched a coat of paint, or an armful of fuel to hide its lonely cavity. Along one side of the station was a row of benches which needed no sign of "For Men Only" to designate who should properly sit there; for, in a line directly in front, and at equally spaced intervals, one saw a platoon of spittoons at convenient striking distance from this obvious- HAND TO THE PLOW ly reserved male section of the station. Needless to say, no respectable lady would have been seen waiting there, though she might stand for hours, holding a babe in her arms, and have another clinging to her skirts. As this was midsummer, the doors of the station were propped open with scraps of railing, their T-shaped style lending itself to easy handling and their weight lending itself to utility as a doorstop. It was quite obvious that in winter the doors would be dragged open with the entrance of a newcomer, and hastily closed by him as petulant glances of shivering travelers were cast in his direction. This would no doubt keep the air warm, but no doubt stale. T was a hazard to walk about this place, for baggage rooms had not been invented, and personal accouterments were fearfully kept near the owners. This obviously meant that monstrous piles of trunks and boxes of cloth, carpet, leather, and basketry were placed adjacent to each family and never left unguarded for a moment. 'Teenage children were assigned this duty and were the only insurance against loss and _ theft. Depending upon the nationality of the emigrants, the "possibles" were colorful or drab, valuable or useless, secure or hazardous, each attesting private means and social status. It was not unusual for bird cages to perch atop a pile of bedding. Then, crouched in a comfortable blob of feather pillows, sound asleep with fist clutching the pet's abode, a little girl could be seen worn unconscious by emigration. Such blessed sleep was not for a 331 twelve-year-old who sat stolidly on a seaman's trunk and counted over and over the number of bundles, sacks, boxes, and containers which represented the entire wardrobe of her family. To lose even one bulky item presaged disaster. Often one saw a pair of children taking turns walking around and around their family belongings in a sort of restricted exercise. Or perhaps they took turns at it while the other ran beyond the doorway to peer up and down the platform. A brave one might even dart beyond that safety island to place his ear on the rails to hear if a train was coming a long way off. If trains were delayed — no business schedule being guaranteed — it was possible for families to sleep among their accumulated possessions, thus saving expenditures for a room. This also permitted the excuse to eat in the station. The one lunchroom, a built on afterthought sort of thing, was not large enough to accommodate more than a score of famished men who shouldered their way to standing bar counters for a swig of something hot and filling. 'There were two odors here, beans and tobacco. Either of these, or a commingling of both, sickened most emigrants. They then organized themselves to send responsible members out into the town to buy loaves of varicolored and varitextured bread, a pail of milk, a few apples, if in season, or if fortune favored them, even a cooked hen or pork side. The miscellany was brought into the waiting room, spread about the tops of trunks and boxes and the family served in careful portions by the mistress of the community, the mother. 332 T could be noted that never, never was all the food eaten at one meal. 'Though hunger was said to be consuming, the gangling sons who at home ate like the cows, as they sometimes said, times and places were different now. Almost niggardly portions were doled out and always some saved for the next meal, just in case more could not be found. 'This precious conservation of a biscuit or two was a learned fetish with most emigrants. No one believed this was a sign of stinginess, but of foresight for the very young, the ailing, and the aged. A little crust became a comfort to teething infants and was not missed by more husky children. It was in this setting that Welsh Eddie, his mother, two little sisters, and two brothers could have been discovered that summer of 1864. The geographical location was a bit out of Philadelphia, U. S. A., and was one of a series already explored and acquainted with and was to be continued as a series west and on west as far as the tracks were laid. And as long as one knew life was not to be permanently lived in this unpainted frame station and the promised land would eventually unfold and welcome them and sustain them in comfort and plenty, what was this temporary crowding, smell, ceaseless vigilance to cause bother? The emigrant mother, who was a widow, having counted, fed, admonished, and otherwise cared for her little flock, straightened her shawl, fluffed out the ruffled lace cap which covered her hair under her tall-crowned, black Welsh hat, and resolutely approached the ticket wicket. She had timed her approach RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 so that no moment would be wasted waiting a turn. Her feet easily slid into the precarved groove of a thousand shoes, each as resolute as her own to keep on the march to a new life in this land long dreamed. The ticket agent glanced at her, and with clairvoyance reserved for public servants, threw aside formalities, got the destination and number of travelers out of her, and with flood intensity took over the scene. "Listen, lady, if you and your five children are going out West, and want to ride the trains as far as St. Joe, on the Missouri, and then catch a wagon train from there, why are you so worried about a little town in Pennsylvania that no one ever heard of and you don't even intend to get off and see?" HE station agent, as he adjusted his black gauntlet wrist protectors, certainly left but one answer. And why, indeed? But before the emigrant could assemble her Welsh words and reassemble them into Yankee of the Americas, the agent stampeded his ideas in front of him. "And if I were you, lady, I wouldn't get off the train, either, what with the war in its fourth year, and the battle line swinging up and down the map like a bull whip over stubborn oxen. Why, one can't be sure from one stop to another that the train will not be invaded by soldiers, ours or the rebels, and you'd find yourself and the young ones sleeping on a ditch bank. Now, you certainly wouldn't want that. If I were you I would get on any old train that had a good cooking stove in it, just so it was headed West, and I'd stay on HAND TO THE PLOW just as long as the tracks were laid in my direction." The word direction gave the emigrant an idea. "Sir, do you have a map of the trains to the West?" At that the agent fairly shrieked in derision. "Listen, lady, this isn't a big settled country, that is not yet, and only the generals have the maps, and mighty poor ones they are, too. Once I tried to make myself a map of the railroads from New York, through Philadelphia, through Pittsburgh, and on over to the Mississippl. Do you know what it all looked like? Just an old maple leaf with the in-between parts decayed away and the meaty veins left running every which way. "If the stem was placed near Castle Gardens, the longest vein would point right across the country and end in St. Joe. Most trains shuttled about before you got over the mountains to Pittsburgh, and the scarce ones thinned out until only a couple of long scraggly ones got to the Mississippi river, and then one branch line dared to build out to where the trails of the prairie left the Missouri. Guess I didn't need a map after drawing that one. It's pretty simple. All one has to do is 333 ask where you are at each station, get on the next train heading West, and in about a half a month, there you'll be in St. Joe." "Then I'll take a ticket for my family right on to the end of your veined leaf," decided the emigrant. "Oh, no you won't. Why, lady, at least five companies have to sell you fares between here and the West. Why, even their cars don't look alike inside, let alone the tracks they roll on. Seems to me I heard one soldier say that sometimes the tracks are on a wide gauge, sometimes on a narrow one, and again on one of a completely individual width. You can't expect trains to roll along at that rate. Change the passengers, charge a new fare. Anyway, I hope you reach the big rivers before the soldiers get all the cars run to the battles. If you missed them, you would be left roaming, on foot, say in Ohio or Indiana. Of course, if you get beyond those wild places, then IIlinois and Missouri might be reached. My bet is that an ox team is surer and safer than any steam engine hereabouts." (To be continued ) Treetops Celia Luce gem full fury of the wind hits the top of the tree. The rain beats down on the topmost branches, and, in winter, snow bends them down. There. But it is at the treetop that the sun shines brightest, and the rosiest fruit grows The growing tips of the branches may point toward God's bluc sky. Safe, immer branches wither away and die. The Oatmeal Box Violet Nimmo | me morning as I prepared my child's breakfast of oatmeal, eggs, fruit, and milk, I had come to the bottom of the oatmeal box. I had a strange feeling of guilt as I tossed the empty box into the waste basket. I retrieved the box and while the little Quaker man smiled at me, I was reminiscing about my childhood and a wonderful nostalgia hit me like the crisp winter air. I said aloud to myself, "This wonderful oatmeal box." I received a look from my son that said, "Are you daydreaming again, Mother?" My thoughts went back to the golden days when I sat and ate a breakfast of oatmeal, questioning my mother's daydreams. I reflected that when I was a child we had an infinite variety of uses for the empty oatmeal box. I could visualize a decorative arrangement of dry plant material, with its sculpturesque beauty, like that which was placed in the center of our old-fashioned round table. We would come home from school and look into the cupboard for the oatmeal box. It contained some spicy ginger snaps or crisp sugar cookies with small misshapen lumps of hard sugar that had forgotten to melt, or perhaps, one held some rich brown doughnuts, all of which our mother lovingly baked for us. Now I was pedaling my bicycle to the old farm where I purchased a box of brown eggs, always receiving an extra one or two, or a midget egg the kindly farmer's wife gave me for myself. Perhaps she would treat me to a glass of buttermilk and a piece of pie before returning home. I remember one time I had an accident on the bicycle and dropped the eggs, which were all broken. Afraid to go home, I returned to the farm and offered my services as a helper to pay for another box of eggs. Yes, she saved oatmeal boxes, too, and I was sent happily on my way with a new order of eggs, only in a box of a different brand. I could see the loaded shelves in our old cave cellar, holding the dried peas, beans, and popcorn which were stored for winter, and the boxes of seeds my father saved from the most choice fruits and flowers to be planted the following year. I saw the tomato and cabbage plants carefully being transplanted from the box to the garden. There was the shelf that held decorated oatmeal boxes, with each child's name printed across the top, where we kept our clean stockings, all rolled up neatly. There were waste baskets we made from them to hold our trimmings of paper while cutting pictures from magazines or pretty greeting cards, or to hold small toys such as tinker toys and blocks. Even nails, screws, and hinges were saved and placed in the boxes for repairing objects about the house. The oatmeal box also had its use as a darning basket. Our mother would sit in the evening and mend our stockings and tell us stories, or she would keep a box for buttons or a thread container. As my son kissed me boodbye and left for school, I carefully placed the oatmeal box with the smiling Quaker man on the shelf in my cupboard. Perhaps I would make some old-fashioned sugar cookies for him this morning. But how did my mother get those yummy little chunks of hard sugar on the top? Page 334 A DOG AND HIS MAID Shirley Sargent Y home is a forested area M adjacent to Yosemite National Park where I have well water, and hot and cold running mosquitoes. My _ typewriter, record player, and young, old-maid self have liv ed a happy, carefree, pine-needle life here until this sumMer. In late June, a summer ranger friend asked if I would dog-sit with a Dachshund belonging to another seasonal ranger who had come from Oklahoma with his dog, not knowing dogs were not allowed in the park. "No," I answered violently. "A dog has to be fed and watered, curried, and carried. I come and go too much. Absolutely not." "But it would only be for two months, and a dog would be good company." Unfeelingly, I interrupted, "Tim here is all the company I need and he can feed himself." Mv dear friend's fourteen-year-old visiting son looked disturbed, not amused. The ranger expostulated, "How can you be so selfish? Kennel life would be sickening for Fritz and his owners. The youngest boy cried himself to sleep last night." "Tough," I said heartlessly. Pl prize my independence." At this stony moment, big-eyed, dog-loving Tim began to beg and plead that, while he was around, he would do everything — feed, water, chase, quiet, and bathe Fritz — so that I would have neither care nor complaint. My ranger friend hastened my ungracious capitulation by adding, "Fritz's mistress savs she'll be glad to do your washing and ironing in exchange for the dog's board." That did it. The well was low, the nearest laundromat twelve mountain miles away, and I detested ironing. RITZ came, and both he and I complained vociferously for two davs. I didn't like his whimpering, his cold, wet nose, or his barking. He hated his leash, being away from his loving family, and the cold nights in our outdoor "dorm." Poor Tim bore up bravely under my scathing I-told-vou-so's and Fritz's heartbroken cries until two aM. When he quieted the dog's shivering and lonesomeness by shoving him down in his sleeping bag. My objections to this unclean bedmate were blotted out by the blessed quiet. The next: morning I tried to look at the dog objectively. He was a compact, muscled, brown bundle of nervous energy with pretty markings and soulful brown eves. He was so short, the wild daisies hid him and so nervously brave he barked at falling pine cones. Tim showed me proudly that Fritz would sit and beg, but this didn't impress me in view of the time he spent on the couch and beds. He was a spoiled, beloved dog, and losing his family was, obviously, a traumatic experience. Most of the day he whimpered to Page 335 336 go out and, once there, cried to be off his leash. Even Tim seemed disenchanted by his charge, and I thought vainly of ways to rid myself of the pest. Unexpectedly and dismayingly, that was accomplished when I opened the back door in answer to a friend's hail and out shot Fritz. Tim and I spent a hot, breezeless afternoon looking for the escapee. Gnats buzzed, dust rose, tempers heightened, and echoes of futile calls were our only accomplishment. 'Tim worried about Fritz being thirsty, tired, chased by bears, bitten by a snake, and irretrievably lost. More selfishly, I fretted about what his ranger family would say and feel and lamented how short-lived would be my vacation from ironing. Toward evening, a panting, dusty Fritz dragged in, gulped water, nuzzled Tim, and fell heavily asleep under, not on, the couch. After that, there was no more whimpering, running away, or need fora leash. Fritz was Tim's shadow. I had as little to do with him as possible, but was amused at the way his ears flopped as he ran and the way he bounced over the mountainside. Tim taught him not to jump on the beds, but he was still a pest. He cried so we couldn't—or, rather, Tim wouldn't—leave him home alone. In the car, he climbed over and on us and, of course, while we shopped or went sightseeing in Yosemite Valley, he had to be restrained by a leash — a calamity which he bore with the equanimity of a caged bear. Still, his mistress was doing our washing and ironing and supplying the smelly, dog food with so many compliments on our stewardship, I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 felt as if I were the "Good Neighbor" of 1962. HEN came the day Tim left for home and the whimpering routine began again. I had to see that Fritz had food and water and tried angrily to quiet his barking when friends came to see me. He seemed to realize he was the man of the house and protected me fiercely, if misguided, by barking, growling fairly menacingly, and pawing the ground so that dirt and pine needles flew all over the paths. He followed me everywhere. In the mornings, he greeted me as if he hadn't seen me in days — jumping on me, wiggling, and nuzzling my hands. It was flattering and I knew I had made the team with Fritz. One afternoon, he scurried out from under the couch in obvious distress and tried his best to make it outside before he was sick. He missed, but looked so abject and mournful that I heard myself saving, "That's all right, honey. You couldn't help it." Honey! Fritz had made the team with me. T remained utterly adamant at having him in or on my bed, or talking baby talk to him, but when he stood and begged for loving, I gave it to him and, when I shivered out of my swim in the river, his warm, lovable body felt good. Occasionally, I submitted to his licking; often I played with him, and frequently I talked to him. Our "lovematch" continued until summer's end when Fritz left with his real family. My prized independence is inviolate again. The only responsibil- A DOG AND HIS MAID ity I have is for myself and a huge pile of ironing. Happy, carefree, independent? Sure, that's I, but I miss the ecstatic morning loving, the floppy ears, yours-but-to-command _ eyes, 337 and faithful shadow of Fritz. Thanks to him, now there is room in my part of the woods, under my bed, and in my heart for a dog that will belong to me, not just summers, but all seasons of the year. Sonnet for a Somber Day Evalyn Miller Sandberg A morning sky is overcast with gray, And ivy-festooned oaks blend ash with green, While on their boughs dark crows in silence sway, Subdued by seeming imminence of rain. A legendary chief on yonder peak Is blanketed with fog and hovering cloud; The timberline my eyes habitually seek, And foothills, too, now lie beneath a shroud. This quiet setting cradles roof and wall, Displays a house as jewels held to light; And here, in warmth and safety, within call, Are those I love, and much that gives delight. My little kitchen, done in tangerine Seems, on this day, especially serene. Keep Dreaming Nancy M. Armstrong eos were never meant to die unused, though time and changing needs must sometimes alter them. A dream is the budding of accomplishment. To relinguish it is to forsake an uncompleted task. And to stop dreaming is to lose the motivation for radiant living. Dreams that are pursued keep enthusiasm alive, enlarge our horizons, increase our capacity for the success we desire. They keep us aware, not only of what we desire to achieve, but of what we ought to strive to achieve. Keep Dreaming! ® fi Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1902 "FoR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NatTIons" THE SEVEN RULES OF HARMONY: 1. Make the sacred spirit of peace a living power in your life. 2. Never listen, without protest, to insinuations, vituperations, or unjust accusations against the members of your family or your fellow-citizens. 3. Seek to understand the spirit of the national laws and: obey those which exist. 4. Dedicate your thought and use your influence to develop the national and patriotic spirit.... 5. Do not destroy... Instead, make it your object to plant, to nourish... 6. Teach your children and your dependents what you may learn with regard to justice and peace.... 7. Seek each day to utter some word, or to perform some little action which will promote the cause of peace, whether at home or abroad. — Selected LETTER FROM ST. GEORGE: My counselors and myself, of the Relief Society, Sisters Morris and Bleak... Traveled down the Virgin River. The people are making homes along the river, settling in little patches. We took dinner with Sister Bodilla M. Johnson at her home a few miles above Mosquito Fat, then went on to the town of Mosquit... We met with the members of Relief Society, and a number of brethren met with us. We urged the sisters to live their religion, store grain, take care of the sick and afflicted, provide for the poor and needy and comfort the hearts of those that are called upon to mourn, to teach the children to pray from imfamey, and they will arise and call them blessed..... — Ann C. Woodbury COURAGE Why should I hug life's ills with cold reserve, To cure myself and all who love me? Nay! A thousand times more good than I deserve, God gives me every day. And in each one of these rebellious tears Kept bravely back he makes a rainbow shine, Grateful I take his slightest gift, no fears Nor doubts are mine.... — Celia Thaxter FOUR SCORE YEARS: A happy anniversary celebration was commemorated on Saturday, May 3, 1902, in the handsome old parlors at the historic Bee Hive House, the occasion being the eightieth birthday anniversary of Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, one of the most noble mothers in Israel in this dispensation.... Sister Smith occupies. The highest place of honor among the Latter-day Saint women, president of the Relief Society of the Church of Latter-day Saints in all the world. It is therefore most appropriate her name should be known among our people, and honors accorded her, befitting the position she holds.... — Editorial THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT: | If the sisters could realize the importance of having a paper of their own and the prestige it gives to their work, surely they would bestir themselves to obtain subscriptions... And better supply the needs of the women... Who are looking for light, knowledge and wisdom.... — Editorial Page 338 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon R. MARY I. BUNTING, fiftvone, mother of one daughter and three sons, is also a microbiologist and President of Radcliffe College (for women), associated with Harvard. She believes the future will require women's abilities as well as men's. Her girls at Radcliffe regard their president as a "marvelous woman." Dr. Bunting has always stood for family first in a woman's life. THE proportion of girls in United States colleges in 1920 was forty-seven per cent. Now it is only thirty-seven per cent, and only a little more than half of those college girls stay with it long enough to get a degree. Of the top highschool seniors who skip college, twothirds are girls. BARBARA TERRETT and William C. Wheaton, both of the University of Pennsylvania, and Martin Myerson of Harvard are joint authors of Housing, People and Cities, a book filled with information for people with a personal interest in housing, such as tax payers, builders, landlords, and zoning officials. The book clarifies the ways in which patterns of community growth are changing. ENORITA IRMA ARANGO, twenty-four, pretty and charming, and also a dynamo of energy, is the director of Panama's Tourist Bureau. Hoping to make tourism an outstanding industry, she advertises her country's scenic and _historical attractions all over the hemisphere, working for conventions and visits from vacationers. MADAME WANDA _— LANDOWSKA, the greatest harpsichordist of our modern day, shortly before her recent death, recorded for Capitol Records twenty sonatas for harpsichord by Scarlatti. This series of records traces the history of music. RS. MARY ALLEN HOUK, widow of a Civil War soldier, recently celebrated her one-hundredand-seventh birthday in Lenoir City, Tennessee. Although blind and hard of hearing, she is still alert and interested in life. GINA BACHAUER is one of the world's foremost pianists. She recently received a tremendous ovation when she played with the New York Philharmonic Orchestra. Page 339 ©O— > EDITORIAL —~S VOL. 49 MAY 1962 The Cultural Values of Relief Society "SIN the work of the Relief Society are intellectual, cultural, and spiritual values found in no other organization and sufficient for all general needs of its members." So stated the First Presidency in a letter to the Presidency, officers, and members of Relief Society upon the occasion of the issuing of A Centenary of Relief Society. This statement, coupled with the promise of the Prophet Joseph Smith that knowledge and intelligence would flow down to women, brings an awareness that the Lord would have his daughters instructed and engaged in intellectual pursuits. The dictionary defines culture as "the enlightenment and refinement of taste acquired by intellectual and aesthetic training." It further states that culture is "the act of developing by education, discipline and training." The desirability of attaining culture and refinement is apparent. Within the all-encompassing program of Relief Society are found the intellectual training and the educational opportunities to raise women to cultural heights. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints fosters education as one of the facets of the abundant life. "Education is not only a lifetime process, it is an eternal process." Much emphasis is placed on the continuous growth of mind and spirit, and use of the intelligence with which mortals are blessed from on high. The acquiring of culture Page 340 is an effort to improve or perfect through greater knowledge. This knowledge should serve to refine, to remove that which is dross, and serve aS an impetus to constantly seek further development. Inspiration and experience have led Relief Society to provide cultural training for women. Acquaintance with all of the fine arts adds beauty to life. Gentility of manner makes gracious living possible. Constant seeking to improve thwarts the temptations of the Adversary to remain idle, to be complacent with learning already attained, and so to retrogress. Latter-day Saints are under obligation to seek after truth. Great books contain much of this truth and should be read and studied. Foremost among great books are scriptures whose values to the reader are spiritual enlightenment, the fostering of high and lofty thoughts, the example of pure and beautiful language, and the motivating force of good actions. Relief Society members study the scriptures to make these various values part of their lives. Great writings which have stood the test of time are chosen to fill the mind with yearning for the good and the beautiful, to acquaint the heart with the evil of wrongdoing, and to keep the soul in tune with righteousness. Courses of study, approved by the brethren appointed by the First Presidency to this call- EDITORIAL ing, are presented by Relief Society for the uplifting of the women and through them, their families. Beautiful music exercises a refining influence and has appeal to the emotions. It can induce feelings of worshipfulness, tranquility, and peace, happiness, or sorrow, or it can move its hearers to militant action. Music and song are frequently mentioned in the scriptures, and the Lord has stated that he delights in the song of the nghteous. More than cultural development to individuals has resulted from music taught in Relief Society. The Singing Mothers have been an aid to the missionary work of the Church and have brought joy to others. 341 Homemaking is a fine art involving both. Spiritual and _ physical beauty. The talents and creative abilities of women are used to the best advantage in the homes. A knowledge of other forms of great art advances these abilities of women. Compassion is an attribute of the cultured person, and a desire to serve is engendered by knowledge of what is best to be done to make life beautiful for oneself and for others. Relief Society has ever endeavored to provide "the intellectual, cultural and spiritual values... Sufficient for the general needs of its members," which make life here and eternally what it is intended to be. —L. W. M. |-Love You Florence S. Glines Dear sister, I give you my love. It is more to feel than to see, And it always goes straight out, A path between you and me. Some people have riches of gold, But riches that I must impart Are something not seen but felt: The love for you in my heart. Little Teamstress Frances C. Yost FE, all missed Mama, but \\v Papa missed her more than any of us. It was painful when we gathered round the table and her place was empty. I believe that is why Papa told me to sit at the foot of the table from then on. Papa always complimented me on my cooking, but I knew that, try as I could, it didn't measure up to Mama's. And, although I tried to, I just couldn't glorify leftovers, as Mama had. We missed Mama, too, on Sunday. I tried to keep things washed and ironed, and buttons sewed on as Mama had, but most every Sunday something showed up _ needing mending, or something had been hung up instead of put in the clothes hamper, and missed the wash entirely. But we managed, and we were thankful that tiny Susan hadn't had to go off to the city and live with Aunt Erma. We all especially enjoyed little Susan around. She had Page 342 been two years old when Mama died. She was such a ray of sunshine to all of us, because she didn't remember Mamaenough to get homesick for her as the rest of us did. But the time that Papa missed Mama the most was in the evenings. Mama was from the city, and wasn't good at milking cows, but she was good at figures. Papa and Mama had sat together at the table and figured out the farm program. What to plant, and what not to plant, what crop would make the best yield, and what land to summer fallow. Together, they had talked over whether it would be best to sell the apples as soon as the harvest, or store them until spring when they were scarce, and the price just might be higher. Mama had an intuition when to sell grain, and when to store it awaiting a higher price. Then, sometimes, they had sat together and looked through the wish book. 'That's what we called the mail-order catalogue. We would pick out our clothes for winter. It took a lot of planning to keep us all warm and clothed and fed. Yes, Papa missed Mama the most, and there wasn't anything we could do about it. NE particular evening Papa was sitting at the table with pencil in hand, and I knew he was figuring how to manage the finances. Lael — she's two years younger than I, and the boys, Wilford and Grant, were getting their lessons. Little Wally and Susan were asleep upstairs. I was reading Longfellow's Evangeline. I kept peering over the book and watching Papa. He had that worried frown on his face, and LITTLE TEAMSTRESS he kept glancing at me, too. I found myself wishing I were older, so that he could confide in me. Then a light sort of spread over Papa's face, and I heard him murmur, "But she's just a child herself, and those frisky horses. Yet we better try it." Papa started tapping his pencil and nodded to me. "Maggie, come over here." I put the marker in my book, and turned my chair around so that I was next to Papa at the table. I waited for Papa to speak. "Maggie, there's a new ice-cream parlor opened up in town, and I believe if we started selling sweet cream to be made into ice cream, we could realize quite a lot more, perhaps twice as much from our cream as we do now, selling it sour once a week to the creamery. What do you think?" I knew how much it took to buy groceries and shoes and_ school books. Twice as much money sounded real good to me. It sounded so good, I wanted to shout about it. But Papa was being confidential. He was planning with me as he used to with Mama. I thought of it from all angles.. "It would mean a trip to town every day, wouldn't it, Papa?" "That's the only drawback. We would have to deliver the cream fresh daily. I'm too busy farming to go, and the boys are too small. I wondered if you...." "Oh, Papa, I could drive Nell and Tom, honest I could. I've driven to church when you had to go early to Priesthood meeting. I could do it, Papa." "Well, I sure wouldn't want anything to happen to you. But... I 343 believe if you were to go all alone, not have any little ones to watch.... But you would have to promise that you would keep both hands on the reins every minute." "T will, Papa. I promise." Now Papa had that thinking look on his face, and glanced over at Lael. Lael knew how to work. Mama had taught us both. But Lael was. Like some horses, she had to be prodded. I knew what Papa was thinking. If I took the cream to town each day, Lael would have to take charge of things at home. "Let's see, six miles in and six 'miles back. Even if you took a slow gait you ought to be back in two hours." Papa looked across at me and -spoke softly. "Think Lael could manage everything for a couple of hours each day?" "T think so, Papa." O that's how we started selling fresh cream to the ice-cream parlor. Every morning except Sunday I made the trip to town and back. On Sunday we stored the night and moming cream in the cistern, and I took a double batch to town on Monday. I was extra careful on Monday not to have a tipover. Papa had told me not to read on the way, and not to take any friends, and, unless I was to do some shopping, I was to come back as soon as the cream can was emptied. He cautioned me to keep both hands on the reins, and to let the horses know who was boss. It was summer, and the drive to town in the pleasant cool of the morning was a joy. That was two hours of the day the little children weren't saying Maggie this and 344 Maggie that. I started getting up an hour earlier, and Lael and [I hurried fast so that the morning work was done before I left. Dinner was planned, and Lael could go ahead with that. I would get back in time for noon dinner, and to help with the clearing up and the dishes. Things worked out real nice, and Papa seemed proud of Lael as a housekeeper and me as a teamstress. Papa had said not to read, or have anyone along. But he hadn't said I couldn't sing. I did a lot of that. I also said the multiplication tables. I practiced my talks for Sunday School and recitations for socials. But most of all, I daydreamed. I remembered how nice it was when Mama was here, and we had parties in the parlor. I kept wishing we could have a party. I wanted to have the boys and girls my age over, and make a batch of homemade ice cream, and two or three kinds of cakes, as Mama used to do. I wished Papa would warm up his fiddle and play for the party as he used to, and call changes for the square dance. But Papa _ hadn't played the violin since Mama died. Once I mentioned it to Papa, how I wanted to have a party. We were ordering shoes for Wilfy and Grant out of the catalogue. But Papa's face looked painful, and I knew he was remembering those parties, too. "Sometime, Maggie, but not right now." I had been selling cream quite a few weeks, and things were going along fine. The extra pay for the sweet cream was a real help to us. The ice-cream parlor liked to pay with cash. We didn't have a bank in our little town, and it just worked RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 out best for them, and best for us to have the greenbacks and silver instead of a check. 'They always put the money in a sealed envelope, and I took it straight home to Papa. One noontime Papa opened the envelope and counted. He looked up startled. He got out his cream statements, and figured up. Then he said aloud, "They have made a mistake. They have given us twenty dollars too much." "Twenty dollars!' The boys and Lael shouted. Longingly, I thought aloud, "Oh, Papa I wish we could use that money for a party." APA looked at me so disappointed when I said that, I could have bitten my tongue. There wasn't a dishonest bone in Papa's body, and he didn't like his children even to consider dishonesty. He often told us that Satan was not given the power to tempt little children, but at the age of accountability he could use his power upon us, and that we should be strong and withstand all temptations. Of course I knew that, much as we could use the extra money, I would be taking it back when I made the trip the next morning. "Maggie, you get the boys to help you harness up, and right after dinner you take this twenty dollars back to the ice-cream parlor. They will be short on their books when they settle up this evening." So, in the very hottest part of the day, I had to make an extra trip to town. All the way I kept thinking about what I could do with that twenty dollars in my pocket, and how nice a party would be. Why, with twenty dollars I could have LITTLE TEAMSTRESS "boughten" ice cream, and "boughten" cakes, and cookies, and prizes... And.... I held the reins tightly all the way as Papa had told me, but the tears that fell blinded my vision. HINGS went on about the same as usual the next day or two. - | made the regular trip to town with the cream each morning, while Lael watched the little ones and prepared dinner. Then one afternoon, Lael and Susan and I were sitting out under the trees. Papa had taken the three boys with him to fix fences up in the pasture by the canal. Lael was lying in the hammock just being lazy. Susan was playing with her doll, and I was trying to get Lael to help me with the darning I was doing. Suddenly, a big dust was coming down the road. It could be nothing but a car. Nobody had a car out our way, and not many people had a car in town. But Mr. Cosgriff, owner of the ice-cream parlor, had a car. He used it for deliveries. It was black, but had a big white sign on both sides which read "Cosgriff's Ice Cream," with a picture of a big icecream cone. Imagine how surprised we were when he drove right up to our house and stopped. He got out of his car and picked up a big ice-cream container and walked through the gate. We hadn't ordered any ice cream, that was for sure. "Hello, Maggie." Cosgriff's smile. "Hello, Mr. Cosgriff." I turned to Lael and Susan who were as surprised as I was. "These are my sisters, Mr. Cosgriff, Lael and Susan." "Glad to know you. You've got a good big sister. One to be proud I liked Mr. 345 of. Honest as the day is long." He was looking at me when he said it, and I felt mighty guilty inside. He patted the big ice-cream container and said, "Brought you out some ice cream. Honesty has its rewards. There're five gallons here. Maggie, you can return the container in the morning." "But Papa won't take a reward for being honest. I know he won't." Just then Papa and the boys drove up on the hay wagon. They had seen the dust of the car coming, and had come to see what the commotion was. A car was something to see in those days. "You have a fine girl here, this Maggie." "Yes, Maggie's a fine girl, and I want you to meet the rest of my family." "T've met Lael here, and Susan." "This is Wilford, he's eleven, Grant is nine, and Wally is six." "Glad to meet you fellows." 'Then nodding toward the ice-cream container, "Brought you out some ice cream. I sure did appreciate your catching that mistake the other day." "That's quite all mght, and it wasn't necessary...." "It means a lot to me. Well, I better get back to the shop. See you in the morning, Maggie." He was gone. APA just looked at the ice-cream container for awhile. Then, as if talking to himself, he said, "It won't keep. Might as well use it up this evening." 'Then a smile broke on Papa's face and he turned to me, "Maggie, I believe you had better get on the phone and call all your friends. We'll have that big 346 parlor party you have been wanting." "Oh, Papa!" I rushed over to him and squeezed him hard. "Do you think you girls could make up some cakes this afternoon? We could use two or three kinds. How about an angel food, a chocoRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 late, and a spice cake? And I'll see what I can do about warming up the violin." Lael and I hurried into the house. We had a lot to do. Lael murmured something about honesty having its -reward. And I knew that I hadn't been so happy for a long, long time. How to Give a Magazine To Someone Who Is Ill Evelyn Witter WHEN I was sick, many well-meaning friends brought me reading material. And of all the enjoyable periodicals I received, I enjoyed the one Bess Rogers brought me the most of all. The reason for my choice was that Bess "friendshipped" the stories for me with the notes and comments she wrote in the margins. For example: on one of the stories she wrote, ""This story has real good deseripiaaaly of faraway places. See if you don't think so, too." On another story she wrote this in the margin: "This one held me in I-couldhardly-breathe suspense. Not good to read before going to sleep!" Then on an article, Bess wrote: "If you want people to like you, and who doesn't — read this!' And so it went all through the magazine — comments and questions and opinions, all neatly written along the margins. It was like having a person-to-person visit with Bess on every page. Of interest seasoning to the reading. Her notes coaxed me to read the magazine and added a dash Now when I want to give something nice to a friend who is ill, I read my Magazine. Then I go through it again and write in my comments. Not until this thorough working over is done, do I give it to the person I have in mind. Friends who have received my notes in the Magazine margins have always thanked me heartily. A thank you note I received just this morning said: "The notes you made on the margins made the reading extra fun. Thanks!" | Was Thinking Elsie C. Carroll. | was thinking what a blessing it is to be able to think, to remember, to dream. How limited our satisfactions would be if we couldn't recall what happened in the past, if we couldn't contemplate what is happening now, if we couldn't project in imagination what may happen in the future. With immeasurable speed the mind races from experience to experience in recalling the past, from thought to thought in considering, evaluating, or merely facing the present, and from one shining dream to another in peering into the future. I tried this little experiment. I glanced at the clock to note the time. Then I let my mind range where it would for ten minutes. Where did it go? Where didn't it go? In those ten minutes I lived over again, among other experiences, an early Christmas dawn when I could see in the dim light the shiny head of my first china doll peeping out of my hand-knit stocking hanging in front of an old adobe fireplace; a thrilling moment in an old log schoolhouse when my teacher handed me a corrected "'composition" with a beautiful "A" opposite my name; the burial of a pet kitten; a humiliating moment when I received my father's severest punishment for a wrongdoing: his sad eyes looking into mine and his kind voice saying, "Elsie, I didn't think you would do that"; happy days on a farm where I learned to ride horses, milk cows, and piece quilts from innumerable scraps of family dresses and shirts and aprons; wearing one of the prettiest Christmas dresses my mother ever made for me, and going to my first grownup dance; delivering the valedictory in high school commencement exercises; getting ready to go away to college; the supreme moment when I was asked to be the wife of the boy who began sending me valentines when I was eight years old; our wedding day. Lights and shadows of memory passed swiftly over more than half a century in the brief span of ten minutes. If I had turned my mind to contemplate the present for ten minutes, thoughts would have raced just as swiftly from the problems, anxieties, joys, doubts and fears, satisfactions and hopes, that crowd into our lives each day. And, if I had focused it on the rosy-hued world of ambition, hopes, and dreams, it would have gone sailing away from one tremulous cloud to another, until I would not have known when the ten minutes were up and would have trouble bringing it back to reality, which the poet Browning calls ""The C Major of Life." Truly, one of the great blessings we are given with our lives is the power to remember, to contemplate, to dream. Page 347 Dare to Be Different Mabel Law Atkinson time with the rhythm of old Bell's hoofs, as dear, familiar scenes glided by as she sat beside her father in the one-horse buggy on her way to the train that was to take her away to the first big adventure of her life. Every once in awhile she looked through the little window in the back of the buggv to see if her new brown tin trunk was still securely tied on. A small brown pasteboard suitcase, also new, was between her feet and the dashboard in front. Her first suitcase and her first trunk that spoke of her first real journey away from home. She was daydreaming of attending church the next morning in a faraway country town, and of beginning her teaching in a two-room country school the Monday following. Seventy-five dollars a month was to be her salary! Seventy-five dollars! And her first year of teaching! Why, at home she could only have received fifty dollars, and she would only be about eighty miles away! Eighty miles! Suddenly the distance seemed far, but she smiled resolutely as she mused, and I'll be home for Christmas! What presents I shall bring! Her Father's voice interrupted her thoughts, "My girl, I'm not one for preaching, as you know, but there are a few things I would sav to you by way of counsel: You know our Church standards. You may meet and mingle with people who do not live these standards. Dare to be different should the occasion demand. Page 348 Gum _Olney's thoughts kept Live as vou know, my dear. You've been a good girl, Sara, and I have full confidence in you. I trust you to do the right thing always." "Yes, Papa. I'm glad you have faith in me. But the community is a Latter-day Saint one. Mrs. Daugherty, where I shall board, is a good Church worker, the trustee told me. So I don't think I shall have anv hard decisions to make." "Perhaps not, my girl, but take vour old father's advice in case you do." "Oh, I will, Papa. I've always felt that what vou said was right, you and Mama both." A half hour later when her trunk had been checked and she was carrying her suitcase ready to get on the train, she kissed her father goodbye, and said, laughingly, "Smile, Papa! Don't look so serious. I'll be home again you know, and I'll write each week, I promise. Don't worry, Papa." "Tm not really worrying, for I think I know my girl. But the fact that my oldest child is leaving home makes me a little sad. But I wouldn't hold you. Fledglings must leave the nest." "Yes, Papa, and you and Mama have given this fledgling strong wings, so let your eves twinkle before I leave." "All aboard!" sounded, and with a quick kiss, Sara walked up the train steps, found a seat, and waved through the window at her father. He watched the train until it was out of sight then began his journey DARE TO BE DIFFERENT homeward. A time or two tears filled his eyes and he murmured, "Our little Sara! Time has sped too fast." "Strange how one child going leaves such an emptiness even when we have seven more," Mr. Olney said to his wife that evening. "Not strange, Papa, for the heart that has expanded to make room for each one does not shrink. I just hope I have done all I should to make her strong enough to know and choose the right." "You have, Mama. I've often wondered at your ability to teach the principles of the gospel and the truths of life in simplicity as you have done from the time the children were infants. You haven't failed in any little way. I only hope I have done my part as well. Sara is a good girl, but she's going out into the world, and the world isn't home." "Sara will be all right, Papa, I feel 'sure. But she may not spend wisely, not for a time. Why, I think I might even spend foolishly myself, if suddenly I found I had seventyfive dollars a month. But she'll pay her tithing, first of all, as she always has, so she'll come out all night." "Yes, but she's so young and innocent and doesn't think Latter-day Saints would ever do wrong." ARA'S first letter was reassuring. It was filled with her joyous experiences of teaching her sixteen pupils in the first four grades, and of her good times with the folks she had met at Church and Mutual. She went on to say: Really, Papa, you don't need to worry. I'm recalling what you said to me as we drove to the train together. There's no 349 occasion at all, no need to dare to be different here, for the people I have met live their standards as we do. I've been in several of their homes and the gospel is lived, Papa. Her next letter eased their worries still more. Her parents read it eagerly, hurriedly, and reread parts of it over and over: I am now a teacher in the Sunday School and in Mutual as well. A small ward requires some people to hold more than one office. 'The young people are friendly and clean living. I was quite attracted to a young man who works for the bishop. He walked me home from Mutual last night. But, today, Mrs. Daugherty told me he is not a member of the Church, just a transient whom the bishop hired for the fall work. So I shall not go places with him. I feel certain he will ask me to go to the harvest dance next week, but I will decline sincerely and politely and tactfully, I hope. Some day he may join, who knows...? You see, I do remember your counsel, Papa. Remember when I began dating with Jed not knowing he was a non-Mormon? But you found out, Papa. It seems but yesterday, instead of a year ago, when I was sitting on your knee and hearing you say, "If you never go with nonmembers, you will never marry out of the Church." Then, how wise you were, for you continued, "TI just wanted to let you know how I feel, now the decision is up to you." Of course, I stopped dating Jed. How could a daughter do otherwise with a father like you? UT it wasn't more than two weeks after Sara had written the letter that she had a different and startling experience. It was Saturday, and she had been invited to eat dinner, as the noon meal was called, at the home of two of her pupils. The family had the threshers, and the working men and the family ate together at one long table. To her surprise, she found her cup, along with those at the places of most of 350 the adults, was filled with coffee. When she did not drink it, the man across the table from her, a Mr. Watson, a member of the Church and a trustee on the school board, a middle-aged man with a large family, looked squarely into her eyes as he raised his cup and challenged, "I dare you!" Sara, who had never been afraid to accept a dare — in the right direction — said, "But I have never drunk tea or coffee in all my nineteen years. It was never served in my home. I'd rather not." "Come, be a sport," he urged her, "just this once." Again he lifted his cup, looked directly and compellingly at her. She met his gaze steadily for a long moment, lifted her cup from the table, held it for a few long seconds, then set it down and said, "I cannot." "You won't take a dare!" the challenger's voice was loud enough to carry throughout the house. Slowly and calmly Sara answered, "T would be a coward and a traitor to what I know is right if I drank that coffee. I shall keep my record clean." You could have heard a pin drop in the silence that followed. Then Mr. Watson spoke, "I admire you for your dedication to the teachings of your parents and the Church. Would I had remained likewise true, for I was taught the same as you. I hesitate to think what my sainted mother in heaven must think — if she knows. Thank you, my dear, for daring to do nght." At the supper table in the Olney home the next week, the entire family listened attentively as their RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 mother read Sara's letter aloud. She had read it to herself over and over in the afternoon. In it Sara gave a detailed account of the incident and expressed her appreciation for her family and the way of life she had been taught, both by precept and example. WITH the letter had come a check for thirty-five dollars. Stapled to it, was a note which read: Surprise! I've planned this for a long time, and it has been so much fun! Each month you will receive the same to. Help out a bit. You will need it, with Linda in college this year.... Yes, Vl have plenty without it. My board and room cost me twenty dollars a month, which leaves me twenty dollars for clothes and other things I desire. Just my _ little "thank you," and I want to do it. Mama stopped reading and the children cheered, "Hurrah for Sara!" Linda's eyes were shining. "I haven't read the P. S. Yet." Mama was beaming with happiness as she did so: I almost left out the very best part: I saw Mrs. Watson in the store yesterday. She was so happy she cried as she thanked me. She told me her husband had come home Saturday evening and said, "Throw out the tea and coffee, Martha. It will not be served in our home again." So you see, Papa and Mama, the wavelets from the stone of truth you have cast upon the waters for your family have reached outward into the stream of life for others. "How beautiful, Papa!' There was awe in Mama's voice "So you see, my dear, we needn't worry about Sara." Papa's eyes were lighted by an inward glow as he said, "Sara is a good daughter." For Mother's Day Dorothy J. Roberts - eed ae tp te le le tp pa te teat ede cs: a és. When I see a rose of red, I think of you, acs P Or when I see an apron, starched and new, "Or a perfectly proportioned loaf of bread, -% A snowy tablecloth, a blessing said, ce I think of childhood and the years between, ty. You, love-bent there among the summer's green. 4 When I think of virtue, a woman's fame, te "Then I recall your hands, your face, your name. Ce oe pe ie ie ie ie ie ie ie ie ee ae ae eae ee a The Reward of a Thing Well Done Caroline Eyring Miner | remember a motto that once appeared on our school bulletin, which said, "The reward of a thing well done is to have done it." I do not know who wrote it, but I do know that I believe it. If you have made a tasty cake, you know it, and no one needs to tell you, for you sense the joy in the accomplishment and your knowledge of it. If you have typed a paper perfectly, the reward for you is in the knowledge of that fact and the satisfaction of work well done. A seamstress glories in the beautiful garment she has made; the teacher in the growth and accomplishment of her class members. The little pin or the word of commendation or the certificate is pleasant enough to receive, but the real reward for achievement is in the joy of knowing one has been adequate to the challenge placed before him. As this is true in little accomplishments, it is true in life itself. The greatest reward we will have in the celestial kingdom will be the knowledge within ourselves that we have kept the commandments, that we have kept the faith. And I think our condemnation and eternal sorrow, on the other hand, may well be the knowledge within ourselves that we failed to do the things we knew to be right. There is no joy in receiving unearned praise. It has a false ring, and it cannot make up for the inner dissatisfaction a person has within himself when he has performed below his capacity. He can't be fooled. Parents and teachers should very early teach young people to do their tasks thoroughly and beautifully that they may know throughout their lives that the reward for achievement is in the fact of worthy achievement itself. Page 35] My Mother's Hands Esther H. Lamb ONIGHT, after a trip of eight hundred miles, I am with my mother here in the house of my birth in which she is beginning her ninety-fifth year of wholesome living. From the comfort of her little rawhide-bottomed rocker, she received me with glad eyes and a smile of love. Her hands which must now content themselves with resting tidily in her lap are dearly familiar and _ work blessed. Her hands! They serve as a magic lens to bring to the screen of my memory vivid pictures of yesteryear. 'They alone have power to wind backward the film of life and make me ten years old again. All home with me are my brothers and sisters. It is Saturday evening. Snowflakes are pushing against our lace-curtained windowpanes in an effort to tuck us in protectively from the wind's cold breath. Our large, pleasant home has been cleaned with special care for the Sabbath day. The smell of Sunday's dinner, already prepared, is tantalizing, even though we have eaten supper and are relaxed cozily for a few last minutes before we go to our cold bedrooms to snuggle under mother's homemade quilts. We listen soberly to another chapter from Church history, read aloud by our father. Then, with some squirmings and attempted evasions, we submit to his attempts to check on our behavior of the day. As though he does not know! Page 352 The happiest moments come when he expresses pride in us and with stern kindness suggests ways of improvement. We draw closer to him as he takes the youngest of us on his lap, and with his stockinged feet tapping in accent, he sings for us songs of repetitious melody, coupled to lyrics many verses long, stories of delight or tragedy. Our mother's hands are busy, moving deftly as when she kneaded bread early in the morning. She kneels near the newspaper-protected hearth beside a long row of washed, high-topped shoes. We are proud owners of one pair each, and for Sunday meetings they must shine as shoes never shone before. Being mistress of this act, mother uses a curved-handled brush equipped with a pompon of bristles on one side. This she dips into spicy vinegar, then touches it lightly to the soot that clings in black flakes to the chimney throat, and applies it to each shoe. Now, with swift strokes from the opposite side of the brush, our shoes are shined to mirror smoothness. Though we know nothing about Who's Who in politics, this vinegar and soot treatment is spoken of as Democratic Shoe Blacking. I watch as mother places in the top of each pair of shoes, long, black, wool stockings her nimble fingers have knitted. Then, stitch upon stitch, with fascinating speed, she manipulated the shining needles that whispered in soothing rhythm. MY MOTHER'S HANDS The fre burns low. Our grotesque shadows on the wall blend with the. Night.... We are secure in this peaceful home. My evening in memory is finished. The film rolls forward identifying yesteryear with the present. Mother raises her hands to touch my cheek. Hands that have grown strong, then 353 old, from the tasks of pioneer days to this electronic age. Yet they must accept one more task — to lie patiently as she looks at her unused workbasket beside her chair, and wait. My mother's hands — in them God placed his most beautiful tool, service. Mine for Keeps Ida Elaine James Two portable blossoms Sprang up in my yard — Two brightly ginghamed children Looking at me hard. I went on with my raking, Gave them a casual smile; One fumbled in her pocket - A little while For a gaudy egg she had colored, Held it close to me. Praisefully 1 nodded: "Pretty as can be." Leaned nearer just to please her — "Why, it's the very blue Of your pretty little apron; Is it new?" The egg slipped in my pocket — They hippety-hopped on air. It was then I stopped my raking, To say an Easter prayer. Patio Breakfasts for Summertime Linnie Fisher Robinson Menu I Pancakes With Pineapple or Strawberry Sauce — Sausage or Ham Milk or Chocolate PANCAKES 2 ¢. Flour, 1 c. Butter or margerine 6 tbsp. Sugar (or less, as desired ) pinch of salt 1 c. Light cream or evaporated milk 4 tsp. Baking powder 5 eggs (or fewer, if shortening is reduced) water, if needed Combine salt, sugar, and baking powder with the flour. Add butter and eggs and beat until smooth. Add cream, and a little water, if the batter is not thin enough to spread out for cooking. Cook about 3 tbsp. Of batter in large pan, skillet, or griddle. Use only a small amount of butter to grease pan. Cook on medium heat until golden brown. Turn and cook the other side. If you are cooking for a large crowd, have more cooks and serve as you cook. As soon as the pancakes are done, spread with fruit filling and serve topped with whipped cream. PINEAPPLE FILLING Make your favorite cream filling. When cold, add crushed pineapple (drained as you do for cream pie) and spread between pancakes. Top with sweetened whipped cream. STRAWBERRY FILLING 8 c. Fresh strawberries 3 tbsp. Butter 2 or 3 c. Sugar (to taste) 3 drops red food coloring,: 1 c. Water if desired Yc. Cornstarch mixed with water Wash, drain, and hull the berries. Sort out the finest and set aside for topping. (I usually set aside half of them.) Crush or mash the other half, add water and sugar, and bring to a boil. Add cornstarch mixed in a little water and thicken. Add butter and red food coloring, if color is not as bright as the other berries. When almost cool, add the remaining berries and spoon onto the pancakes. 'Top with cream and serve. Recipe serves 15 to 18. Menu II Molded Chicken in Gelatine Hot Baked Green Beans Frozen Orange Soda MOLDED CHICKEN IN GELATINE cooked, cubed meat from one large 1 bunch (more or less as desired) chicken, green onions minced fine 4 c. Stock (You cannot get this much 1 c. Celery cubed fine stock from one chicken and have it 1 c. Small peas (sifted, canned peas) taste good, so if you haven't more 1 small can or jar pimento, sliced stock on hand, make some from _ salt and pepper to taste chicken bouillon cubes.) salad dressing, to taste 4 envelopes gelatine (unsweetened and whipping cream, as desired unflavored ) Page 356 PATIO BREAKFASTS 357 Soak gelatine in 2 cups of stock and heat the other 2 cups and dissolve the gelatine mixture. When mixture begins to thicken, add the cubed chicken and vegetables and pour into an aluminum angel food tin and put in refrigerator to get firm. When ready to unmold loosen the edges with knife and then set, for just one second, in deep hot water (deep enough to come up to where you have loosened the mold). Turn out on silver or china platter and garnish with lettuce. Fill the center with salad dressing mixed with whipped and sweetened cream, mixed lightly together. Serves as many as you can get slices from an angel food cake. BAKED GREEN BEANS 2 cans French style cut green beans 2 cans mushroom soup (whole ones can be used also) 1 ¢. Cream or evaporated milk 1 c. Mushrooms Drain beans. Combine the other ingredients until smooth and pour over beans in a casserole and bake until mixture is thoroughly heated and bubbles appear on the surface. FROZEN ORANGE SODA grated rind of one orange 4 ¢. Orange juice 6 c. Water 1 c. Lemon juice 3 C. Sugar or sweeten to taste 2 qts. Soda water or substitute Combine grated rind of orange, water, and sugar. Heat to dissolve sugar, then strain and cool and add the fruit juice. Freeze to a mush and add the soda water and serve. Will fill about 16 to 18 punch cups. (My mother used to make this with just lemonade seasoned with mint. Then she froze it in an ice cream freezer. When she took it out and mixed it with soda water and piled it in a huge punch bowl, we used to _ it out under the cherry trees, and we thought it was ambrosia.) Such a pretty sight, too. SOUFFLE SANDWICH Helene B. Ray (Use sharp American cheese, York State, or Cheddar type) Cut crust off sandwich bread, spread with mustard. Put one slice cheese between two pieces of bread. Put 4 sandwiches in small square pan 8" x 9" or 9" x 9". Use 3 eggs and 2 cups milk for each four sandwiches. Mix eggs and milk and pour over sandwiches. Refrigerate over night. Bake 45-60 minutes in 325° oven. SAUCE: Saute box of mushrooms or can of mushrooms and add to one can mushtoom soup. Heat and pour sauce over baked sandwiches and serve hot. Surfside Luncheon Theme Eva Willes Wangsgaard PPETITE begins with the eye. As with a poem written around a single image, a luncheon planned around a single theme can be satisfyingly effective. Our favorite ladies' luncheon subject is a surfside image built around a creamed crab recipe baked in individual shells. For a centerpiece, a bit of driftwood draped with moss and a few sandflowers are in keeping with the idea. Anemones and daisies may take the place of sandflowers, but the idea is to keep the simple, sparse feeling of the beach. As center of interest, a ceramic wading bird, migrant fowl, or a pair of ceramic sea horses sustain the illusion. For a menu with the crab, a tossed vegetable salad, your favorite, with bread, a beverage, and dessert, completes the picture and satisfies the appetite. The bread may be hot rolls, hard rolls, or French bread cut into slices to the bottom crust and brushed with garlic butter and heated until the butter is well absorbed into the slices. For dessert, individual lemon chiffon pies with the crusts. Shaped into shell forms carry the illusion to a foamy finish. The following recipe for creamed crab baked in the shell serves four. BAKED CRAB Pre-heat oven to 500°. Grease four seashells and hold ready. 1 small onion, minced 3 large soda crackers soaked in 1 cube butter boiling water 2 level tbsp. Flour 1 tsp. Salt 1 c. Heavy cream or canned milk 1 tbsp. Catchup 1 can crab (about 8 ounces) 1 scant tsp. Worcestershire sauce 1 egg, unbeaten pinch red pepper, if desired mushrooms, if desired Saute the onion in the butter until lightly golden brown. Add flour and blend thoroughly. Add cream and stir until smooth. To this sauce add the crab which has been flaked and made free from hard membranes. Then add one unbeaten egg and stir briskly to prevent lumping. Stir in the soaked crackers and add the seasonings and mushrooms if desired. If too thick, add more cream or canned milk. Page 358 SURFSIDE LUNCHEON THEME 359 Turn into greased shells and place shells on a cooky sheet. Bake in a very hot oven fifteen minutes or until bubbly hot and golden crusted. Remove from oven and serve immediately. THE DOMINO EFFECT Celia Larsen Luce AS a child I used to set the dominoes carefully on end in a straight row. Then, when I tipped over the end one, all the rest would fall, too. Now that I am grown, I watch another domino effect. If I start the day with a frown and a grumpy feeling, soon everyone around me is growling, too. If I put on a smile, whether I feel like smiling or not, soon there are smiles around me. Since my moods have this domino effect, I had better try to make it a good effect. Rhubarb Recipes Grace V. Price RHUBARB CAKE % c. Shortening 2 c. Sifted flour 1% c. Brown sugar 1% c. Cut raw rhubarb 1 beaten egg % ¢c. White sugar 1 c. Buttermilk 1 tsp. Cinnamon 1 tsp. Soda Cream together shortening and brown sugar. Add beaten egg. Add alternately buttermilk, soda, and flour. Fold shubarb in lightly. Spread in greased and floured pan. Sprinkle top with white sugar and cinnamon. Bake at 350° for 30 to 35 minutes. RHUBARB CRUMBLE 2% c¢. Cut fresh rhubarb % ¢. Flour 24 c. Sugar 1 ¢. Quick oats ¥% c. Flour 4 ¢. Margarine or butter % tsp. Salt "2 tsp. Salt "2 tsp. Cinnamon 3 tbsp. Water 1 c. Brown sugar Mix together rhubarb, sugar, flour, and salt. Place in buttered baking dish. Sprinkle with cinnamon, Mix separately brown sugar, flour, oats, butter, and_ salt. Pour over rhubarb mixture as a topping. Sprinkle with wate:. Bake at 350° for about 40 minutes. Serve warm or cold, plain, or with sour cream, whipped cream, ice cream, or cheese. RHUBARB TAPIOCA 1% c. Sugar 2% c. Water % ¢. Minute tapioca 3 drops red color, if desired % tsp. Salt 1 c. Crushed pineapple 2% c. Cut raw rhubarb Combine sugar, tapioca, salt, rhubarb, water, and coloring. Cook over medium heat stirring constantly until full boil. Cool. To avoid crusting over stir occasionally during cooling. Add pineapple. Chill and serve. Page 360 PALE PINK BUT BRIGHT (Other Uses for Rhubarb) BREAKFAST DRINK To one quart of rhubarb juice (home canned stewed rhubarb juice, strained or blended, sweetened as desired) add juice of one or two oranges, or one pint of pineapple juice, or both. Chill and serve. Party PuNcH Use as above, adding one bottle of your favorite lemon-lime beverage and three or four drops of red coloring. Garnish with orange slices or strawberries. A sprinkle of strawberry or raspberry punch powder is good instead of coloring. Toprins For Ice CREAM OR PLAIN CAKE 4 ¢c. Sugar Simmer together rhubarb and sugar. Add and dissolve gelatine. Keep covered and cool for serving. (May be sealed in bottles while hot.) Party Christie Lund Coles Small girl, just four, (and a half year over) Dainty and sweet As rain-fresh clover; Nodding and smiling, Inviting me To your small table To taste, to see; Telling me news Of your doll land: Suzie has measles, You can't understand Where Mary has gone? (She's by the door. ) Such a lovely party, Child, half-past four. RHUBARB RECIPES 4% c. Cut raw rhubarb 361 1 pkg. Strawberry gelatine A Song of the Sewing 'Machine Shirley Thulin MAGIC STITCHES - Ww HE is the simplest kind of embroidery you can. Do on a sewing machine without one single attachment, without levers or cams. It is really just "plain sewing," but the effect is that of a beautiful hand outline stitch. It is wonderfully easy for monograms, embroidery patterns, or your own original designs. All you have to do is just wind four bobbins with colorful heavy-duty mercerized thread (quilting thread is fme) and stack three bobbins on the spool pin (where you ordinarily put the spool of. Thread). Now thread the machine with all three threads as one, using a needle threader to draw strands through the needle. (A number 3 needle is best.) Put the fourth bobbin in the usual place and set the machine stitch at 8 or g (or largest your machine affords). Transfer your design to the fabric, either with dressmaker's tracing paper, ordinary carbon paper, or a hot iron transfer. Page 362 Look your design over to determine how to make the longest continuous stitching, then go ahead and sew!. When finished, pull the top threads to the underside, and holding two threads in each hand, tie them securely. On soft or flimsy materials, it is advisable to use tissue or a similar _backing and - then tear it 'away after sewing. "Always test the fabric to determine the need for reinforcement. To embroider terry cloth, trace the design on tissue and baste to the right side of fabric. Cut away the tissue when stitching is completed. Look for interesting and unusual motifs in magazines, wallpaper, fabrics, and even in coloring books. The more you do, the more fun you will have dreaming up new uses for magic three-thread embroidery. Be sure to practice first and you-will be proud of the results. 4 Side yy », Patchwork Apron and Pot Holder HERE is an economical pattern as welcome at the bridal shower as in your own kitchen. It is a good idea for using your bright new scraps, too. | WHAT YOU NEED: 49 patches, each 3%" square, of printed cotton, as varied as possible. 1 yard of plain colored cotton broadcloth. 2 squares of flannelette, each 64" by 6%", thread to match the cotton broadcloth. Some six-strand embroidery floss in various colors. TO MAKE APRON: Allow 2" seams. 1. Sew 45 patches together in 10 strips, as shown in Figure 1. The broken line icates the stitching line for the border and waistband. A SONG OF THE SEWING MACHINE 363 364 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 >|Stripl - lpateh Jj tN - « 2-3patches ¢ ae " 3-5 « Z ys 4-6 + Jr» 5-6 » Z % " 6-6 4 a Cs a 7-6 Cj rd | |r C 8-6 5: 4 © 9-4 4 ' « 10-2 « Figure 1 Figure 2 2. From broadcloth, cut 2 border strips 3" by 132", 1 border strip 3" by 35%", a waistband 3" by 18", 2 ties 32" by 35", and a lining to fit the bordered patch section. 3. Sew the short border strips to the short edges of patched section, the long strip to one long edge as shown in Figure 2. Trim off extending points of patches and press the border out flat. 4. Using three strands of floss, stitch along each seam of the patches with varied embroidery stitches in colors to contrast with patches. Use the blanket stitch, lazy daisy, or whatever you desire. To make apron really lovely, you can highlight the print in the patterns by embroidering the flowers that are in the pieces, or even sew sequins or other fancy things on the designs. 5. With right sides together, stitch the lining and the patched piece together around the three plain-colored edges. Turn night side out and press. On the raw edge, run two lines of gathering stitches across the top, catching lining as well as patched front. Trim off the points of the patches. 6. Make a narrow machine hem on the long edges of the ties. Fold and stitch one end, turn to the right side to form a point. Pleat the other end down to 1". Baste. 7. Fold waistband in half lengthwise. Slip tie ends between ends, raw edges even. Stitch and turn to right side. 8. Pin right side of waistband to right side of apron, ends and centers matching. Pull up gathering threads to fit waistband. Distribute the gathers evenly. Baste and stitch. Turn in raw edge of waistband, slipstitch over seam on the wrong side A SONG OF THE SEWING MACHINE 365 TO MAKE POTHOLDER: 1. Sew 4 patches together to form a square. Press seams open. 2. Cut matching square from broadcloth. Lay on top of each other the squares of broadcloth, the 2 flannelette squares, and the patches night side up. Stitch all together along the seams of the patches. Cover patch seams with embroidery stitches. 3. From broadcloth cut a bias strip 1%" by 36". Turn the edges over ¥," and press. Stitch all around the edges of the potholder for a binding. 4. To make a loop, cut a 6" length of bias. Fold it in half lengthwise. Stitch the edges together. Fold in half crosswise to form a loop. 'Tack ends of loop to corner of potholder, with loop pointed in toward center, stitch securely. Gracious Living Celia Luce \ X JE continually read in advertisements, buy this or that for gracious living. What we seem to forget is that gracious living is the kind of living done by gracious people. It is not something to be bought or built or secured by keeping up with anyone. Gracious living comes only when we develop consideration, order, and the knack of spreading happiness. Things do not bring gracious living. People do. Mind Cleaning Nancy M. Armstrong ibe housecleaning, we remove everything from closets and drawers, returning only those articles which still have value. The useless, we discard. Just so can we clean the mind, keeping the good, the beautiful, the optimistic, and the useful thoughts, and disearding the bad, the ugly, the pessimistic, and the useless. In our homes, we entertain whom we choose. In our minds, we entertain what we choose. Sow the Field With Roses CHAPTER 5 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Nina Karsh lives in a small house in the Malibu Mountains of Callifornia. The house is owned by 'Tomas Novarro, a sad and morose man of great wealth, who brings his motherless son Joseph and asks Nina to take care of him. Nina agrees to look after the boy temporarily. 'Tommy Benedict. A young boy from an unhappy home, visits Nina at times. She tries to help him into a better life adjustment. At the request of 'Tomas Novarro, Dr. Craig Jonathan comes to check up on Joseph's health. Joseph shows gradual, but consistent improvement, and Nina feels a deep satisfaction. Dr. Jonathan continues to call and becomes interested in Nina. { OMAS Novarro came home ik on one of the hottest September days in California history. Nina, unaware of his artival, had taken small Joseph and Tommy to the beach. Joseph had come to love the sea with a small boy's passion for sound and motion. Nina had to watch him every second or he would have been out beyond his depth. She could not understand this heedlessness of danger in one who once trembled at the sound of running water. Joseph had come a long way. He was really talking now, sometimes long furious sentences that were not always clear — but he was talking. Nina leaned back on the beach towel on her elbows and watched his slight form skimmering into the surf. He looked back to her and waved, and Tommy, beside him, Page 366 gave her a reassuring gesture of the hand. Nina waved and then flopped over on her stomach still watching. A great peace filled her, a sense of having had a hand in a momentous creation. Or an isolated, rare experience. What could compare to this that she had witnessed, the opening of a mind, the breaking of a barrier, the thready beginning, the communication of one human being to his immediate world. It had been very good. Joseph unloosed himself from Tommv's hand and, clutching his bucket, ran up from the ocean, "T found..." he shouted, "I found a whale!" Nina peered at the captive sea horse. "Well, not quite a whale, Joseph, but it's a sea horse and they're strictly wonderful." Joseph was charmed. "Sea horse. Sea horse." 'Nina kissed his bright, soft hair. He flung his arms about her. "It's for you, my present." He fished the sea horse out and laid its clammy coldness in her palm. Tommy trotted up to fling himself down beside them. "It's hot even down here, wish I had brought my board." "You've had a lot of fun with it, haven't you?" "Yeah, all the fellows have. We're going on a beach cookout next Friday, all the fellows." He poured sand SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES through his fingers. "I like Mutual, all but the religious part." "Why don't you like that?" "Oh... My brother says it's all a lot of stuff." He dropped the sand and looked into her face. "I get so tired of thinking and wondering about things. How come you're so sure there's a God? Lots. Of people say there isn't one, and they're smarter than you even." Nina swallowed. 'Tommy's bluntness took a little getting used to. "T'm just sure, that's all." "Even my schoolteacher says there isn't one, and he's been to Russia and everywhere and he _ knows things." | Nina sat up. "If you wanted to know if somebody lived in a house, what would you do, Tommy?" He considered, stretching _ his voung bones gladly on the sand. "T guess I'd go up and knock. If somebody lived there I guess they'd come to the door." "Prayer is knocking," Nina said. "Prayer!" "Swim!" insisted Joseph, turning to the sea. "No, not now. Let's have cookies." She passed them around. OMMY ate in silence for a long time. Nina was beginning to think he had left the topic and gone on to other things, but he turned to her suddenly. "You've knocked, or you wouldn't know about knocking." anita" He looked at her critically. "All right, then why do you have so much trouble, if you know he's there? Other people have lots more 367 of other things than you, a real lot more." "If you have him," Nina said, "you don't need lots of things. You don't need lots. Of pleasures. You can even take a good, long siege of trouble, because knowing he's there gives everything a reason... You see?" He looked at her angrily. "You're different. He wouldn't come. For just anybody." Nina wiped her hands on the towel. "Tommy, don't ask me about these things. Go find out for yourself, if you really want to know, if you're willing to know that he lives." He was instantly suspicious. "What do you mean... Willing?" "There's an obligation in knowing," she said. Tommy was truculent. "I'm going body surfing... You watch Joseph for awhile." Nina watched him make his way to the sea. She was disturbed. I did it badly, she thought. I was overanxious. I sound harsh and I mean to be tender. Joseph, on a mischievous impulse, poured sand in the cookie box. Nina, catching him at it, gave him a resounding smack on his posterior. "So this is how you treat my son?" She whirled. Tomas Novarro stood above her, a furious scowl on his dark face. Nina wanted to sit back and wail... Loudly. She had pictured all sorts of tender scenes when Tomas came home. She glared back at Tomas with blue blazing eyes. "Well if he's going to behave this way, he deserves to be spanked." 368 "So," said Tomas and sank down to the sand and held his arms out to the boy. "She is cruel to you, I hear." Joseph, bellowing like a young bull, flung himself into Nina's arms for comfort. "Very well," said Nina with a firm voice, "but if you do it again, Joseph, you will get another one." "T am very good," Joseph insisted. He sniffed and wiped his eyes with the back of his hands. He smiled a little at Tomas. "Come here, boy." Tomas pulled a package from his pocket: "I brought you a present." It was a silver whistle. Joseph was charmed. He settled himself on his father's knees and made the air about him painfully shrill. (TOMAS looked at Nina. "Doctor Jonathan is right, my son is getting well." "He certainly is." Nina was immensely proud. She drew Joseph to her. Now she wanted to show him off. She wanted him to catch the ball, which he would not; to talk, which he would not. Joseph would only toot the little silver whistle. Novarro threw back his head and laughed. It was a joyous sound. "He is like me, stubbom. Every Novarro is stubborn." He picked the boy up in his arms and held him, nuzzling him while the boy bellowed, suddenly afraid. "He isn't used to...." She had almost said strangers. She hastily amended it to "people." "He'll be all right after awhile." "Of course he will!" Novarro swung the boy to his shoulder. "Come along, little pig... There RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 is an ice-cream man down the beach. I passed him." They went away from her. Nina sat back on her heels. She was very tired. She was alone, as she had never been alone before. She was afraid, as she had never been afraid before. After her father had died, there had been Danny, but when Danny had gone, there was no one. Now in the darkness of this moment she grieved toward Danny, willing him to return at this time of her need, but common sense told her that Danny had gone completely and irrevocably away. His letters were brief, impatient notes, at longer and longer intervals. He was caught up in the business of becoming a doctor, in his love for the girl he had found, in the charm of her large and joyous family. Nina sensed that he shrank from the memory of the long and lonely years with her, that he felt his boyhood had been a thwarted, orphan thing. Now that she knew the pain of losing the people she loved, she shrank from entering again into the painful places, the nostalgic memories, the silence where once there had been a quick, demanding voice, the adjustment within herself to the firmly closed door. Panic seized her. She half rose. She would not let them take Joseph away from her. This was different. The child needed her. Hadn't she stayed up night after night with him to help him overcome his fear of the dark? Hadn't she taught him, hour after hour, with little games and songs and poems to talk, to count, to sing, to communicate? She had taught him tenderness with the small white kitten that had SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES grown into the great self-sufficient cat. Joseph was hers, peculiarly so. She had brought him into life as surely as his mother had done. Away from her, he might revert to the silence and the fear-walled withdrawal. Nina stumbled to her feet and ran in the direction Tomas had taken with his son. She did not notice when the waves came up and washed her running feet. She fled like the wind among gulls and scattering children, crying aloud for Joseph. She came on them suddenly, around a bend, the man and the boy, sitting on the rocks absorbed in the busy scurrying of a sandpiper. "Joseph!" She flung herself beside the child, encircled him, leaned her face against his warm, soft shoulder. The small boy submitted gladly to her fierce embrace. "T love you, Mamma Nina. Don't cry." She was afraid to lift her head. She could not bear to have Tomas Novarro see her tears. He would be impatient and scornful. She tried to wipe her face surreptitiously, but Tomas thrust his handkerchief into her hand. "My bank tells me I am a very rich man now," he said, "and it is true that I have been able to buy many things but never tears that are shed in love." He rose abruptly and walked away down the beach. After awhile Joseph became impatient. "Somebody will eat our cookies. Let's go back." Tommy had taken his fins and gone home, but Tomas waited for them beside the beach towel. "It's time to go,"' Nina said. 369 They worked together in silence, folding the beach towels, packing away the sun tan lotion and the cookies and thermos bottle. Nina took Joseph's hand, and the three of them plodded across the sand and climbed the palisade where the car was parked. She had wondered if 'Tomas would take Joseph now. But he helped Joseph into her battered car. Nina sighed with relief. She clambered quickly under the wheel, feeling her spirits rise. OMAS came around to her side and leaned on the car door. "When I was a child," he said, "my world collapsed. My father and my mother quarreled frigh tfully and often. I overheard my mother's cries of anguish. She blamed my father because they must sell so much of the land. I began to imagine things... Dreadful things.. There was no one to assure The day came when I could endure it no longer. I had a boat." His eyes smiled down into hers. "Tt was a very small boat, as I see it now, but then it looked as large to me as an ocean liner. It had a sail, and I decided to cast off and head for...." He shrugged. His eyes twinkled. "There are no islands to compare with those in a_ boy's mind," he said. "On my way 'to China I stopped at my grandmother's house, where you live now, to tell her goodbye." He laughed in remembrance. "Not to tell her I was running away." He looked rueful. "TI didn't need to tell her. She knew. She knew because she loved me, and though she said little in words, interiorly we conversed." me, 370 Nina looked up in surprise, but he was looking past her to the sea. She studied his face. It was difficult to imagine this great granite man as a boy, troubled and 'lost. "Interiorly we conversed," he went on, a curious gentleness in his voice. "My grandmother's love spoke to me of peace and patience and the need for faith. It was because she was those things that she could plead without words. She made a supper for me, and we ate together and afterwards I went back. I put aside the islands." Nina gripped the wheel. What was it he was trying to tell her? What did he intend this story to do to her? He rubbed his harsh jaw with his fingertips. "When I saw that no amount of money could help Joseph, when I saw the wisdom of the learned fall in defeat, I remembered my grandmother and that evening." Nina was dismayed. It was so easy to dislike people with a quick inward self-righteousness, and then they betrayed you by being suddenlv better than you, or stronger, or wiser. She had had contempt for Tomas Navarro, and all the time he RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 had been searching for a way for his son. She said, "I feel very humble that you should have trusted me. I didn't know." He put his hand over hers. "When I read about you in the paper, I thought, what kind of woman is this, who would come to the defense of a child?" "You did?" She felt healed. "T thought everyone who read the article would think me a fool." "No." He moved his hand to the head of Joseph, who had dropped off to sleep. "I was already thinking about talking to vou when I met you on my own land... That dav, when vou were lost." She took a deep breath. "And now?" He looked from her to the sleeping child. "Doctor Jonathan tells me I must not take him away... At once, that the three of us must be friends for a time, until I have won Joseph to me." He stood back. "T cannot thank you with money, Miss Karsh, but I give you my grandmother's house. She will approve of that." (To be concluded) _ Wait for Me, Sun Mabel Jones Gabbott The bluest of skies hangs overhead, An inverted bowl with not even a chip: The day awaits: unwritten, unread. This length of hours too soon will slip Into tomorrow. Wait for me,-sun, While I put in my pocket a bit of song, And love enough for everyone, With a sparkle of humor to go along Into each hour, for I shall live This day but once. I have much to give. | Rachel Kirkham Wanlass Makes Unique Gifts for MIA Girls Py ACHEL Kirkham Wanlass, Monroe, Utah, makes exquisite gifts for MIA girls. Each girl in the community, as she enters Mutual, is presented with a lovely knitted doilie. Some of the young men also receive doilies to keep for their future homes, and the missionaries are remembered with these lovely gifts. Many homes in Monroe are adorned with handwork made by Mrs. Wanlass. She has knitted more than 850 doilies. Also, in many homes, the draperies are decorated with an exquisite crocheted snowflake made by Mrs. Wanlass. Her other hobbies are numerous and varied. She has knitted several bedspreads in skilled sculptured patterns, and she has knitted the lace for hundreds of pairs of pillowcases. Her handwork has won twenty-seven blue ribbons and many other awards in Sevier County fairs. She loves flowers and her home is made cheerful and inviting by many house plants. Mrs. Wanlass has spent all the years of her womanhood in Relief Society work and in making people happy. She has been a visiting teacher for fifty-three years and is still making her visits regularly and faithfully. She is the last to leave the work meetings and is noted as an expert quilter. Six of her eight children are still living, and she is a devoted grandmother and great-grandmother. Page 371 Magazine Honor Roll for 1961 NCE again the General Board takes opportunity to express its gratitude and appreciation to the dedicated and devoted women who have been instrumental in placing The Relief Society Magazine in so many of our Latter-day Saint homes throughout the world, and also in the homes of other lovely women who appreciate the good and beautiful in life. Especially do we express appreciation to the Magazine representatives in stakes and wards, missions and branches, for their zealous and untiring efforts, and to the Relief Society presidencies and other officers and teachers who have given their loyal support and encouragement. Surely the Lord is pleased with his faithful daughters who have so diligently magnified their calling. Thanks must also be expressed to our thousands of sisters who subscribe to the Magazine, thereby evidencing their appreciation of Relief Society itself, and of the Magazine, the "voice" of Relief Society which brings so much knowledge and pleasure, beauty and spirituality into out lives. In expressing appreciation, we must not forget the many gift subscriptions so thoughtfully and generously provided the General Board for distribution to the missions of the Church by individual sisters and by stake, ward, and branch organizations. Sisters, we thank you Page 372 for these subscriptions. We are sure you will feel well repaid for your generosity and kindness in the knowledge that many hearts have been touched by the messages and inspiration contained in the Magazine, and that a number of conver-- sions to the gospel have resulted. You will be happy to know that the total number of Magazine subscriptions in 1961 was 183,236, compared with 171,002 in 1960, for an increase of 12,234. 'There were 303 stakes on the Honor Roll, an increase of nineteen over the 1960 total of 284. The mean of all the stakes was ninety-three per cent, which is an increase of one per cent over 1960. The highest stake was again the South Los Angeles, for the fifteenth consecutive year, with a percentage of 226. It also had the largest number of subscriptions, with a total of 1,641. Of the ten highest stakes, the first four places were taken by stakes in California. Others in the top ten included one stake in Arizona, two in Idaho, one in Canada, one in Nevada, and one in Utah. There were also 2,344 wards and 61 branches in the stakes on the Honor Roll. In forty-one stakes all of the wards achieved one hundred per cent or over. In 1961 there were 24 missions on the Honor Roll, an increase of four over 1960. Three of these are new MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1961 missions and are to be congratulated for doing so well. Highest honor goes to the British Mission with 143 per cent. Second is the Western States Mission, with 129 per cent; third, the Canadian Mission, with 124 per cent; and fourth, the North Central States Mission, with 111 per cent. In total number of subscriptions the Western States led with 1,075. The mean of the missions on the Honor Roll rose to ninety-five per cent, for an increase of three per cent over 1960. 373 Sisters, we rejoice with you over these outstanding achievements in Magazine subscriptions. They represent many hours of effort by thousands of Magazine representatives throughout the Church, and they are a reflection of loving and devoted service. Relief Society women the world over are grateful for our Relief Society Magazine, with its beautiful covers and its many pages filled with beauty, culture, refinement, knowledge, faith, inspiration, and love. Honors for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California) 226% Magazine Representative — Amelia Dellenbach Ward Gila Bend Branch, Phoenix Stake (Arizona) 450% Magazine Representative — Cleora Colvin Mission British Mission — 143% Mission Magazine Representative — Beulah B. Woodbury Mission District West Nebraska District, Western States Mission — 174% Magazine Representative — Irma M. Chandler Mission Branch Roanoke Rapids Branch — 340% Raleigh District, Central Atlantic States Mission Magazine Representative — Joyce E. Phillips 374 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 Ten Highest Percentages in Stakes South Los Angeles Huntington Park Inglewood Glendale Burley........-..-.-.---------on-cecneeececeeeneeececsenenceneenees Rexburg -_.......22.2..222-22-2--22e22eeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee Edmonton Las Vegas.........-...:--cccceseesesceececeeeeeseosnereceneeneee Box Elder _o....2.22.22.2222-22----21e2eeeeeeee cece eee Missions Achieving Ten.... Amelia Dellenbach.... Rachel Liston...-. Janet C. Medina.... Mildred Robison.... Alva L. Knight.... Virginia F. Nichols Beth Moore.... Grace V. McCurdy 122.... Helen S. Toolson 121.... Lva Lou Nebeker Highest Percentages British Western States Canadian North Central States Eastern States Central States West Central States Northern California California Northern States...-Beulah B. Woodbury.... Ada S. Christiansen... Frances J. Monson.... Joie M. Hilton...-Olive L. Smith...-Marcella Meador.---Hazel Woolley.... Leta C. Pugh...-LaPriel Bunker.... Mary E. Maycock Ten Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. South Los Angeles 1641 Sugar House 974 Huntington Park 1270 Alpine 965 Glendale 1124 Davis 928 Ensign 1039 Shelley 907 East Mesa 985 Burley 889 Ten Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. West Central States 1075 Central States 605 New England 917 Southern States 604 Northern States 875 Northwestern States 591 East Central States 796 Gulf States 573 Eastern States 633 Great Lakes 515 Stakes in Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or Over Subscriptions Subscriptions Bear River............ Lottie Potter Box Elder.............-Iva Lou Nebeker Burley...............-.--Virginia F. Nichols Calgary................-Vernetta Reed East Idaho Falls.... Sarah Owens East Pocatello........ Norma Adams Glendale................ Mildred Robison Granger...............---Althora P. Sizemore Subscriptions Subscriptions Granite -...........-+---Wilma D. Wetzel Highland................ Lucille M. Larsen Holladay................ Ruth C. Andrus Huntington Park.... Rachel Liston Inglewood............--Janet C. Medina Juarez 20.222... Fannie B. Hatch Kansas City...........-Venna T. Witbeck Las Vegas...........---Helen S. Toolson MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1961 Malad Minidoka New Jersey North Jordan... Waren eens cnnecesanss Maud Y. Jensen Lila Neibaur Monument Park.... Sara Stone Dorothy A. Keatley Vonda L. Sharp North Pocatello.... Tura Hadley Oquirrh.............-.-Dorothy Smith Orange County...... Elizabeth Reynolds Barleys................--.-Genevieve Lewis Phoenix..............----Alva L. Knight Pikes Peak.......... | Pocatello | Rexburg.............- Bntish Western States Canadian North Central Eastern States ' Central States Inglewood Glendale Phoenix Burley Rexburg Edmonton jLas Vegas 'Box Elder San Diego Shelley 'Pikes Peak 'Phoenix North Holladay Torrance Oquirrh Minidoka (Toronto Cassia East Idaho Falls West Central States Northern California South Los Angeles Huntington Park 143 129 124 111 107 105 101 100 Dorothy L. Newton Anna M. Egbert Beth Moore California Northern States Southern States Alaskan Canadian Southern Australian 89 Texas New England Central Atlantic 375 St. Joseph.............. Nira P. Lee St. Louis..........-..-Tessie Lake San Diego............ Joan Knudson San Joaquin.......... Ethel Martin Shelley 0.22.0... Beth M. Clawson South Idaho Falls.. Violet K. Jaussi South Los Angeles.. Amelia Dellenbach South Salt Lake.... Hannah Dietrich Torrance................ Thelma Perkin West Covina.........-Lucille C. Hales Whittier 2.20222... Mary C. Drever Woodruff.2............ Naomi B. Harris Mission Percentages on Honor Roll Stakes by Percentages—1961 226 189 143 135 135 ty 129 124 122 121 121 120 119 117 116 116 116 115 114 113 am Virginia Kansas City Albuquerque Pocatello San Joaquin Santa Rosa Whittier Woodruff St. Joseph Juarez Reseda Temple View East Phoenix Mojave West Covina St. Louis Mt. Jordan North Pocatello Yuma Monument Park Highland 97 Northwestern States 80 95 East Central States 79 94 Scottish-Irish 79 93 Western Canadian 78 Great Lakes 77 89 Gulf States 76 88 South African 76 85 Eastern Atlantic 75 111 East Long Beach 107 111 Granite 107: 111 Calgary 107 111 Great Falls 107 110 Redwood 107 110 San Diego East 107 110 South Idaho Falls 107 110 New Jersey 107 110 Roy 107 110 Las Vegas North 107 109 Bear River 106 109 Parleys 106 109 West Boise 106 109 South Salt Lake 106 109 East Mesa 105 109 Nyssa 105 109 Liberty 105 108 New York 104 108 Ammon' 104 108 Bonneville 104 108 Orange County 104 376 West Utah East Pocatello Idaho Falls Maricopa Raft River Florida Pasadena Ensign Wells Grand Coulee Fresno South Bear River Mill Creek Reno North Wilford Sugar House Santa Monica Granger San Fernando Burbank San Bernardino Olympus Weber Heights Malad Canoga Park Cottonwood Moapa Franklin North Seattle Mt. Rubidoux St. George East Sharon North Jordan American Falls Nampa North Tooele Grand Junction Palomar Sevier Palmyra Grant Utah Philadelphia Beaver Juab Mt. Graham Santa Barbara RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 Union Tavlorsville Granger North Big Horn - Panguitch St. Johns West Pocatello Long Beach University West Chicago Vancouver Walnut Creek Young Monterey Bay Gooding Ogden Weiser 100 100 100 99 99 99 a) Monument Park West 98 San Antonio Rigbv Sacramento Denver West Hayward Tavlor Cheyenne Santa Ana Columbia River Spanish Fork Ashley Portland Farr West Grantsville Duchesne Granite Park Lake View North Box Elder North Rexburg Emigration New Orleans Portneuf Twin Falls Tulsa Uintah Park Yellowstone Norwalk Reno 97 or oy Mt 97 Los Angeles Cache Lethbridge Garden Grove Cedar West Bannock Murray Washington Redondo North Davis Richland Boise St. George East South Blackfoot Tooele Puget Sound West Sharon Mt. Logan Hyrum Blackfoot North Weber San Juan Valley View Winder Kolob Snowflake Alberta East Los Angeles Southern Arizona Deseret Missoula East Rigby Tucson Oklahoma San Jose Gridley North Sevier Sharon Denver Lake Mead Alaska Bountiful Uvada Benson Lost River Millard Santaquin-Tintic 94 94 94 93 93 93 93 93 93 92 Q2 92 92 Q2 g2 g2 Q2 92 gl 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 91 gl gl 91 go go go go go go MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1961 Wasatch North Idaho Falls Timpanogos Tacoma East Mill Creek Kanab Ben Lomond Seattle San Leandro Garfield South Davis Honolulu Riverton Hillside Zion Park Idaho Riverside East Cache Butte Rose Park Cleveland Taber Nebo Cannon Klamath Bakersfield Star Valley Murray South Blaine Winter Quarters Napa Davis Oakland-Berkeley Atlanta Riverdale Miami East Provo Roosevelt American River Nevada Provo Alpine Brisbane Parowan Mesa 88 88 » 88 88 88 Mt. Logan Lewiston Auckland Craig Minnesota Greensboro Montpelier Moroni South Summit Salt Lake Springville Wayne Covina Idaho Logan San Francisco Lehi Spokane Clearfield East Ogden Bountiful North Midvale North Carbon Palo Alto Detroit San Luis Obispo Bear Lake San Mateo Oneida El Paso Weber South Sevier Pioneer Smithfield Teton Flagstaff South Ogden Cedar Redding Indianapolis Orem Emery Sandy Orlando East Jordan West Jordan South Sanpete Dallas North Sacramento Morgan Salmon River Humboldt Lorin Farr San Luis Ben Lomond South Summit Cincinnati Leicester Houston Melbourne North Sanpete Salem Tampa London Gunnison Lyman Shreveport Willamette Beaumont Hamilton Yakima Carbon Bountiful South South Carolina Kearns North Canyon Rim North Carolina Sydney Orem West Kearns Layton Leeds Manchester University Hawks Bay *Brigham Young Univ. *Utah State Univ. *Brigham Young Univ. 2nd 15 14 (*Limited Participation) Relief Society Alaska Alberta Albuquerque Alpine American Falls American River Ammon Ashley Atlanta Auckland Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaver Ben Lomond Benson Big Horn Blackfoot Blaine Boise Bonneville Bountiful Bountiful Box Elder Brisbane Burbank Burley Butte Cache Calgary North LL es a EnrollSubscriptions Pet. Ment 221 718 499 1168 352 588 438 477 391 285 515 362 515 508 528 475 602 883 666 3038 618 840 556 561 794 189 667 665 498 610 467 No. 197 652 554 965 355 490 456 459 329 233 438 337 All 540 529 417 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL-1961 89 91 111 83 101 83 104 96 84 82 85 93 80 106 100 88 89 99 91 84 92 104° 89 80 121 83 102 134 86 94 107 Magazine Representative Uarda Conner Viola B. Wynder Neta Patterson Marvel Sunderland Erminnie Johnson Norma Pezely Violet K. Jaussi Barsalena R. Hatch Lucille Bennett M. J. Ottley La Rue S. Pettit Clara C. Christensen Marie Olsen Lottie R. Potter Aletha Gillins Florence B. Campbell Jalaine P. Jensen Bettina C. Graham M. Deon Ostergar Vera E. Clifford Effie Baxter Phyllis L. Clayton Jessie J. Terry Euphamia H. Terry Iva Lou Nebeker Hilda Maurer Joy Earl Virginia F. Nichols Harriet Millecam Afton H. Stuart Vernetta Reed Relief Society Cannon Canoga Park Cassia Cedar Cedar West Cheyenne Chicago Clearfield Cleveland Columbia River Cottonwood Covina Craig Dallas Davis Denver Denver West Deseret Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Idaho Falls East Jordan East Long Beach Fast Los Angeles East Mesa East Mill Creek East Ogden East Phoenix East Pocatello East Provo EnrollSubscriptions Pet. Ment 521 298 386 384 368 328 664 635 285 776 728 533 214 387 1102 452 453 742 473 393 855 494 776 590 686 938 614 718 798 552 569 No. 443% 302 438 298 343 317 655 510 244 748 738 430 175 293 928 405 439 672 378 375 738 556 592% 633 623 985 540 577 870 574 476 85 101 1138 78 93 97 99 80 86 96 101 81 82 76 84 90 97 91 80 95 86 113 76 107 91 105 88 80 109 104 84 Magazine Representative Elda L. Hailes Ann Whelan Claudia Martin Norene Ashman Belle J. Webster Shirley Cottrell Hazel G. Kitch Ella N. Christensen Helen S. Clark Agnes Hill Isabelle T. Nelson Gladys I. Barker Nellie J. Crosby Nellie M. Knight Sarah B. Strong Ilah K. Smith Phyllis A. Mohler Leatha Bennett Grace R. McCallum Ardeth R. Johansen Elizabeth E. Steed Sarah Owens Vera Cowley Ethel M. Lemons Valerie C. Baisley Elva M. Brown Marilyn C. Shaw Lucille Stratford Geneva Cluff Norma Adams Jean L. Stott 378 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 Relief Society East Rigby cast Sharon Edmonton El Paso Emery Emigration Ensign Farr West Flagstaff Florida Franklin Fresno Garden Grove Garfield Glendale Gooding: Grand Coulee Grand Junction Granger Granger North Granite Granite Park Grant Grantsville Great Falls Greensboro Gridley Hayward Highland Hillside Holladay Honolulu Humboldt Huntington Park EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 625 563 90 585 591 101 267 3382 124 486 387 80 719 555 77 508 482 95 1006 1039 103 631 606 96 470 367 8678 515 5384 104 796 806 101 626 643 103 292 273 893 294 257 87 832 1124 135 613 600% 98 540 557 1038 418 421 101 287 293 102 492 491 100 639 685% 107 6385 606 95 774 778 101 510 490 96 345 369 107 300 245 82 705 Gol 357 346 97 548 589% 108 1045 804% 87 664 772 116 467 406 a 238 178 75 673 1270 189 Magazine Representative Myrtle Burtenshaw Hildegard P. Nicholes Grace V. McCurdy Ellis F. Nielsen Edith Collard Sarah K. McKay Pearl L. Whitney Bertha H. Palmer Mary L. Kremer Vera Williams Phyllis W. Kingsford Muriel Welton Beulah M. Cox Dorma P. Barton Mildred Robison Viola Gold Amy Kent Lanor Rowe Althora P. Sizemore Ella H. Larson Wilma D. Wetzel Lythia J. Street Consie M. Wynn Lucille G. Anderson Glenna MacDonald Ruby Braddoch Vera D. Allred Rose Winkel Lucille M. Larsen Mae M. Hickman Ruth C. Andrus Michuje Kamashiro Della Monson Rachel Liston Relief Society Hyrum Idaho Idaho Falls Indianapolis Inglewood Juab Juarez Kanab Kansas City Klamath Kolob Lake Mead Lake View Las Vegas Las Vegas North Lehi Lethbridge Lewiston Liberty Logan Long Beach Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Malad Maricopa Mesa Miami Midvale Millard Mill Creek Minidoka Minnesota Missoula EnrollSubscriptions ment Wo. Pct. 678 620 91 434 375 86 556 578 104 371 287 77 597 854 143 525 525 100 97 107 110 493 483 88 412 458 111 546 465 85 601 547% 91 465 415 89 408 389% 95 518 634 122 459 490 107 664 5385 81 580 548 94 265 217 82 735 771 105 595 480 81 626 619 99 735 548 75 644 606 94 333 295 89 577 586 102 782 812 104 1021 841 82 280 235 84 690 554 80 611 541 89 429 440% 1038 652 747 115 3878 309 82 448 405 90 Magazine Representative Rhoda Thorpe Elizabeth L. Stevens Erma W. Boyce Josephine Jones Janet C. Medina Reba P. Mangelson Fannie B. Hatch Arvilla J. Heaton Venna T. Witbeck Marion Sander Hilda W. Cherrington Magda Potter Orba S. Bunot Helen S. Toolson Carrie G. Beatty Rosa Ashton Beulah Manser Renae B. Larsen Luella L. Birrell Eva L. Bernston Savilla Walton Charlotte Dean Verda Cohen Edna M. Hansen Maude Y. Jensen Muriel Freeman Edith D. O'Barr Violet Anne Pettley Hazel Anderson Leah D. Wood Martha H. Matern Lila Neibaur Winifred Durant Norma Ludlow MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1961 379 Relief Society Moapa Mojave Monterey Bay Montpelier Monument Park Monument Park West Morgan Moroni Mt. Graham Mt. Jordan Mt. Logan Mt. Ogden Mt. Rubidoux Murray Murray South Nampa Napa Nebo Nevada New Jersey New Orleans New York North Box Elder North Carbon North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Seattle 296 441 361 762 462 623 370 382 663 403 735 6438 850 554 7177 863 409 627 420 293 249 338 840 588 679 805 529 590 662 449 636 No. 300 481 354 622 499 608 280 312 663 437 673 529 860 515 659% 865 845 534% 350: 313 236 353 802 471 628 711 534% 640 630 340 644 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL-1961 EnrollSubscriptions 101 109 98 82 108 98 76 82 100 109 92 82 101 93 85 100 84 85 83 107 95 104 95 80 52 88 101 108 95 76 101 Magazine Representative Era C. Jones Wilda N. Andrejcik Lilly B. Lovejoy. Lola McCammon Sara Stone Betty March Manilla W. Carter Ida Allred Flora John Rose A. Brown Léla H. Gibbons Leola B. Clark Hilda R. Peel Mabell A. Smith Beatrice H. Turner Ida Cafferty LaVaun L. Allen Leona S. Crouch May Probert Dorothy A. Keatley Goldie S. Kleinpeten Thyra Stoddard Hilda R. Forrest Parthenia H. Rhead Helen W. Barber Mary L. Wilding Vonda L. Sharp Tura Hadley Myrtle B. Park Ruth M. Moses Lillian Bulman Relief Society North Sevier North Tooele North Weber Norwalk Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden Oklahoma City Olympus Oneida Oquirrh Orange County Orem Orlando Palmyra Palo Alto Palomar Panguitch Park Parleys Parowan Pasadena Philadelphia Phoenix Phoenix North Pikes Peak Pioneer Pocatello Portland Portneuf Provo EnrollSubscriptions. Pet. Ment 400 497 630 473 433 802 669 289 557 678 585 511 619 254 651 598 268 495 791 446 384 777 295 536 684 269 617 465 880 494 516 No. 359 501 575 446 455 676 654 260 566 541 676 532 479 195 655 479 270 491 746 AT1h 317 803% 296 724 802 319 485 515 847 468 430 90 101 91 94 105 84 98 90 102 80 116 104 77 77 101 80 101 os) 94 106 83 103 100 135 117 119 79 111 96 95 83 Magazine Representative Clarissa J. Sorensen Mildred Sagers Nellie Opheikens Manilla J. Corse Orpha Robinson Vera Weindorf Chloe F. Summerill Frances Boden Glenna B. Brown Junelin P. Auger Dorothy Smith Elizabeth H. Reynolds Minnie G. Wilberg Leila Prevatt Bernice S. Swenson Vivian M. Anderson Amaretta H. Graves Beth R. Tebbs Pearl E. Rohde Genevieve M. Lewis Mary L. Stubbs Zelma McCune Pauline G. Bishop Alva L. Knight Edith M. Alexander Dorothy L. Newton Rura J. Woodall Anna M. Egbert Arelie Reznick Goldie Toler Deseret Bullock 380 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 ment Pet. Relief Society Puget Sound Raft River Redding Redondo Redwood Reno Reno North Reseda Rexburg Richland Rigby Riverdale Riverside Riverton Roosevelt Rose Park Roy Sacramento St. George St. George East St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis Salmon River Salt Lake San Antonio San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East Sandy San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose ErrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 442 406 92 186 193 104 383 258 7 517 478% 93 215 230 107 428 403 94 342 351 103 458 501 109 667 859 129 610 563 92 826 805 97 695 585 84 674 582% 86 461 400 8&7 540 451 84 830 712 86 444 474 107 629 612 97 448 453 101 488 449% 92 495 491 99 569 627 110 239 260 109 168 5 6%} 842 683 81 268 261 97 667 679 102 607 S41 121 643 688 107 764 588% 77 664.677 102 428 345 81 5 870 110 565 508 90 Magazine Representative Selena Fern Buridge Alice O. Neddo Maxine Hansen Eileen Berg Myrtle Dillon Doris Young Mabel C. Barnard Winona Mordue Beth Moore Erma E. Berg Ora Stallings Rhoda W. Priest Bess Davis Blanche B. Densley Katie Duncan Helen M. Shelton Dorothy F. Oleson Adelle M. Gorsch Sylva Graf Agnes S. Pickett Jane Miller Nira P. Lee Tessie Lake Keturah B. Moultrie Frances L. Kooyman Elaine V. Drake Valeen M. Jolley Joan Knudson Beba Berg Louise R. Neff Elva Kershaw Afton Logan Ethel Martin Barbara R. Simmons Relief Society San Juan | San Leandro San Luis Obispo San Mateo Santa Ana Santa Barbara Santa Monica Santa Rosa Santaquin-Tintic Seattle Sevier Sharon Shelley Smithfield Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Davis South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles South Ogden South Salt Lake South Sanpete South Sevier South Summit Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Taber Tacoma Taylor EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 638 582 91 381 334 88 274 219 80 609 486 80 3853 341 97 375 375 100 803 820 102 487 538 110 374 331 89 795 698 88 837 843% 101 405 363% 90 758 907 120 717 564 79 689 627 91 624 641 103 676 623 92 885 Tel Sf 448 479 107 726 1641 226 496 386 78 471 497 106 780 594 6 451 356% 179 433 352 81 64 22 1 652 628 96 697 561 80 652 528 81 714 607% 85 953 974 102 378 323 85 360 317 88 715 693 97 Magazine Representative Eloise B. Mahon Mary C. McDonald Anna Dee Packer R. Elaine Pendleton Ethel Blood Lydia B. Anderson Helen Wilkinson Verna F. Baldwin Sylvia Steck Laura C. Bronner Manitta Hansen Addie G. Edwards Beth M. Clawson Sadie B. Elder Lucillia S. Peterson Vilate Archibald Agnes D. Cox Gwen M. Horsley Violet K. Jaussi Amelia Dellenbach Hazel Goodwin Hannah Dietrich Ethel S. Hughes Vera Smith Josephine S. Wagstaff Maud Post ' Alene F. Meldrum Beulah A. Edwards Donetta Anthon Maurine T. Harrison Nellie J. Ehlers Emma B. Harris Nettie Blake Ruth S. Hovey MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1961 381 Relief Society Taylorsville Temple View Teton Timpanogos Tooele Toronto Torrance Tucson Tulsa Twin Falls Uintah Union University West Utah Uvada Valley View Vancouver Virginia Walnut Creek Wasatch EnrollSubscriptions ment 406 752 518 811 487 406 437 592 238 903 433 580 607 565 313 586 216 430 697 782 No. STAKES ON HONOR ROLL-1961 Pet. 405% 100 822 407 715 448 A464 508 533 225 855 409 580 600 568 279 535 213 479 685 692 109 79 88 92 114 116 100 101 111 Magazine Representative Marjorie E. Coats Mabel E. Snow Bertha Gillette Vera Matthews Jewel Halgren Ruth Florence Rennie Thelma Parkin Belva Jones Virginia L. Jacobson Carrie Webb Ada W. Busch Mar Jean Westerfield Maud W. Johnson Effie J. Pinegar Martha H. Bleak Dorie N. Walton Doris M. Puzianowski Cassandra L. Waddoups Marie D. Barber Leda Titus Relief Society Washington Wayne Weber Weber Heights Weiser Wells West Boise West Covina West Jordan West Pocatello West Sharon West Utah Whittier Wilford Winder Winter Quarters Woodruff Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park EnrollSubscriptions ment 837 333 712 532 560 860 697 545 599 459 391 691 500 600 459 290 557 829 604 277 386 No. 776 269 566 541 547 888 737 594 457 455 359 719% 552 615 419 245 614 782 593 300 334 Pct. 93 81 79 102 98 103 106 109 76 99 92 104 110 103 91 84 110 94 98 108 87 Magazine Representative Ruby D. Mikesell Patra Taylor Florence W. Wright Alma M. Peterson Irene H. Winegar Gertrude J. Fullmer Edith Coleman Lucille C. Hales Phebe Johnson Alta Holmes Ethel 8. Taylor Aleta M. Harding Mary C. Drever Lila F. Madsen Charlottie B. Poulton Shirley R. Redd Naomi B. Harris Myrle M. White Iva Sterling Effie Nowland Pearl W. Stratton 382 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 MISSIONS ON HONOR ROLL-1961 ment No. Pet. Representative ment No. Pet. Magazine Representative 278 267 Alaskan Canadian British Canadian 398 Central Atlantic States 639 Central States 576 Eastern Atlantic States 591 Eastern States 591 Great Lakes 673 Gulf States 752 New England 1037 258 383 207 494 540 605 796 444 633 490 515 573 917 93 148 97 124 85 105 79 75 107 80 77 76 88 Marie M. Weilenmann Beulah B. Woodbury LaPriel S. Bunker Frances J. Monson Catherine W. Aposhian Marcella Meador Delilah Hatch Brown Thelma Irene Hill Olive L. Smith Edith Kraft Lyman Anne R. Gledhill Marie C. Richards May F. Carr North Central States Northern California Northern States Northwestern States Scottish-Irish South African Southern Australian Southern States Texas West Central States Western Canadian Western States Xt 461 8 924 741 260 309 346 643 356 513 8 875 591 205 235 308 604 316 1069 1075 139 109 111 100 95 80 79 76 89 94 89 101 78 323 416 129 Joie M. Hilton Leta C. Pugh Mary E. Maycock Verna Geneal Wood Nada R. Brockbank Hilda H. Alldredge Edna M. Ord Elva Stella Ravsten Karma Y. Jordan Hazel Woolley Rhea May Arthur Smith Ada S. Christiansen MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1961 383 Relief Society Relief Society California East Central States Florida EnrollSubscriptions Magazine EnrollSubscriptions 213 1003 613 General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES: % e. Ae. 'ts at 2) Photograph submitted by President Alvin R. Dyer SINGING MOTHERS OF THE EUROPEAN AND WEST EUROPEAN MISSIONS PRESENT MUSIC FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT SERVICEMEN'S CONFERENCE, BERCHTESGADEN, GERMANY, November 1961 Front row, seated, left to right (in dark dresses): Gloria Wright, organist; Doris Allen, Relief Society supervisor of the European Mission Servicemen's Board; Marjorie Updegrove, chorister. Elder Alvin R. Dyer, former President of the European Mission reports: "This conference not only featured general sessions, where we had the largest attendance that has ever been accomplished at a servicemen's conference in Europe, but it also featured departmental sessions, including a Relief Society leadership meeting.. At this meeting there were 140 wives of Latter-day Saint servicemen in attendance. These represented most of the missions of Europe where United States servicemen are stationed, the greatest number of which were from the West and South German Missions, with other representatives from the French, Swiss, Berlin, Netherlands, North German, and British Missions. This particular session of conference was under the direction of Sister Doris Allen, who is the Relief Society supervisor of the European Mission Servicemen's Board. Sister Allen had collaborated with Sister Dyer in arranging a program and providing information with mimeographed material being given to each sister concerning the Relief Society program of the Church. Particular attention was given to the preparation of the annual report, and stress was placed on reaching more of the servicemen's wives, including their participation in the Relief Society program." Page 384 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 385 Photograph submitted by Dicie Maud S. Godfrey PIONEER STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, November 1961 Vondra Dipo, chorister, stands at the right, and Edna Willis, organist, is seated at the piano. Dicie Maud S. Godfrey is president of Pioneer Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Kathleen S. Farnsworth BEAVER STAKE (UTAH), MILFORD SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OPENING SOCIAL "TURN BACK THE PAGES OF HISTORY" October 3, 1961 Left to right: Vilate Lang, President; Afton Petty; Leora McCulley; Erma Nielee: Leila Martin; Florence Myers; Aldean Jones; Margery Sherwood; Arleen Clark; Ethel eilson. Kathleen S. Farnsworth, former president, Beaver Stake Relief Society, reports: 'The Milford Second Ward held a unique and very effective opening social October 3, 1961. "Turn Back the Pages of History,' a fashion show depicting the beautiful cos- 386 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 tumes in several periods of time, from the organization of Relief Society to the present, was effectively presented. Several young sisters, new members of Relief Society, modeled costumes which were treasures of bygone days. The original script was read by Aldean M. Jones. Delightful songs, appropriate to the time, were sung by the participants. Unusual interest was created, new sisters brought into activity, and a delightful time was enjoyed by the large group present. Refreshments were served from a beautifully arranged table. "To assist Beaver Stake with our membership drive, 'Every Latter-day Saint Woman of Beaver Stake an Active Relief Society Member,' our chorister Ireta M. Baker composed a song which goes to the tune of the 'Battle Hymn of the Republic." We introduced it at our leadership meeting. It went over well, and all ward workers were enthusiastic about the campaign for increased membership." Lucille A. Murdock is the new president of Beaver Stake Relief Society. \\ ys 25 te Photograph submitted by Dawn C. Hanks SAMOAN MISSION, PESEGA SECOND BRANCH, APIA DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY, SERVES MORNING REFRESHMENTS TO "PACIFIC WOMEN'S INTEREST SEMINAR," September 16, 1961 Dawn C. Hanks, President, Samoan Misson Relief Society, reports: "The picture shows some of the members of the Pesega Second Branch Relief Society of Apia District. On September 16, 1961, the two Pesega Branch Relief Societies were hostesses to the Pacific Women's Interest Seminar which was meeting in Western Samoa. Included were delegates from all the islands of the Pacific, Australia, and the United Nations. About fifty visitors enjoyed the demonstrations of sewing and cooking and the work meeting activities shown in the homemaking booklets now in use in the Samoan branch Relief Societies. Many of these booklets were purchased by the dele- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 387 gates. After visiting the opening exercises of the Pesega Second Branch Primary, and being served morning refreshments by the Relief Society women, Pesega First Branch demonstrated the sewing of shirts, shorts, muumuus, beadwork, weaving of fans, and block printing of dress materials. Pesega Second Branch demonstrated the cooking of pineapple and mango jam, deep fried taro balls, and cakes. Pictured here is the stove made from a gasoline drum which the Relief Society is encouraging, rather than cooking over an open fire, as is the custom generally in Samoa. Display tables, showing materials used for Primary, MIA, and Relief Society aided the misson board members in presenting briefly an over-all view of the Church program. A tour of the Pesega chapel, school, and mission home completed the morning's activities. 'Though the time was short and filled with activity, we felt that the visitors received a good idea of what the Church is doing for the women of Samoa." Photograph submitted by Verny J. Olson SOUTH SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR CHAPEL DEDICATION September 10, 1961 Front row, seated, left to right: First Counselor Lydia Y. Burrows; Second Counselor Elda D. Miller; President Verny J. Olson; chortster Reva A. Davenport. Mary H. Jensen, organist, is seated at the piano. Verny J. Olson, President, South Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, reports: "We feel that our Singing Mothers were signally honored by being invited to present the music for the dedication of the 'Chapel by the Wayside' at Utah State Prison, said to be one of the most beautiful prison chapels in the United States. Fifty Singing Mothers sang 'The Lord's Prayer,' by Gates. After the dedicatory prayer by President Hugh B. Brown, Counselor in the First Presidency, the Singing Mothers sang 'Bless This House.' Much praise was given for the beauty of these renditions. We are proud of our Singing Mothers and our chorister and organist. Much of the success of this group is due to the exceptional talents, the untiring efforts, and faithful services of these two sisters." 388. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 Pye a ah ge HO %, 7 a j Photograph submitted by Clara S. Roberts SOUTH SEVIER STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, September 10, 1961 Seated, front center: Jennie O. Wingate, acting chorister. Seated at piano: Elizabeth S. Staples, organist. Standing, third from the left on the back row: Clara S. Roberts, President, South Sevier Stake Relief Society. Front row, seated, third from the right: Bernice W. Wade, First Counselor. Sister Roberts reports: "These Singing Mothers presented four lovely numbers for our stake quarterly conference sessions. We are thankful for this privilege, and feel that our testimonies were strengthened by this experience." Photograph submitted by Louise B. Johansen NORTH SANPETE STAKE SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR MANY OCCASIONS Organist Rhoda Drage stands at the left of the piano in the front row; Ethel Porter, who was organist for five years, with the late chorister Opal Hermansen, stands sixth from the left in the front row; Ethel Ericksen, special accompanist for many years, stands at the right of the piano; Louise B. Johansen, President, North Sanpete Stake Relief Society, stands fifth from the right of the organ in the front row. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 389 Sister Johansen reports: ""The North Sanpete Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers are actively engaged in singing for many occasions. They were invited to sing at the Moroni Stake conference last spring, and in our own stake in September. They also participated in the Visiting Teacher Convention in Scptember, where the goal of 'Every Sister a Member of Relief Society in 1962' was introduced. They plan to sing at the Stake Day party to be held in the Relief Society Building in June 1962. They have sung at several funerals, including the services for stake chorister Opal Hermansen who passed away in February 1962, and who had served faithfully as stake chorister for seventeen years." Photograph submitted by Virginia N. Myers CALGARY STAKE (CANADA), CALGARY FIRST WARD BAZAAR September 14, 1961 Seated at the right: Lenore Heninger, President, and Lavonne Howden, Work Director Counselor. Standing, left to right: Geraldine Johnston; Valerie Hanson, social science class leader; Lucille Brett; Beth Olson, Secretary; Edith Kutch; Aline Kelm; Jean Meyer; Cleo Bilton, work meeting leader; Meridee Smith; Patricia Hellier; Myrna Pitcher, Employment Counselor. Virginia N. Myers, President, Calgary Stake Relief Society, reports: 'This bazaar and tour of homes has become an annual fall event, and both work successfully together in raising funds for Relief Society and the Welfare project. This year our bazaar featured aprons and quilts (as shown in the picture), house plants, recipe books, candy, and home baking, specializing in homemade bread. The sisters in the picture, as well as other sisters of the ward not in the picture, worked diligently to make the day a success." 390 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 Photograph submitted by Ann Packer Lloyd BANNOCK STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS RELEASED AND | HONORED AT A DINNER AND PROGRAM, July 17, 1961 | Front row, seated, left to right, former stake board officers: Mildred W. Burton, First Counselor; Edith W. Hubbard, President; Della T. Mendenhall, Second Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Alice Clegg; Ida Sorenson; Della Whitehead, Secretary-Treasurer. Ann Packer Lloyd, President of Bannock Stake Relief Society, reports that these faithful officers had served ten years and four months at the time of their release. "Sister Hubbard had served a period of more than thirty-one years of continuous serv- | ice on the stake board. It is estimated that these six sisters had given a total of 109 years | continuous service in the organization. A great love for them is felt through all of | Bannock Stake. On July 17, 1961, a dinner and program were given in their honor } by the new Relief Society Stake Board. A cake, made and decorated by Irene Young, a former board member who had served with Sister Hubbard, was in the form of an open book with the sisters' names listed on one side, and 'Bannock Stake Relief Society' listed on the other. The new Relief Society officers are: Ann Packer Lloyd, Vera Roper, First Counselor; Sybil McGregor, Second Counselor; June O. Christensen, Secretary-Treasurer; Shirley Hubbard, Geraldine Forbush, Erma Hogan, Etheleen Andreasen, Barbara Panter, Winona Lowe, Iona Thomas, and Clara Christensen." Your Pre-School Playmates Janet W. Breeze It seemed we were always stepping on or tripping over toy sweepers, dust mops, etc., at our house until we put a tiny screw eye in the end of each and hung them on a board attached to the inside of our daughter's closet door. Seeking Catherine B. Bowles To reach a haven of peace and right, Seekers have a candle bright To see in corners where the light Brings hope in the darkest night. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July 20, 1962. Twenty-three days, including Boston, Washington, New York, and Chicago. Top Broadway show will be seen. Church historical places will also be visited, such as Nauvoo and Adam-Ondi-Ahman. EIGHT-DAY WORLD''S FAIR Including Victoria, Canada leaving August 18. TEN-DAY WORLD'S FAIR Including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, and Victoria, Canada. Leaving dates: July 9, August 17, September 21. Ask about our tours to the BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY (Including Mt. Rushmore) Leaves August 19, 1962 See the Colossal Sculpture carved from solid granite of the heads of Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt. $98.50 ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way ol keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relie{ Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house ls prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 00...... 85 150 to 300 miles 0....39 300 to 600 miles. Ceceteceeceeee +45 6 600 to 1000 miles veceeseeee D4 1000 to 1400 miles....00000 164 1400 to 1800 miles veccecseveseceeeeee 16 Over 1800 miles.............. R?) Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 39] Birthday Congratulations Ninety-six Mrs. CHarLoTreE FAwcetTtT BEARD Coalville, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. ANNA LEFGREEN DAHLSTROM Ogden, Utah Mrs. MartTHa JANE SARGENT KINSEY Raymond, Canada Ninety-three Mrs. ELLEN Watton WILLIAMS Farmington, Utah Mrs. IsABELLE OvERSON Richfield, Utah Mrs. JOSEPHINE PLoGER HART French Camp, California Ninety-two Mrs. Mary ALIcE ANDERSON FARNSWORTH Menlo Park, California Ninety-one Mrs. Jutia FLorRENCE AKERS MILLER Truth or Consequences New Mexico Mrs. E\LIZABETH GREENWELL FARLEY Ogden, Utah Mrs. Minnie BLack GARNER Sugar City, Idaho Page 392 Ninety Mrs. Lovina Van LEuvEeN ASHBY Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. AMANDA CATHERINE HENDRICKS Price Gridley, California Mrs. Fito Grecory BEHNEY Stockton, California Mrs. EMELINE PETERS WATKINS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. MarTINa JENSEN LarsEN Clearfield, Utah May Louisa Bacon TAYLOR Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Mary EvizaBETH WoRKMAN Hurricane, Utah Mrs. JOSEPHINE WORKMAN FAWCETT Hurricane, Utah Mrs. Atice Putnam Grants Pass, Oregon Each Day Mae L. Curtis Kindly give to me each day, A prayer to guide me on my way. A blessing, give me strength to live, And learn to love and to forgive. Help me pure and sinless be, To greet each day with faith in thee. Gives you the ultimate in fingertip total electric living now... And for years to come. When the future is allelectric, why buy anything but a Gold Medallion Home? UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Buy now from your dealer NORTHWEST TOUR including Banff, Lake Louise, World's Fair — June 29, July 3, August 6 July 9 leaving from Phoenix, Arizona EIGHT-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR leaving every month — many dates TWELVE-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, Portland, Seattle, Victoria, B. C. — June 15, August 9, September 8, September 22. HAWAII June 7, June 24 HILL CUMORAH TOUR leaving July 28 MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East, P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 6-1601 — HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 D a N POSTLUDES — Schaum.................. 85.. SABBATH DAY MUSIC — Randolph. Oo. O-. O...... Eee eeel.50 SACRED HOUR AT THE PIANO— A2.00 SACRED MUSIC FOR PIANO SOLO — Collins 20000.1.50. SACRED PIANO ALBUM—Gahm..1.50 Rettenburg 20.0...1.00 _ SACRED PIANO TRANSCRIPTIONS — Peery..........0..0-0ceeeeeel.00. SCHIRMERS FAVORITE SACRED SONGS — Stickles 200000..1.25. SUNDAY PIANO MUSIC — BGEAON _..............-. Cocnncnecscasseesacoeeeesenes 1.25. SUNDAY PIANO MUSIC — Ce eel.25. TRANQUIL HOURS — Presser........2.00 15 E. Ist South Sa't Lake City 11, BOOKS for the CHURCH PIANIST PRELUDES, OFFERTORIES AND SACRED PIANO SOLOS — TWELVE SACRED SONGS — Stickbes. O...... Ecc.. Ccsscscceneescesteesseeeeeeesl.25 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank AYNES MUSIC COMPANY Utah Please send the music indicated bove. (J On Approval [) Charge ( Money Enclosed FET 5000010402006 OTN SIS TOTS TOISTSTST TS TCTEITSNETENT Z I Dayncs Mace | (_cmpoany- | 15 E. Ist South salt | Lake City 11, aon Dw 100th Yar pe (19- W629 Second Class Postage Pai at Salt Lake City, Utah N REX-R 6-184-51872 OCT 62 President Hugh B. Brown's recent address... "MORMONISM" President Brown gives an eloquent and sincere account of "Mormonism" in this address delivered to theological students of the Presbyterian faith. — He explains such practices as Tithing, Fast Offerings, The Word of Wisdom... Such beliefs as The Godhead, Eternal Progression, the Marriage Covenant, and Continued Revelation. This booklet is truly enlightening — excellent reading for members as well as non-members. 50c copy W. Cleon Skousen's newest book... This is written for parents who want so You to raise well-adjusted, non-delinquent boys. It describes "boyhood" from birth to age W ANT twenty-one, portrays physical and emotional development year-by-year, and outlines beTO R AISE havior patterns and problems parents will encounter in these years. Helpful attitudes parents can assume in these various phases A BOY? Are recommended. Deseret Book Cinaitey 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah g.° BS ac fF of 84 <4 | 44 East South temple 4.50 J Sali Lake oa Utah |! Gentlemen: | Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( |! Have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed for.............. "Mormonism".............. "So You Want To Raise A Boy." Nome.......... 2... | Address oo... City........... Zone........ Starte...... S.... E.. Cece Pie Wor: a vot pom pe oe areas aE Tata le er > ee e 24 -. 4 S q a JUNE 1962 »: J 7 VOL, 49°-NO. 6 Lesson Previews ew rat, Aes jen This House Is Heritage (The Lion House, Salt Lake City, Utah) Alberta H. Christensen This house is more than stairway, floor, and hall, Roof of many gables, windows dormer-quaint — This house is heritage. Awakened memories return — Autumn sun on quartered apples, drying, The rhythmic spinning wheel and loom, Corn-meal mush, the jellied canyon berries, Skimming the cream for a wooden chum; For washday clothes in the iron caldron — Indigo bluing and potato starch, Firewood ashes, the pounding-dolly; And a prismed lamp for the sitting room. This heirloom house is made of dreams — Flowers fashioned from a loved one's hair Hung on that wall, beyond the stair A child remembered in an oval frame. And warm. As laughter, the friendships built By thimbled fingers on a namesake quilt. Remembrance lingers, like the evening prayer, Upon the mellowed rosewood of a chair, Around the Bible, worn, though leather-bound, On hymn, commandment, and love's whispered vow. This house is heritage — Symbol... Dream... And remembered sound. The Cover: Scene in Bruges, Belgium Color Transparency by Josef Muench Frontispiece: The Lion House, Salt Lake City, Utah Photograph by Hal Rumel Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From Near and Far Although I have been a member of the Church for over two years, I have never before written to express my appreciation for our inspiring Magazine. It has meant much to me and has helped to make Relief Society very dear to my heart. If only every woman could realize the importance of regular attendance at Relief Society, the happiness, strength, knowledge, and spiritual growth one can gain. —Mrs. W. R. Deputy Whittier, California For many years I have enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine — the inspirational lessons, the uplifting poems and stories. I have especially appreciated the serial "Sow the Field With Roses," by Margery S. Stewart (concluded in June 1962). I looked forward each month to another chapter because the story was so well written. —Mzs. Ivinetta R. Oliver Albany, New York I think I read the first copy of The Relief Society Magazine, and have been a constant reader ever since, always finding something written especially for me. I can't remember the numerous times my spirits have been lifted or my problems have been solved by the inspiration I received. The joy I get from the beautiful new covers is worth the subscription price several times over. —Vilate R. McAllister Salt Lake City, Utah I am very grateful to my mother for sending me a year's subscription to The Relief Society Magazine each year at Christmas time. I am a young mother with five small children, so there is always much to do. I feel that the time I use in reading the Magazine inspires me to be a better wife, mother, and neighbor. My husband teaches school, and he enjoys the Magazine as I do. I hope that all Latter-day Saint mothers will realize the importance of the Magazine in their homes. —Ethelyn H. Peterson Las Vegas, Nevada Page 394 The April issue of The Relief Society Magazine arrived today. It is beautiful. May I offer my congratulations for such an array of lovely articles and stories, poems and recipes. I like the introduction of color you have been using to highlight the titles. It makes each page clamor to be read. The Magazine is rapidly becoming a work of art in arrangement and style, appealing to our artistic senses, as well as to our intellectual needs. All of this lovely work enhances the spiritual quality of the Magazine. —Marion Pinkston President Los Angeles Stake Relief Society For the past ten months I have receiv The Relief Society Magazine through generosity of Mrs. S. Lichfield of Ogd Utah. I feel that I must compliment y on the excellence of its contents. Quality is consistently good — helpful a inspiring. —Mrs. E. Hawkes Gosforth Newcastle Upon Tyne England A few years ago my daughter Rosalie added the wonderful Relief Society Magazine as part of my birthday gift, and each year she has renewed the subscription for me. We haven't been able to keep our Relief Society meetings going in this small town, but the Magazine is very dear to me, and I love to read it from cover to cover. —Mrs. Rose R. Stokes Promontory, Utah The Relief Society Magazine is a m gratifying addition to my many periodi that keep me alert, but with all its wo and uplift, it has a blessed repose t makes one choose it from among th and excitement of our current trend. —Bertha A. Kleinman Mesa, Arizona THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Elizabeth B. Winters Edith S. Elliott Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron LaRue H. Rosell Florence J. Madsen Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt Jennie R. Scott Leone G. Layton Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Alice L. Wilkinson Blanch B. Stoddard Winniefred §S. Pearle M. Olsen LaPriel S. Bunker Evon W. Peterson Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Irene W. Buehner Aleine M. Young Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Irene C. Lloyd Josie B. Bay Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny S. Kienitz Hazel S. Cannon Hazel 8. Love RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 49 JUNE 1962 NO. 6 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES A Tribute to Emma Ray McKay Christine H. Robinson 396 The Blessings of Family Unity. Am Irene W. Buehner 401 In Memoriam — Elder George Q. Morris.., 408 She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part III — Bathsheba W. Smith Preston Nibley 410 a.. Hulda Parker 428 Annual Report for 1961] ooo FICTION Hand to the Plow — Part II Ilene H. Kingsbury 412 To You With Love.. Betty Lou Martin 420 Sow the Field With Roses — Chapter 6 (Conclusion). Margery S. Stewart 442 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 394 tS} 4 a C-lo 0g Ce {oe 416 Woman's Sphere..... Ee... Ramona W. Cannon 417 Editorial: The 132d Annual Church Conference 418 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 200...0..0.0cccceccccccececeeeeeeseee ese eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeHulda Parker 449 Birthday Congratulations 2.0.02... Essececcececeeeseeeeceeteeseeeeeteceseeeeeeeceeseeeeeeuseeee. 472 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes for a Brunch Linnie Fisher Robinson 426 Toddler's Cover-Apron a a soereceee than ee... Shirley Thulin 438 Alma Anderson — Specialist With Needle and Crochet Hook...... 440 Pie-Tin Therapy......0...........0---- 7 Pauline L. Jensen 446 Peace in a Troubled World Ruth L. Jones 448 LESSON DEPARTMENT — PREVIEWS FOR 1962-63 Audio-Visual Teaching Materials for the 1962-1963 Lessons.00.0...... EeeeeeeeAlice L. Wilkinson 456 Theology — The Doctrine and Covemamnts @02....2.2ceceececeseecceceesenteccerccecececceceetecenenceeeeaeensRoy W. Doxey 459 Visiting Teacher Messages ~—- Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson 461 Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home - Virginia F. Cutler 462 Literature — America's Literature 2.0... Ccecceccccneeecceeceseceeeceseeeeeeeeseneee Briant S. Jacobs 464 Social Science — Divine Law and Church Government ooi. I. O... CcscccceccececeseseeeeeeseeeeesAriel S. Ballif 466 Notes on the Authors of the Lessons.. —_— 468 POETRY This House Is Heritage — Frontispiece Alberta H. Christensen 393 View From the Trees, by Lucille R. Perry, 400; I Know a Thing, by Ida Elaine James, 415; June and the Rose, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 424; Before the Word Goes Forth, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 425; Bonus Prize, by Viola Ashton Candland, 427; Narrow Valley, by Zara Sabin, 439; Morning Song, by Leora Larsen, 445; Memories of Home, by Geneva H. Williams, 469; Navigator, by Rose Thomas Graham, 470; Trees of Mystery by Lela Foster Morris, 471; I Pity the Child, by Christie Lund Coles, 472. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS. Copyright 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial] Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20ce a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected monuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 395 Leftover Disguises 2... Cee essececeensececeseceeceeecoesenessnsecssessnessesesesenesensscenenencecnsceneeeee Janet W. Breeze 441] Christine H. Robinson Member, Adult Committee of the Church Co-ordinating Council / HE most fortunate day | I in his life, according to President David O. McKay, was June 23, 1877. This was the birthday of Emma Ray Riggs, who, on January 2, 1901, became his wife and loving companion for this life and throughout the eternities. For eighty-five years, Sister McKay has lived an exemplary life rich in human service, love, devotion and high accomplishment. On her eighty-fifth birthday, the Relief Society is honored to pay tribute to this noble woman — a personal tribute that comes from each of the Society's 231,175 members all over the world. The life of Emma Ray McKay portrays in every detail the highest ideals and aspirations of Relief Society as they have been taught and practiced since its origin. The Prophet Joseph Smith, when he organized the society in 1842, charged the sisters to "enlarge your souls towards each other.... Let kindness, charity and love crown vour works... Be armed with mercy, pure in heart." Sister McKay's life is a living example in action of the applications of this charge. In her quiet, friendly, and efficient way, this remarkable woman has practiced benevolence, charity, love, kindness, and consideration, and she has fostered the highest ideals among women. In fact, her life has exemplified those womanly virtues heralded by Solomon when he described the qualities of a noble woman. He said, "Strength and honour are her clothing.... She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her... Her own works praise her" (Proverbs 31:25-28, 31). Someone has said that greatness consists of doing common things uncommonly well. In all of her outstanding accomplishments, Sister McKay has had this uncommon touch. She has been a devoted and loving mother who has reared her children with kindness and understanding in righteousness. Her children can never remember when she tolerated the smallest "white lie" or untruth. She insisted that they be truthful, even on April Fool's Day. In rearing her children, not one of them can ever remember hearing her raise her voice in anger. Sister McKay has been a firm believer and a consistent practicer of the principle of praise. Throughout her life, she has drawn people close to her by concentrating on their good points rather than upon the bad. The application of this fundamental principle of human behavior Opposite page: Emma Ray Riggs at sixteen years of age, about the time she first met President McKay. Page 396 398 is indicated in this story which her children enjoy relating. After her graduation from college and before her marriage, Emma Ray Riggs taught school for a short time. In introducing her to the class, the principal pointed to a twelve-yearold boy and said, "You'll have to watch out for this youngster. He's the worst boy in school." After the principal had lett the room, the young teacher immediately wrote a note which read, "Earl, I think the principal was mistaken about you. I trust you and know you are going to help me make this room the best in the school." She then walked down the aisle and slipped the note to the boy without anyone noticing. As he read it she saw his face light up. Earl became one of the best behaved boys in the class. | In her loving devotion to her husband, Sister McKay has set an example and maintained a relationship which, in President McKay's own words, "have crowned her as the sweetest, most helpful, most devoted sweetheart and wife that ever inspired a man to noble endeavor." N_ birthdays, Mother's Days, Christmases, and wedding anniversaries, President McKay has paid special written tribute to his wonderful companion. On their thirtythird wedding anniversary, for example, he said, "Her education has enabled her to be a true helpmate; her congeniality and interest in my work, a pleasing companion; her charm and unselfishness, a lifelong sweetheart; her unbounded patience and intelligent insight into childhood, a most devoted mother." Recently, when President and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 Sister McKay were standing in front of Buckingham Palace in London, a bystander approached them and remarked: "I hope you are having an enjoyable time on your honeymoon. It is easy to tell that you have only recently been married." This unintended compliment shows how visible the tender love and admiration, which had grown in this remarkable couple for more than fifty years, sparkled through their loving countenances. Since the time when the children no longer needed her immediate motherly supervision, Sister McKay has been by the side of her husband as he has traveled about the Church on his important responsibilities. Through these world-wide contacts, Sister McKay has exerted an endur ing, beneficial influence on people everywhere—particularly upon the women of the Church. Through these contacts, she has made a tre mendous contribution toward fostering world-wide sisterhood. In countless personal conversations and in her many talks to Church groups, she has given practical imstructions on how to build better, happier, and more peaceful homes. She has helped women of foreign lands obtain a better understanding of the home life of women in the valleys of the mountains. On her return home, she has been untiring in her efforts to inform Utah Relief Society women about the problems and successes of women abroad. This has helped immeasurably to develop closer bonds of love, appreciation, and true sisterhood everywhere. In addition to her many other contributions, Emma Ray McKay has been a devoted worker in Relief Society and has always had a deep A TRIBUTE TO EMMA RAY McKAY 399 EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY Picture taken on her eighty-fourth birthday, June 23, 1961 love for this divinely inspired woman's organization. Soon after her marriage, she was called to be president of the Ogden Fourth Ward Relief Society. At that time the ward society's membership consisted of twelve women. Determined to make a success of her calling, Sister McKay, frequently, would bundle her baby into his carriage and set out to visit personally the sisters in the ward. Through this personal contact the membership soon grew from twelve to ninety enthusiastic sisters. A ward Relief Society president had a very real responsibility for the temporal well-being of the members and their families. Sister McKay discharged this responsibility with loving watchcare. A daughter tells of her mother bringing needy children into her home, of dressing 400 them in clean clothes, and feeding them warm, nourishing food. Sister McKay was soon called to be first counselor in the Ogden Stake Relief Society. Later, when the family moved to Salt Lake, she became first counselor in the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society. In 1922-24, when ~ President McKay was called to preside over the European Missions, Sister McKay was set apart as president of all the Relief Societies and as head of all of the Church auxiliaries on the European continent. Each of these important positions she filled with honor and distinction. Throughout her full and fruitful RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 life, Emma Ray McKay has been a shining example of womanhood in its highest and noblest form. In motherhood, in love and devotion to her husband, in good citizenship, in her true friendliness and personal refinement, in her wholesome sense of humor, and in her interest and concern for others, Sister McKay has set an example for each of us to follow. To know her is to love her. On her eighty-fifth birthday, we pray that the Lord's choicest blessings will continue with her now and forever. View from the Trees Lucille R. Perry Here in the aspen grove is kindly shade, Parting the sun's warmth with its cool eclipse, And where the fallen trees lie, a branch has made A place to rest. No fleet of silent ships Has rocked on greener seas than where these Inert giants ride the swells of grass. On gold and white of flower foam they cease To resist the urgent tides of days that pass. And I would stay here in this safe retreat, Leaning where white bark encircles strength, If the meadow had no paths to bewitch the feet, Or eyes not see, mind fail to know the length Of redolent fields to those far purple slopes, Shod in winged sandals of fair hopes. The Blessings of Family Unity Irene W. Buehner For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife and they twain shall be one flesh. Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh (Mt. 19:5-6). NE of the nicest things () about marriage is acquirces ing membership in a new Mee family. This does not take the place of your own family, but merely enlarges your sphere of affection. If married couples are "no more twain, but one flesh," as the Lord intended, we should accept and love all those who enter our families through marriage as our very own. With this new membership, comes the responsibility of fitting into the established family pattern. This is made so much easier if one is welcomed into the family with warmth and love. When members of the family develop a genuine fondness for one another, they are well on their way toward family unity. The Buehner family has tried to accomplish this family unity. Perhaps a glimpse into the lives of Grandpa and Grandma Buehner will reveal how well they have succeeded. When the Latter-day Saint muissionaries knocked on the door of the Carl F. Buehner home in Stuttgart, Germany, in the year 1899, they found a devoted young couple who listened to their words. It is the spirit that converts people to the gospel, and as a family we shall always be grateful to the missionaries who kindled that spirit within Grandma and Grandpa Buehner. They were baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on October 31, 1899. In the spring of 1901, Carl F. Buehner, his young wife Anna Bertha, and their two infant sons, Carl, age two, and Otto, a babe in arms, emigrated to Salt Lake City, Utah. Their story is the story of hundreds of converts to the Church who at that time felt the urgency to come to Zion to establish a home close to a temple of our Heavenly Father. What a sad day it must have been for these people to leave father, mother, and dear ones behind and embark for a new world. It is difficult for those of us who have not experienced this to understand what their feelings must have been. I am always pained when I see an uprooted tree, with its bare root fibers exposed to the ravages of drying sun and wind, but there is comfort and hope when we find a young tree transplanted in a new environment where it will receive plenty of water and sunshine to make it fruitful. The Buehners found their new environment fruitful and a land of opportunity. The people in this new land were kind and _ helpful. However, there were problems to overcome, and there were difficult times ahead. Grandpa Buehner worked hard to support his family and establish a home. The language was difficult to: learn. 'They studied and lived the gospel principles, and on March 18, 1903, they were endowed and sealed for all eternity in the Salt Lake 'Temple. Page 40] 402 / RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 THE CARL F. BUEHNER FAMILY Photograph taken in Stuttgart, Germany, just before the family left their native land for a new home in America. Standing: Carl F. Buehner; seated: Anna Bertha Geigle Buehner; children, left to right: Carl W. Buehner, age two; Otto Buehner, age six months. (GRANDPA - Buehner purchased property in the Forest Dale area near what was then known as Brigham Young's farmhouse. With his own hands, he built a large twostory, gray stone house for his family. Most of the Buehner children were born in that house, which was to be the home of the parents as long as they lived. Eleven children were born to this couple, eight sons and three daughters. The first three children were born in Germany, a daughter Frida, who died soon after birth, Carl W., and Otto. Walter, Adolph, John A., Philip H., Paul, Bertha, Clarence, and Helen were born in America. Walter and Adolph died in their youth. In a family of boys, you can imagine how welcome those two little girls were. Helen remembers receiving a card from her father, written in his best English, when he THE BLESSINGS OF FAMILY UNITY was on a trip east, which said, "There isn't a little girl in all New York who is as sweet as you. Your loving Daddy." Grandpa Buehner had a firm, unwavering testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel. An old friend of his wrote a letter to my husband in which he stated: "You had the best. Father anyone could ask for. He was _ the same every day, six days a week." All of his children can remember Grandpa Buehner testifying of his knowledge that the gospel was true and that prayers are answered. He literally led the way to Church for all of his family, usually a pace or so' ahead of his beloved wife and the children. They sat in the same place every Sunday at meeting. The Buehner home was an oldfashioned home. Making bread and milking cows were regular - procedures. Early to bed and early to rise was expected by the parents and accepted by the children. 'The boys worked as soon as they were able to hold a trowel steady. The girls were taught to cook, darn, mend, and sew. Every Buehner daughter-in-law remembers when she was married finding the shoe boxes of socks in her husband's wardrobe. Each stocking was neatly initialed, darned in innumerable places, and rolled carefully in place. Waste and extravagance were never tolerated. The family home was like a magnet which drew all the family and their friends to it. The boys always brought their girl friends home to meet the family, usually on Sunday evening after sacrament meeting. At first I thought the purpose was to give the girls the opportunity of meeting the family, but later I realized the reverse was true. The boys 403 wanted the family's approval of their choice. Grandma Buehner served delicious sandwiches, made with homemade bread, and plenty of good milk. Frequently there were tasty apple cottage cheese pies, too, which were kept in a wide drawer in the kitchen table. Many times some of their German friends would call on them also. One I remember in particular played a _ bandonion. Whenever Brother Laubengaier came, Grandpa Buehner would bring his smaller bandonion out of its hiding place and join in playing beautiful hymns and Strauss waltzes. There was such a wonderful warm feeling in the home that every newcomer felt welcome and wanted. RANDPA. And Grandma Buehner seemed to accept wholeheartedly the girls their sons chose to marry. Their affection for each of us seemed to be just as deep as for their own children. As a result, the entire family followed the pattern of acceptance which the parents manifested toward us. Their primary concern was for the children to have temple marriages and all of them had this privilege. Each Buehner brother and sister is vitally interested in the other's welfare in a subtle and unobtrusive way. One incident that was not quite so unobtrusive happened at the time John Buehner gave his diamond ring to Verda. John had sought what he thought was a less "trafficked" area as the place to propose marriage. He had _ just placed the ring on Verda's significant finger, when brother Paul burst into the room to borrow a tie. He grasped the situation at a glance and hastily kissed Verda in brother- 404 7 4 TH se RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 THE BUEHNER HOME, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH This two-story gray stone home was built by "Grandpa" Carl F. Buehner, with his own hands, and has been the center of family activity for many years. Seated on the step, left to right: Bertha Buehner Lambert; Paul Buehner; Clarence Buehner; Helen Buehner Woods. Standing, left to right: John A. Buehner; "Grandma" Anna Bertha Geigle Buehner; "Grandpa" Carl F. Buehner; Philip H. Buehner. Ly welcome before John had a chance. There is a pronounced strain of good humor in all the Buehners. This was a delightful characteristic of Grandpa Buehner. I remember hearing him describe hard times by saying, "The bread was cut so thin we could read the newspaper through it." My earliest recollection of the Buehner family was hearing of their athletic prowess. The name Buehner was posted prominently on high school and Church tournament scoreboards. The family enjoys telling the story of Grandpa Buehner's first football game. In spite of the fact that his sons had been so active in sports in their school years, their THE BLESSINGS OF FAMILY UNITY father had showed little interest. He had never seen a game. Otto finally persuaded him to go with him to see this particular one, because John was expected to star. Otto had explained the rudiments of the game to his father. On the first play John caught a beautiful pass and ran through the opponent's defense toward the goal. Suddenly, just short of the goal line, he turned to check his pursuers, stumbled on the rough turf, and fell. Grandpa Buehner rose to his feet with his arms flying in the air, directing John in loud terms to, "Go on, Johann, go on!" His interest in the boy's athletic activities was vocal and vehement after that experience. HE living room of the Buehner home was the hub of all the family activities. A round diningroom table stood in the center, over which hung a large bright light, excellent for studying. There were large comfortable chairs and even 405 a leather sofa in this room, which was dining and living room combined, a forerunner of our modern family rooms, without the distraction of television or radio. I remember once walking into this room to find Grandpa Buehner sitting in the large red leather rocker. Lucile, Carl's wife, was sitting on a little stool at his feet asking his opinion on problems of child rearing. It was a pleasant sight, and I had the feeling that Lucile gathered great strength from the simple direct comments of Grandpa Buehner. You were never interrupting anything when you walked into this room, because conversation went on and you were brought right into it. As the children grew up, there was seldom a year when one of the boys was not serving in the mission field. The four oldest boys completed their missions before the death of their parents. With so manv other children at home, this might have been considered a sacriTHE BUEHNER FAMILY GROUP Seated. Left to right: Lucile Thurman Buehner; Irene Williams Buehner; Marjorie Evans Buehner; Berda Crouch Buehner; Bertha Buehner Lambert; Kay Yaeger Buehner; Helen Buehner Woods. Standing, left to right: Carl W. Buehner; Paul Buehner; Philip H. Buehner; John A. Buehner; Q. Cannon Lambert; Clarence Buehner; Roger S. Woods. 406 fice, but not to Grandma and GrandBuehner. For them it was the fulfillment of one of their fondest dreams, and they always felt it was a great blessing in their home to have a son in the missionary service. Several Buehner children were in the university at the same time. Each one had to manage to finance himself, because work was hard to find and the family income was limited during the depression years. One winter the family subsisted on a large sack of split peas which Grandpa Buehner had received in place of money for work he had done. The boys worked wherever they could find work to be done. Many times they parked cars for the patrons at the university functions for a dollar a night. Some of the Buehners were responsible for making out the payrolls for all the students working on these projects. Twice a month the dining room table in the Buehner home was the gathering place for carrying out this detail. Grandma Buehner never objected to the numerous and varied activities which her children and_ their friends brought into the house. In her quiet, sweet way she made all who came feel welcome. IRTHDAYS and Christmas time were always remembered with some special something for each one. Money was not plentiful for them, and today the children cannot even imagine how their mother managed so well. Grandma Buehner passed away July 19, 1935, quite suddenly, following surgery. She was only sixtyone years old. Grandpa Buehner was so lonely without his loyal comRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 panion. I remember very well, he put his hand to his chest and said, "Irene, my heart is broken." Nothing seemed to assuage his grief. Four months later he followed his beloved wife in death. The children all felt the responsibility of holding the family together. Grandpa Buehner had been indeed the head of his household and had set a fine example for them to follow. They realized that one of the things which holds a family together is to do things together. The home was remodeled to accommodate the John Buehner family in the basement, the Paul Buehner family in the upstairs apartment, and the ground floor housed the four unmarried children, the youngest of whom was eighteen. The two eldest brothers, Carl and Otto, lived close enough to drop in frequently to give direction and counsel when problems arose. Plans were made to hold an annual Christmas family party, and to celebrate the family birthdays as far as possible. Genealogy work was promoted, and as the names were cleared the family did the endowment work and family sealings were arranged. Another family project was helping the youngest son finance his mission to Germany. The depression of 1929 left its toll of doubts, debts, and discouragements with the Buehners, as it did with so many families at that time. Each brother had gone his separate way trying to earn a living for himself and those dependent upon him. After death had taken both mother and father, the idea of re-establishing a business, combining the talents of the six brothers, was born anew. The family felt a deep sense of THE BLESSINGS OF FAMILY UNITY humility when Carl W. Was named the bishop of Forest Dale Ward. To be named the bishop of the very ward in which his parents had lived, reared their family, and spent such happy years was a privilege. HE plans for the double wedding reception for the two girls was a joyous family effort. Everyone helped, and the rooms of the old house once again were the scene of happy family festivities. The Christmas party for the Buehner family which was started twenty-six years ago has become a wonderful tradition. We can no longer meet in one of our homes but have to hire a hall. The programs are always interesting because they are furnished by members of the family. 'There were over one hundred Buehners at the party last year. Another occasion we all look forward to is the July Fourth reunion which is held in Big Cottonwood Canyon where we can enjoy the out-of-doors, hiking, and _ playing games. The children of Grandma and Grandpa Buehner try to celebrate each other's birthdays with a German dinner, which is often a potluck party, with each couple bringing a dish of German food. These 407 are always so enjoyable we are reluctant to miss one of them. We have noted with pleasure that the Buehner "cousins" are now finding occasions for parties and temple sessions. I am grateful for the Buehner family, and their acceptance of me and the love we have for one another. Each family is a source of strength and comfort to every other family. 'There is no spirit of competition. Each one seems to be trying to do his best to maintain the high standards which their father and mother set for them. A wonderful legacy was left to the family. Their children have a testimony of the gospel. They were taught to put the Church first in their lives, to have family prayers, and to stay close to one another. We regret that most of the grandchildren were not privileged to know their Buehner grandparents. We all pray constantly that our own children will somehow feel their influence and be able to measure up to the heritage which they made possible for them. In retrospect, the family solidarity this family so much enjoys seems to have come from the strength and dedication of two wonderful people, Grandma and Grandpa Buehner, who loved the gospel above all else and tried their best to live it. A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels.... My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother: For they shall be an ornament of grace unto thy head (Proverbs 1:5, 8-9). In Memoriam-Elder George Q. Morris February 20, 1874—April 25, 1962 ELDER GEORGE QO. MORRIS LDER George Q. Morris, a EL; member of the Council of the Twelve, passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 23, 1962, in his eighty-ninth year of age. He had been an apostle since 1954, and a devoted leader in the Church since his early manhood. His earnest faith, his knowledge of the principles of the gospel, his natural eloquence, and his simplicity of spirit endeared him to thousands throughout the Church and in the communities where he has lived. Endowed with a firm desire for learning, for spiritual development, and for service to his fellow men, Elder Morris came to the Council of the Twelve well fitted for his Page 408 ministry as a special witness of Jesus Christ. Following his graduation from the University of Utah in 1899, Elder Morris spent three years as a missionary in the British Mission, serving in the Welsh Conference, the homeland of some of his ancestors. Later, he became presiding elder of the London Conference. In 1904, Elder Morris began his long career and association with the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, as superintendent in the Salt Lake Stake. Later, he became a bishop in the Fourteenth Ward. In 1924 he was appointed a member of the General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association and was committee chairman for the Improvement Era. In 1928, he was called to be a counselor in the Ensign Stake presidency, and, until 1935, he served in both capacities, in his stake assignment and his calling in the MIA. In 1935, Elder Morris was named a counselor in the General Superintendency of the MIA. He served under the late Elder Albert E. Bowen for two years, and when Elder Bowen was called to the Council of the Twelve, Elder Morris succeeded him as General Superintendent of the MIA, in 1937. He held this position with honor and distinction, devoting his great energy and his remarkable gifts of leadership to the advancement of the youth of the Church. In 1948, Elder Morris was appointed Presi- IN MEMORIAM — ELDER GEORGE Q. MORRIS dent of the Eastern States Mission. Three years later, at the October Semi-Annual Conference of the Church, Elder Morris was called to be an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. Elder Morris, always interested in the historical heritage of the Latter-day Saints, served as executive chairman of the "This Is the Place" monunrent commission. It was under his charge that the great monument was erected at the mouth of Emigration Canyon, commemorating the arrival of the pioneers in Salt Lake Valley. Elder Morris was also active in association with President George Albert Smith and others in marking and preserving Utah's trails and landmarks, being executive vice-president of the Utah Pioneer Trails Association. He was also a distinguished member of the Sons of the Utah Pioneers Association, lending his appreciative enthusiasm and his wise direction to the many projects and lasting accomplishments of this organization. In 1946 and 1947, Elder Morris was associated with President David O. McKay 409 in preparing for the centennial observance of the arrival of the first pioneers in the promised valley. Throughout his long and useful life, Elder Morris exemplified in all his devoted Church service, a great knowledge and a consistent awareness of the gospel as the continuing pattern of eternal life. Elder Morris married Emma Ramsey in the Salt Lake Temple in 1905. They observed their golden wedding anniversary in 1955. Sister Morris and three daughters and one granddaughter survive Elder Morris. The daughters are Mrs. Edward A. (Margery) Woods, Miss Marion Morris, and Mrs. Roy T. (Helen) Stewart. The members of Relief Society in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend their love and sympathy to the family of Elder Morris, and join with the membership of the Church in gratitude to our Heavenly Father for the dedicated and exemplary life of Elder Morris, and for the example of his wisdom, his kindness and devotion, his spiritual guidance, and his lofty ideals. +4 And now, my sons, remember, remember that it is upon the rock of our Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God, that ye must build your foundation... Which is a sure foundation, a foundation whereon if men build they cannot fail (Helaman 5:12). PART IIl—BATHSHEBA W. SMITH Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH From a painting made by an unknown artist \\ 7 RS. Bathsheba W. Smith, who was General President of the Relief Societies of the Church from 1901 to 1910, was well acquainted with. The Prophet Joseph Smith. She was born at Shinnston, West Virginia, on May 3, 1822. She joined the Church in August 1837, when she was fifteen years of age. The year following her baptism she went with her parents to Missouni, and at Quincy, Illinois, in the spring of 1839, she saw the Prophet for the first time and heard him speak. In 1841 she was married to George A. Smith, a cousin of the Prophet, and Page 410 at that time the youngest of the apostles. Sister Smith wrote the following in 1905. She died in Salt Lake City in 1910, the last one of those faithful sisters present at the first meeting of Relief Society in 1842. "T joined the Church in Harrison County, West Virginia, in 1837. Not long afterwards, in the fall of 1838, I was very anxious to go to Missourl. I told my sister I wanted to go with her. She said, 'Oh no'; and as there was only one wagon for the family to travel in, she could not take me. It hurt my feelings very much and I commenced to cry. When I went upstairs to bed a voice said to me, "Weep not; you will go this fall.' I wiped my eyes and was as happy as anybody you ever saw. Next morning my sister said, "You have got over feeling so badly, because you could not go to Missouri.' 'But I am going this fall' was my reply. I felt just that sure about it. That was the first time I felt the whisperings of the voice of inspiration to me, but it has come to me since, in many of the worries and perplexities of life and given me assurance and peace. "Father sold his farm in West Virginia, and we moved to Missouri in 1838. We went to Illinois in February 1839, but did not see the Prophet Joseph until the spring, when he got out of prison and came SHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH to Illinois. A conference was called soon after Joseph and his brethren arrived at Quincy. My brother took my sisters and me and went to that conference, and there I saw Joseph for the first time and heard him speak. I knew he was a Prophet of God, when I joined the Church, before I saw him; my testimony was strengthened when I heard him preach, though at this time I did not get to speak to him. I do not remember when I did first speak to him and shake hands with him. "The Prophet was a handsome man—splendid looking, a large man, tall and fair. He had a very nice complexion, his eyes were blue, and his hair a golden brown. "My first impressions were that he was an extraordinary man—a man of great penetration; he was different from any other man I ever saw; he had the most heavenly countenance, was genial, affable and kind, and looked the soul of honor and integrity. "T have heard the Prophet Joseph preach many a time. I have heard him prophesy, and I never knew but that everything came to pass that he said. "Joseph said we would come to the Rocky Mountains, and he had a company of young men selected to hunt a location for a home for the Saints. Samuel W. Richards was one of that company. I heard of it when we were in Illinois, and _remember an old lady coming in and talking to my mother, about what Joseph the Prophet had said that we would be in the Rocky Mountains sometime. I said I would like to go soon; I would like to get away from our enemies. She gave me a 411 right good scolding, saying it was terrible to think of going to the Rocky Mountains. "Joseph attended one of our Relief Society meetings in the lodge room. He opened the meeting by prayer. His voice trembled very much, after which he addressed us. He said: 'According to my prayer I will not be with you long to teach and instruct you, and the world will not be troubled with me much longer.' "My testimony today is, I know Joseph Smith was and is a Prophet, as well as I know anything; I know that he was just what he professed to be. I am the only one now living who had her endowments while he was alive, and I received them in Nauvoo before the Temple was built. I have seen many good men, but they had not the gift and blessing that Joseph had. He was truly a Prophet of God" (Young Woman's Journal, December 1905). SMITH BATHSHEBA W. HAND TO THE PLOW PART Il —A QUESTION TO BE ANSWERED Ilene H. Kingsbury Synopsis: A Welsh widow on her way to the valleys of the mountains in 1864, with her family of five children, pauses in a railway station in Philadelphia, awaiting a train to take them westward. For a compelling reason, the emigrant wishes to stop at a small town in Pennsylvania. HE emigrant was stunned. The ceaseless speech of this man, who was the pattern from whom all future talkative railroaders was cut, bewildered her. Her heart raced with his words across the back of his imaginary map, and already she felt that trudging feet and burdened shoulders were the chief requisites of land travel. At her back was an ocean, ceaselessly rolling. It had consumed nearly seven tossing weeks of life. Fearsome as were the deeps of the sea to a land-reared woman, still more terrifying and confusing, now, was this proffered continent of thousands of miles of earth stretching to the valleys of the mountains where refuge was assured. But the hegira of getting to that haven was so uncertain, so mystifying, that the emigrant was led to question her momentous decision to transplant herself on the other side of the earth from that of her birth. Last spring, in South Wales, no one had painted this picture of railroads with varied placed rails and cooking stoves in each car, and soldiers running one's children out to a bush for concealment from the wind. 'The American Civil War, Page 412 between the North and the South, had been mentioned only casually. Surely the war was not near her path to the great rivers and the high mountains. She had concluded that as long as the South was the rebel in the affair, that the North had marched deep in and had thus protected her route to the Rockies. A vague impression had been left with her that this rebellion had taken on the aspects of guerrilla warfare, was a hit-or-miss affair, and would certainly be out of her way by the summer of this year, 1864. How mistaken she was. Although spokesmen in the emigration department referred to this as the last year of the war, and not as the fourth, how were they to be certain of that word last? A week ago, back in Castle Gardens, while they explained to the uniformed emigration authorities about where they were from and where they were going and how many there were of them, and how old they were, and how it was that she had no husband to protect her, and how it was that they spoke English, while claiming Welsh nationality, all was confusion. In the midst of this, a side conversation was indulged in which gave her restless nights and uneasy days. Her informant had called this conflict a blood-brother war. He said that fathers and sons met on battlefields and took each other's lives. He described the burning of Pere ene Bee ee hy BO RSE, TURE 414 a great valley where dogs crept away to die, and where refugees had swarmed out of reach of the flames as cattle will stampede before a prairie fire. The emigrant had shuddered, but had relented the day she had promised her dying husband to begin, and finish, their journey to America without that strong arm she had leaned on since bridehood. To come to a war was not what she had dreamed of for a dozen years. But it was too late now to turn back. Even her sixteen-year-old Eliza vowed that she would rather die in a war than sail a stormy ocean in constant peril. The course now was to traverse this scene of contention, to get to the other side of the continent, even though plains and Indians and a bloody war interposed the way. PON her insistence that she wanted tickets for as far west as the agent's line could carry them, he took her money and gave her a piece of square cardboard upon which was a picture of a railroad engine and a few initials which denoted ownership of the same. She thoughtfully placed the ticket in a drawstring bag of smallish size, a homely thing that never left her person, and turned in the indented tracks in the wooden floor to join her children huddled near their pile of miscellaneous property. At that moment the ticket agent remembered something she had asked about, a little town in Pennsylvania called Bradys Bend. He hadn't answered her about it, especially as she had added that she wasn't really going there anyway. So now he raised his voice and called RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 to her, and to get her attention, he barged on as at first. "That town now. My cousin's daughter used to live there. Not much of a place, one might gather. Just coal people and a railroad to carry off the coal, and more smoke than healthy people should be breathing. Not many people live there, either. Mostly a_ foreign town, Welsh. Mostly hadn't bothered to speak English since coming over from the old country. Say, know anyone there, lady?" He never ceased his talking. His questions were not meant to be answered. He was indeed the original information bureau of the railroads. However, the emigrant did venture one more question. "How far will we be from Bradys Bend if we stay on this train?" she quietly asked. Her tone almost stopped the agent, for she had turned squarely toward him and was so quiet that he believed she wanted a quiet answer. In fact, she raised a finger to her lips to hush him in his reply. And because he was brash and insensitive to delicate signals, let alone this universal one to talk softly, he said in his usual station voice, as if talking to deaf people, "Well, lady, I'd say it was about twentyfive miles from where you will be when you reach Pittsburgh. 'That is as the cow flies, but a little farther along the Allegheny River. 'That's how the town got its name, because of the bend in the river." The emigrant could stand no more. She wished she could faint dead away rather than hear one more word about Bradys Bend. At her leaving him, the agent shrugged a little, and clicked his HAND TO THE PLOW tongue and thought about how many funny people came by his window in the station. And the questions they asked, too. It would seem as though if one asked a question, one would at least stay long enough to get a civil answer. THE emigrant dragged herself toward her little brood. She noted that the little one was already asleep with her head in the lap of her bigger sister. 'The three boys stood up as she came near and were straining to get on the way now that the ticket was purchased. Even before she reached them, they considered themselves dismissed from their temporary vigil as guards to their sisters, 415 and without waiting for permission, they threaded their way out of the station. Through the door she saw them leap off the platform and sprint down the street, each trying to outdo the other in speed and form. They would be back in a moment with questions, but for now they must run off their spirits, already too pent-up for comfort. She counted the property, just from habit, threw a shawl over little Sannie, and sat on the bench just vacated by the boys. Eliza, the teenage daughter, unable to move lest she awaken little Sannie, was startled to hear her mother say determinedly, "No, I cannot do it!" (To be continued ) Ida Elaine James I know a thing, I know a thing! The birds must know it for they sing! And why should all the flowers turn bright Unless they, too, heard it aright? Softly where they nod and kiss — Now why should they do this? If flowers below and trees above =| E =, The leaves know it, the winds blow it Nod and mingle in their love, It must be because it's spring; The secret's out — that's why they sing! Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, June 1902 "FoR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF Aut Nations" THE BEST LIGHT AND KNOWLEDGE: In these last days that are so pregnant with evil tendencies and influences, and the insidious foes that lurk on every side to lead astray the innocent and unwary... All that makes for better hopes and aspirations, purer motives and correct living should be fostered and maintained.... If our sisters only lived up to their privileges what an influence they might exert over their associates.... Remember always that the Gospel is first... And will lead to the fount of all true wisdom.... — Editorial GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY: Mrs. Leah Dunford Widtsoe... Addressed the conference upon Domestic Science.... Referred to the daughters who expect to marry and become mothers, thought they should be taught in the science of housekeeping and home making.... Our girls many of them never do anything in their homes, she knew of girls who had a fine education, could play the piano, but could not even make a plain gingham apron, and they marry and are not qualified to perform the duties or superintend the home.... One of the first things necessary is to know how to make good bread. Mothers are sometimes at fault in not teaching the girls because it is easier to do it themselves, but it is the duty of every gitl to look into these domestic matters and prepare for home making and life will be sweeter and better.. —E. B. Wells, Secretary THE MASTER'S STROKE Touch Thou with gentle strokes divine, oh Lord! Discordant tendrils of life's harpsichord; O, let the vibrant echoes thus awoke Within men's souls, ennobling thoughts evoke. Let sweetest accents from the worlds unknown, Change solemn moan to gentle patient tone. Sublime, triumphant anthems fill the air, To lift all human hearts from mirage of despair... — Ellis R. Shipp OUR NEW DEPARTURE: Our new departure in this first issue of the new volume is giving our readers the pictures of some of the girl students of the Latter-day Saints University in Salt Lake City. One sees at a glance in their faces innocence, truthfulness and a high order of intelligence. It is not given to any of us to read the future, but we are safe in predicting for these young girls a fulness of development, physical, moral, spiritual and intellectual as the years go by, if the best use is made of the opportunities now opening before them.... — Editorial NOTES: We are too fond of our own will. We want to be doing what we fancy as mighty things; but the great point is to do small things, when called to them, in a right spirit. — R. Cecil Page 416 (ey ey ee ee ee % % BB BBR D*®WDW*AY, ARGERY FISHER is the author of Intent Upon Reading (Franklin Watts, publisher), a critical appraisal of children's fiction from 1930 to 1960, which also includes comments on outstanding books for children written in an earlier time. Approaches at classification of this field of literature are made in the various chapters which discuss picture books, books for children six to nine, books on animals, fantasies, formula tales, adventure stories, and family narratives. RINCESS SUGA, _ youngest daughter of Emperor Hirohito and Empress Nagako of Japan, last year married a commoner. On April fourth she gave birth to a son, the Emperor's seventh grandchild. Since the baby's father is a commoner, the child will not be in the line of succession to the throne. RS. RUTH BIDDULPH, the recipient of a Delta Kappa Gamma scholarship for $2,500, will continue her graduate work at Indiana University. The Delta Kappa Gamma sorority is an honorary women teachers society, which makes available one scholarship for each State in the Nation. Mrs. Biddulph, a teacher of English at Ricks eSB GPPSAVVSVAVBVVVAVAVIVsTsTsswes Woman's Sphere ey | Ramona W. Cannon WH VOB BVBVBVVWDVDWBV*ASBVAVUSBVWZVDASD College, Rexburg, and a Latter-day Saint woman, won the Idaho scholarship. Decks HAWLEY, wife of Dr. Harold Hawley of New York State, and Lorna Johnson, wife of Lavern Johnson, of Illinois, are farm wives who help their husbands make farming pay generously. Dr. Hawley has a Ph. D. Degree in agricultural economics; his wife has a master's degree in home economics. Dr. Hawley worked out an accounting system that takes into consideration every smallest item of cost and profit. Mrs. Johnson handles the accounting work. EVERAL Latter-day Saint women participated in the national convention of Penwomen held in Washington, D. C., in April. They are: Wilma Bunker, national president; Mrs. Erla Young, co-chairman of the art workshop; Mrs. Virginia Evans, hostess of the Korean Embassy Tea; Mrs. Fiametta Fausett, co-chairman of the craft exhibit; Mrs. Mirla Thayne, hostess at the German Embassy tea; Mrs. Mabel Harmer, chairman of the contest for teenage books; Mrs. Mabel Jones Gabbott, in charge of the contest for juvenile verse. Page 417 EDIT ORIAL VOL. 49 HE 132d Annual ConferJ ence of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter- — day Saints was held in the historic Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 6, 7, and 8, 1962. President David O. McKay, Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, conducted all of the general sessions, and was assisted during the conference by President Henry D. Moyle and President Hugh B. Brown. All of the General Authorities were in attendance at the conference sessions except Elder Delbert L. Stapley and Elder George Q. Morris of the Council of the Twelve, who were ill; Elder John Longden, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, who was touring the Pacific area; Elder Bruce R. McConkie and Elder Marion D. Hanks of the First Council of the Seventy who are serving as missions presidents in Australia and Great Britain, respectively. Leaders from all the wards and branches, stakes and missions of the Church throughout the world were present for the conference sessions. By means of translators and earphones, Dutch, Spanish, and German leaders were enabled to hear the conference proceedings in their own tongues. A vast network of television and radio stations carried the conference messages to thousands of people across the United States, and for the first time, an international audience heard prophetic words from Temple Page 418 Square — majestic tones of the great organ, and the voices of the choir praising the Lord. Five short wave channels beamed from Boston, three in English and two in Spanish, directed the proceedings to Europe, South Africa, South America, Central America, and Mexico. It was reported that during the year 1961 an additional 130,481 people became members of the Church, making a total of 1,823,661 members in all the world. At the close of 1961 there were 345 stakes and sixtyfour missions. Throughout the conference sessions, reference was made to the opportunities of members of the Church to become "shining lights" and help illumine the troubled world, and to seek eternal life in the kingdom of Jesus Christ. As expressed by President McKay, the principal message of the conference exemplified "the reality of God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ." [N his opening address, President McKay described the organization of the Church in Fayette, Seneca County, New York, April 6, 1830, and referred to the inspired words of the Lord as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith that "A great and marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men." "Faith in the existence of an intelligent Creator," said President McKay, "was the first element that JUNE 1962 NO. 6 EDITORIAL contributed to the perpetuity of the Church, the everlasting foundation on which the Church is built." He declared that the gospel teaches that Christ is the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world. One of the two great general principles to which all others are subsidiary is this: "Love your neighbor as yourself...." The gospel bids the strong bear the burdens of the weak, and to use the advantages given them by their larger opportunities in the interest of the common good that the whole level of humanity may be lifted, and the path of spiritual attainment opened to the weakest. And most unlearned, as well as to the strong and intelligent.... RESIDENT Henry D. Moyle emphasized the everlasting importance of revelation and direction from God in all ages: We know and bear witness to the world that the survival of our faith in God is dependent upon present day direction from God. How impotent is man when he is left alone with only the revelations of the past. Without present day revelation, the very foundation upon which this last dispensation of the fulness of times was built, would crumble. There can be no fulness of the gospel without revelation, now or ever.... Joseph Smith must continue to be recognized by the Church and the world to be the modern day lawgiver by whom the gospel of Jesus Christ was restored to the earth in its pristine purity. PRESIDENT Hugh B. Brown emphasized the characteristics, the duties, and the responsibilities incumbent upon those who have accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ: 419... There is one doctrinal event which foreshadows and overshadows all other Christian doctrine... The atonement of Christ.... Faith in this one transcendent event, the most important in all history, is the enduring foundation upon which the true Christian gospel is built. Upon it the salvation of the whole human family depends.... N his closing address, President McKay blessed the saints throughout the world and enjoined them to obedience to the gospel, and declared his strong and vibrant testimony: In our daily desire for material success and pleasure, we have a tendency to neglect the importance of the Creator's place in our hearts and in our homes; and in social intercourse we are prone to neglect the importance of making the Creator the center of our lives. Our religion is not a cloak to wear on Sunday and hang in the closet for the rest of the week, neither is it something for nations to parade on certain occasions and then to wrap up in mothballs to await another occasion. Men today are rapidly classifying themselves into two groups: believers and nonbelievers........ The gospel of Jesus Christ is the plan whereby our hearts and lives and towns and nations can be united in bringing about universal peace and the brotherhood of man. God lives! So does Jesus Christ, his beloved Son, who gave the gospel, the eternal plan of salvation of the human soul.... God bless you brethren and sisters, may you carry back to your wards and stakes and missions the spirit of this great, greatest of all conferences ever held in the Church.... To You With Love Betty Lou Martin HE valley was aglow with I the warm, fresh beauty of spring, and the city seemed to bustle with renewed energy. 'The familiar smell of dry leaves and grass being burned seemed to fill the air. Spring is finally here, the young mother thought as she walked along the street, pushing her small son in his stroller. The grass gets greener every day. Joyce Vance moved slowly along the streets of the small college town. The campus was one of the loveliest in the entire State, and she couldn't help feeling slightly sentimental as she strolled by the buildings. "There have been many good memories here," Joyce sighed as she stopped for a moment to adjust Bobbie's cap. "Here now, dear, it isn't quite warm enough to take your cap off yet." Joyce was approaching the university apartments where she and Roger had lived for the past five years. It was home now, and they accepted it. They had done their best to fix up the apartment, and even though it was small, they had managed. Just the will to manage, Joyce thought as she remembered all her dreams of the house that they would live in when she married. Joyce had waited for Roger while he was on his mission. She hadn't minded really. The time had gone by swiftly and soon Roger was home. She hadn't objected, either, when Roger expressed his desire to go on and finish college. However, she Page 420 had wished inwardly that he would settle down to a job. She wanted a home of her own. All her life she and her mother had been moved from one city to another by her father. It wasn't her father's fault that his job had transferred him all over the state. "My goodness, Bobbie, it is almost five o'clock." Joyce quickened her pace. "We had _ better hurry home and get your father some dinner. He has to go to work tonight." Once inside the apartment, Joyce made the baby comfortable and then began preparing dinner. I wonder what it will be like not to have to economize at every turn. After five years of it, I doubt very much that I ' will ever be able to get out of the habit, Joyce thought. "Dinner ready, Joyce?" Roger called cheerfully as he picked up Bobbie and walked into the kitchen that was really only a partition from the living room. "Something smells good." Roger was tall, with dark hair and blue eyes. Joyce thought he looked tired and that the strain of school and work was taking its toll. "You say that every night, my dear husband, even though we have about the same thing," Joyce explained patiently. "It won't always be this way." Roger tried to console Joyce. "Besides, I think that it has been good for us to have to economize. At least now we know how." "That is just about all that you TO YOU WITH LOVE can say for it." Joyce set the steaming bowl of potatoes on the table. "You better get washed up now. Dinner is ready." FTER Roger had left for work and Joyce was finishing up the dishes, she couldn't help feeling guilty as she thought back over the way she had spoken to Roger. I shouldn't have talked to him that way. After all, it is just as difficult for him as it is for me. He is the one who has to go to school, study, and keep up a part-time job. Joyce glanced up at the calendar. Oh, well, if things worked out, Roger should have only six more months of school left. Suddenly Joyce stared at the dates on the calendar. Why it is Roger's birthday next week. I almost forgot. What will I ever do for money to buy him a birthday present? The next few days passed by hurniedly, and still Joyce had not come to a solution as to how she would be able to afford a present for Roger. Just this once she wanted to give him something really nice, something that would help him over these last few months of school. It had been such a difficult struggle, and this last winter had seemed to be worse than the others. Now their rent was due, and they had to have some repairs made on the car. There just wouldn't be any money left over at all. One evening Roger and Joyce were down town buying groceries when Roger stopped by a sporting goods shop and admired the reel and tod fishing combination displayed in the window. "Look, honey," he called to Joyce. "When I get out of school and we 421 get enough money ahead, this is what I am going to have." Roger's eyes fairly twinkled with admiration. "Isn't that a beauty?" "Too bad you can't have it for this summer, dear," Joyce remarked. "You could at least have a little enjoyment out of it now." "Oh, I can wait. I can still use father's fishing equipment. We just have to wait for these things." Joyce frowned. "I just wish that I had your patience." she strained to see the price tag on the fishing equipment. It was $19.95. Later, on their way home, Roger said, "That reminds me. I almost forgot to give you our tithing money. We will have to pay it this next Sunday." Roger opened his wallet and took out some bills. "That's right, it is fast day this Sunday." Joyce reached to take the money from Roger's hand. Then suddenly the thought struck her. Just this once it will be all right. We have always paid our tithing promptly before. Roger wouldn't agree with me for postponing it, but he doesn't have to know. I'll be able to make up our tithing in the next few months. Joyce seemed to relax now. I've found a way, she thought. Roger will have that new fishing equipment for his birthday. T the campus branch of Relief Society, Joyce sat by her good friend Melba Anders. "Melba," she said, "can you come to town with me after meeting? I have to get Roger's birthday present." Melba nodded just as the Relief Society president stood up to start the meeting. All through the lesson Joyce tried to concentrate, but her thoughts kept wandering to buy- 422 ing the present for Roger. Excitement surged through her. Chances are that Roger will forget about our tithing receipt. I have always taken care of them anyway. After meeting, Joyce and Melba walked toward their car. "My, but you are lucky to be able to buy Roger a present. It has been so long since I have given Cliff anything for his birthday. All I can ever manage is a birthday card and a cake. What are you going to buy?" "Oh, I had my eye on a reel and rod combination that Roger was admiring. I am so excited, Melba, I can't wait to give it to him." "Won't that be quite expensive?" Melba questioned. "I really don't mean to be inquisitive, but I thought that you two were having a pretty tugged time of it." Joyce lowered her voice. "We are, Melba, and I want to do something I am not sure is the right thing. I want to use our tithing money this month for his present. 'Then I'll make it up in the next few months, and pay double then." "Joyce, you wouldn't do that." Melba couldn't hide her disapproval. "Don't. It is so difficult to get back on a regular schedule, after once postponing a sacred obligation." "Why, Melba, you remember telling me you did the same thing once," Joyce reminded Melba. "Yes I did, and I've regretted that postponement ever since. When we paid our tithing regularly, everything went so smoothly it was unbelievable. Then I got the idea that I just had to have some new curtains. Cliff didn't know about it, either, and believe me, when he found out, I know that he lost some RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 of his respect for me. After that we had one thing after another come up. First I broke my glasses, then the baby got sick, and we just kept getting further behind. I ended up regretting my decision, and I have been very prompt ever since." Melba touched Joyce's arm. "You have a couple of days before Roger's birthday. Think about it for awhile. Then, if you still feel that same way, Pll go down with you to buy the present, but please think about it some more. You wouldn't want your blessings to be postponed." "Well, I guess that I can wait a couple of days, but I do plan to make up the tithing," Joyce added. "Joyce, Roger gave that money to you to pay the Lord. He trusted you with it for that. If you let him down, you let yourself down, too." Melba paused, thinking that she had been too outspoken. OYCE was in a turmoil when she arrived home. Her mind had been made up to buy the fishing equipment, and now she didn't know what to do. She was struggling within herself to do what she wanted to do, when she knew what the right thing to do was. Then, as if from out of nowhere, Joyce remembered something her grandmother had told her when she was a very small child, "Always pay the Lord first, and there will be plenty left over for the necessities. You'll never go hungry." Slowly Joyce walked through the apartment. The years that Roger had been going to school they had always had enough to eat, although not expensive things. 'Their apartment was comfort<' '2, much nicer than the homes of many of the mar- TO YOU WITH LOVE ried students. There was the rich brown carpet that Roger's parents had given them, the golden drapes and beige chair that her parents had been kind enough to buy for them, and the couple who had lived there before them had left their kitchen set. We have been fortunate and so blessed, Joyce realized. I just can't take away from the Lord what is rightfully his. He has given us so much. The next day Joyce planned carefully to make Roger's birthday special even though he wouldn't be getting a special birthday present. It was a happy time for her, and little Bobbie seemed to sense the excitement and gaiety of the event as Joyce made Roger's birthday present. A beautifully set table, with pink candles glowing softly, greeted Roger as he stepped into the apartment the evening of his birthday. Joyce greeted him in a crisp, pink cotton dress. Her golden hair gleamed in the candlelight. "Happy birthday, dear," she said gently as she kissed Roger's cheek. "Dinner is just about ready." The evening was spent happily remembering birthdays past, and discussing future plans. Joyce had put off giving Roger his present as long as she could, and when she handed it reluctantly to him, she was fearful that he would not like it. "It isn't much, dear, but I wanted to give you something. I really wanted to buy you the new fishing equipment, but I guess that will have to come later." Roger's eyes clearly reflected love as he slowly opened the card that was attached to the package. He added, "You know that I wouldn't 423 have enjoyed the fishing equipment, Joyce, knowing that we really could not afford it." OGER read the card. At the bottom of the verse was inscribed simply, "To you with love, Joyce and Bobbie." "I wish that you would hurry and get that package unwrapped, Roger," Joyce said anxiously. Even Bobbie squealed in anticipation. "You know that I am not any good at unwrapping packages, honey." Roger's fingers were clumsy as he tried to manage first the green ribbon, then the white paper. Finally he lifted the lid of the box and before him was a photograph album. "It is an inexpensive one, Roger, but I spent a great deal of time putting the pictures in it. I started out with pictures of our wedding day and went on consistently, up until now." Tenderly Roger opened the book. The first picture was of their wedding reception, the reception line, the cutting of the cake, and just before they left for their honeymoon. Each page told a different story, and each page brought back a memory of happiness past and anticipation of many happy days to come. A page was dedicated to Roger's parents and brothers and sisters and a page to Joyce's family. "These are photographs that we have been collecting for a long time, Roger." Joyce tried to break the silence. She wished that Roger would speak. After looking at each page carefully, Roger closed the book. He reached for Joyce's hand. "I only hope that we will be able to fill the test of these pages with as many 424 happy moments as are shown in these first pages. Joyce, this is the nicest present that I have ever had, and it shows the love that was put into it. In fact this is the nicest birthday I have ever had." The fear that Joyce had felt diminished, and she felt relief in its place. "I was so afraid that you would think I was silly for giving it to you, Roger. I'm so happy." Just then there was a knock at the door, and Melba and Cliff strode in. "Hi, happy birthday, Roger." "Oh, I forgot to tell you that I invited Cliff and Melba over for ice cream and cake," Joyce said. "Well, this is a nice surprise," Roger said to Cliff and Melba. "I'll have to show you my birthday present," he added proudly. "Oh, Roger, please don't." Joyce was embarrassed. | Melba took Joyce to one side. "I thought you decided not to give Roger the fishing equipment." "T did, but even if I had bought it for him, I don't think that it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 would have made as much of an impression." Joyce laughed. Puzzled, Melba walked to where Roger and Cliff sat looking at the album and commenting on the pictures. Joyce picked up Bobbie and made her way to the bedroom. Once in the seclusion of the room she turned to the window where the sweet night air drifted in. The crickets added their own enchanting song, and the stars beamed down, spreading their soft light upon the earth. Still cuddling Bobbie in her arms, Joyce spoke to him, "Well, Bobbie, I guess that your mother learned a lesson today, and I hope that I can teach you the same thing. Happiness and love can come only from satisfaction in doing the things we know are right, and that is part of the blessing." Gently she put the baby in his crib and tucked him in. Then she turned to leave the room and join the others. Her heart was light and her happiness complete. O9o¢ June and the Rose Dorothy J. Roberts This is the hour of the rose, The season when the barren thorn Of bitterness no longer rules And the bud of promise is born. This is the secret of the snow, Patience answering the test, The blossoming of tear and sigh, The heart of hope made manifest. famed' M. Lambert SCENE IN NORTHERN IRELAND, NEAR LARNE Before the Word Goes Forth Mabel Jones Gabbott Before the word goes forth to cleave earth's il It must be born in anguish of a soul C yMpassi nate: before it would be whole It must be tempered in the quiet, till Room of a loving heart; it must be lon Long weathered in the mind's vast corridor And at indifferent, unlistening door Must try again, again, its lonely son The word must be turned to each one Nav: clean cleft to compa ¥ id youth It must be edge with wonder, whit is truth, Wise with the beauty of a hundred sl Thus, fathered forth in ripeness e of its ho Th vord n strike with singin powel! Page 425 Recipes for a Brunch Linnie Fisher Robinson PRESIPES the fact that we have to have food, the best thing about it is that it brings the loved faces of the family or friends together around one board. We cherish these occasions — the fun, the joy of being together, and the food that tastes so good. The people who eat at my table usually say, "I haven't made that dish for a long time, but I'm going to, for it tastes so good." On the strength of that, and the fact that there are some who are new at cooking who have asked for recipes of the ways I cook some things, I offer these loved recipes from various relatives and friends. MENU Creamed Chicken in Patty Shells —- Grapefruit in Gelatine Candied Carrots —— Sliced Beets With Lemon Juice CREAMED CHICKEN Cooked and cubed meat from one large 1 small onion minced fine chicken -. 4 small jar sliced pimento 3c. Chicken stock (If you — t. This % c. Flour and chicken fat (if there is not much, make some with bouillon enough fat for flour, use butter) cubes. Do not water it).: 1 ¢. Thick cream 1 c. Canned mushrooms and juice seasonings to taste Drain mushrooms (saving juice), saute in butter until golden brown, then add juice; add onion and pimento. Heat stock and put mushroom mixture in it, then add flour, which has been stirred into the chicken fat or butter. Cook until done and ' thick. Season to taste and add cream, and last of all add the cubed chicken. Set in a pan of boiling water to keep warm until you serve it. If you make this ahead of time, ' be certain to warm this mixture in a pan of hot water, no matter how little or much you make. Also, do not put in chicken until mixture is hot. If you stir cubed chicken in any liquid, it will become soft and mushy. Recipe serves 8 to 10. (I might add I i use 7 chickens for 60 people.) Parry SHELLS 2 c. Flour — 7a Oe oe ~ 4 ¢, shortening 3 tbsp. Sugar 1 egg 1 tsp. Baking postion 3 tbsp. Half and half cream 1 tsp. Salt — or evaporated milk Combine first four items. Stir egg into shortening. It will be light and fluffy. Add cream and stir lightly into flour mixture. Roll out lightly on floured board and cut with a 4%" bowl. Bake on the bottom of muffin tins. Do not press dough hard on tins, but put the dough on lightly, gathering it a little to the pan, then it will come off easier and have no holes in it. Bake at 400° until golden brown. Cool before removing from tins. Makes 10 shells. GRAPEFRUIT IN GELATINE 5 large pink grapefruit 4 env elopes gelatine (unsweetened and yuiceot demon © 6 hte 4 - unflavored ) 5 tbsp. Sugar or more, to taste 2 or 3 drops red food coloring 1 c. Water. Page 426 RECIPES FOR A BRUNCH = — 427 Wash grapefruit and cut in half, as for breakfast, and with sharp grapefruit knife extract sections and save juice. Discard only membrane. Be careful not to cut the shell of the grapefruit. Soak gelatine in water, adding a little of the juice if necessary. Heat the remainder of juice and dissolve gelatine in hot liquid. Set aside to cool. When cool add the rest of the grapefruit and a few drops of coloring. Add the juice of the lemon and sugar. Pour into the half shells, place in bake pans or cereal dishes, and set in refrigerator to harden. Canpiep CARROTS 4 Ibs. Carrots Beg 4 tbsp. Carrot juice lc. Water 4 tbsp. Brown sugar 3 tbsp. Butter salt to taste Wash and scrape the carrots and cut in half and quarter the halves. Steam in presto cooker with the cup of water for 5 minutes. Cool quickly and pour off water, reserving 4 tbsp. Of the carrot juice. Put juice in another saucepan, add the brown sugar, butter, and about % tsp. Salt. Cook for a minute and pour the steamed carrots into the saucepan and take out the steam rack from the presto. Pour the carrots carefully back and forth from one kettle to the other until they are well coated. This method keeps the carrots from breaking up and makes them taste good indeed. Serves 14 to 16. Suicep Beets WitH Lemon JvIcE 2 tbsp. Whole cloves = 1, sugar 4 sticks cinnamon. - 2 tbsp. Butter 2 shakes nutmeg juice of 2 or 3 lemons enough cooked cubed beets to make 2 tbsp. Cornstarch 4pints 4 tbsp. Water for mixing cornstarch 2 c. Beet juice Put spices in cheesecloth bag and tie. Place in beet juice and cook 2 or 3 minutes, then add sugar, lemon juice, butter, and beets and cook another 2 minutes. Then take out spice bag and pour off juice into another pan and thicken. Cook until done and pour over the beets. Heat and serve. Serves 10 to 12. Color the mixture if ipa (Seasonings must be to taste.) The sauce is better tasting if allowed to stand a day or so. Of oh of Bonus Prize Viola Ashton Candland Innocence and sweetness, Mischievous bright eyes, Mighty spirit stature, G Miniature size — Small wonder doting grandmothers Love and idolize A precious little grandchild — A little bonus prize! YOd LYOdqy In all phases of the work of Relief Society during 1961 success has been realized in helping to strengthen the testimonies of its members, to notably increase its membership from both Latter-day Saint and non-Latter-day Saint women, to develop existing as well as potential leadership, to give service under the direction of the Priesthood on Church welfare projects, and to the needy, the bereaved, the sick and the aged, and to strengthen the women of the Church in their role as wives, mothers, and homemakers, Through intensive membership building programs, 16,973 new members were added to the ranks of Relief Society making a total membership of 231,175 at the end of 196]. These members are distributed throughout the world in fifty-one foreign lands and each of the fifty states in the United States. Included in these numbers are many new converts to the Church and women not yet baptized. A notable increase was also made in the average attendance at Relief Society meetings. Leadership development opportunities were provided to the 152,981 Relief Society members who served as leaders in the organization, an increase of 10,076, some of whom were women who had been inactive in the Church or were recent converts. These leaders devotedly carried forward the outlined program of the Society in the 405 stake, mission, and district organizations and the 4,922 ward and branch Relief Societies throughout the Church. This represents an increase of 35 stake and mission organizations and 250 ward and branch organizations. The cultivation of music ability was encouraged and cultural refinement fostered through participation in Singing Mothers Choruses by the 41,124 sisters in 2,599 ward and branch choruses. The influence of The Relief Society Magazine was carried into 183,236 homes, for an increase of 12,234 over the previous year. Relief Society ministered to the physical and spiritual needs of members of the Church through a previously unexcelled amount of compassionate service and through the monthly visits by visiting teachers to observe instances of need and to carry a spiritual message into the homes. A total of 100,059 visiting teachers made 3,943,596 visits, an increase of 6,887 visiting teachers and 204,854 visits. Love-inspired service was given through 357,334 visits to the sick and homebound (an increase of 34,780); 30,211 days bedside nursing care of the sick (an increase of 661); and 401,140 hours of other compassionate services such as caring for the family of a mother who was in the hospital, assisting with housekeeping during the illness of a family. Member, accompanying a sister to a doctor's office or similar services (an increase of 126,087 hours). In addition, Relief Society sisters assisted at 8,846 funerals and dressed 789 bodies for burial. Welfare services given under the direction of the Priesthood included 93,625 visits made by Relief Society presidents to families in need (an increase of 8,154); and a total of 789,807 hours contributed by females on welfare projects. Also, in the stakes of the Church alone, Relief Societies contributed $227,393.98 to ward and stake building, welfare, and other Church programs. Relief Societies in missions also made an important contribution to such programs. The educational and homemaking programs carried forward uniformly in each Society throughout the world were instrumental in helping each member in her own land and within her own culture to be a better wife, mother and homemaker. As a part of the homemaking program a total of 535,853 articles. Were sewed including 22,571 quilts, 53,699 articles of clothing for children, 78,035 for women, and 3,58] for men, in addition to 225,161 non-sewed handicraft articles. Through the blessings of the Lord the work of the organization is steadily moving forward and the responsibilities and challenges given to it by the prophets of the Lord in this period of such rapid growth of the Church are being met. General Secretary-Treasurer 1961 GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION Of Relief Society Organizations and Members IN STAKES | IN MISSIONS TOTALS IN STAKES | IN MISSIONS TOTALS OrganiOrganiOrganiOrganiOrganiOrganiUNITED STATES zations | Member zations} Memberg zations Members zations | Members| zations | Members zations | Members =F 482 23 482 Montana 39 1,410 29 631 68 2,041 89 13 290 Nebraska 10 280 6 62 16 342 18) 168 9,515 Nevada 59 3,344 1 6 60 3,350 123 10 148 New Hampshire 6 125 6 125 237 457 30,195 New Jersey 10 410 10 410 Colorado 55 2,888 94 6) 2,982 New Mexico 37 1,415 lS 284 52 1,699 Connecticut | 39 133 5 172 New York 6 372 2 620 3] 992 Delaware 2 59 2 59 North Carolina 2 749 15 256 40 1,005 District of Columbia 2 2 HW North Dakota 8 125 8 125 Florida 39 1,387 450 61 1,837 Ohio 2) 610 14 308 35 918 Georgia 20 311 35 887 Oklahoma 23 552 2 3] 25 583 Hawaii 21 827 52 2,112 Oregon 65 3,872 21 547 86 4419 Idaho 370 2 370 24,790 Pennsylvania 7 223 2] 495 28 718 Illinois 10 550 36 996 Rhode Island 2 36 2 36 Indiana l 405 Zi 896 South Carolina 15 593 12 157 27 750 lowa 2 388 22 453 South Dakota @ 212 12 212 Kansas 8. 302 24 603 Tennessee 19 423 19 423 Kentucky:.: Texas 55 1,786 52 886 107 2,672 Louisiana 18 11 2 594 Utah 1,160 89,518 1,160 89,518 7 9 0 Alabama 2 Alaska 8 20 Arizona 154 ee 9 MNS OCOW ST Arkansas | California 449 2 —=EOnovsnsnm s+ om & —OWMORLTROOND ~~ m SK RIRAR SS ORNS F&F SR F -+ a Maine 2719 16 279 Vermont 5 70 5 70 Maryland 48 10 522 Virginia 5 826 20 383 35 1,209 Massachusetts 430 14 430 Washington 94 4,817 VW] 232 105 5,049 Michigan 188 7 623 West Virginia V7 298 17 298 Minnesota 133 23 516 Wisconsin 7 299 12 225 19 524 Mississippi 38] 16 38] Wyoming 54 2,956 nl 386 65 3,342 Missouri in 24] 25 688 IN STAKES IN MISSIONS TOTALS IN STAKES IN MISSIONS TOTALS OTHER COUNTRIES TS CS Argentina Azores Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Canada Chile Cook Islands Costa Rica Denmark El Salvador England Ethiopia Fiji Islands Finland Formosa France Germany Greece Guam Guatemala Honduras Hong Kong Ireland Italy Organizations Members Organizations embers Organizations tee Organizations ae Organizations Domed Organizations {Members 90 4,152 46 1,013 et 35 1 3] la. 564 287 35) l 60 8 y pe, 170 13 P) 2 21 742 3 1,422 287 178 1,212 5,447 Japan Korea Libya Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Norway Okinawa Panama Canal Zone Philippine Islands Paraguay Peru Puerto Rico Samoa Scotland Spain Sweden Switzerland Tahiti Tonga Turkey Union of South Africa Uruguay Wales Total—Other Countries Total—United States GRAND TOTAL 14 32 231 2911 3,142 481 161 947 224 7,869 188,237 196,106 33 1,780 468 21) 16 994 284 674 16 407 36 34 23 52 108 24 935 207 26 636 35, DG9 27 767 6 80 29,213 201,962 4922 231,17 29 33 858 468 ia oF il tT} or TTT MEMBERSHIP Membership (Total) In Stakes In Missions ORGANIZATIONS Stake and Mission Organizations (Total) In Stakes In Missions Ward and Branch Organizations (Total) In Stakes In Missions 1961 231,175 196,106 35,069 214,202 179,207 34,995 370 315 55 4672 2,881 1,791 Inc or 1960 I Decrease | 1 6973+ 6,899-+ 744 L L. D. S. Fa In In. D. S. FAMILIES milies (Total) Stakes Missions +++ +4] me By H Relief Society Members Who Served As Stake Off District a Ward and Othe Class Visiti LEADERSHIP rs in the Society icers nd Mission Officers Branch Officers r Officers Leaders ng Teachers SINGING MOTHERS Ward and Branch Singing Mothers Choruses (Total) In Stakes In Missions Approximate Number of Singers (Total) In Stakes In Missions 3,052 2,403 649 49,564 41,370 8,194 453— 393— 1,292— Relief So MAGAZINE ciety Magazine Subscriptions 1961 460,810 385,532 75,278 152,981 3,899 1,009 18,464 9930 19,620 100,059 183,236 1960 436,970 363,55] 7B AID 142,905 3,584 845 17,419 9,452 18,433 93,172 171,002 Increase or Decrease 23,840+ 21,9814 1859+ 10,076-++ 3154+ 164+- 1,045+ 478+- 1,187+ 6,887-+ 12,234+ Leade. 400,000 350,000 300,000 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 0 COMPASSIONATE SERVICES BRRERE EERE EEE DAYS CARE OF THE SICK 1961 VISITS TO THE SICK & HOMEBOUND 1960 OURS OF OTHER SERVICES H |: OMPASSIONATE R V VISITING TEACHING 100,000 90,000 je 80,000 70,000 + 60,000 50,000 40,000 30,000 20,000 1961 10,000 0 cro 4,000,000 3,900,000 3,800,000 3,700,000 3,600,000 3,500,000 NUMBER OF _ VISITING TEACHERS VISITING TEACHER VISITS COMPASSIONATE SERVICE Days Care of the Sick Visits to Sick and Homebound Number of Hours of Other Compassionate Services Bodies Dressed for Burial Funerals at which Relief Society Assisted Wards and Branches Maintaining Lists of Nurses (Total) In Stakes In Missions CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE Family Visits Made Under Direction of Bishop Hours Contributed by All Females on Welfare Projects Relief Society Members Who Assisted on Any Welfare Project During the Year Hours Contributed on Welfare Projects by All Females Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Sisters Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Who Sewed for Themselves and Families 30,211 357,334 401,140 789 8,846 3,214 2,567 647 93,625 789,807 54,422 224,430 4,532 29,550 322,554 275,053 640 8,645 3,031 2,391 640 85,471 773,616 54,766 220,733 453 661+ 34,780-+ 126,087-+ 149-4 201+ 183+ 176-+- T+ 8,154-+ 16,13]4 344— 3,697+4+- VISITING TEACHING Visiting Teachers Visiting Teacher Districts Family Visits (Total) Home Not Home Per Cent at Home Communications in Lieu of Visits An average of 8.56 visits was made to each family in 196]. An average of 8.56 visits was made to each family in 1960. SEWING SERVICE Articles Completed (Total) Sewed Articles (Total) Quilts Children's Clothing Women's Clothing Men's Clothing Household Furnishings Other (Miscellaneous) Non-Sewed Articles (Total) Sewing Machines Owned by Societies (Total) In Stakes In Missions 100,059 52,491 3,943,596 2,628,319 1,315,277 66.64% 103,246 761,014 935,853 22,57) 5seee 78,035 3,581 204,236 173,731 225,161 4,631 4,048 583 — Ga 172 49,096 3,738,742 2,490,584 1,248,158 66.61% 80,146 655,793 477,863 22,701 47,785 70,764 3,073 191,505 142,035 177830 4,416 3,878 538 or Decrease 6,887-+ 339+ 204,854+4 137,735+4+ 67,1194- 23,100+ 105,221 57,990-+- 130— 5,914-+ 7,214 308+ 12,7314 31,696+ 47,23|14+ 215+ 170-++ 454 1960 | Increase or Decrease 1961 1960 | Increase or Decrease TOTAL MEETINGS HELD Stake Relief Society Conventions Stake and Mission Meetings (Total) Stake and Mission District Board Stake and Mission Leadership Ward and Branch Meetings (Total) Regular Meetings for Members 206,197 160,821 31,013 14,363 Visiting Teacher Meetings Special Meetings 198,339 152,594 28,635 17,110 8,095+ 44 196+ 190+ 6+ 7,858-+ 8 2274 2378+ 2747— VISITS BY STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS Visits to Wards and Branches (Total) By Stake Officers By Mission and District Officers 29,236 22,382 6,854 28,320 22,131 6,189 1961 Number 88,864 71,966 16,398 95,408 90,140 83,628 85,704 52,558 23,493 1961 Per Cent 38.4 36.7 47.0 413 39.0 36.2 37.1 By 45.3 1960 Number 79,044 64,542 14,502 85,179 78,669 74,572 77,213 46,526 21,488 AVERAGE ATTENDANCE Regular Meetings for Members (Total) In Stakes In Missions Theology Work Literature Social Science Visiting Teacher Meetings Relief Society Leadership Meetings 1960 Per Cent 36.9 36.0 41.4 39.8 36.7 34.8 36.1 a) 43.2 a CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Receipts and Disbursements Cash Balance on Hand January 1, 196] Receipts............0.---eee Total Disbursements Cash Balance on Hand December 31, 196] $1, 760,716.12 3,498,433.80 $5,259,149.92 3,289,093.35 seseeseseeeese+ 1,970,056.57 Assets — December 31, 1961 Net Cash on Hand December 31.... Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishops Office Other Invested Funds (Savings Bonds, etc.) Real Estate and Buildings $1,970,056.57 42792 82,047.64 op am ee 104,649.36 E ———————————————$2,579,665. 79 Total Assets Relief Society General Conference 1 Toddler's Cover-Apron Shirley Thulin meees a wonderful help for busy mothers with tiny tots! Stitch several easy-tomake, easy-to-launder toddlers' cover-aprons, as in the illustration. You will cut your ironing time way down, for they open flat to press, or even better, make them of seersucker and don't bother with ironing at all. MATERIALS NEEDED: You will need % yard of printed percale or seersucker (or more, if. A larger coverapron is desired), and 63% yards of double-fold bias tape in accenting colors. (You can use leftover prints from other sewing projects, or even printed flour sacks.) 5 BI" Bl ho 18}" al ARMHOLE LUX EE Page 438 CUT: Make a paper pattern, following the pictured diagram. MAKE: 1. Bind the entire outside edge of cover-apron and raw edges of armholes with bias tape. 2. Open center fold of tape and stitch a casing on the right side 14" from the top along the top edge for the drawstring to be threaded through. 3. Fold each pocket in half, wrong sides together. Bind the outside edge. Center and stitch in place 3" from the lower edge and 4%" apart. 4. Make a drawstring 40" long by stitching the folded edges of bias together. Iat this in the casing and knot each end so it won't pull through. Now it is ready to slip on the child. Pull the ties to gather up around the neck. The toddlers' cover-apron may be worn alone or to cover like an apron. SS Ne | Narrow Valley Zara Sabin "Is it not too bad?" they said — When at her service someone read She had been born, had lived and died In one small town. Their cheeks, scarce dried, Were wet again.... "To spend her life As child, as maid, as mother, wife, In this narrow valley?" Narrow valley? Yes, it was true. The hills were close and steep, the view Cut off on either side, yet she Looked at the stars. Instinctively, Her thoughts reached up to higher things And knew that more than birds have wings, Even in a valley. She heard the first bluebird, or kept Close vigil where a sick child slept; Baked bread and cakes and sang the while; Walked her Savior's extra mile; Then, when her children all were grown, She died, and had not even known This was a narrow valley. LER'S COVER-APRON 439 ALMA ANDERSON — SPECIALIST WITH NEEDLE AND CROCHET HOOK 7 eee Lofstrom Anderson, Roosevelt, Utah, is a specialist with needle and crochet hook. Her handwork and machine sewing are examples of exquisite workmanship. She designs and crochets doilies and many other articles, as well as making beautiful aprons and many other pieces of clothing. As she often remarks, her sewing basket is her constant companion. An expert quilter, she has marked "hundreds and hundreds" of quilts for quilting. Even before she went to school in her native Sweden, she learned to crochet and knit and hem and seam by hand, and was trained as a tailor. As a convert to the Church, she came to Utah in 1898, and later pioneered a homestead near Roosevelt. Long devoted to Relief Society and active in stake and ward positions, she has served as a visiting teacher, work meeting leader, counselor, and president. Her six children, fourteen grandchildren, and twenty-four great-grandchildren are her choicest blessings and she refers to them as the crown of her long and happy life. Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies.... She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands.... She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff.... She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet (Proverbs 31:10, 13, 19, 21). Page 440 Leftover Disguises Janet W. Breeze H°" has your refrigerator been lately — subject to a daily invasion by a small bowlful of this and a tablespoon of that? If so, welcome aboard! The problem seems to be universal, but not one without its solution. To minimize waste and stretch what may otherwise seem a completely unelastic food budget, try to keep some of the following suggestions in mind before abandoning that covered container of future mysteries to its cold settlement at the back of the refrigerator. Chop cooked liver into small cubes and scramble with eggs for breakfast. Save that lone slice of bacon or ham, spoonful of onions, or mushrooms, for adding a new zest to peas. Halibut, cod, or sole, make tasty sandwiches when flaked and combined with chopped pickles, lemon juice, and mayonnaise. Garnish a pot of chili with sliced franks or sausage and mounds of leftover whipped potatoes. Pop under broiler until potatoes are a golden brown. Coin-sized slices of a leftover frankfurter or two add a change 'of flavor to macaroni and cheese. Keep that giblet gravy for the beginnings of the next day's chicken soup. Leftover mushroom gravy made from creamed soup and that last slice of ham can be combined with chopped onion and sliced potatoes for a scalloped main dish. Stale rolls or buns are warm and tasty when spread with parsleyed garlic butter and broiled until brown on spaghetti night. Dry bread can be toasted, cut into cubes, and saved for a welcome surprise in tossed green salads, soups, or stewed tomatoes and onions. Scoop out the center of day-old muffins. Fill centers with creamed 'fish, sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake in hot oven. Add leftover tomatoes, vegetables, or vegetable soups to meat loaf. Don't forget the precious vitamins you can save by adding the liquid drained from vegetables to soups or tomato juice. _ A small amount of sliced canned peaches stirred in, or that last bit of juice from canned cherries poured on top, can add variety to an old favorite — vanilla pudding. Bake leftover waffle batter. Break waffles into sections, wrap in waxed paper, and freeze for making slices of tasty toast at a later date. Save the juice drained from canned blueberries, or other berries, and add enough water to measure one cup. Combine with % cup sugar, one tablespoon cornstarch, and % teaspoon salt in saucepan and stir over medium heat until clear. Reduce heat and cook five minutes. Stir in two tablespoons butter and one tablespoon lemon juice. Serve warm over yellow cake or waffles. Do not let that whipping cream sour. Beat the cream and drop by large spoonfuls onto waxed paper placed on a cooky sheet. Freeze. Peel frozen mounds of cream from paper, place in plastic bag, and store in freezer. When ready to use, place individual mounds of frozen cream on top of dessert servings at the beginning of a meal. Cream should be thawed by dessert time. Cut leftover cake in rectangles. Line a refrigerator tray with waxed paper and fill with alternate layers of cake and sweetened whipped cream for a refreshing frozen dessert. Page 441 Cuapter 6 (Conclusion) Margery S. Stewart T was on the third day of October that Tomas Novarro came for his son. It was a bright and brittle morning, with the desert winds blowing hot down the hills, and the sea taking on the deep vital blue that was a sign of autumn as plain as maple leaves on fire. This was the last time Nina would take down small Joseph's special bowl, or spoon into it the hot, nourishing cereal. 'This was the last of the brilliant mornings rich with plans for the day. There would be no more Disneyland expeditions or deep sea fishing with Tomas to show her how to reel in her line. He was taking his son to Europe to show him the world and to have him entirely to himself. He had talked about it, planned for it, writing for brochures, bringing them over in the evenings to see what she thought of the side trips he had planned. Nina made herself very busy. Today she would houseclean the kitchen cupboards, put down new paper, and tomorrow she would go to the Children's Hospital and apply for a job. She needed a new car, and now she could afford one. By all these thoughts, like actors on a stage, she fought to keep back the one tall and spectral figure — loneliness. Joseph was beside himself with delight. "Big plane! Zoom!" "Big plane," Nina agreed. Small Joseph ran to the door. Page 442 "Daddy's coming." He was impatient to be gone. There was an impatient knocking on the back door. Nina hurried to open it. Tommy grinned at her with bright impudence. "I got a present for Joseph." Joseph rushed forward to claim it, and Tommy brought it around from where he had been hiding it, a small red truck. "Kids like things they can hold." "T know." He sniffed the air. "Good." "Popovers... Almost ready." She had to invite him for breakfast, but for the first time she found herself wishing he hadn't come. She had wanted to be alone with Tomas, be sure he was planning to stop off in New York and buy the heavier clothes that Joseph would need. She worried about this part of it. Sometimes Tomas seemed to forget his son entirely and wanted to talk about everything else under the sun. He had a trick of waiting for her to speak, as if he found something fascinating in the way her words came that was infinitely flattering. People had smiled at them, movying together through the days, the three of them, the great, dark 'Tomas, herself, and the child. Once a woman had paused to compliment her on her "lovely child'" 'Tomas had thought that hilariously funny. In the weeks they had been together it had been toward Tomas SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES that she and Joseph had leaned. It had been luxury to be cared for, to be driven about, to be thought of and considered. Sometimes she had had to pull herself up sharply and remind herself that it was only the bridge before the end of the line. Joseph turned more and more to his father, less and less to the comfort of her arms. She was aware that Tommy was talking, "... But the bad part is leaving you, Miss Karsh, that's what I hate about it... And leaving Dominick." She looked at him. "Leaving? Where are you going?" He shook his head. "I've been telling you for ten minutes. We're going to move to Frisco, Mom and my brother and me, real soon." Nina would not let him see the bleakness of her eyes. "We'll miss you... Dominick and I... But you can come back and visit?" "Sure I will." She bent her head over the opened oven door. It was in little idle promises like this that the pangs of separation were lessened. Tommy cleared his throat. "Another thing I want to tell you, Miss Karsh, is that I did some knocking and now I know." She straightened, the pan of popovers in her hand. "You knocked where?" He looked ceilingward. "On that door. So now I know. He does come, only you sure must knock a - long time. Anyway I did, but all of a sudden I knew, just like you did. He's there all right." He licked his lips. "Maybe I could just have a popover now before we sit down?" 443 HE knocker sounded on_ the front door. 'Tommy ran to answer. Nina, putting plates on the table, paused to listen to the sound of footsteps. It was Tomas who had come. She made herself very busy. "Well, this is a delicious welcome." Tomas stood in the doorway. Nina looked at him quickly and looked away. It's because he is taking Joseph away that it hurts me to look at him, she thought. 'Tomas looked different this morning, like a stranger in his beautiful gray suit, immaculate white shirt, blue tie, like a man ready to step into his own familiar world after a season in an alien land. "Doctor Jonathan show up yet?" "Doctor Jonathan? No. Did he plan to come?" "Said he would, wanted to see you for a minute, and to say goodbye to Joseph." "He's driving in now," Tommy said and was off like a shot to lead the doctor in. Tomas gave Nina a_ narrow, laughing glance. "It seems you have given my friend a great deal of trouble," he said. "You make him think... Of things... You make him uneasy." Nina laughed. "I like him very much. He's a wonderful doctor. I remember at the hospital how everyone stood aside for him." "So?" Tomas lifted his brow. He looked distressed suddenly, and then he said. "I hate goodbyes. Let me take Joseph and go now, quickly. Do you mind?" "Why... No... Not if that's the way you want it." 444 Nina wiped her hands on her apron and ran to get Joseph's clean shirt, which she had been saving until the last minute so he would be clean for the journey. The bags were packed and ready. Tomas was suddenly in a fever to be gone. He carried the bags out. Joseph would have tumbled after him, but Nina caught him and carried him to the rocker. She hugged him, and Joseph wriggled impatiently. "I must go now...." Nina let him go. She did not kiss him nor cling. She followed him out to the car. Tomas was talking to Manuel, who was at the wheel, and to Doctor Jonathan. He took Joseph's hand and opened the car door. "I hate goodbyes," he said again, "and I will write of course, Nina. You must take care of yourself." It was all so fast. Joseph waved to her from his place beside his father. Manuel started the car. Tomas leaned out to her. "You will write," he said earnestly. "I must hear from you very often." "Yes... Yes, of course." "T'll see that she does," Jonathan said. Doctor HE car rolled away down the hill. Nina stood irresolute, torn between wanting to watch it until it was out of sight and of preserving from the doctor this feminine weakness of tears at a farewell. Tommy burst out of the house with a hot popover in his hand. "I gotta go, Miss Karsh. I'll come up after school. Bye now." Doctor Jonathan followed her into the house. "I came," he said, "because I had something to talk to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 you about. It's a girl... A girl in trouble. She needs help." Nina began to set the kitchen to rights. "You must tell me about her," she said, but she was still straining to hear the sound of the car receding down the hill. "A very young girl, from out of State...." He stopped abruptly and was silent. Nina looked at him inquiringly. "You were saying?" she pressed him politely. "Nothing." He pushed the chair savagely under the table. "I said forget it! Forget the girl!" "No... No... I want to hear. Perhaps I can help." "Sure you can help. There's no doubt of it, and what is there in it for you, Nina Karsh? What do you get out of this giving of yourself?" He leaned against the door, folding his arms. "We're a_ greedy bunch, this modern race of men. We'll take the juice out of a person like you and then quote some bearded authority on how stupid it was of you to give it, call it a sublimation, a fixation, a compulsion...." Nina laughed. "I don't care what you call it. I think it is absurd, all this preoccupation for reasons for helping people." He said, "TI will not ask you to go through this again." He gestured in agitation about the room. "Tt is too painful to watch, the process of love and struggle and the inevitable conclusion of surrender and pain. I will find another way." Nina rubbed her hands along her skirt. "Don't rob me...." "Rob you?" "Loneliness is a field," Nina said gently. "Who could know that better than I?" SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES He lifted his head. His profile was sharpened and alert as it was in the operating room. "An empty field," he said tentatively, probing the idea, "and you have sown yours with roses." He came to her. "It is no wonder that your fields are constantly being seized and taken... Sow a field with nettles... And it will be left to you... Forever." They were very close together now. When Nina looked into his face she saw the black, circling the gray iris, and the lines that weariness had made, and the recurring tenderness she had known for him deepened inside her. 'They stood in silence. But the silence was like the silence she had known that day with the small Joseph. In the silence the heavy sadness ran thin like a great fog lessening, and in the silence the first sun shot forth a blinding brightness, so that they caught their breaths and came closer, hand reaching to hand. 445 "T am not afraid to love now," he said. "Isn't that strange? I didn't even know before that I was afraid of love." Nina could not speak for the tumultuous joy of her being. Sow a field with roses, and though the blooms be torn away, the roots and the earth remain, preparing themselves in the mysterious quiet for a new and lovelier spring. She heard Dr. Jonathan speaking slowly. "In this time, now with you, they have all been returned to me, the things I was so sure I had irrevocably lost." Nina looked at him in perplexity. "Lost?" "Yes," he said. "When I lost love, I lost faith with it, and now I have them again, all the bright lost dreams, the temple dreams, and the family dream, and the slow, beloved years together." RoR Morning Song Leora Larsen Some days are made to savor, Some to weep. In between, busy ones My balance keep. Pie-Tin Therapy Pauline L. Jensen T is strange how differently people react to various situations. Some people, when wrestling with a problem, take long walks, weed a garden, or even scrub floors until they have settled the issue. With me, I bake pies! Whenever I am beset with a day filled with frustration, or some problem that is bothering me, I cast everything else aside and whip up six or eight pies. I figure that in the thirty odd years of my marriage I have baked a total of at least eight thousand pies. That is only an average of twenty pies a month, and counting eight pies to a baking, that means I have settled one thousand problems with a pie-tin. The peculiar part of all this is that, although these pie-baking sprees were intended for my benefit, the end result has been twofold. For the minute I see those luscious looking pies standing end to end on the kitchen counter, I immediately begin figuring out how many I am going to give away, and just whom I'm going to give them to. The Page 446 latter actually isn't a problem at all, since it isn't hard to figure out who needs a pie the most. Yesterday, for instance, I went on a pie-baking jamboree. I had been fretting all morning over the disloyalty of a friend — something that none of us likes to have happen, so at noon I got out the pie-tins and the necessary ingredients and got busy. I had just taken the first pie from the oven — a cherry one with juice oozing out around the edges, when the telephone rang. It was Lou, my neighbor. "Do you have a can of fruit or something like that?" she asked, "Don's folks have just arrived in town, and they will be out for lunch. I haven't a thing — not one single thing in the line of desserts or sweets." "Cherry pie, coming right up," I assured her, and heard her gasp of pleasure. I took the pumpkin pie from the oven and set it aside. That one was for Dr. Anna, for it is her favorite. Besides, she is bedfast, and seldom PIE-TIN THERAPY gets homemade pie. I paused a minute and smiled. It is wonderful to see her smile when I take a pie to her. She smiles so seldom these days, that anything that cheers her is well worth the effort. As I glanced out the window I saw Ruth, another neighbor, coming home. She had had a busy day with her Primary class. Right then I was in sympathy with her, since I am not so far removed from those days myself. Since Ruth was giving her time and effort to a worthy project, why not send the lemon pie to her? I pushed it back to cool a bit before delivering it. The mince pie filled the kitchen with its fragrance. That one I would put in the freezer, I decided. Mince pies keep so well. Then I remembered my friend Min, and what she had said the other day. "I'm starved for a pie with real honest-to-goodness mincemeat filling." Oh well, why not give this pie to Min? I had several more jars of mincemeat in the storeroom. After all, where could I find a better friend? I thought of all the nice things she had done for us, and this I thought was but small payment. The apple pie must go to Marjorie, for I had planned it especially for her. Chained to a wheel chair, a gift of home-cooked food was the most welcome thing she could receive. She had said so, many times. I glanced at the two pie crusts standing on the table. Chocolate 'pie would taste good, I thought. We hadn't had one for a long time. As I lifted it, with its golden brown meringue, from the oven, Bobbie, the boy next door came in 447 with a package of chicken giblets for our cat. His eyes lighted up. "Chocolate pie! Uhmmmm! My favorite!" He _ sniffed ecstatically. With a sigh, I slipped the pie onto a baking tin for him to take home. After all, hadn't he just brought our cat a special evening meal? Quickly I stirred a custard, filled the remaining shell and put it in the oven. How lucky, I thought, that I have a husband who indulges me in this luxury of pie giving. Not once has he objected, for he has his own philosophy regarding this. "No matter how much we give, it is but small payment in exchange for all our blessings," he says. I looked over the array of pies with a feeling of satisfaction. From long experience I knew they would be well received, since through the years, I had learned the technique well. For my pies had gone everywhere — to Church, to PTA, to Primary and MIA affairs, and bake sales. But best of all, eight thousand pies had taught me far more than culinary skill! I remembered once again the problem that had sent me on this therapy. I had almost forgotten it! Had my friend been disloyal, or had I taken offense without thinking it through logically? All flesh is weak, including mine. Was what she did so important after all? It was over — done with. Why not forget it now? The afternoon was gone, but it had been well spent. Enough piecheer for seven families, and an extra bonus — my worry disposed of neatly with pie-tin therapy. Peace in a Troubled World Ruth L. Jones ECENTLY, I was talking with a neighbor who 'is not a member of the Church. She expressed the almost hysterical fear in her heart of the possible destruction of the earth in a nuclear war and of her unsuccessful attempts to hide these fears from her small son. I tried to give her some assurance with thoughts somewhat like these: Yes — man has become very powerful — sufficiently so that he can destroy the works of man — but he does not have sufficient knowledge and power to destroy the works of God. Furthermore, man never will be able to change the eternal plans and purposes which God has for his creations. These are fearsome times, it is true, and we cannot help wondering what lies immediately ahead, but it is imperative that we continue to live our lives with trust in the ultimate triumph of nght. We must see to it that we maintain homes of security and peace for our families. We need not try to do this alone. Our Heavenly Father is as near as our faith will allow him to be. He intends that we shall be happy — "men are that they might have joy," and it is not only our privilege, but our duty to attain this. Nothing can be gained by living in fear and doubts. He who created us and the earth will continue to keep his creations under his control. He will not forsake us. Then, I declare my sincere testimony that God lives. He has eternal plans for his children. Jesus is the Christ. The gospel has been restored. Truth is stronger than error, righteousness will overcome sin, and justice will be done. We have only to accept the will of our Father and the blessings which, inevitably, follow obedience to him. I hope that the good lady received a measure of peace from these words. I hope, too, that, as mothers in Israel, we shall make sure that our children have a clear understanding of what their destiny can be — that this knowledge may give them the blessed assurance of the goodness and mercy and omnipotence of God. Page 448 General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph painted by LaVona Hoopes ST. JOSEPH STAKE (ARIZONA), PIMA WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR November 1961 Left to right: Katheryn Cluff, Second Counselor; Polly Carter, First Counselor; Thelma Rogers, President; Louise Taylor, Secretary-Treasurer. LaVona Hoopes, President, St. Joseph Stake Relief Society, reports: "Due to the outstanding co-operation of the sisters in the Pima Ward Relief Society, a large number of articles were prepared for sale at the bazaar. A delicious Spanish supper was served. Previous to the bazaar, in October 1961, some of the articles prepared for the bazaar were entered in the Graham County Fair. Of seventy-three entries, sixteen blue ribbons were received, fourteen red nbbons, and eleven white ribbons. In preparing for the bazaar, it was suggested that the sisters make their articles of a quality good enough to be entered in the county fair." Page 449 Page 450. Stallman INGLEWOOD STAKE (CALIFORNIA) VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION February 14, 1962 Beth M. Stallman, President, Inglewood Stake Relief Society, reports: "A most successful visiting teacher convention was held February 14, 1962. The lovely program of music and addresses, held in the chapel, was outstanding. Following the program, luncheon was served in the recreation hall. The valentine theme was carried out in the lovely table decorations and also in the food. Each sister received a ball-point pen with a red heart attached, printed with the words 'Put your heart in your visiting teaching.' Myrle Petrie and Ila Young of the stake board were in charge of the table decorations. We felt that the convention was one of the finest ever held in our stake. All of the sisters present felt a deeper love and enthusiasm for visiting teaching." Puotopraph slibmitted by Hilda AMdxeare SOUTH AFRICAN MISSION, COPPERBELT (NORTHERN RHODESIA ) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Back row, standing, left to right: G. Fourie, Second Counselor; D. McTavish, President; Sister Calteaux, First Counselor; Hilda Alldredge, President, South African Mission Relief Society. Sister Alldredge reports: '"This branch, which borders the restless Congo, was organized two months before this conference was held. The Copperbelt Branch draws NOTES FROM THE FIELD 451 its membership from a number of copper mining towns all situated thirty to forty-five miles apart. The most central town, Kitwe, has been chosen as the meeting place for this branch. In spite of long distances to travel, the sisters are very enthusiastic and feel it a privilege to belong to Relief Society. We have heard it said that this is the most remote branch from the headquarters of the Church in the world. Roads, at times, are unsafe for travel, but these sisters are most faithful and have an attendance of between ninety-five and one hundred per cent." Btogiaph submitted by Ora M. Gardner DESERET STAKE (UTAH), OASIS WARD HONORS VETERAN RELIEF SOCIETY WORKER AT SOCIAL, October 1961 Ora M. Gardner, President, Deseret Stake Relief Society, reports that Sister Jensine Anderson, eighty-three, eldest member of Oasis Ward Relief Society, was honored at the opening social in October. Sister Anderson, who was born in Denmark, joined the Relief Society sixty-three years ago, and has been an active member ever since. She - has been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine since the first issue, and before that she was a subscriber to the Woman's Exponent, more than sixty years in all. As a visiting teacher, Sister Anderson, with her companion, had a perfect record for over five consecutive years. Many times they walked from home to home in the scatterd farming community. At the last county fair she was awarded five blue and six red ribbons for her lovely handwork. The award money was turned over to the Relief Society to "help out." Ethel M. Stanworth is president of Oasis Ward Relief Society. At the social Sister Stanworth presented in honor of Sister Anderscon a tribute in the form of a "This Is Your Life" program. A beautiful book was made, containing birthday greeting cards, pictures, and the story of Sister Anderson's life. 452 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 BRISBANE STAKE (AUSTRALIA), BRISBANE THIRD WARD 'SOCIAL HONORING RETIRING PRESIDENCY AND WELCOMING THE NEW PRESIDENCY, July 1961 Front row, seated, left to right: Amy Beatrice Bates; Sarah Lydia Lamb; Catherine Mary Tulloch, First Counselor, reappointed; Shirley Hauritz, retiring president; Gertrude Shirra, new President; Evangeline Thurger Smith, Second Counselor, reappointed; Jessie Stitchel Low; Lucy May Boundy; Margaret Elizabeth Tewlin. Back row, standing, left to right: Doris Leppard; Elizabeth Frances Refoy; Ann Innes Fulcher; Enid J. Dean; Dorothy Elizabeth Solomon; Beryl Grace Buckle; Sirrka Annikka Brosser; Mary Millicent Manning; Chnistlene Schilling; Dorothy Robins. Enid M. Richards, President, Brisbane Stake Relief Society, reports that Sister Gertrude Shirra has returned to America, and the First Counselor Mary Tulloch was appointed president of the Brisbane Third Ward Relief Society. Rotegraph sbueitved: by —— B. Glade BOISE STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION Left to right: Clara Anderson, visiting teacher message leader; Zola Jeppson, Counselor; Alyce B. Glade, President; Eugenia Carver, Counselor; Rachael Rich, Secretary; Marian Hugentobler, work director. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 453 Sister Glade reports: "The spiritual service elements of a visiting teacher convention, combined with the artistic appeal of a handicraft and hobby exhibit, made a most successful event for the Boise Stake Relief Society. A capacity attendance was provided by all wards and many guests. A missionary element was injected into the event with Relief Society officers and visiting teachers bringing as guests nonmembers and inactive member friends. "All wards participated with attractive, unusual handicraft and hobby displays that filled the recreation hall where the reception was held following a most inspiring spoken and musical tribute to the service of the visiting teachers. In conclusion, President Glade's tribute in verse was presented." ~~ son PALO ALTO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) AND MENLO PARK WARD OFFICERS IN RELIEF SOCIETY ROOM OF NEW STAKE CENTER Dedicated February 25, 1962 Seated, left to right, Palo Alto Stake officers: Nell Marie Benson, President; Patricia Jenson, First Counselor; Alicia Crofts, Second Counselor; Thelma Whitecar, - Secretary-Treasurer. Standing, left to right, Menlo Park Ward Relief Society officers: Ann Lund, President; Beth Jarrard, First Counselor; Dean White, Second Counselor; Marian Orton, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Benson reports: "The sisters are seated in front of a representation of the official Relief Society seal, which is designed in beautiful blue, white, and gold mosaic. | The idea for this distinctive work of art originated with Sister Ann Lund. It was copied by a local artist and donated by the Menlo Park Relief Society for the new toom. This colorful seal has stimulated great interest in our work from visitors and investigators." 454 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 Rane een TaN Photograph submitted by Ilah K. Smith DENVER STAKE (COLORADO) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, November 13, 1961 Seated in the front row, left to right: Elva Wright, Education Counselor; [lah K. Smith, President, Denver Stake Relief Society; Ruby Scott, Work Director Counselor; Reta Beck, chorister; Daisy Corlock, organist; Becky Christensen, organist. Sister Smith reports: "This lovely group presented the music for stake quarterly conference, November 13, 1961. They sang, 'Oh, May I Know the Lord as Friend' and 'The Battle Hymn of the Republic.' These songs were learned in the wards, and a lovely rendition was given by the stake group, with only a limited number of stake practices. All six wards and two branches, a total of eight units, were represented." Photograph submitted by Elva G. Ravsten SOUTHERN STATES MISSION, NORTH ALABAMA DISTRICT SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR DISTRICT CONFERENCE November 5, 1961 Photograph S NOTES FROM THE FIELD 455 Front row, left to right: Thora Nichols; Georgia Stacey; Jean Riley; Carol Simley; Elva G. Ravsten, President, Southern States Mission Relief Society; Norma Johns; Pernie Newbold; Joy Densmore, chorister. Second row, left to right: Nell Martin; Lois Acker; Nora Huddleston; Ethel Lillis; Essie Cummings; Jetta Lowther. Third row, left to right: Charlene Williams; Dora Tuberville; Alice Collins; Sarah Vines; Elinor Robinson. Fourth row, left to right: Jessie Sanders; Hazel Jex; Ida Mae Morton; Nettie Stockman; organists Sally Cummings and Sue Ellen Tuberville. Sister Ravsten reports: "We are very happy with our Relief Society Singing Mothers. A year ago we didn't have a Singing Mothers chorus in the North Alabama District. With faith that the Lord would help us if we did our part, we organized a Singing Mothers chorus, and for the last two district conferences, these mothers have presented the music. The music was beautiful, and the sweet spirit and humility of these sisters opened the way for the spirit of the Lord to be with us." — onda H. Christensen SOUTH SANPETE STAKE (UTAH), AND WARD WORK MEETING LEADERS DISPLAY HANDWORK AT VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION November 18, 1961 Left to right: Christine Allred, Ephraim North Ward; Kit Barton, Manti North Ward; Lenore Dennison, Manti South Ward; Marzetta Willardsen, South Sanpete Stake work meeting leader; Naomi Davis, Manti Center Ward; Marcel Poulson, Ephraim South Ward; Jessie Bradley, Sterling Ward; Ada Larsen, Ephraim West Ward. Vonda H. Christensen, President, South Sanpete Stake Relief Society, reports that many beautiful articles of handwork were on display at the visiting teacher convention. Included were many lovely aprons, quilts, stuffed toys, artificial flowers, and paintings. The women of the stake were privileged to hear a message of inspiration and encouragement from General President Belle S. Spafford, who was guest speaker at the convention. Audio-Visual Teaching Materials for the 1962-1963 Lessons "THE BETTER FOR YOU TO SEE AND HEAR, MY DEARS" Alice L. Wilkinson Member, General Board of Relief Society UDIOvisual teaching maA terials, when wisely and skillfully used, will give life and lasting interest to all lessons taught in Relief Society. 'Today, they are accepted as important teaching tools, and their use can be easily justified if we remember that we can learn more quickly if we can see what is being explained orally. A great impetus in the use of audio-visual materials has been noted since World War II. Reports indicate that with their use time required to train men for the armed services was cut as much as thirty to forty per cent. Some authorities say that eighty-five to ninety per cent of what an ordinary person learns is through the eye. We often hear the expression, "I can remember your face, but I can't remember your name." 'This is evidence that an impression through sight is more permanent than one _ received through hearing. With so much to Page 456 learn about our gospel and the many things which enrich our lives, we, as Relief Society class leaders, dare not neglect the fastest and most permanent method at hand. The reasons why our learning processes are stepped up by the use of audio-visual materials have been stated in previous articles published in The Relief Society Magazine, a list of which is given at the end of this article. But for the sake of many mew class leaders who are entering upon their first teaching experience, it may be well to review them here.. They arouse interest.. They focus attention. They stimulate thought.. They clarify a point.. They help to retain ideas.. They stimulate imagination.. They recall experiences.. They save time.. They provide student activity. They complement and enrich other methods. OD ONY AnDRW DN » LESSON DEPARTMENT There are many materials from which to choose, but the ones most suitable for use in Relief Society are: 1. Blackboard The blackboard is one of the most common, inexpensive, but versatile, visual aids. Most of our ward chapels are being equipped with permanent blackboards in classrooms. There are also portable blackboards which rest on an easel or are built ona frame. The blackboard can be used in presenting an outline, keeping a question or problem before the group during the discussion, making a drawing or sketch which helps explain an idea, enlisting interest by focusing attention on what is being put on the board, summarizing the lesson, and for many other purposes. A class leader would do well to use the blackboard regularly and for at least one thing during each lesson presentation. 2. Maps: Flat Relief or Globe Maps are an important item in understanding the circumstances surrounding history. 'They will be of particular value this year in theology and literature. A map of the United States, indicating the location of Independence, Missouri, the predicted center place of Zion, in relation to the rest of the country, 'would be helpful in presenting theOlogy lessons 41 and 42. The same map could be used to point out the movement of the Church westward | from New York to Missouri. | 457 3. Pictures: Photographs, Paintings, Cartoons, Drawings, Pictures from Newspapers, Magazines, or Books Pictures serve as good substitutes for first-hand experiences. They may vitalize, clarify, and focus attention upon the purpose of the lesson. 'They should be artistic and colorful, of high quality, and accurate in detail. Pictures are usually inexpensive and easily obtained, and may be used to illustrate a multitude of ideas. A picture of the seamed, burdened face of Abraham Lincoln reflects his struggle to keep the United States a single republic. Pictures of foods and household items attract our eyes to advertisements of products competing for our attention and money. A picture kit for this year's literature lessons is being prepared. It consists of a large picture of each author discussed, a print of Walden Pond for the Thoreau lessons, and an illustration for the lesson on Moby Dick. The lesson an Abraham Lincoln will be given in February when school and community libraries will be featuring Lincoln exhibits. Look for additional material in magazines and newspapers at that time. 4. Charts Charts, whether single or in a series, are very convenient teaching aids because of their permanency and portability. Prepared in advance, charts save teaching time and are effective in listing ideas or presenting summaries. Printed card charts with important key words and ideas displayed on a stand-up pasteboard easel help to guide a group discussion. Charts should be simple. Don't 458 try to tell the whole story on one page. Remember, if you want your chart to be read, be brief and illustrate only the important points. Charts may prove helpful in the social science lessons this year. 5. Bulletin Boards It is recommended that every ward Relief Society have a bulletin board with someone in charge of keeping it attractive and up to date. It can be a valuable teaching and training aid as well as a promotional and advertising aid. Magazine representatives will find unlimited use for it. 6. Posters Posters are used widely in commercial advertising. The same principles can be adapted to religious education. The message of a poster should be obvious at a glance. Posters would be helpful for work meeting lessons and Magazine promotion. 7. The Flannel Board The flannel board is recognized as one of the most valuable aids in story telling. 'The value of the flannel board depends upon the quality of the pictures used and the skill of the person using it. The flannel board consists of a board usually about two by three feet in size, covered with a piece of flannel cloth. Pictures, which have flannel pasted on the back of them, are placed on the board as needed. Each picture is a cut-out of a person, object, or scene and is manuevered to illustrate the point which the story is trying to emphasize. It creates motion and attracts considerable attention. ReRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 member to keep the presentation simple; keep the flannel board uncluttered and do not use too many figures. The flannel board could be effectively used in this year's work meeting lessons. Other suggested materials, more expensive, but very helpful if they can be afforded, are filmstrips, slides, opaque projectors, and recordings. Remember there is no "best type" visual aid. Different situations require different aids. The best judgment of the teacher should determine the one to be used. A motion picture may be ideally suited to one situation, while a chart or a flannel board will be most effective in another situation. Each aid selected for use in a particular lesson must contribute directly toward the development of the objective of that lesson. The resourceful class leader will begin early to collect and classify her materials. As soon as the lesson previews are published, she should be alert to those helps that will enrich her teaching plans. She should read each individual lesson as soon as it is published, in order to give further thought, organization, and preparation to her materials. The ward leader should consult her stake leader as to the suitability and appropriateness of her materials in the leadership meeting. It is there that she may also get ideas from other ward leaders. Remember! Although visual aids are an efficient supplement, they are not a substitute for good teaching. They are only aids to instruction, a means to an end. Too often a teacher will use visual materials as a "crutch" upon which to lean, LESSON DEPARTMENT expecting them to speak for themselves. Under such circumstances they are valueless. They do not exist by themselves, but are only a part of a teaching method. When skill- 459 fully integrated with that method, they give warmth and sparkle and permanence to what every eager, understanding Relief Society class leader would have her sisters learn. The following articles on this subject have appeared in The Relief Society Magazine: "The Value and Use of Audio-Visual Teaching Aids in Relief Society,' January 1953, page 27, by Leone G. Layton. "Suggestions on Teaching Aids for the 1953-54 Lessons," June 1953, page 418, by Leone G. Layton. "Teaching Aids for the 1954-55 Lessons," June 1954, page 400, by Edith S. Elliott. "Teaching and Teaching Aids for the 1955-56 Lessons," June 1955, page 403, by Mildred B. Eyring. "Audio-Visual Aids for 1956-57," July 1956, page 475, by Mildred B. Eyring. "Teaching Aids for the 1957-58 Lessons," June 1957, page 398, by Mary R. Young. "Teaching Aids for the 1958-59 Lessons," June 1958, page 399, by Mary R. Young. "Using the Blackboard in Teaching Lessons in the Relief Society," April 1960, page 228, by William E. Berrett. Theology— The Doctrine and Covenants PREVIEW OF LESSONS FOR 1962-63 Elder Roy W. Doxey ITH the exception of one of the revelations to be studied during the next eight lessons, they were all received in the month of August 1831. All of these revelations were received in the State of Missouri, except one. Since the publication of The Book of Mormon, the members of the Church had looked forward to learning the location of the promised city of Zion also known as the New Jerusalem. Prophets of The Book of Mormon had indicated that this New Jerusalem would be located upon the American Continent. (See Ether 13:6.) Bible prophets had spoken and sung of the glories of this city that would be a place of the gathering of God's people. The Lord has revealed in our dispensation that men would seek peace but thev would find it only in Zion. The splendor of this city would be known to the world in the days of millennial peace, and the righteous laws to govern the earth, emanating from that place, would be acclaimed by men. Its place in the future is assured—a capital of the world when Jesus Christ reigns—and the saints will build it. See Micah 4:2; 3 Nephi 20:21-22.) During the short period of the Prophet's sojourn in Missouri at this time, the Lord revealed the location of the city of Zion, something of its future glory, and that the covenant 460 members of the Church are committed to make preparations diligently for the building up of the city of Zion and, in the larger sense, of working for the cause of Zion or the advancement of the general purposes of the kingdom of God. The important truth is developed in another lesson that the saints are to exercise their abilities without being commanded in all things. The living of the laws of the land is to characterize the obedient Church member. One of the oft-discussed and important revelations was revealed for the benefit of the saints at this time. Eight obligations of the member in observing the Sabbath day are discussed in one lesson, and another is devoted to the blessings which follow proper observance of this and other commandments. Some Church members of this period, as well as some today, neglected fully to comprehend their calling in the Church to exercise their talents in behalf of their fellow men. For this they were called to repentance, and, thus, we of a later period, may benefit from the revelation dealing with this problem. Another lesson discusses one of the signs of the last days, arising out of an unusual circumstance experienced by the Prophet's party en route to the East from Missouri. The prophetic warnings voiced in The Doctrine and Covenants give the faithful a better appreciation of the Lord's concern for his people and the ultimate triumph of his work on the earth. That these predictions are in the process of fulfillment is known to those who are looking to these signs as harbingers of the second coming of Christ. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 The two concluding lessons for the year come from one section of The Doctrine and Covenants. From the beginning, there have been those who have sought after signs (miracles), in order to satisfy their curiosity. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has not been free from these individuals. We learn that signs will be known to the member of the Church and the Lord has provided many signs for the world as an evidence and witness of the restoration of the gospel. Because the saints were desirous of leaming many things pertaining to the future, this same revelation satisfied their longings for further information about the last days. The lesson is also taught that great care must be exercised in speaking about sacred things, for people will find condemnation in their irreverence. The 1962-63 series of lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 41 — The Center Place of Zion (D & C 57; 58:1-4). Objective: To learn that ancient prophets foresaw the New Jerusalem on the American Continent, and that the Lord's promise concerning Zion will not go unfulfilled. Lesson 42 — "Engaged in a Good Cause" (D & C 58:15-65). Objective: To show that obedience to the Lord's commandments involves working for the cause of Zion. Lesson 43 — The Day of Rest and Devotions (D & C 59:1-14). Objective: To learn what the Lord has said regarding rest from labors and the Sabbath Day. LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 44 — Rewards of Keeping the Commandments (D & C 59:15- 24). Objective: To learn the promises of the Lord for the faithful who keep his commandments. Lesson 45 — 'Talents and Testimonies (D & C 60 and 62). Objective: To understand that talents are to be used in the Lord's service in testifying of his power. Lesson 46 — The Waters and the Land (D & C 61). Objective: To learn that although one of the signs of the last days is 461 destruction on the waters, yet the Lord warns and protects the faithful. Lesson 47 — The Sign Seeker (D & C 63:1-21). Objective: To learn that the person of faith is justified by the Lord, but the sign seeker is condemned by the Lord. Lesson 48 — Give Heed to Warnings and Trifle Not With Sacred Things (D & C 63:22-66). Objective: To realize that to redeem Zion peaceful means were to be used; that wars would plague the world until the Savior comes; that there would come a time of peace during the millenium; and to know the seriousness of blaspheming sacred things. Visiting Teacher Messages Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants PREVIEW OF MESSAGES FOR 1962-63 Christine H. Robinson HIS year's visiting teacher messages ""T'ruths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants" are taken from Sections 58 to 62. In describing some of the conditions and circumstances under which these five revelations were given, the Prophet Joseph Smith emphasized the fact that in the early days of the Church "there was a great anxiety to obtain the word of the Lord upon every subject that in any way concerned our salvation" (D. H. C. I: 207). The chief emphasis in this year's messages is on some of the principles of living which affect our salvation. They stress particularly the personal blessings that come from effective and productive work. For example, they emphasize that we should keep ourselves "anxiously engaged" in good works. 'They point out that works of righteousness bring rich personal rewards and they alert us to the great value of the gift of time and urge us to use it wisely in the quest for eternal values. These messages exhort us to be cheerful, prayerful, and faithful. They also point out the importance of being industrious in the application of self-initiative. They stress the extent to which personal salva- 462 tion depends upon applying to ourselves the eternal principle of repentance. As. With all Doctrine and Covenants teachings these messages, although they deal with enduring and eternal truths, are modern scriptures and their application is particularly appropriate in our lives today. If we follow their teachings they will help us find right solutions to our problems and help us build lives on solid foundations which will bring us joy and happiness, not only in this life but throughout eternity. The messages and their objectives for 1962-1963 are as follows: Message 41—"'Men Should Be Anxiously Engaged in a Good Cause" (D & C 58:27). Objective: To demonstrate that the best cause in which we can be anxiously engaged is that of giving love and service to others. Message 42 — "He Who Doeth the Works of Righteousness Shall Receive His Reward" (D & C 59:23). Objective: To describe specific qualities and works which help to build righteous living. Message 43—'Be of Good Cheer" (D & C 61:36). Objective: To point out that cheerfulness is an important element of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 the gospel's teachings. The Lord wants us to be of good cheer. Message 44—'"Thou Shalt Not Idle Away Thy Time" (D & C 60:13). Objective: To emphasize the importance of utilizing our time wisely and to the best possible advantage. Message 45—"Pray Always That You Enter Not Into Temptation" (D & C 61:39). Objective: To show that prayer is the shield the Lord provides to help us overcome temptation. Message 46—"He Who Has Re pented of His Sins, the Same Is Forgiven and I, the Lord, Remember Them No More" (D & C 58:42). Objective: To show how greatly we are blessed through the divine principle of repentance. Message 47—"It Is Not Meet That I Should Command in All Things" (D & C 58:26). Objective: To emphasize the fact that it is through the exercise of free agency that we develop initiative and self-reliance. Message 48—"Inasmuch As They Are Faithful They Shall Be Preserved, and I, the Lord, Will Be With Them" (D & C 61:10). Objective: To emphasize the fact that the Lord's protecting spirit gives the faithful strength to meet life's problems. Work Meeting—The Latter-day Saint Home PREVIEW OF DISCUSSIONS FOR 1962-63 Dr. Virginia Farrer Cutler Objective: To show how the Latter-day Saint home may set an example in homemaking. 66 IAMILIES are forever" is one of the beliefs that make the Latter - day Saint home stand apart from all other homes in the world. The Latter-day Saint wants his home to be the setting for glorious family living, where LESSON DEPARTMENT love, good will, and creative working together develop the eternal bond between parents and children. Some so-called homes today are not much more than "filling stations' where family members drive in, fill up, and blow out. Others are "quick change" places where the main function is to get ready to go some other place. Latter-day Saints will guard against the disruptive influences that scatter the interests of family members to the far corners, leaving the home bare; contrariwise, they will exert every effort to make the home the matrix around which all else revolves. 'The home then becomes the place where each person feels secure and understood; the place where Latter-day Saint values, inherent in the good life, are nurtured. Such homes do not just happen — it takes study, planning, and good management to bring them about. Other factors needed are suggested by an old adage: "The laborer works with his hands; the craftsman works with his hands and his head; the artist works with his hands and his head and his heart." Surely, to realize fully the objective of an ideal Latter-day Saint home, every family member must work with his hands and his head and his heart. In pioneer days, mothers handed their recipes down to their daughters, and young brides patterned their homes after those of their parents. 'The homemaker had an abundance of time but little money and equipment to work with; in very deed, '"woman's work was never done." Today's homemaker, with her many-sided role, has less time for homemaking but more money and equipment than her pioneer counterpart could have dreamed about. Her 463 work may be done in a hurry, is more interesting, less enslaving, more complicated, and at the same time easier than ever before. There are new systems of marketing, new foods and new methods of preparing them. 'There are new mechanical devices to master if she is to make the most of the homemaking profession today. The eight discussions in this series will draw information from many sources in order to give the Relief Society member a sound basis on which to evaluate her home in relation to the Latter-day Saint ideal; help her to set some goals for improvements; and help her gain some skill as a home manager in working with her family to achieve these goals. A different method will be used in presenting each discussion. There will be a flip chart, a blackboard, a home values test, a sociodrama, a demonstration, a hidden panel, and a symposium. In each case, there will be a "buzz" session during the work period following the lesson in order that points presented may be discussed and elaborated upon, and that there may be a sharing of ideas about how to put the new suggestions into practice. Does our family time schedule need reorganizing in order that our home may be kept clean and beautiful and provide a suitable setting for our family activities? Are we living within our income and making the most of all of our resources? Is each member growing in understanding, unselfishness, love, honor, and in being a responsible person? The discussions will help members to know what to do about these queries. 464 The 1962-63 series of discussions have been given the following titles and objectives: Discussion 1—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well-organized (Part I) Objective: To show that successful home management begins with happy, wholesome family relationships. Discussion 2—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well-organized (Part II) Objective: To show that our family values are learned by working toward establishing goals. Discussion 3—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well-organized (Part III) Objective: To help us understand the value of organizing our time. Discussion 4—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well-organized (Part IV) Objective: To show that decisionRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 making is the heart of good management. Discussion 5—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (Part I) Objective: To show that a clean, wellcared for home enhances its beauty and uplifts the soul. Discussion 6—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (Part IT) Objective: To show that a clean, wellcared for home enhances its beauty and uplifts the soul. Discussion 7—The Latter-day Saint Home Exemplifies Thrift Objective: To show that a family can know the feeling of security through work and the wise use of resources. Discussion 8—The Latter-day Saint Home Is a Training Ground Objective: To show the importance of home influence on the training and growth of children. Lite rafure—America's Literature (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York) PREVIEW OF LESSONS FOR 1962-63 The New Birth of Freedom Elder Briant S. Jacobs DUCATION, indeed all existence, might be deSaueeyfined as a_ never-ending <a") voyage into self - discovery. And while each of us is moved irresistibly forward with emerging time, we best deepen and enrich our present search for identity by constantly returning to the past. 'The future is fantasy, since it unfolds itself to us only as an endless series of present moments. The living present alone seems real, but before it is here it is blended and tempered by all that is past, which it joins and gives substance to. 'The past approached as a sympathetic friend loyally tending to our every question and sensitive response sustains our imaginations and spirits with a breadth of vision and a warmth of understanding for all humankind. It bequeaths to our life some of its brightest joys and most enduring LESSON DEPARTMENT satisfactions. For those who approach the past in humility and awe, it yields superb cause for gratitude. The accumulative growth of centuries was culminated in the late eighteenth century by the Founding Fathers of the United States who wrote down what Englishmen living in New England had long known in their hearts. It was they who gave birth to the United States as a revolutionary idea, as theory. Now it remained for the nineteenth century to fire these brittle theories in the roaring furnace of a new age. "As our cause is new, so must we think anew," wrote Lincoln, for his pioneering, conflicting century. Thus fired and proved and strengthened, old truths were born anew and the maturing nation in conflict with herself attained a permanent maturity heretofore unknown. Romantic idealisms were moderated by tensions of a new realism; major issues and tensions increasingly became those familiar to the twentieth century. The same "great and marching words" of the glorious American past were still present and dominant, but in the mid-nineteenth century they were redefined: reality, aristocracy, wit, sin, nature, tradition, selfreliance, time, space, brotherhood, and freedom. 'The Civil War, that livid saber-cut across the face of American history, released pent-up conflicts so complex and comprehensive that a century has had to lapse away before they could be seen from a viewpoint even approaching a trustworthy perspective. Its accompanying literature mirrors its tumult and variety of values. Through the living words of literature, we have access to this crucial 465 period now freed from the arbitrary limitations of a place, a time, a nationality. During 1962-63 the following authors will write to us and for us: Lesson 33—Thoreau, Man in Nature Objective: To feel and appreciate Thoreau's "inexpressible satisfaction'' with the gift of life. Lesson 34—Henry David Thoreau, Individualist Objective: To relive some of Thoreau's words, that we may feel the force of his integrity and independence. Lesson 35—The Alcott Family Objective: To accept the Alcott home, teal and fictional, as a memorable example of the unity which kindness and love can create. Lesson 36—Oliver Wendell Holmes, Amiable Amateur Objective: To enrich our understanding and enjoyment of Holmes' wit and poetry by acknowledging the issues of his time which he represented. Lesson 37—The Literary Lincoln Objective: To establish a closer interrelationship between Lincoln's character and his writings, that we may more fully appreciate the genius of both. Lesson 38—Herman Melville (1819-1891 ) Objective: To become acquainted with Melville as man and as American that we may better understand the close relationship between his life and his writings. 466 Lesson 39—Melville's Masterpiece— Moby Dick Objective: To enjoy sharing Moby Dick either with the first reader or with the devotee. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 Lesson 40—The Challenge of Walt Whitman Objective: To attempt a sympathetic approach to Whitman, that we may experience further insight into his greatness. PREVIEW OF LESSONS FOR 1962-63 Elder Ariel S. Ballif Course Objective: 'ANKIND has always M lived in group association. Wherever this association exists, some form of regulation has been agreed upon. 'This represents man's effort to govern or to give direction to group interaction. The degree of regulation has varied from simple assent of the members of the group to complete dominance by a limited number. From this have developed the most effective forms of government that the group has been able to produce.. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints maintains that man is a creation of God, made in his image, and entitled to God's wisdom to assist and direct him to the full expression of his capabilities. Man was placed upon this earth with instruction for growth and advancement given by the Creator himself. Blessed with free agency and designed to live in a society where choice is assured, man has varied in his response to the divine instrucTo understand the law of God as it operates through his Priesthood for the exaltation of his children. Tion. In doing so, he has lost ground, in some instances to the extent that he could hardly be recognized in his behavior as the spirit child of God the Eternal Father. Whenever man has chosen to operate on his own without the wisdom and counsel of God, he has had to learn by trial and error. Advancement under these conditions has been slow, with many receding periods, never with the steady, consistent, _upward movement that could have been his to enjoy through ehedience to divine law. When man has recognized God and been in tune witn his mind and will, his progress. Has been more directly upward toward the glory of Godhood, which is the design of the Creator. We believe that God is the Creator of this world and all life upon it, including man. We believe that there was purpose in the creation, not merely a chance arrangement. This purpose includes the opportunity for man to work out his own salvation, to develop his LESSON DEPARTMENT talents and abilities toward perfection through learning, understanding, and living the principles, laws, and commandments governing the attainment of eternal life revealed by God. These revelations are the mind and will of God. They are divine law. This three-year social — science course will present a study of the law of God as it has been translated into the government of his Church. The effort will be to bring to the membership of the Relief Society a better understanding of his law as it-is expressed in Church government, emphasizing women's responsibility and privileges as set forth in | the relationship that exists between the divine law and its expression in Church government; in the organization and structure of the Church; and in the function of Church government in relation to the children of men. The 1962-63 course is entitled "The Foundation of Church Government." Its objective is to point out that Church government is founded upon the wisdom of God expressed in divine law and is operative through the power of the Priesthood for the welfare of man. The lesson titles and objectives follow: 467 Lesson 1—The Meaning of Divine Objective: To establish in the mind the sacred nature of Church government through the definition of divine law. Lesson 2—Divine Law and Human Welfare Objective: To make clear that divine law was made for the benefit and welfare of God's children. Lesson 3—Divine Law and Human Welfare (continued ) Objective: To establish the importance of system and order in Church government. Lesson 4—Divine Law and Ptiesthood Objective: To show the place and importance of Priesthood in carrying out divine law. Lesson 5—Application of the Jaw in the Dispensations of Man Objective: To help realize that divine law has operated from the beginning of time. Lesson 6—The Gradation of Divine Law Objective: To show the wisdom of God in the application of divine law to man. Lesson 7—Summary Objective: To focus attention on the importance of divine law as the basis for Church government. Notes on the Authors of the Lessons HIS year one new writer is represented among the authors of the lessons and introduced to readers of the Magazine. A biographical sketch of Dr. Virginia Farrer Cutler, author of the work meeting discussions, "Ihe Latter-day Saint Home," follows: Dr. Virginia Farrer Cutler was born in Park City, Utah. She was awarded a B. S. Degree and teaching certificate from the Universitv of Utah, and for three years was a teacher of home economics in Utah high schools. In 1929 she was married to R. Garr Cutler. Their son Robert was born in 1930, and a son Garr was born in 1932, after the death of the father. Later Mrs. Cutler resumed her professional career and continued her education. She received a Master's degree from Stanford University in 1937, and a Ph. D. From Cornell University in 1946. For eight years she was professor and head of the home economics department at the University of Utah. For seven years she served in Southeast Asia as home economics technical adviser for the international co-operation administration of the United States Government. Devoted to the cause of education, Mrs. Cutler has personally established several scholarships in home economics at various universities, and has contributed to other scholarship projects. She has sponPage 468 sored and assisted in directing manv special educational programs in home economics. She helped to plan the drive for funds to establish the Sterling W. Sill Home Living Center at the University of Utah, and she was an unofficial consultant for Brigham Young University in planning the Heritage Halls and the College of Home and Family Living. Her publications have included a large number of contributions to the Cornell Press Bulletins, professional home economics journals, and to Latter-day Saint periodicals. She is a member of Omicron Nu; Pi Lamba Theta; Sigma Xi; Epsilon, Epsilon, Epsilon; and other scholastic and honorary societies. From 1947 to 1961, Mrs. Cutler was a member of the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. Her sons fulfilled missionary assignments, one in Germany and one in Austria. Garr Cutler received his medical degree from the University of Utah and is now a member of the United States Air Force Medical Corps. Robert Cutler, who received his Ph. D. From Princeton University, was a member of President Kennedy's staff in the Bureau of the Budget. He died in January of 1962. Mrs. Cutler was appointed dean of the College of Family Living at Brigham Young University in 1951, and now makes her home in Provo, Utah. NOTES ON THE AUTHORS OF LESSONS For biographical sketches of the authors of the other lessons, see the Notes in The Relief Society Magazine, as follows: Elder Roy W. Doxey, author of the theology lessons, June 1957, page 410. Christine H. Robinson, author of 469 the visiting teacher messages, June 1957, Page 412. Elder Briant S. Jacobs, author of the literature lessons, July 1949, page 471. Elder Ariel S. Ballif, author of the social science lessons, June 1961, page 420. Geneva H. Williams I think of them there in the twilight When the night shades begin to fall, Father and Mother in the dear, old home That has known and sheltered us all. The house seems quiet and lonely, now, Since the children are grown and gone, But the bees still hum in the orchard bloom, And the birds sing the same sweet song. The evening star hangs over the mountain, The whippoorwill calls to its mate. The rising moon makes a path of gold On the shimmering blue of the lake. The place is flooded with memories, Memories of each sister and brother, Memories and love that take us back To our old home, and Father and Mother. Navigator SACRED MUSIC FOR | | Rose Thomas Graham WOMEN'S VOICES Lights out! She slips in carefully Not to disturb a small Cc NTO HIM " = ae eS Curly-headed roustabout SIAH" — Handel _.................20 Over by the wall. 3 COME YE BLESSED OF MY; FATHER — Madsen................ -20 This captain needs no compass IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY 5. 3 To guide his worthy ship. COMMANDMENTS — Madsen.25 IN THY FORM — Madsen No foghorn blows to wam him a eee Be Of rocks out in the deep. SIRING — Bach _. Ww. 25, ne His navigation's perfect, ee. LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT ', She hears a muffled sound or two. Could it be "All hands on deck?" He's headed straight for port and throws His anchor round her neck. LORD'S PRAYER — Malotte....25 MY HEART EVER FAITHFUL— Bach ooo. D5 THE 23RD PSALM — Schubert.25 al | I 1 I | I! I I | I I I | | | | —.20 | I I I | I | I l l I | I I I I I | | I I C0 On Approval [J Charge 1 Money Enclosed Name Daynes Mace | / salt Lake City 11, Utah EYES — Beethoven._.......... "22 July 20, 1962. Twenty-three days, ina show will be seen. Church historical Nauvoo and Adam-Ondi-Ahman. Use this advertisement as your Soe ee Including Victoria, Canada, leaving DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY it July 23.. Is out a dates: August 17, September 21. Ask about our tour to the BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY (Including Mt. Rushmore) leaves August 19, 1962 See the Colossal Sculpture carved from solid granite of the heads of Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt. $98.50 ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 vn. FORTHIN THY NAME, © LORD, | GO — Madsen _.......20 FOR JOY — Stephens..........20 UNTO THEE | LIFT MINE - VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS —=«Scon..... 25 Music Sent on Approval order blank Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. I first the sea is calm, but soon The billows rise and dip. Although he's fast asleep. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT cluding Boston, Washington, New York, and Chicago. Top Broadway places will also be visited, such as EIGHT-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TEN-DAY WORLD s FAIR Including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, and Victoria, Canada. Leaving Trees of Mystery Lela Foster Morris These are the giant sequoias, ancient, majestic. My heart is awed as I enter their cool tranquil shadows, I am a small humble presence before their immensities; There is no sound save for the drowsy buzz of a bee, The silken rustle of ferns as a deer leaps To the haven of dim lanes and forest pathways. These mighty trunks are pillars that support A lofty roof of interwoven boughs, Far above twilight aisles that hold a sacred stillness, For prayer and meditation an enduring sanctuary; The cool moist earth is carpeted with velvet moss, Violets and forest flowers that scent the air; Man had no part in all this glorious creation, In truth a temple wrought by God's own hand. Here these towering sequoias stood in beauty, Before the Master trod the paths of Palestine; Since, nations have lived their day and faded into oblivion, Centuries, like great barges laden with the cares of men, Have floated down time's stream into the mists, Yet these endure in serene and verdant grandeur, Their antiquity a mystery beyond all understanding. These giants stand witness to the eternity of God. E BEAUTIFUL All of the Numbers for the e HANDY Relief Society and M.1. A. A sure way of ae DURABLE first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate O Up to 150 miles —...........---.--- 35 Wusic. (lo. 150 to 300 miles. 39 300 to 600 miles.. 45 @ 600 to 1000 miles _.. '54 1000 to 1400 miles... -64 70 SO. MAIN ST. EM 4-6518 1400 to 1800 miles 16 Over 1800 miles........... 87 SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Leave them at our con ocated uptown office. Mason & Hamlin — Hardman Deseret News Press and the Original Cable Pianos Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 47] 7 are obtainable at > tion of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Ninety-nine Mrs. Ipa Annie LyNHAM STRATFORD Ogden, Utah Ninety-eight Mrs. HANNAH StusBs JONES Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Erriz Proctor Coy Berkeley, California Ninety-four Mrs. Erriex KILLENGER Myers Seattle, Washington Mrs. BopELt HaNnsEN JENSEN Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Nancy HAMMER MATHEWS Shelley, Idaho Ninety-two Mrs. EvizABETH STEVENS BIGLER Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. IpA McELDOWNEY Norwalk, California Ninety Mrs. Ipa May Peacu GILLESPIE Grand Junction, Colorado Mrs. Frora Bucx Ogden, Utah Mrs. SarAH JANE Roacu Bowers Burley, Idaho Mrs. OLEON SMITH RICE Farmington, Utah Page 472 | Pity the Child Christie Lund Coles I pity the city child Whose heart has not grown still At sight of a river singing, Or a country-summer hill; Before star-flowered night, And the morning's chorale; And the magical secrets Fields or orchards can tell. A city's ways are narrow With mortar, brick, and stone; But country lanes grow wider For a child to walk alone. NORTHWEST TOUR including Banff, Lake Louise, World's Fair — June 29, July 3, August 6 July 9 leaving from Phoenix, Arizona EIGHT-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR leaving every month — many dates TWELVE-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, Portland, Seattle, Victoria, B. C. — June 15, August 9, September 8, September 22. HAWAII June 7, June 24 HILL CUMORAH TOUR leaving July 28 MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East, P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 6-1601 — HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Directions First Presidency and eight members of the Council of Twelve discuss vital issues with youth, their parents, their leaders in this wonderful new volume. Delivered as Fireside Addresses, these thirteen selections cover basic ciples and express warmth and concern for the happiness d salvation of both old and young. Some of the titles are: Sarve Character — Shape A Soul" (President David O. Ay); "Value of Knowing the Scriptures in Your Youth" resident J. Reuben Clark, Jr.); "Knowledge of and dience to Law Is Evidence of Maturity" (President Hugh SUOMIONG 59,1] The managing editor of The Improvement Era, one of the Church's foremost authorities on the life of the Holy Land: to the little town of Bethlehem, Jerusalem, the Mount of Olives, Garden of Gethe OTSTEPS semane, the Sea of Galilee, and all the sacred spots where the Savior labored and lived. The full color OF and black-and-white photographs are many and magnificent! 195 JESUS Doyle L. Green | x F' DeseretE1Book Co. 44 East South Temple -- Salt Lake City, Utah. Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) 1 have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed $.................. For (encircled) numbered books: 1 2 Nene, ieee ne ire cc0<0000703000 PRESS cece cece eee ece seen eneseeennnteneceineee coon al + sO « SOOO SESS RRRR NIN CCT ae see LONE........ Statey)—c=.....— Residents of Utah include 3% sales tax, Brown); others. THE 2.95 Jesus, takes you on a vividly descriptive, pictorial tour sada t Is your life insurance Beneficial? The engineer is reshaping the face of America and America's future. His dynamic creativity helped put America in space... And will help keep us there. His knowledge, refined in scores of specialized skills, is the best armor we have | | | \ NOV 62 against our enemies from without. Many engineers, like knowledgeable men in many other fields, armor their families with Beneficial Life Insurance. There is a plan for every family. Perhaps yours is the Beneficial Benefactor, the plan that protects every member of your family — even the future additions. Ask your Beneficial man about it today. BENEFICIAL LIFE - Js your Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah Dorothy J]. Roberts We had one day of wide and azure water, Of white and climbing citadels of cloud; The peace that is a silent part of summer, A ring of purple mountains, distant, proud. We saw the sunflowers blazing into August, The petal-banded meadows flowing by, Swallows hung like baubles on the rushes; Lombardies laced the sapphire of the sky. We had one. Afternoon of airy stillness, And stayed to watch the sunset flare and burn. All ours — the mounded hay, the amber stubble — Until we took the roadway of return. The Cover: The Jordan River at the Supposed Place of the Baptism of Jesus Color Transparency by Dr. O. Preston Robinson Frontispiece: Summer in the Forest by Arizona Photographic Associates Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press TOM fear aint' aw Surprise! What a lovely new look the Magazine (May 1962) has. It was like meeting a cherished friend in a new dress. Thank you for the lovely setting for my poem ("On a May Morning" — frontispiece). I have had several calls about it. I think Paul Roberts' cover and the accompanying frontispiece picture are both beautiful. Some of my earliest writing was done for the Magazine, and I have never lost the delight of finding my work in its pages. It is wonderful to know you are writing for sisters the world over, who, share your ideals and beliefs. What greater satisfaction could a writer have? —Quida Pedersen Salt Lake City, Utah It is a blessing to have our leaders so close to us through the Magazine. I belong to a small branch in the Servicemen's District of the West German Mission, and it is good to have Zion brought to us in this small envelope every month. I especially enjoyed the story "Splendor Before Dawn" (second prize story, February 1962, by Sara O. Moss). I am a young married woman and fully realize the pitfalls of easy installments. Fortunately, this has not been our misfortune. The majority of us are fortunate to have a wash boiler, and we would be in seventh heaven with a secondhand washer. —Clara Lu Waite A. P. O. New York City, New York I am enjoying our Magazine thoroughly. The articles are very interesting and so applicable to the present conditions we are confronting in our everyday life. You are to be commended for the beautiful covers. I cannot recall ever having in my hands a magazine with more beautiful covers than The Relief Society Magazine. —Mrs. Grace G. Craig Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Page 474 I am most thrilled with the Magazine, and was particularly pleased to see Yosemite National Park featured on the January cover of the Magazine. This is currently my home country. Being a young mother, away from close Church association, I find our wonderful little Magazine a source of inspiration, and I am most eager for its arrival each month. —Mrs. Donna B. Gebler FE] Portal, California I received my copy of the May Magazine just this afternoon, and cannot delay writing my appreciation. The new look of the Magazine is so refreshing and such a joy to have come into my home. An added pleasure of the May Magazine was the inclusion of a story by my mother Frances C, Yost, entitled "Little Teamstress." I find spiritual uplift and practical ideas for homemaking in the Magazine, —Rosalie Y. Roberts Beaverton, Oregon Ever since Margery S. Stewart's serial "Sow the Field With Roses" began, I have been going to write about it. It is such a delight to read something that is well written, and has depth, besides. I thought the second prize story in the contest ("Splendor Before Dawn," by Sara O. Moss, February 1962) was an_ excellent story and so timely. In that issue, also, was an article by Mabel Law Atkinson which was very beautiful ("Sweeter the Thoughts of Love Expressed"). Our Relief Society president read it to us in visiting teacher meeting and commented on it. I received my May issue yesterday and was delighted with it. The fillers make a wholesome addition, and the colored pages make for attractiveness. —Dorothy Clapp Robinson ~ Boise, Idaho THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - <a - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - ----= - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Elizabeth B. Winters Edith S. Elliott Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron LaRue H. Rosell Florence J. Madsen Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt Jennie R. Scott Leone G. Layton Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Alice L. Wilkinson Blanche B. Stoddard Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen LaPrie) S. Bunker Evon W. Peterson Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Irene W. Buehner Aleine M. Young Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Irene C. Lloyd Josie B. Bay Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny S. Kienitz Hazel S. Cannon - Hazel S. Love RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL, 49 JULY 1962 NO. 7 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES In a Time of Flood - Frances C. Yost 476 She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part IV — Mary Alice Cannon Lambert. Preston Nibley 482 Jesus and the Land He Loved..........: Christine H. Robinson 409 FICTION Out of the Wilderness — Chapter 1] Shirley Thulin 484 Mama and the Heavenly Father Alice Gubler 490 One of the Pioneers Adrian Hansen 495 Hand to the Plow — Part III — Decision Ilene H. Kingsbury 500 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 474 Sixty Years Ago ' 504 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 505 Editorial: A Sister to 231,174 Members o......... E. EccceecceceeceseeceececeececcececeeseeveeeeeesesesMarianne C. Sharp 506 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 523 Birthday Congratulations. 552 FEATURES FOR THE HOME The Pea Patch Doris Duncan 498 Quick Recipes for Busy Days Janet W. Breeze 518 A Stitcher Tire oon ceene ec cnen cece cneeceneecneceeceeeeceetseesencaeecenssecesecseeneesseseeseeececceveacaeescceseacecsneeeAdelle Ashby 520 Helen H. Allen — Historian and Needlecraft Artist. 522 LESSONS FOR OCTOBER Theology — The Center Place of Ziom 2220... Ceeccececeeceececeee cece ceceeeeeeeeeeeteneeteneteeeeeeeRoy W. Doxey 530 Visiting Teacher Messages — ''Men Should Be Anxiously Engaged in a (© [oYoe Ma Ole (5) - ane Christine H. Robinson $36 Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well-Organized — Part I Virginia F. Cutler 537 Literature — Thoreau, Man in Nature Briant S. Jacobs 540 Social Science — The Meaning of Divine Ariel S. Ballif 545 POETRY Summer Interval — Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts 473 Prayer for the Fourth Generation, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 489; Summer Evening in the City, by Mabel Law Atkinson, 494; To the Sea Gull, by Clara Laster, 497; Commonplace Beauty, by Susa Gould Walker, 507; David on the Low Hills, by Margery S. Stewart, 508; Beauty's Bright Persistence, by Maude Rubin, 517; Beach Morning-Glories, by Ethel Jacobson, 517; Pioneer Woman, by Marjorie Reay, 517; At Summer's Edge, by Linnie Fisher Robinson, 519; The Apple Tree, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 550; Child Swinging, by Ida Elaine James, 551; Mount Timpanogos, by Christie Lund Coles, 551; Blessed Point of No Return, by Iris W. Schow, 552. Rc calm the nerves while waiting. I crocheted a pair of bootees waiting for my bishop husband to come home the Saturday evening of February 10, 1962. I felt too cozy in our warm, comfortable home two miles south of Bancroft, Idaho, for I knew only too well what was taking place in the village. People were sandbagging and shoveling and hoping that the temperature would drop and freeze the water. It didn't. Instead, the warm rain, pattering gently, encouraged more thawing and more rising water. If it continued, and it looked as if it would, the town would turn into a huge lake. Bancroft lies midway between Soda Springs and Lava Hot Springs on Highway 30N. It is the outgrowth of a water station built by the railroad on Squaw Creek in 1882. Bancroft was named after the first vice-president and general manager of the Oregon Shortline. Had the city of Bancroft been planned, perhaps they would have located it on a hill, or at least on a rise. Instead, it mushroomed around the railroad water stop in the lowest part of the valley. Bancroft is centrally located in a valley about the size of the Great Salt Lake Valley. 'yeiuiais is good to The village population is five hundred and varies very little from year to year. Bancroft is truly the center of the wheatfields surrounding it, Page 476 (Bancroft, Idaho) and reaching skyscraperward, are three grain elevators within its city limits. Spring runoffs are common in the village. Whenever the ground is frozen and does not absorb the moisture in the winter wheatfields, a runoff takes place. In the past years a few basements have had some water, and one street often turns into a river of goodly proportions. But never before had all the homes and businesses been threatened, never until the evening of February 10. When Bishop Yost came home, he said, "I believe it's holding its own. Wish the temperature would drop." He ate, slept the sleep of the exhausted for one hour, and went back to town for the night, this time wearing hip boots. Brother Christensen, on the eighth of February had stated, as he visited at the post office, "We're going to have a runoff this year worse than any we've ever had." The Christensens have a_ lovely home. 'They are always doing something on a do-it-yourself basis. 'They had been wanting to excavate and build another room in their basement, but time had not yet permitted it. When the rain started, encouraging the thaw, the Christensens diked as much as the frozen ground would allow. They even dug up some choice lawn sod to use for diking; but more dirt was needed, much, THE FEBRUARY 1962 FLOOD IN BANCROFT, IDAHO Looking east, with the north direction at the left, and the south direction at the right. Photograph taken before the maximum water level. The ward chapel, built ten years ago, may be seen in the right background, with the schoolhouse just in front of it; one of the grain elevators may be seen in the left background; the building at the left center, surrounded by evergreens, is the city hall. Highway 30N skirts the picture on the north, and the railroad track is just north of the highway. More dirt. They started digging that room in the basement. There were plenty of gunny sacks available at the mill. But the mill was five blocks downstream from the Christensens and definitely unavailable. Sister Christensen started sewing bags. She used old sheets, old curtains, flour sacks, anything. Brother Christensen and their Eagle Scout son carried those filled sacks from the basement out to the rising water. The two younger children filled bags, which Mother kept sewing. Tired and exhausted, they worked almost the clock around. This family won the battle. The water stayed away from their door. Three blocks west, and one block south from the Christensens, live the Mickelsens. Three returned missionary sons turned to Sister Mickelsen and said: "Mother, there's no use in the captain going down with the ship. We're taking you out while you can get out." They made a chair for their mother in their arms, and carried her through the waist-high water to safety. Then the sons went back to Page 477 478 their home, carried the furniture upstairs, and pulled up the carpeting. When finished, they went to help their neighbors. Sister Shamberg, a pretty young widow with a scout son and a smaller daughter, lives in a neat little white frame house with blue trim. 'Those who pass on Highway 30 notice the Shamberg home because of its tidiness. The house was built flush with the ground, and when the water started rising the evening of February 10, Sister Shamberg knew she had trouble. Others had the same trouble. She didn't ask for help. She and her scout son diked and diked. 'They even used a mattress to block off the water. They put up a battle, and it looked as if they were winning, keeping the water away from their home. Then swish! Swish! The floor boards gave way, and in one sudden rush the water filled the rooms to a two-foot level. Sister Shamberg and the children stayed on, stacked their furniture as best they could, and when the men came for them in a boat, they evacuated their home. So it was that 103 homes and twenty-eight business houses had a flood of water. Fortunate were the few homes built high from the sidewalk, or in a slightly higher part of town, which had no trouble.. The families felt fortunate who could say: "It only came in our basement." Many saw water covering their carpets and climbing their pianos. For a period of almost a week, the village, which is so used to trains passing at all hours, and so used to highway trucks barrelling through, was completely isolated. When the Red Cross executive helicoptered in, he was amazed at the fine organizaRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 tion. He said: "Usually we have to evacuate people, set up refugee shelters, and form bread lines. You have done all this. How did you organize so well?" \ 7E had the finest organization working on the earth — the Priesthood! Families in the village had gone to families on the farms. Many more homes than were needed had been offered. For the duration of the flood, and the rehabilitation, the village board and the principal of the school, worked hand in glove with the Church leaders, for the benefit of all. No one thought of pay, all worked willingly and well. Sharon Stanger and her two little gitls, Sherry Lynn and Stacy, came home with Bishop Yost Sunday evening. 'Their father Lynn stayed in town to help out as needed, coming out almost every evening to visit with his family. The young Stangers made their home in a lovely trailer house. Had they realized soon enough what was going to happen waterwise, they would have moved the mobile home to high ground. Luckily, their home floated much as Noah's ark, and had little damage. However, it was six days before the water subsided to the point where they could go home. Monday morning Marjorie and Phil Ingersoll, with their two little children, age three, and fourteen months, came to be our guests. The Ingersolls were entertaining a teenage group after the ball game, Saturday evening, February 10. Brother Ingersoll is a salesman for high school yearbooks and supplies. He had box after box of class rings, yearbook supplies and samples in his basement. While the party was on, IN A TIME OF FLOOD the water rushed into the basement. The boys forgot their clothes as they waded in water, forming a rescue team up the stairway, and saved several hundred dollars worth of supplies. "It was a blessing we had that party, and had some help," the Ingersolls said. "We could never have done it alone." Sunday morning the water rose in the Ingersoll home to the point where they moved upstairs. Monday, the furnace ceased to work. Brother Ingersoll hailed a passing boat and took his wife and children to the school evacuation center. As I watched them come to our door, the words of my husband's patriarchal blessing came to mind: "You shall never be in want for the necessities of life, shall accumulate enough of the world's goods to provide for your family and those who come to your door seeking assistance." I welcomed them warmly. It was a good week, one which I shall never forget. We had plenty of room for all, and one bed left over. We had our supplies of food on hand as the Church had suggested, and we managed nicely. JHEN the Red Cross executive helicoptered into town, Bishop Yost invited him to stay at our home, as there was no hotel or motel available in Bancroft, due to the flood. As the day progressed we women wondered what he would be like. We decided to wait and see. If he were older, and distinguished, or a bit sophisticated, he could have the master bedroom. If he were young and friendly, he could have the bed upstairs. He never came. Someone gave him a jeep ride to Soda Springs. 479 Tuesday, I felt it would do Marjorie, Sharon, and myself good to get away from the house and the children for a time. I suggested a sight-seeing tour of Bancroft. My teenage boys, who were having a six-day vacation from school, not only volunteered to tend the four little children, but offered us their car to go in. We took off, each in a pair of snow boots, and one pair of knee boots between us. We were able to drive as far as the schoolhouse. 'The day before, the school had been accessible only by boat. The streets resembled those of Venice, but no gondolas were available for sight-seeing. We walked two or three blocks skirting the water and inquired of all we met, "How are you getting along?" The Stanger and Ingersoll homes were not accessible. I especially wanted to check personally on Grandma Yost's home. Our parents were in Arizona for the winter. We walked two blocks west and inspected it. The basement was dry as a bone. Sister Ingersoll, a music major from the Brigham Young University, sat down at Grandma Yost's little organ and played, while Sharon and I sang along. Three homes belonging to elderly couples who were wintering in Atzona were untouched by the flood waters. Some might call it coincidence. We felt it was a blessing. Some of the loveliest homes in the town were hurt the most. One modern, rambling-type brick home had one wall caved in. We watched for awhile as men were pumping out the basement, and cleaning so that they could put up two-by-fours to hold the wall and the roof from caving in. Seeing such devastation to 480 homes of those we knew and loved was saddening indeed. VV EDNESDAY was Valentine Day. The little children felt disappointed that they had to miss school on such a wonderful day. Marjorie and Sharon and I wondered if the men in our lives would remember us with a gift. We certainly didn't expect a thing with our men working so hard at this rehabilitation work. I made cherry pies, and we used the last of the ice cream on hand for pie a la mode. After supper, we sat around visiting and joking, but mostly listening to how the work was progressing in town. That was the evening we toured the White House with Mrs. Kennedy by way of television. Yes, sweethearts were remembered with gifts, and my boys presented me with a huge, heart-shaped box of candy. ONDAY evening the stake president and his first counselor came from Soda Springs to see Bancroft's bishop. They had had to come in a truck through high water. When we went to the door to welcome them, they insisted on taking off their hip boots in the utility room. When they entered our big kitchen, our threefold family was sitting eating supper at the big table. The little ones who had eaten earlier, were playing in the living room. The quietest and most secluded place in the house was the master bedroom. As those three men sat on the pink chenille bedspread, in work-worn clothes, I wondered if ever before a_ stake presidency and bishop's meeting had been held in just such a setting. President Dredge stated that the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 entire Church Welfare Program was behind our ward. Bancroft members who had always been on the giving side of the Welfare Program since its inception in 1936, saw the wheat they had given through the years come back in all sorts of necessary supplies at this time. The quotation "Cast thy bread upon the waters: for thou shalt find it after many days," was literally being fulfilled. It was probably Tuesday evening when Bishop Allen of the Soda Springs Second Ward called. He and Bishop Yost are as close as brothers as they had served together in the Idaho Stake presidency. Their conversation went something like this: "Got any water down there?" "It's a little swampy." "Our Relief Society will be down tomorrow to serve dinner to the work crew." "That isn't necessary, Bishop Roland, we're getting along just fine." "T didn't ask you, Bishop Glenn, I'm telling you." The Relief Society came. Dinner was served in the school lunch room. It was not easy to bring food through high water and women to prepare it. The First Ward Relief Society prepared dinner also. 'Then, with the same helpful compassion, the Ladies Aid of the Soda Springs Presbyterian Church served dinner one day also. Those hot meals at noontime for six days were very much appreciated. Some of those days the work crews numbered 200. Some of the men had no homes to go to, some had come a long way to help. It would be ungrateful not to mention also the fine work the Red Cross did for the community. The three Red Cross workers who were IN A TIME OF FLOOD there were given the Latter-day Saint stake office and all the classrooms they needed for their work. They said never had they had such nice office rooms. Often they worked in tents. OUNTED among our blessings was the fact that our beautiful Latter-day Saint chapel, built and dedicated just ten years ago, was not damaged. Not even one single drop of water came in. Also, the school was unharmed, though a little water was pumped from the basement of the school. Sister Ingersoll's father came from Boise for her and the children the following Monday. They had been with us a week, and we knew that because of the experience we would be lifelong friends. Her note from Boise reads in part: "We certainly do appreciate ALL you did for us — it's hard to name it all, but the list goes like this: food, beds, friendship, work, comfort, patience, and on and on and on." UNDAY the 18th, the men ceased from their labors and most of the Bancroft Ward members met in sacrament meeting at two P. M. It was easier to get around in the middle part of the day, for there was still much water. 'Testimonies were borne, and blessings expressed. The town's people had been evacuated, a major cleanup job had taken place, with no drownings, no electrocutions, no accidents. In fact, our population increased by two members, two baby 'girls were born at 481 the Caribou County Hospital in Soda Springs on Valentine Day. Our dear ward Relief Society president, Sister Ramona McLain, is a young and willing, lovely former schoolteacher. She had served as president about six months. She was truly a wonderful mother of the ward. Her own home _ housed twenty-three extra people the night of the worst flooding, though she, with the others, had to evacuate the following day. With president, counselors, and secretary, the Relief Society operated a welfare store in the foyer of the chapel. Folks did not flock in for supplies. Bancroft folks are proud and independent. Their bishop went to the homes and invited them to come and see what supplies they needed. Especially were the juices welcomed, as water was felt to be unfit for consumption. As soon as the local stores were able to open for business, folks went back to the regular channel for their groceries. As the men finished pumping out the basements, and the heavy cleanup jobs were finished, the Relief Society moved in with an organized cleanup brigade. The many donated hours spent would be hard even to tabulate. One day the Primary officers and teachers spent the day cleaning the theater. It was found that folks enjoy working, as well as visiting at a quilting. The Flood of Sixty-two will long be a conversation piece in our area, but not with long faces, for we know from experience that many blessings and friendships come from such times of disaster! She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith Part IV— Mary Alice Cannon Lambert Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH Crayon Portrait by an unknown artist, probably taken from the Piercy drawing published originally in 1855. MBS. Mary Alice Cannon Lambert was born in Liverpool, England, on December g, 1828. She was the eldest daughter of George and Ann Quayle Cannon. Through the missionary efforts of Elder John Taylor, a member of the Council of the Twelve, the parents and three of the children were conPage 482 'Orleans. Verted and baptized in 1840. In 1842, the entire family, which consisted of the parents and six children, set sail for America by way of New During the voyage of eight weeks, the mother died and was buried at sea. 'The family con- -tinued on and reached Nauvoo, - where a home was established. They -were prospering fairly well when another tragedy befell them — the. Father died in August 1844, and the children were left as orphans. Two of the older children now found a home with John Taylor, and Mary Alice established her own - home through her marriage to a young English convert named Charles Lambert. The Lamberts made a home for the younger Cannon children. Mary Alice was a heroic young woman. ' After the Lambert family emi grated to Utah, they became prosperous and independent. In 1905, Mrs. Lambert wrote the following tribute to the Prophet Joseph Smith, whom she remembered when she was a growing girl in Nauvoo. The article was published in the Young Woman's Journal in December 1905. Mrs. Lambert died in Salt Lake City in 1920. "T first saw Joseph Smith in the Spring of 1843. When the boat in which we came up the Mississippi River reached the landing at Nauvoo, several of the leading brethren were there to meet the company of SHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH saints that had come on it. Among those brethren was the Prophet Joseph Smith. I knew him the instant my eyes rested upon him, and at that moment I received my testimony that he was a Prophet of God, for I never had such a feeling for mortal man as thrilled my being when my eyes first rested upon Joseph Smith. He was not pointed out to me. I knew him from all the other men, and, child that I was (I was only fourteen), I knew that I saw a Prophet of God. "Many, many times between the time I reached Nauvoo and his martyrdom, I heard him preach. The love the saints had for him was inexpressible. They would willingly have laid down their lives for him. If he was to talk, every task would be laid aside that they might listen to his words. He was not an ordinary man. Saints and sinners alike felt and recognized a power and influence which he carried with him. It was impossible to meet him and not be impressed by the strength of his personality and influence. "In May, 1844, he went to the stone shops where the men were working on the Nauvoo Temple and blessed them, each man by the power of his Priesthood. Brother Lambert (whom I afterward married) he gathered right in his arms and blessed, and it was ever his testimony that he was thrilled from head to foot by that blessing. "T well remember the night of the 483 MARY ALICE CANNON LAMBERT Prophet's death. The spirit of unrest was upon all, man and animal, in the city of Nauvoo. Why, we did not know, but we could not rest. My father was on guard. No one in the house had slept, the dogs were noisy, and even the chickens were awake. "About 3 o'clock the news of the martyrdom was brought to us, and we realized what had kept us awake. And oh, the mourning in the land! The grief felt was beyond expression — men, women and children, we were all stunned by the blow" (Young Woman's Journal, December 1905). Out of the Wilderness CHAPTER 1 Shirley Thulin ARIAN pulled another length of tissue from the roll and carefully wrapped it around the cutglass candleholder. She placed it beside its mate deep within the old trunk and reached for the matching fruit dish. It is like wrapping little pieces of myself and tucking them away in a dark place, she thought. The ring of the phone suddenly pierced the silence of the room. "Hello." "Marian, what are you doing? I saw Fred today and he told me you had signed a lease on your home." Marian was silent so long that the voice on the other end of the line said her name twice before she could answer. "I am going, Charles. I have to." "You must be out of your mind. How can you and the children possibly?" His voice was going on and on, but she wasn't listening. She already knew what he would say when he found out she had decided to go. They had talked about it and he couldn't understand, and she couldn't explain... Not quite even to herself, let alone to Charles. But Marian had made up her mind she was going to the mine for the summer, as David had wanted her to do for so many summers... And only after his death had she Page 484 realized how much it had meant to him. That was the thing that had been so hard for her. The selfaccusations, the regrets.... She knew now that she had cheated David out of their summers, and at the same time had blamed him for their separation each year. She knew he had to do the assessment work or lose the mine. But she had argued each time as he was packing to go. Tried to get him to sell the land and hadn't realized how much she had pained him. "Why, you've never tangled with anything bigger or more fierce than a ladybug, Marian, you..."" Charles' voice brought her back. "Please, Charles. I know the things you are saying are true." Her words were slow and deliberate, they had to be to keep her voice from trembling. "But it's just for the summer. Nothing too drastic can happen to us in that short a time." Had she heard herself correctly? Had she really said, that short a time, when deep within her she knew that from the 10th of June until the last of August would be an eternity. "T'm going to the mine for the summer, Charles, and Jimmy's going to do the assessment work that needs to be done to keep the property." There was a tone of finality to her words. OUT OF THE WILDERNESS ce pIMMY's just a kid, he can't.... Tell you what. I'll look around for someone you can hire...." "No, Charles, we can manage fine. Everything's been arranged." She couldn't tell him there was no money with which to hire someone. David's insurance would be enough to live on fairly comfortably, but there would be no money for such extras. "Jim's fourteen now, and he's been going with his father every summer since he was nine. He says he knows what to do...." 'Tears were threatening, but she made herself go on. "I... I've got to let him try." Charles was the silent one now. Then he said, "Marian, I'm going to miss you... I had some plans...." Marian's heart warmed. Charles had never mentioned anything before about the two of them.... "It's too soon for plans, Charles," Marian told him, and a wave of helplessness came over her. "But there isn't time... You're going.... I know I'm saying this badly, but, Marian, you need someone... We both do." Yes, she needed someone. She felt so lonely and lost this last year. She was thirty-four, and that should be old enough to take care of herself, but she had always been so dependent. David had been so good to her... Had seen to everything... Had done the worrying for both of them. 'True, she had been alone each summer, but she had been able to cope with being alone in the city, with all the conveniences at her fingertips. If only he hadn't spoiled me so, she thought. "T can't bear to have you and the children go away," Charles was say- 485 ing. "How will you manage there in the wilderness?" Marian smiled to herself. "It isn't a wilderness. It's only seventeen miles from a little community." There she went again.... Only seventeen miles... That same stretch of road had seemed like a thousand miles to her when she had honeymooned there fifteen years ago, as Mrs. David Morgan. She had wanted to go to a fine hotel in some large city or to a beach resort, and though she had tried to hide her disappointment, David had known, and that had been the last time he had taken her any place she had not wanted to go. "How will you manage?" Charles was asking again. And she couldn't answer him, dared not let herself think about how she was going to manage. "Thanks, Charles, for being concerned, and... For caring..." her voice stopped. It was nice to have someone care. Maybe if he had said something sooner, but now her plans had been made. M ARIAN thought back. Charles Neering had moved into the ward about seven years ago, when his wife died. His grown daughter had come and stayed with him to help him adjust. 'Then, when she had to go back East to finish her schooling, he was left alone. He kept busy with his work and his Church duties, though, and was always on hand whenever anyone needed him. And since David's accident, he had been the rock of Gibralter to Marian and her family. But the memory of David was still too vivid to her. They had had such a beautiful life together, begin- 486 ning with their temple marriage, and they had six wonderful children. Charles was a city dweller, as Marian was, and David loved the mountains. If only she had gone with him back to Montana each summer.... But it was too late for regrets. She could only try to make it up to him, somehow, by teaching his children to love the things he had loved... By taking Jimmy back. "When are you leaving?" "In the morning... On the 8:15 train." "Is someone meeting you in Montana?" "Jim knows the stationmaster. He sent him a letter." She tried to sound casual, as though she crossed two states with six children every day in the week, but she couldn't remember exactly what Jim had said they would do when they got there. "Tl come by and take you to the station," he offered. "Thanks, I was wondering what to do, now that we have no car." "YI bring the pick-up," he said, but she knew he was thinking, see, you can't even make it to the station without help. "Thanks," was all she could say. She hung up, wearily. "Mommy." It was Jill waking from her nap. "What are we doing? Our house is all messed up." Marian picked up the chubby three-year-old and nestled her nose in the warm little neck. "I know it is, sugar. Mommy's packing." Then she thought, oh, darling, how am I going to manage in the wilderness? Quickly she busied herself so the tears would not start. She wrapped the household items, mostly wedding gifts, and packed them away as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 She had had to pack away her life with David. The screen door banged, and she knew from the eager footsteps it was Jim. "Hi, Mom, how's the packing?" "Fine, almost through now." He is smiling... His old, eager smile, thought Marian. It's good to have him smile like that again. '"Where're we going to put all these trunks and boxes?" He was standing in the middle of the room with his hands on his hips, looking around him. "We're going to take these boxes with us, and Petersons said we could use that little room in the basement to store the rest. He will put a lock on the door for me. How was the last day of school?" "Fine... Good marks in everything.... I'm sure glad Petersons are moving in to take care of the place. When will their house be finished?" "The last of August." "Works out just right.... Shall I take these things down now?" "Not yet. I want to label them so I'll know where everything is." "Mom," Jimmy put his hand on her shoulder, "is something wrong? You look worried." Marian looked up into the solemn young face. "Jimmy, I'm not worried, it's just that, that I'm not exactly the out-door type.... There will be so many things to get used to." "No, there won't, Mom. It will be fun, you just wait. The air is so... Well, so... And the green everywhere... The kids will love it." "Yes, I know they will." All but Sue, thought Marian. She's so much like me. Although her twelve-year- OUT OF THE WILDERNESS old daughter had not said much, Marian knew she was full of apprehensions. She had put off talking to Sue too long, hadn't quite been able to trust herself yet. "How're we going to get to the station? We're sure taking a lot of things." Jim shook his head. "Charles is coming in his pickup." Marian saw the look that briefly shadowed Jim's face. For a moment she was afraid he was going to say something, but he didn't, and Marian was glad. HE door banged again and Jed yelled, "Mom. There will, too, be bears, won't there?" "Oh, sure, and mountain lions, and even snakes." 'This remark from Ted was meant to be funny, but it brought a wail from Jill. Jed, the other half of Ted (that's what David always said about the ten-yearold twins), picked Jill up and assured her that Ted was only kidding. Marian felt she needed reassuring, along with the baby. "Mommy, you said it would be fun going to Montana. Will it be fun if there are snakes and bears?" Six-year-old 'Tommy's eyes were excited. Marian hugged him to her and changed the subject. "Did everyone pass?" The chorus of assent drowned out the sound of the door this time, and Marian would not have known Sue was home, but she caught sight of the blue skirt slipping around the hall doorway. Marian found Sue lying on her bed, tracing the floral pattern of the spread with her finger — outwardly resigned, inwardly in turmoil. Marian sat on the edge of the 487 bed. She wanted to take her daughter in her arms and comfort her as she used to when Sue was little, but she knew that would not help now. She smoothed Sue's honey-colored hair from her forehead and said, "Sue, I'm going to tell you something, and I want you to try to understand." Maybe it isn't best, thought Marian, to let her know how I feel, but I don't know what else to say. "You and I are going to have to be real brave, sort of like the pioneers. Remember the stories Grandma used to tell us?" "Yes, but all my friends...." "The pioneer women left everything, their beautiful homes, their families....". "But, Mom, all summer.... "That's not really so long. Come on, dear, when you act like this, you make it harder for me. And we can't let the others know how much we would rather stay here." "You mean you don't want to go, either?" Sue sat up. "Not really. I don't like to rough it. Guess I'm spoiled." They both smiled, and Marian went on, "I love to work in my flower garden, and I love nature, from a car window, but I'm just not a good mountaineer." "T'm not, either." "Then we'll have to pretend, won't we?" "T guess, only Kathy and the others have so many plans for the summer." Sue's chin quivered. "T'm going to be left out of some things, too. I'll miss my Relief Society meetings, and my garden club, and visiting with all my friends, and shopping, but I've had my subscription to The Relief Society Magazine transferred, so we can read "? 488 the Magazine together, and we can work on our Remembrance Books, and write lots of letters." "Could we take our pillowslips to finish?" "Yes, and I can teach you to crochet. Now come on, honey, we've got to put supper on. I still have some things to iron before I can finish the packing." — Iron. Marian inwardly shuddered as she thought of the two heavy black irons with wooden handles that had made enemies with her before. She could still see them on the back of the old, ugly coal range, which was all the three-room cabin boasted. She remembered all too well her first attempts at ironing her pretty honeymoon housedresses. And she dared not think about doing the washing for the seven of them on that old scrubbing board in the big washtub. AFIER supper, Marian saw to it that the children all had their baths. "Really dig into those ears," she told them, "it will be a long time before you can have this much good, hot water again." "Oh, boy!" cried Jed. "No baths all summer!" "There'll be baths, all right," laughed Jimmy, "but not in hot water." "Gee." Tommy unbuttoned his shirt and tossed it on the floor. "Baths! I thought Montana was going to be fun!" Just before Marian tucked the children in bed, they had family prayer, and somehow, she felt very close to the Lord. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 "He will bless us, Mommy," Tommy said, giving Marian a big hug. "T'm sure he will." She tousled his still damp hair, and picked up ill. "You like bears, Mommy?" Jill's eyes were wide and deep. "Only Teddy bears, darling," and Marian wondered how long her supply of courage could last. That night when the last-minute details were finished, Marian lay thinking, going over her plans carefully, to be sure she hadn't forgotten anything. She and Jim and Sue had spent the whole week planning menus and shopping. They had bought each child a pair of good sturdy shoes, and she had patched mountains of overalls, packed bars of strong laundry soap, scrub brushes, and disinfectants. She wondered if the sewing kit and the first-aid box ~ they had fixed would be adequate. And she hoped Jim remembered correctly about how many sleeping bags, blankets, and other supplies were stored at the cabin. So many details... So much to think about.... Suddenly, the house was very still. Marian lay for a long time, basking in the comfort of her soft, clean bed, looking into the darkness. She thought about her beloved home, tastefully decorated, comfortably furnished. Then she heard the clock beating a slow thythm in unison with her heart. Both seemed to say, "Stay home, Marian, stay home. Don't go into the wilderness." She covered her ears with her pillow and, after awhile, fell into a fitful sleep. (To be continued ) Don Knight THE SAN JUAN MOUNTAINS FROM NEAR RIDGEWAY, COLORADO Prayer for the Fourth Generation Eva Willes Wangsgaard Father of all, from valley floor to peak, Lend us your loving favor and your ear. In strength of quake-hewn cliffs we hear you speak And under ancient cedars feel you near. We wander lost who were bequeathed so much From giant forebears who traversed wild plains Armed with two Bibles. We are out of touch With their humility, their faith and pains. Awaken in our sons the will to do The menial task with eyes raised toward your height; To call a neighbor, brother, help him hew A kingdom from a desert's obdurate might. Renew our strength to plant peace deep in earth Faith-rooted, reaching, worthy of our birth. Page 489 Mama and the Heavenly Father Alice Gubler mer sunset were spreading like cool fingers across the fevered brow of day. Summer evenings were a most treasured part of my childhood. Sunset meant homecoming time at our house; it was sort of an unwritten law. However, we could play in the lane in front of the house with the other children until we were called. My cousin Iantha and I were happily squishing the dust in the road between our toes, when a plaintive voice asked, "Will you two walk home with me?" We looked up. 'There was Julie, and my goodness, she was fifty miles from home. Well, at least a whole mile, because her house was the other side of town. "Oh, my, I can't go anywhere now," I said, "because the sun is almost down." "Of course it is," she said, "that's why I want you to go with me. It will be dark before I get home and Pll be afraid." Iantha said, "Oh, come on. Let's take her home." "T can't," I protested. "Tf both of you go, then you won't have to come back alone," Julie pleaded. "No, I can't." "All nght, don't you go with me then," she said with a toss of her head, "but I'll tell you one thing, Page 490 ae: long shadows of the sumif you don't, then the bad man will get you." "He won't, really, will he?" I asked. "He will, really," she affirmed. Julie was ages and ages older than I was. She was born the year before I was, and that would make her lots smarter. She probably knew lots more about the bad man than I did. I looked toward the house where mama would be putting supper on. She would be pouring creamy milk from a pan into the green glass pitcher, and she would put on a plate with a hundred slices of bread on it — well a lot of slices anyway, because it took lots of bread for all of us. When we sat down to eat bread and milk and fruit at nights we circled clear around the big table that Uncle Jake had built for us. You see there were five sisters and mama and papa and a little baby brother, with curly hair, who was the cutest baby in the world, and Grandma Isom. Grandma always fussed over me because I was named for her, but I worried her, too. She would say, "My lands, how that child exaggerates!" I always wondered what she meant. I had the urge to run fast into the house where the family was, before Julie could say another word, but I didn't. "We'd better hurry, Iantha, and take Julie home," I said, so the three MAMA AND THE HEAVENLY FATHER of us took hold of hands and pattered down the lane. I was the littlest and the youngest, and I wished they would let me walk in the middle, but they didn't. Julie got the middle spot, and as we walked on each side of her to protect her, she told us spooky tales of things that really, really happened to people who lived right close around. USK was turning into thick black velvet as we scooted along through the tunnel of trees to Julie's house. When we came to her gate we stood under the climbing trumpet vines. Julie whispered, "And now, because you had to be coaxed, and didn't come with me when I first asked you, I'm going to tell you one thing more. 'The bad man is going to get you anyway. He won't get you until the first night you sleep away from home." I pulled away and grabbed Iantha's hand, and in utter fright, we sped down the lane and home. I slipped quietly into the welcome light of the living room. Papa said, "This is a fine time to be coming home to supper." The table was cleared already, and my sisters were washing the dishes. Mama was humming a tune as she kept finding more dishes for my sisters to do. Mama could always find more dirty dishes, even where there weren't any, almost. But you should have heard her sing. She hummed prettier than anybody; soft and clear and sweet. Her cheeks were always pink, too, the kind of pink that didn't scrub off and that made her look special. I looked at her, and I wanted to run to her and tell her my whole 491 miserable story, but Julie had said the bad man would get me just as soon as I told. I stood in the kitchen by the stair door feeling awfully little. No one paid any attention to me. The kitchen began to shimmer in front of my eyes and I felt my chin quiver, so I climbed the stairs around the turn and wiped my eyes and hoped no one could see me. Papa was jouncing Willie, our baby brother, on his knee and singing, "A chicken went to bed but it was no use, roll Jordan, roll." Papa thought Willie was a mighty important baby because he was our only boy and we already had six girls," I guessed I'd better get down off that stairway and go where everybody was. Grandma was reading the Deseret News and shaking her head every little while and saying, ""T'sk, tsk, tsk, what a shame!" My sister Mildred got out her paper dolls that she had cut from the catalog and asked me to come and play with her. Mildred was always good to me. Mama came in, sat down at the organ, and began softly to chord, and Papa sang "The Bowery." Everybody acted as if nothing was wrong. My goodness! You would think they couldn't help but know something terrible was going to happen to me! Morning came, and a flock of quarreling sparrows, tumbling along the fence in the currant bushes, woke up the sun. I went into the garden with my sisters to pull weeds out of the carrot and turnip row. The terror of last night seemed like a bad dream to be forgotten, until Mildred, yanking on a fist full of 492 grass, said, "I wish Mama would let us go to Oak Creek to see Grandmother Crawford." Oh my! Why did she say that? Julie's dire prediction loomed before me like a horrible apparition. I couldn't go anywhere! Not ever! All the rest of my life I would have to stay in Hurricane! Thought of Oak Creek and Grandmother and Aunt Emma. Oak Creek was the prettiest place in the whole world, except for the ranch at Kolob. I closed my eyes, and I could see the high pink and creamcolored canyon walls, and hear the soft swish of the Virgin River through the trees. There was always a cool canyon breeze that carried the fragrance of box elder and cottonwood. My heart felt all twisted with longing. 'There was no place so good as Grandmother's home in the summer. She let us gather eggs in the barn, and we could always find a handful of sweet, everbearing strawberries in her garden, and she had yellow currants. We had only black ones at home. The cookies she made were big and golden brown, all sprinkled with sugar and nutmeg. They were as much a part of being at Grandmother's as the blue willowware dishes in her cupboard. Aunt Emma was a part of Grandmother's home, too. She would let us play with her little wooden dishes, and her tiny little clock, and she had some angels that twirled on a spindle that made chimes ring. She reminded me of those angels. She smiled when she spoke, and it was always of happy things she told us, and her dark eyes would shine. Her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 voice sounded like music that sort of belonged with Oak Creek and the gentle canyon breeze. I wished Mildred hadn't thought of Oak Creek! Mama just might let us go, if Uncle Louis should come down with a load of grist for the mill. She sometimes did. We would ride back in the wagon on the sacks of flour, and stay a week, sometimes, and play with our cousins in Oak Creek and Springdale. Our cousins were lots of fun. Uncle Louis didn't come — but wouldn't you just know it! — Mama and Papa planned a family vacation — the very first one in our lives! We were going out to Moccasin to see Aunt Lavern Heaton's family. Moccasin was out of the State even. It was clear off in Arizona. Y sisters were as excited as if Moccasin had streets of pure gold. Just when I would start to get excited, too, then Julie's dark prediction would stare dismally at me. I suffered! Mama baked things in the kitchen that smelled good all through the house. Everyone was busy and happy helping get ready to go. That is, everyone but me. I helped, but I wasn't happy. When I smiled I just turned it on like a mechanical thing. I wished time would stand still, but it would not. Jesse Spendlove drove up to our house in Uncle Ren's wagon, and our bedding and grub box and supplies were loaded in, and I knew that this was the very last day of my life. But, suddenly, I decided to get just as excited as my sisters. It was great to be perched upon a pile of bedding with the other children in the wagon. We laughed MAMA AND THE HEAVENLY FATHER and talked, and guessed what we would find around each turn in the road ahead. Far out across the stretches of wasteland were gray forms racing wildly with the wind. I asked Papa if they were wolves, and he said no, they were tumbleweeds. Pretty soon we came to a fence that had a lot of them caught in it. Way out against the sky was a blue mountain. It was as blue as Pine Valley Mountain at home. I asked Papa if we would go over the mountain and he said we would tomorrow... Oh dear! If only I were going to be with the family tomorrow I could see what the rocks on the blue mountain looked like when you came to them. From home, Pine Valley Mountain looked as if it must have blue glass rocks on it, but it was too far away for us ever to go over and see. I wished I was going to live, because then I could gather my lap full of blue rocks and take them back home to show to Jantha. My heart ached with regrets, and I became engulfed in a tide of misery. The sun went down, and Papa said the horses needed to rest. Jesse pulled them over onto a flat place that Papa said would make a fine camp. He took off the harnesses and rubbed the dust off their sweaty flanks, and they snorted as if it was a mighty fine feeling. FE ate our supper around the campfire and then made a big family bed on a canvas on the ground. When we were all tucked in, I lay listening to the contented sound of the horses munching grain in their nose bags. My emotions swung like the pen- 493 dulum of a clock between fleeting surges of happiness and utter misery. These things were dear to my heart — the embers of the campfire, the sound of the horses, and sleeping under the stars; but all was not serene. I studied the dark bushes around us, and I knew that lurking behind one of them was the bad man, waiting for the folks to fall asleep so he could get me. This was the zero hour. It didn't matter what I did now. I could shout to the hills the whole tale of my misery if I wanted to. Nothing would make any difference. I crawled out of my warm spot between my sisters and snuggled down under the covers by Mama. There was no use to tell Papa, because he would only say, "That's all a pack of nonsense. Go on back to your bed and go to sleep," but Mama would listen. "Mama, the bad man is going to get me tonight," I whispered. She gave me a little squeeze. "Of course he isn't," she said. "Oh, yes, he is," I insisted. "Who told you that?" she asked. I blurted out the whole, miserable story to her. She said, "Don't you ever let anyone tell you a think like that again. When things trouble you, always come and tell me. It is not wrong to tell something to your mother." She gave me a hug. "Oh, Mama!" I whispered, though my voice was choking, "do you mean I will really go to Moccasin with all of you?" "Of course you will, Patsy," she chuckled. Patsy was a pet name mama used when things were really, really all right. "Now go on back to your bed and say your prayers. You 494 must remember, the Heavenly Father is someone you should always tell your troubles to." She took my face between her hands and kissed me. Oh, my! The big load had dropped from my shoulders. I wanted to sing and shout and turn somersaults in the sand, but everyone else had gone to sleep. I crawled out of Mama's bed and the breeze fluttered my nightgown. I looked up at the sky, and there were at least two hundred stars. Grandma wouldn't think I was exaggerating this time, because the sky was full of stars. I wanted to tell every star that I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 was going to Moccasin for really and truly, and the bad man wasn't going to get me. Why hadn't I thought of telling Heavenly Father about this? I always said my prayers, but I hadn't asked the help of Heavenly Father. I breathed deep, and kneeled down in the sand. It didn't matter if it got on my nightgown now. The only thing I could say was, "Oh, thank you, Heavenly Father." I snuggled down between my sisters and looked up at the wonderful, beautiful sky. Each star seemed to wear a halo, then I realized that I was looking at them through a blur - of happy tears. Summer Evening in the City Mabel Law Atkinson Though tethered to the earth, I joy in flight, My wings a sea gull flying smoothly over The ponds, gay-stitched with mallards, meadow clover, Tawny with baby calves, where, yellow-bright With buttercups, the cool spring winds. _ Not trite, But new with freshness comes the call of plover From golding seas of wheat. At dusk my rover Eyes see a lane... An open door... A light... How good a summer evening gives me wings; That childhood trailways carve the paths for age! What joy, as fragrance lifts from mountain sage, Companioning with dear, familiar things! One of the Pioneers Adrian Hansen 'THE dinner dishes were finished and the house put in order. A fresh baking of bread was turned out on a clean cloth, sending out a good, wholesome fragrance. Alice Homer stepped to the kitchen door and called five-year-old Molly from her play. "Molly, let's go visit Sister Jorgensen a little while. We will take a loaf of this new bread and a glass of jelly. Don't you think she will like that?" "Oh, yes, Mama, I'm sure she will. Pll bet she never tasted good jelly like that. I guess she never tasted many good things, did she? She's so old and her house is so funny. Is she a pioneer, Mama?" "Well, ''m not sure. But she has lived here a long time. I remember her when I was a little girl. Then T used to help my mother sew carpet tags, and we would take them to Sister Jorgensen to weave into carpets. You never saw anyone weave carpets, did you? She can't work hard any more and she gets lonesome to talk to someone." Mother and Molly soon walked the short distance to Sister Jorgensen's tiny, dirt-roofed, adobe home. A few flowers were blooming in the neglected front yard. The house was as old and worn-out as its lone occupant, but a cheery "Come in" greeted their knock. "Oh, it's you, Sister Homer. It's so good to have you come. Sit on this chair — so." Sister Jorgensen was so glad to have someone call, and she wanted to be sure they felt her welcome. She arranged the chair and dusted it hastily with the corner of her apron. Dear old Sister Jorgensen always looked the same — faded and colorless, with her few wisps of white hair gathered in a tiny knot at the back of her head. Her dimming blue eyes were trusting and childlike. The years had not dealt kindly with Marie Jorgensen. Poverty and misery had been her companions through years of struggle. Now she had ceased to struggle, and she let her mind dwell on the more pleasPage 495 496 ant years of her young womanhood, spent in her native Denmark. Alice Homer knew this, and so, after offering her the bread and jelly which were received with much joy, she looked about for something pleasant to say to the old woman. At once she noticed a picture of a beautiful baby dressed in the style of long ago. "What a pretty baby. Is it one of yours, Sister Jorgensen?" A glorious radiance changed the face of the old woman. Even her voice was strong and young again as she replied, "Yes, that is the first baby I raised. Maybe you will say it-wasn't really mine, but I will tell you the story, and then you will know what I mean. "T have told you many times how I joined the Church when I was a young woman in the old country. Well, I knew a man who had also joined the Church, and he had a way to emigrate to Zion. He said that he would get work there to pay for my emigration, if I would marry him when I arrived. I was glad to promise. Going to Zion was the main thing in my thoughts. "A year or so later, I heard from him and he said he was prepared to send for me, so I made ready to go to America. The only reason I hated to leave was the separation from my friend Anna. We had spent our childhood together and went out to work together when we were older. Anna had married and had a sweet baby girl, about ten or eleven months old. Her husband had died, so she was alone again, and we seemed closer than ever. How she wanted to go to America, too, as she was also a convert. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 66 At last the day came for me to leave. Anna said that she would like to go to the ship with me and see me off. She took her baby in her arms, and we started out. She went with me almost to the gangplank of the ship, and, as I turned to tell her goodbye, she pushed her baby into my arms and pleaded, 'Marie, take my baby with you. If my baby is in Zion, I know I will get there some way. I'll work harder and save all I can. She is a good baby, and I know she will be all right with you.' "Then, handing me a small bundle of clothes I had not noticed, she backed off into the crowd.. "There was no time to reason with her or discuss the matter any longer. The bell was ringing, and all passengers were going aboard. I turned and climbed into the ship, Anna's baby in my arms. "All the Mormon emigrants on that ship were traveling steerage, as we were all of the poorer class, as far as money was concerned. 'That meant we had to carry our own food which, of course, was of the cheapest. I knew Anna's baby had not been weaned, and I wondered what there would be to feed her. Milk in any form was not to be had. Canned or dried milk was a thing never dreamed of in those days. So I prayed that what food we had would agree with the baby that I might take care of her as Anna had asked. After praying, my mind felt easy. The first thing I did was to tie a little lump of brown sugar im the corner of a clean cloth. The baby took it and liked it fine. 'Then I made a gruel out of oatmeal and other grains we had with us. I also fed her soup made from the cured ONE OF THE PIONEERS meat and some vegetables we had." "But, Sister Jorgensen, didn't she cry for her mother, and didn't she fret at being weaned so suddenly?" Alice asked incredulously. "No she didn't," the old woman went on happily. "The Lord answered my prayer. She went to sleep early every night and slept all night long and never disturbed anyone, and she grew just as nicely as you please and actually got fat. She learned to walk while we were on the ocean. She was the prettiest and smartest baby I ever saw. "When we got to Utah I married the man I had promised and we kept Anna's baby, so I had a family to start with. I kept the baby four years, until her mother finally saved enough money so she could emi- 497 grate. Such a happy mother to get her baby back — now a big, fine girl, five years old, who could even talk the English language. That seemed strangest of all to Anna to think a baby could lear to talk English. Now you can see why I call her my baby, too." "I do indeed, dear Sister Jorgensen. Surely anyone would say you were entitled to call Anna's baby your baby, too." As the mother and Molly walked home, little Molly said, "Sister Jorgensen looks like a pioneer, doesn't she, Mother?" And Alice Homer almost reverently replied, "Yes, she does, Molly, and I'm sure we can call her one of our best pioneers." To the Sea Gull Clara Laster Your wings still ride upon the curve of light, Leaving a burrowed lake among the hills, And crescent clouds have also churned the height, To form your nest above the rolling fields. Do you hear voices, as in days gone by, When you emerged to help the plight of man? Did pangs of hunger bring you from the sky, Or was it God who called you to the land? But you did come, a neighbor from the sea, To eat the crickets from the darkened plains; Until saints stood and felt the winds blow free, You were to them as sweet as summer rains. Oh, bird of God, we bless you with our praise, Stay flying there, through heaven all your days. The Pea Patch Doris Duncan THE branches of the willow tree by the bedroom window brushed back and forth in the morning light, making shadows on the wallpaper. I opened my eyes and watched the sunlight filtering through the green leaves. Helen's curly yellow head nestled softly in the huge feather pillow beside me, her breathing came regularly in sleep. I lifted the patchwork quilt from my side of the bed and slipped my feet to the cool smooth linoleum. The grass was still wet in the early morning dew. I stood at the halfopen window and watched the sunlight sparkle on the fresh green blades. The fluffy curtain billowed with a puff of spring air. It smelled wonderfully invigorating as I let it float around my bare arms and throat. I gathered up the dress and petticoat that lay on the chair and slipped my feet into the slippers beside the bed. Helen moved softly as I brushed past the bed. I opened the door quietly and left the room. Mama had already been up for hours. I had heard the hoe scraping into the ground since the first rays of dawn. It had a scratchy, chunking sound as she chopped the weeds in the garden. I wiggled out of the nightgown, letting it fall around my feet onto the kitchen floor. The fire felt good in the old coal stove. I stood for a moment with my back to it, feeling the warmth on my skin. Then I slipped Page 498 into the cotton petticoat and percale dress and ran outside. Back of the house mama was working in the vegetable garden. She smiled when she saw me, and straightened up from the rich, brown-dirt furrows. The hoe lay at the top of the row. I picked it up and walked down to where she was gathering pea pods into her apron. "Good morning, Sister," she said, "you are up early this morning." She stooped back down and began to gather the fat green pods into her lap. "The peas are filling out well," she said. I crouched beside her and picked up a vine in my fingers, looking at the pea pods clinging thickly to the trailing stem. I opened a pod and pushed the cool, round pellets into my mouth. 'They tasted good. Mama laughed and sat down in the furrow, spreading her apron out. We rested and ate peas from the pile in her lap. She took off the big straw hat and put it down beside her. Her hair was damp under the hat. It curled in little moist ringlets around her face. She loosened it from its pins and it fell in soft dark clouds down her back. The breeze played lovingly through the strands. I looked at the rows and rows of green plants lined up in the garden plot. Beyond the garden, the raspberry bushes were dotted with red berries, ready to be picked. Our back yard was huge and productive. Cur rants, gooseberry bushes, apple trees, THE PEA PATCH apricot and cherry and peach trees stretched their branches into the sky. "Getting about time for breakfast," Mama said. She gathered up her hat and bunched her apron, bulging with peas, as we walked toward the house. "Might be nice if we picked some berries for breakfast," she said. She stopped beside the strawberry patch, lifting a leaf here and there to pluck a ripe berry and lay it on top of the peas. "Tl get a pan," I said. I ran to the kitchen and picked up a saucepan from the cupboard. When I got back Mother placed the juicy berries into the shiny pan. I helped to fill the pan, popping the luscious fruit into my mouth at every opportunity. "You won't want anything to eat after all those peas and _ berries," Mama said. We walked back to the kitchen porch and sat down on the rough wooden steps. "I'm tired," she said. We sat and watched the neighbor boy driving his cows toward the pasture. The animals moved slowly up the lane, the boy walked carelessly behind them tossing a soft clod of dirt at their rumps to keep them moving. Helen came to the screen door, tubbing one bare foot against the other, sleepily. "Hi, Sister," Mama said, looking up. "Come on out and sit awhile." She moved over, making room for 499 the chubby youngster. "See what we found for you this morning," Mama said, holding open her apron. "The peas are ready to eat." She pulled the curly head into the crook of her arm, hugging the smooth bare shoulders. Helen picked up a pod and squeezed the peas out into her dimpled little hand. Mama and I laughed. What a happy day! 'The sun seemed to look down and laugh with us. "Here, try one of the berries," Mama said. The strawberry was almost as big as the little palm. The baby held it in her hand for a minute and then pushed it into her mouth. Mama scooped her up and kissed the rosy mouth. "I wish Daddy could see how much you have grown." She untied her apron and set the peas to one side, gathering the wriggling youngster into her ample lap. "Well, let's go inside and have breakfast," Mama said, standing up. We went into the kitchen. "We'll have to pick the rest of those peas today," she said. "They certainly have filled out early this year." She picked up the steel poker and began to stir up the kitchen fire. The sun looked through the window and winked at me. I curled up on the woodbox by the window and gazed contentedly at the blue cloudless sky. Summer was my very favorite time of year. Hand to the Plow Part III — Decision Ilene H. Kingsbury Synopsis: A Welsh widow on her way to the valleys of the mountains in 1864, with her family of five children, pauses in a railway station in Philadelphia, awaiting a train to take them westward. For a compelling reason, the emigrant wishes to stop at a small town, Bradys Bend, in Pennsylvania. After checking her ticket and inquiring regarding routes, the emigrant makes a momentous decision. Eliza, the teenage daughter, hears her mother say, "T cannot do it." T that moment Eliza thought her mother looked just like a stone lion. The resemblance almost frightened her, for now she remembered a certain guardian of a doorway at a building near the emigration gate. It had been so big that two little children were playing in the shelter beneath its neck. Its two paws were outstretched to hang listlessly and deceptively fragile over the edge of a block of granite which made part of the regal entrance. The head of the beast had been raised as if listening to footfalls afar off. The eyes had had a facility, not often caught in stone, to follow one to either side of the steps and not really let one out of their sight. The shaggy mane had fallen in blanket folds about the front of the animal. A closer look had given Eliza the impression that a few cockle burrs might still be matted in the tresses of this king of the forest. When Eliza had first come upon this immobile giant she had shuddered. Its counterpart in the Page 500 jungle would be hard to escape or overcome. Eliza's mother looked that way night now. Nothing evaded her gaze; her children knew who was head of their migrant household. The fastness to which they clung was all-encompassed in their mother, And yet, Eliza had heard her say I cannot. It was like putting a dried leaf and a tree trunk together and expecting both of them to do the same job. After all one wanted consistency. Before bringing herself to ask what her mother could not do, Eliza reviewed the two things they could do and which they had talked about ceaselessly since leaving the rolling ocean. The first on the list was to stop off in Bradys Bend, wherever that was, and be reunited with the most dearly loved people they had on earth. The second on the list was to proceed by what means they could afford to a certain valley in the Rocky Mountains, no matter how far it was, or how long it would take, or what hardships should beset their way. Surely her mother could not have referred to either of these two long anticipated events. And of the two, maybe the second was what her mother talked aloud about. This war they were suddenly involved in, stories of Indians way out there a thousand miles just waiting for a triangle of hair on the top of her head; this funny railroad, with HAND TO THE PLOW shaky, noisy boxes on wheels which sometimes caught fire from woodburning cooking stoves installed therein for convenience of through passengers; this station that smelled of beans and dirt — perhaps now they could leave all this, find the village where Grandma lived at Bradys Bend and settle down. Eliza already felt happier just knowing a decision had been made. HE recalled a day in her seventh year, now some eight or nine years back, filled with tears and Welsh singing, and prayers, and parting gifts, and bundles of belongings. Grandma and Grandpa and all but one of her mother's brothers and sisters had set sail. 'They had been going to America. All would be well with them because they would live in Pennsylvania where the men could be coal miners as they had been in Wales, and where the women could find education and opportunity for their children. For nine years Eliza had heard nothing but the phrase, When we go to America. It had echoed in her dreams, it had been set to music, it had been embroidered on a pillow, it had been written in letters trusted to the waves and the earth. It was lucky, she thought, that they were at last on their way, for that young man from the Merthyr mine was taking a liking to her and would in due time want her to stay and marry him and let her mother and brothers and sister go on without her to America. Ah, well, there must be likely Welsh boys in America, and thinking back about it, she sensed that her mother had snatched her out of the Old Country just in time. 501 Eliza looked again at the lionlike woman, her mother. Her arms were folded, sort of encased by the ends of her shawl, her feet were close together, with the heels hugging the floor, and her head was bowed. There was a little saying in the family that if Mother sat like that, don't say a word. No one had ever said that word, so Eliza didn't know what would happen if one did, but she knew that something very important was going on in her mothers mind. Or perhaps it was her heart. If the latter, there would be more smiling and singing afterwards, but if the cold thoughts of deliberation took precedence, then there would be protests and tears, but still singing. Welshmen somehow express the Welshness within themselves by voicing that minor key in music which fortifies them in all trial. At sixteen one cannot grasp all the subtle colors of living, but one can see it happening and can guess that Mother will somehow give all the answers. Sometimes when the emigrant sat like this, she was formulating a prayer, and having previously mapped it out, presented it to the Lord in formal fashion. As her eyes were not closed, Eliza could not tell at what stage of thought or plan or supplication her mother was engaged in. T;'HE moment drew itself out. Mother still sat as if playing statue. Little Sannie flung an arm across Eliza's shoulder and _ lifted herself from the cozy lap on which she had slumbered. 'Through the station door Eliza saw her three brothers bounding back along the tracks, each with giant strides along 502 the ties. As they barged into the building they gave a wild, bloodcurdling yell. Nothing in Wales had ever sounded like that repellent, raucous yell. The ticket agent crouched behind his window and peered around the edge in terror. Upon seeing just three youthful Welsh boys approach, he steadied himself and called them to him. By now all occupants of the station were either on their feet or near the door with at least two bundles of property, trying to make good their escape. "Young men, come here!" the agent ordered. They gave each other a wide-eyed signal of let's see what we have done this time, and went toward the wicket. "Do you know what that sound is you just made?" he screeched. 'They looked at each other again as if to say, hadn't this man been around boys before, but didn't answer him. He found the answer quickly enough, and fairly blasted them to eternal punishment by saying between clinched teeth, "The Rebel Yell!" Then, gaining courage, and again becoming the informant on all subjects, which he imagined himself, he got the attention of all present. "Only men from the South make that yell," said he. "Only when they have a gun in each hand and a knife in each boot top, do they give that yell. Boys, if you don't want to be hanged or shot or taken to prison to starve and die, just don't do that again." There was not much one could say after that. Eyes that had heretofore been sympathetic to their needs, now averted themselves. The three boys cushioned their footfalls to the citadel of strength, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 which was their mother, and _ sat down. The emigrant unfolded her arms and raised her head to give each occupant of the station a long, long look. Eliza realized fleetingly that the one word which they must never say to interrupt their mother when she was contemplating had been given. Perhaps they would live to regret the sound of that threatening, blood-curdling shriek. It had whiplashed their ears and their souls. Imperceptibly, the travelers gained courage and now wanted to appear as if the incident was of no value. They arranged their baggage in neater rows, gave a stale biscuit to the youngest babies, and started to talk to each other in whispers which grew in volume as confidence was gained. Finally, a buzzing of words was manifest and the hive of bees was at its usual pitch and activity. In the resumed noise, the Welsh family grew less conspicuous. Obviously, if their mother had come to any decision since talking to the agent, now was the time to make her statement before any more harm could be done. She motioned her brood closer and, looking especially at Eliza, said, "I was just saying I cannot do it." There is no surer way to get attention than by such a simple statement. The boys looked alert to the event. Sannie didn't really care, such is six years of being the littlest and pampered at that. Eliza felt quite superior, having had a preview and having come to the wise conclusion that now they could leave this turmoil of emigration and go to Bradys Bend and live in peace and plenty, surrounded by all their kith and kin. HAND TO THE PLOW One boy asked, "Can't do what, Mother?" "We cannot go to Bradys Bend." If the boys had stood up and given, again, that Rebel Yell, no one of the five would have been more startled. Eliza suddenly wanted to cry. She pressed her fingers over her mouth so no one could see her lips tremble. Eddie, the seventeen-year-old, just opened his mouth and forgot to close it. William and David actually groaned. Now, for sure, their mother had lost her mind. - One of them leaned toward her and grasped her sleeve, just as though he could stop her from further considering this. Most horrible of decisions. Somehow, they thought, they could try to dissuade her. Let's try, they thought. First they barraged her with questions. Is it so far to the Bend that we haven't time? The man that sells the tickets said that it is only twentyfive miles as the crow flies to where Grandma lives, after we reach Pittsburgh, and we could walk that far in two days, even carrying our bundles, if we had to. Just think, two days, and we can hear Grandpa call our names, feel the warm comfort of loving arms, and stand about answering and asking and singing and loving all those whom we have never really expected to see in this life again. Just think, no more cooking in a train, no more seeing only Strangers. No more to explain that the Church had called them and they were answering. Just think, just think. "T have thought," she said quietly. "I have thought about my little 503 brother who used to work in the mines at the age of ten, side by side with my father, just so they could save enough money to come to America. I want to see him. I have thought about my older sister, surely now a grandmother, who was as a mother to me when others came first for our mother's care. I have thought about little Gwennie who was so gentle that she never ventured from our hearth fires and never found a mate. I can still hear big William sing as he rose in the mine hoist each night and I remember that, as he neared home, his voice drew children and men and women to him and they joined him in song until the hills burst with beauty. I have thought of them all." The children were quite carried away with this word picture painted again for them by their loving mother. And what about Grandpa? And Grandma? 'The emigrant dared not speak aloud of her parents, lest in voicing their names, even, she should weaken in her resolve. Their life in America, even in a mill town where they were still close to coal mines, was so marvelous and bright and full and prosperous that with each letter she had rejoiced in their blessings. 'Their hope, as well as hers, had been that some day she, too, would come to America and be with them forever. Now she was on their borderland. Now she could actually walk to find them and it would not take many days. Now, at last, the haven of which they had talked for a quarter of a century was just over the rolling green mountains and down a river valley. (To be continued) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1902 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or Att Nations" WOMEN WHO WIELD THE PEN: Of those dear sisters and friends who have been occasional contributors to the Exponent some still lend a helping hand and some who took great delight in the work have passed behind the veil. Eliza R. Snow, Hannah T. King, Sarah M. Kimball, Louie Wells and Julia McDonald have laid aside the pen, but are not forgotten. We still have Augusta Joyce Crocheron, Ellis R. Shipp, Lydia D. Alder, Emily H. Woodmansee, Mary A. Freeze, Ruth M. Fox, Annie Wells Cannon, Romania B. Pratt and a score of others, only most of them are too busy doing other things to give us even occasional glimpses of what they think and feel... And it is long since we have heard from ''Alofa," "Hyacinth," "Hope," or dear little "Gladys," or "Homespun". — Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN EMERY STAKE: President Mary A. Sorenson welcomed all, was pleased to see so many present. Reported the labors of the Stake officers throughout the various wards, and of visiting from one society to another, encouraging the young ladies to join the Relief Society.... Sister Emma S. Woodruff said we were the most blessed people on the face of the earth. We should always be obedient to the priesthood. If there should ever be any differences among the sisters it should be settled among themselves according to the regular order... Told us of the visiting plan also of encouraging the young ladies to join the society.... Read the minutes of the first organization of the Relief Society in the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, also of the meetings held in those days.... — Mary O. Miller, Sec. MAKE MY HEART BRAVE! Make my heart brave, O Lord! Brave for the loss of faces dearer grown; Brave for the battle that is mine alone; The glory unachieved I thought mine own, Make not my burden less; make my heart brave! — Annie Pike MRS. HORNE HOME: Hon. Alice Merrill Horne has just returned from Chicago where she has been staying for a month past, the guest of Miss Josephine C. Locke, former supervisor of drawing in the Chicago public schools. Mrs. Horne visited the public schools there and brought home a variety of drawings for comparison with our local school work. She met a number of the leading teachers, educators and artists of that city and attended noted lectures at the University of Chicago and the Chicago Institute of Art.... — News Note A SURPRISE IN HONOR OF RETIRING OFFICERS: A very enjoyable time was held at the Montpelier (Idaho) meeting house... An unusual occasion owing to the fact that each of our honored sisters was bern in a foreign land, each crossed the plains in a handcart company and each was among the first to settle in this once forbidding valley.... — Mary A. Perkins Page 504 Two Latter-day Saint women, Mrs. Luacine Clark Fox, and Mrs. Berta Huish Christensen, have been awarded national honors by the Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, Pennsylvania. The awards were presented by the Foundations President, Dr. Kenneth D. Wells, April 29, 1962, over a special program on KSL television and radio, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Mrs. Fox wrote the script "The Sound of a Bell," in which bells were portrayed as symbols of freedom, and the Nauvoo Bell was featured. Mrs. Christensen was honored for her series of poems, "Portrait of Freedom," exemplifying historic §moments of significant import in the establishment and defense of freedom in America. EARL BUCK'S latest book, A Bridge for Passing, tells of her experience in assisting with the making of her novel, The Big Wave, into a movie in Japan; the changes in modern Japan, particularly among the women; the death of her husband at home in the U/S. A, and the bridge by which she tries to learn to pass from twenty-five years of an unusually happy marriage to widowhood. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon HELEN THOMAS, seventh of ten children of Lebanese-American parents, is United Press International's "girl at the White House." With political journalism as her goal, Helen went to Washington immediately upon graduation from Wayne University, _ Detroit, and after some years was reporting, nationally, Department of Justice and other agencies news. UEEN JULIANA of Holland on May third celebrated her fifty-third birthday and the silver wedding anniversary of her marriage to Prince Bernhard. Six reigning European monarchs and many princes and princesses paid tribute in person to Juliana, who is much admired and respected, and to her distinguished Prince Consort. R. NANCY G. ROMAN is Chief of the Astronomy and Solar Physics Programs of the Office of Space Sciences of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) of the United States. Her work includes planning, coordination and institution of a comprehensive program of astronomical observations conducted from beyond the atmosphere of the earth by means of rockets and satellites. Page 505 ©O— > EDITORIAL —o VOL. 49 ~ JULY 1962 NO. 7 A Sister to 231,174 Members ER face beamed with happiness. The apron enveloped her figure as she hurried back and forth, back and forth from the kitchen to the luncheon table, carrying platters of appetizing food. When the Relief Society Convention luncheon was nearly over and her work nearly completed, a few missionaries arrived to assist with translation for the afternoon meetings. 'They were seated at the vacated table. A quick glance at her face revealed nothing but delight. A pair of missionaries such as these had brought the everlasting gospel to her only six months before. No other member of her family had yet seen the light, but by its radiance her own life had taken on new vitality and become purposeful and joyous. It seemed a privilege to her to be obeying her Saviors injunction "He that is greatest among you, shall be your servant." To great numbers of women of many cultures and languages a light has broken forth out of darkness. Those who were strangers before are now bound by ties of sisterly devotion. Two visiting teachers go by bus from a house in one section of a city to a second house in another part, to a third home in the farmland, to a fourth home in a crowded apartment. 'The words "one of a city, and two of a family," are exemplified by their travels. One Page 506 visiting teacher, a convert of six years, ls a schoolteacher, the second visiting teacher, a convert of two months, does day cleaning. 'Through the divinely organized Relief Society they are now sisters, more understanding of each other's hopes and aspirations than their former intimate friends. They are also sisters to 231,173 other women throughout the world. Were they all to meet together they would love and understand each other, for they are devoted members of the organization given them by their Eternal Father, and members of the kingdom of God. Many lessons of eternal import are fostered through the teachings and training of Relief Society. One, recently noted in a foreign land, was that of respect for authority. The meeting had begun and the sister in_- authority of those present was directing. Suddenly, a second sister of equal position arrived whose plane had been late. She explained that the president, who was in the hospital, had asked her to conduct the meetings. Without a thought of objection, without a dissenting word, the first sister relinquished the authority she had of necessity assumed earlier. Each organization goes forward under the rules and procedures approved by the Brethren over the years. There is conformity by all. EDITORIAL In 1961 there was an average of over 1,414 new members of Relief Society added each month. Some had lived in stakes and had some knowledge of Relief Society procedures; others were converts to the Church and, for the first time, were glimpsing the advantages and opportunities of this greatest woman's organization. Its blessings are to be extended to every woman converted to the Church. This important responsibility weighs on every Relief Society member, not only on the officers. No two sisters would ever sit side by side in a Relief Society meeting without becoming acquainted and seeking friendship with each other as they would continue to meet. A timid newcomer may be encouraged to assume her new responsibilities by having her seek out every other new member. "Use them or you'll 507 lose them" is fraught with meaning of import. The joy of service which illumined the face of the sister serving at the luncheon table will continue as knowledge and intelligence continue to be poured down upon her and her Relief Society associates through their faithfulness. Happiness, the object of our existence, comes as the result of serving and loving humbly and obediently. 'The Prophet Joseph Smith promised Relief Society members, "If you live up to your privileges, angels cannot be restrained from being your associates." One privilege is to draw into the bond of sisterhood every Latter-day Saint woman and make her, in turn, her sister's keeper. In this day of phenomenal growth in the Church, this is the joy and privilege of every Relief Society member. —M. CS. Commonplace Beauty Susa Gould Walker The sunflower's claim to beauty, Depends on where it grows. It has no place in a wheat field, As every farm wife knows; But give me a brown jar and sunflowers, And you may have the rose. David on the low hills Margery S. Stewart Page 508 Jesus and the Land He Loved Christine H. Robinson AN ancient legend records that from all the seas which God created, he chose for himself only the Sea of Kenneret. This beautiful sea, the legend continues, was called Kenneret (Kennor, in Hebrew, meaning harp) both because the lake is shaped somewhat like a harp and also because the "voice of its waves is pleasant like the voice of a harp." Kenneret is the Hebrew name for the Sea of Galilee. It was around the borders of this sparkling, blue lake where Jesus spent his youth and young manhood. It was here in one of the cities on its shore, Capernaum, where he officially began his ministry. It was from among fishermen casting their nets in the Sea of Galilee that the Savior selected his first disciples. "Follow me," he said, to Peter and to Andrew, his brother, and to James and John, "and I will make you fishers of men" (Mt. 4:18-22). It was in Galilee where Jesus performed his first miracles, and from a mount, not far from Capernaum, where he gave the world his divine beatitudes. After his crucifixion and resurrection, he instructed his disciples to meet him at Galilee, there to receive the power and instructions to carry his gospel to, "all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost" (Mt. 28:19). Galilee, and the area immediately surrounding this country, was the land that Jesus loved! During his lifetime, as it is today, this area was one of the most beautiful in all of Palestine. The sapphire blue waters of the Sea of Galilee surrounded by green farm lands and rolling hills, covered in the springtime with colorful lilies of the field and, in the background, the spectacular peak of Mount Hermon, snow-covered much of the year, present a dramatic picture of natural beauty. Page 509 Nazareth, where Jesus was reared, is only a short ten miles from the shores of Galilee. From the tops of the hills into which the village of Nazareth is nestled, Jesus, as a boy, could easily have looked into the Galilean valley and could have seen the beautiful blue waters of the sea. During his lifetime, a number of prominent and impressive towns and cities surrounded the Sea of Galilee. Among these were Capernaum, Magdala (the birthplace of Mary Magdalene), Gergesa, Bethsaida, and Tiberias. HESE cities were on the ancient trade routes used by the Persians, the Assyrians, and Babylonions and developed even more extensively under Roman administration. 'The Romans were great traders. They improved the network of roads and used their well-trained soldiers to protect them and to make sure that shipments of goods and merchandise from these foreign lands flowed unmolested along these trade routes and, ultimately, possibly into Rome itself. From the heights of Nazareth, Jesus could look east a few miles to Mount Tabor—so rich in Israelite history. It was on the top of this mount, some believe, that Jesus' transfiguration, later in his ministry, took place. From the hills of Nazareth, Jesus could also look down into the Valley of Jezreel where so many important ancient battles had occurred. He could look on to Mount Carmel where the prophet Elijah had confounded the priests of Baal. From here, also, he could see into the land of Samaria where the fathers Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob had settled in Canaan and where they had built their first altars to the Lord. Also, here in Samaria, was the spot where, later in his ministry, Jesus would meet the Samaritan woman who had come to Jacob's Well to draw water. As recorded in the scriptures, he asked her for a drink from the well and then, later, offered her "living water," saying, "... Whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst..." (John 4:14). Nazareth was in the heart of history. In all directions and at relatively short distances from there, significant historical events connected with the Children of Israel, and with the prophets, kings, and judges had transpired. This was a wonderful place in which to live. S Jesus grew to manhood in the Galilee area, certain influences undoubtedly helped to shape his life and character. His mother Mary, and Joseph, were devout and dedicated Jews who lived in an orthodox Jewish community. In the Jewish family, the education of the children occupied a central place of importance. In this respect, Jesus, of course, would have been signally blessed. Both his mother Mary and Joseph were The Forum at Jerasl A magnificent Roman cit: during Jesus' time Page 510 eg" adage ke shi tie Sie ee ie especially selected as his guardians and teachers. His home life, as he grew to maturity, must have been beautiful and impressive. There would have been in the family an abundance of understanding, consideration, kindness, devotion, and unity. Undoubtedly, during this period of rearing, there were trips out of Galilee into neighboring provinces. Once a year, at the time of the Feast of the Passover, the family made the pilgrimage to Jerusalem, the City of David, the center of their family ancestry. To make this journey, the family and the party which may have accompanied them, could have followed the valley of the Jordan to Jericho, some 1,200 feet below sea level, and from there climbed up the steep and rocky Judean hills to Jerusalem. From Nazareth, this route would have been a distance of approximately eighty-five miles. Or, they could have followed the longer trade route west to the Joppa road and down the coast. From Joppa, they would have traveled up through the Judean hills to Jerusalem. This route would have been approximately 105 miles long. Traveling on foot, as they did in those days, and as many still do today, with a donkey burdened with personal effects and necessities, this journey would have taken possibly three or four days. It was on one of these trips when Jesus, as a boy of twelve, "tarried behind in Jerusalem." When his parents found him, he was "in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them, and asking them questions" (Luke 2:46). To make the annual journeys down the Jordan Valley and up to Jerusalem, Jesus probably had passed through Jericho many times and was familiar with this community and its surroundings. It was near here, it is believed, that he met John the Baptist and was baptized in the Jordan by him. Although the exact place where this event occurred is not known, it is believed that the baptism took place at or near Bethabara (or Bethany beyond Jordan). This spot on the river is approximately six miles from Jericho and is also probably near the place where the Children of Israel first crossed the Jordan to enter into the Promised Land. (See Cover.) WHEN Jesus was growing up in Nazareth, the community was a typical, quaint Jewish village. Much as it is today, its buildings were scattered over three hills, with narrow, winding streets running in all directions. The community was unimportant and unimpressive. In fact, Nathanael, who later became one of Jesus' disciples, when he first heard of the wonderful works of the Savior, remarked, "Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth?" (John 1:46). In the section of the city where Joseph and Mary lived, there was the only well in the village. It was from this well that Mary, Joseph, and The beautiful Sea of Galilee with Mount Hermon in the background. Page 512 OS a ok ba * t ¥ Jesus, undoubtedly, would have obtained their water. This well has remained unchanged down through the ages. 'Today, as in Jesus' time, it still provides water for the community. Women in their long, black dresses with hooded heads and veiled faces, carrying earthen jars on their heads, can now, as during the Savior's time, be seen frequently at "Mary's Well" drawing water. According to ancient records, the charm of the Nazarene women was greater than that of any other Hebrew women throughout the entire land. As for Mary, herself, it will be recalled that Nephi, when he saw her in a dream, described her as, "exceedingly fair and white... Most beautiful and fair above all other virgins" (I Nephi 11:13, 15). The trade of the carpenter, in which Joseph trained Jesus, was quite different, then, from what it is today. The typical Nazarene home was made of limestone and often consisted of a single room. The houses, almost completely devoid of windows, were covered with a flat roof made of poles, branches, and thick clay. The interiors contained little furniture, and the beds consisted of mats laid out on the floors. These types of dwellings required little carpentering and, consequently, Joseph and Jesus' trade would likely have consisted of making wooden tools, plows and yokes, and possibly, some household furniture. As there were no lumber yards, carpenters went directly into the forests, where they obtained their wood and brought it into their shops for working and shaping. S Jesus grew to manhood, he was faced with a language problem considerably more complex than we face today. The spoken language during this time among the Hebrews was Aramaic. This was a Semitic language which had its roots in Haran, possibly before the time of Abraham. In addition, the Hebrew language was still employed by the Jews and was the sacred written language. Moreover, in the neighboring Roman cities, Greek was the common language of commerce and trade and Latin was employed to a limited extent. We know that Jesus spoke Aramaic and that he understood Hebrew. Whether or not he was familiar with Greek and Latin is not known. During the lifetime of the Savior Palestine was under the control of the Romans. For administrative purposes, the territory was divided into provinces, as shown on the map. The area of the Decapolis was not a province but consisted of "free cities" originally established by the Greeks and allowed by the Romans to operate under semi-independent governments. Historians are not agreed as to the names of all of the Decapolis cities, but among them were Damascus, Philadelphia (Amman), Gergesa, and Jerash. We do not know, for certain, whether or not Jesus ever preached in any of these cities. A view of Jerusalem today. It was an impressive city at th time of the Savior. Page 514 However, the scriptures tell us that at the beginning of his ministry, "there followed him great multitudes of people from Gallilee, and from Decapolis, and from Jerusalem, and from Judea, and from beyond Jordan" (Mt. 4:25). The scriptures are also explicit in telling us that he visited some of these cities and performed miracles in them. Jerash, one of the most magnificent of the Decapolis cities, was located on one of the important trade routes and only a few miles from the border of the province of Perea. Jesus could well have traveled this route as he went from Galilee to Philadelphia and on to Jericho and Jerusalem. Consequently, it is entirely possible that he might have visited and preached in Jerash. (See Mark 5:20; 7:31.) Today, the ruins of this city are among the most spectacular and impressive in the Holy Land. Palestine, when Jesus lived and taught there, was a small land. The entire area covered by the Savior during his ministry would not have been much more than 1,000 square miles. His longest single journey from his home in Galilee could not have been much over 100 miles. « DAMAS Mt. Herma SYRI THE GREAT SEA GALILEE Capernaum Magdata Mt. Corme! Q Galles gesa *NAZARETH Valley of \ Jezree! Omit % % CAESAREA Z. < ba SAMARIA §§ herahe Ey 3 Zz Shechem @ FA Jacob's Well" JOPPA e sltethel PHILADE r Bethabara (Amm & ' Bethany JERICHO 9 JERUSALEM a ° Bethighem = < c > & al ly a «HEBRON ws ARABI a Beer-sheba THE HOLY LAI AT THE TIME OF J 5 0 5 OW I 2 | Seale of Miles Yet, from this small area, and from one whose teaching ministry lasted only three years, have come divine living truths and saving principles that can glorify men's lives, and which have laid the foundation for eternal salvation and exaltation. Galilee, and its surrounding area, is today a beautiful and impressive country. In Jesus' time, this land that he loved was truly choice and blessed. Page 516 (Maditerranegn) Bethsaida Beauty's Bright Persistence Maude Rubin Once the wagon hauled its freight— Oak chest and box and bed, Cornmeal and axe and candlelight— Toward a far homestead.... In one small earthen jar, Where darkness hoarded strength, A lilac-cutting, with its leaves, Through the dusty length Of that tortuous desert trek Through sand and storm to home.... Now by this chimney's crumbled wreck, Still spills its bloom. Pioneer Woman Marjorie Reay She was a special breed of woman, different from me. God strengthened her in ways I cannot know. Could I but stand beside my sister of the trail, The difference would show. More hunger filled her eyes, as searchingly she looked Along the dusty, rutted trail. More iron formed her will, with a strong determination That would not let her fail. And yet, today, life asks courage of us, still. The works of faith in all a woman's ways Must carry her and all her family, without fear, Throughout these troubled latter days. Page 517 Quick Recipes Janet W. Breeze \ X JITH a little thought, even the most common standby foods can be transformed into tempting taste tantalizers! Try these recipes for busy days. Shrimp Chowder Dilute 1 can cream of celery soup with 1 cup evaporated milk and % cup water. Add one 4 to 5-ounce can of drained, tiny deveined shrimp. Heat. Serves 4. Super Burgers Brown and crumble one pound ground beef. Sprinkle meat with two tbsp. Flour and mix well. Add one can undiluted onion or tomato soup and mix well. Spoon onto buns for one of the quickest, easiest hot sandwiches you ever made. Quick Casserole Cook and drain one cup elbow macaroni Add: 1 can cream of mushroom soup Y% c. Milk 1 can tuna, drained % tsp. Worcestershire sauce Cheddar cheese slices P 1 c. Or-small can drained, cooked peas paprika Mix well, top with cheese slices and sprinkle lightly with paprika. Bake at 350° for 25-30 minutes, or until heated through. Serves 6. Corned Beef Hash Ring Pack a greased ring mold with two one-pound cans corned beef hash. Bake at 350° F about 30 minutes. Unmold onto serving plate and fill center with six scrambled eggs sprinkled with parsley. Serves 6. One-Bowl Meal Dilute one can cream of tomato soup and one can cream of pea soup with equal parts milk and combine. Add one 5-ounce can drained and flaked crab meat or tuna. Season with one tbsp. Butter; salt and pepper to taste. Place in baking dish and garnish with croutons. Heat in oven at 350°. Tuna on Toast Saute one medium-sized diced onion until transparent and golden. Add one can drained tuna, one can cream of mushroom soup, and % cup milk, and add pepper to taste. Heat. Spoon over toast, or if you prefer, spoon over baked potatoes. Quick Thousand-Island Dressing Mix equal parts of chili sauce and mayonnaise or equivalent salad dressing. Page 518 for Busy Days No-Bake Chocnut Drops Mix and bring to boil: Then add: Y% tsp. Vanilla Mix well. Then add: 2 c. Quick uncooked oatmeal. Mix well. Drop from spoon onto waxed paper and let cool. Yield: about 3 dozen. At Summer's Edge Linnie Fisher Robinson Now is the dreaming summertime, For grass is lush upon the hills; Before the harvest's gathered in Nature may rest while time fulfills. Man lingers out-of-doors until A chill creeps in — dark drives again; His steps are ever loath to leave What he can never quite explain. Some kinship to the world he sees, The part that speaks within his heart; A universal tongue he knows And treasures silently apart. Builder of cities that wall him in, Who, like a prisoner, must yield, Yet longs for that he does not name — Communion with the stones and field. Where all his dreams perceived in truth Reveal each loss — all he has gained — And feeds his ever-growing urge To seek and find the unobtained. Page 519 2 ¢, sugar 2 tbsp. Butter or shortening % tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Cocoa "% ¢. Milk % c. Peanut butter Page 520 oh Needle Sis Sine Fotethoughf will Keep « a: Supply a of Gifts on ieee; Adelle 'Ashby — F you are invited toa ull of bridal ihowele and | wedding receptions each year, and have to count your — pennies, you should look to your needle and thread for help. You can make a number of worthwhile gifts that will 'delight the heart of the" new bride ria save ae - money at the same time. R _ One of the most popular gifts hot | a bride likes to receive is a dainty apron with matching place mats. They — are so. Easy to make that you can have several on hand just waiting to be _ whey in pisue and tied with ag sweetheart bow! ~~ You will need one wed * ina, either white ora _ dainty pastel, for the apron, and from one to three yard for the place mats, depending on how many you wa _to make for each set and the size desired. You can mak only four, or you may like to make six. 4 | For the apron, start with a rectangular piece x lin about 30 inches long (the length of the goods) and 1 inches deep, or deeper, as desired. Gather the long edg on to a 14-inch by 4-inch band. (When doubled, the ba is two inches wide.) Now make strings about three inc wide, and as long as desired, with tiny hems dove | edges and across the ends. Make a tiny hem down the two edges £ the ap and across the bottom. Now stitch your own croc edging on, or buy some dainty lace. Be sure fo ease lace as you sew around, making a couple of tiny pleats c & ey. Ee. Abi:. - ey ee ee ee ee" ed P ae _ j* ak de eo CSS Eee og Helen H. Allen—Historian and Needlecraft Artist lf ELEN Hunsaker Allen, Tremonton, Utah, is never idle. Her lovely handwork represents varied skills which have been developed to a high degree. She has made hundreds of embroidered, crocheted, and knitted articles, as well as quilts, stoles, baby shawls and bootees, tablecloths, bedspreads, and beaded purses. She has prepared eleven Books of Remembrance for her immediate family, and has gathered sketches of forty-three members of the original Abraham Hunsaker family, together with family photographs and genealogical information, making possible the publication of the Hunsaker family history. Mrs. Allen has been active in Relief Society for more than half a century. She was a counselor in the first Relief Society organization in Tremonton, and later served as organist for twenty-five years. She is still an active member and subscriber to the Magazine, at the age of eighty-five. She is the mother of six children, and has twentyfour grandchildren, fifty-four great-grandchildren, and five great-great-grandchildren. Page 522 General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. Photograph submitted by Clara J. Sumsion SPRINGVILLE STAKE (UTAH), THIRD WARD SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR ANNIVERSARY PROGRAM, March 13, 1962 Front row, seated, left to right: Olea Sargent, accompanist; Beulah Whiting; Clara Boyer, Marie Whiting; Henrietta Nelson; Eva Hone; Donna Packard. Back row, standing, left to right: Doris Elmer, chorister; Philda Finley; Lucille Johnson; Bonita Corry; Olive Kartchner; Betty Diamond; Irma Brailsford; Judy Tucker; Marie Webb. These sisters presented the music for the Relief Society anniversary party in March, and also for a sacrament meeting in April. Clara J. Sumsion is president of Springville Stake Relief Society. Page 523 GOODING STAKE (IDAHO), JEROME SECOND WARD HONORS VISITING TEACHERS AT CONVENTION Left to right: Arsula Olsen and Flavia Smith. Nina Beth Cunningham, President, Gooding Stake Relief Society, reports: "Arsula Olsen and Flavia Smith, members of the Jerome Second Ward Relief Society, were honored recently at a visiting teachers convention for having served for twentyfive years as companion visiting teachers, and for having 100 per cent visiting teaching done during that entire time. "These sisters are pioneers of the Jerome, Idaho, area, and were among the first members when the Jerome Ward was first organized. Their husbands served -as < bishops of Jerome Ward, and each sister Photograph submitted by Nina Cunningham has a son who became a bishop. These sisters bear testimony to the great blessings derived from visiting teaching for others, and for themselves as well." ' wt Po a is %. Eri + an | +. - = 4 Ba we ae aah: Photograph submitted by Glenda Thompson ROY STAKE (UTAH), WEBER COUNTY CHRONIC DISEASE HOSPITAL BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Glenda Thompson, President, Roy Stake Relief Society, reports: "There was an urgent need for spiritual stimulation in the lives of the sisters living in the Chronic Disease Hospital, several of whom had served in various capacities in Relief Society for many years. In December 1960, under the direction of Stake President Henry A. Matis, the first meeting at the hospital was held. "In January 1961, Johanna Tubbs was sustained as president, with Amy Wood and Mabel Bingham as her counselors, Florence Tull, secretary-treasurer, and Bertha 524 » RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 "ORE ssatoecmensing NOTES FROM THE FIELD 5B5 Child, organist. The hospital sisters were very unhappy with the idea of having Relief Society only once each month during the summer season, so spiritual programs were presented during the summer months. In October 1961, class leaders were sustained for the regular Relief Society season. No work meeting is held because a daily occupational therapy class is held for the patients. "At the present time, there are forty-seven enrolled members and a weekly attendance of around fifty. His work of love is very rewarding, and the spiritual uplift and joy that it gives the sisters is worth all our efforts." Photograph submitted by LaVerda 0. Lloyd MOUNT JORDAN STAKE (UTAH), CRESCENT WARD FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT BIRTHDAY SOCIAL, March 13, 1962 Front row, left to right: Olga Lancaster; Mildred Edgel; LaVina Harrison; Ellen Hardcastle. Back row, left to right: Donna Steadman, present President; LaVerda O. Lloyd, President, Mount Jordan Stake Relief Society; Vida Jordan. Sister Lloyd reports that all living former presidents of the Crescent Ward were honored at a luncheon and program. Each president was presented with a corsage, and a brief history of her accomplishments was given. Sixty sisters were served with a large, tiered, beautifully decorated cake serving as the centerpiece. Favors were gaily decorated jars of homemade hand cream. A skit entitled "Relief Society, Why?" was also presented. 526 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 Photograph submitted by Ruby M. Blake HIGHLAND STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE December 3, 1961 Ruby M. Blake, President, Highland Stake Relief Society, reports: "Singing Mothers from the six wards of Highland Stake presented music at both general sessions of stake conference in December. We are encouraging the wards to keep their Singing Mothers choruses active and to participate in other stake and ward functions. "Stake chorister Ella Gale directed the chorus, with Jeannette Demars as pianist, Darlene Walker at the organ, and Maxine Hill, Linda Kemp, and Oletta Cummings as violinists." eB, Pees. Photograph submitted 'by Alpha M. Richins SUMMIT STAKE (UTAH), HENEFER WARD VISITING TEACHERS HONORED FOR ACHIEVING A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR EIGHT YEARS, February 26, 1962 Front row, left to right: Alpha M. Richins, President, Summit Stake Relief Society; Vera B. Brown, First Counselor; Violet Ovard; Mable Winters; Susannah Fowler; Rita F. Ovard, Second Counselor, Summit Stake Relief Society; Susie Church; Belva Nowling; Veda F. Brooks, President, Henefer Ward Relief Society; John F. Hobson, President, Summit Stake. Second row, left to right: Elva Richins, visiting teacher message leader, Summit Stake; Ellen Dawson; Ruby Dearden; Elthera Stephens; Grace Jones; Inez Eakins; Erma Richins; Maina Dearden. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 527 Third row, left to right: Irene Rowser; Wilhelmina Dearden; Maxine Wright; Beth Fawcett; Ethel Taylor; Cheltina Anderton; Margaret Richins, visiting teacher message leader, Henefer Ward; Leana Tweed; Clarine Fawcett. Sister Richins reports: "We were very pleased with the convention and luncheon,,. And we feel it was an inspiration to all present. Our theme was 'I now turn the key in your behalf, in the name of the Lord, and this society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth.' "Our invitations, favors, table decorations, and program were all in keeping with the theme. Elva F. Richins presented a tribute to visiting teachers. She paid special tribute to twenty-one sisters for their many years of service, and to six young mothers, just starting to teach. President Alpha M. Richins paid honor to Henefer Ward visiting teachers for having eight years of 100 per cent visiting teaching. They were presented a gift by Stake President John F. Hobson, who gave an inspirational talk on the responsibilities of visiting teaching. "Other wards in our stake honored were: Coalville Ward, with seven years of 100 per cent visiting teaching; Wanship Ward, with six years; Coalville Second Ward, with two years. Hoytsville Ward had 99% for the past year, Upton Ward 88%, and Echo Branch 67%." * Sots Sips Photograph atianftted = Neva E. — HILLSIDE STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), MOUNTAIN VIEW THIRD WARD OIL PAINTING PROJECT, SUMMER 1961 Left to right: Laura Elkins; Carlie Shurtliff; Vonda T. Richardson, President, Mountain View Third Ward Relief Society; Oletta Cummings; Adriana Zappy. Emily Woffinden and Belle Thomson were unable to be in the picture. Neva E. Paul, President, Hillside Stake Relief Society, reports that this oil painting class was planned as a project for the summer of 1961. "The group met once a week for approximately three months. The paintings completed by the group, as well as other hobbies developed during the summer, were displayed at the opening social in the fall. It was felt that the class was a success. Approximately thirty paintings were completed by the seven women attending." 528 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 on cj Photograph submitted by Martha Scoresby EAST IDAHO FALLS STAKE SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, November 1961 Martha Scoresby, President, East Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "This group sang at our quarterly conference held in November 1961. We are very proud of the splendid work that they did to help make the conference the beautiful spiritual meeting it was. "The Education Counselor of the East Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society is Lucile Harmon; Work Director Counselor, Beth Olsen; Secretary-Treasurer, Bernice Decker. The chorister and organist who were responsible for the fine chorus are Wanda Parker and Madge Johnson, respectively." eS Photograph submitted by Mary S. Grasteit ORANGE COUNTY STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT SPRING CONCERT, March 16, 1962 Stake officers seated front row, beginning fourth from the left, left to right: Jane Gudmundsen, organist; Venna Black, chorister; Lois B. Anderson, Secretary-Treasurer; Mary S. Grasteit, President; Ruth M. Bell, First Counselor; Pearl C. Dean, Second Counselor. Sister Grasteit reports: "Our Orange County Stake Singing Mothers presented a spring concert, using the theme 'Let There Be Song,' on March 16, 1962, at the Fullerton Ward chapel. Also appearing with the chorus, as guest artist, was Dawn Adams Phelps, well-known concert violinist from the Los Angeles area. The numbers ranged from hymns to light opera, and were enjoyed by approximately 550 people. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 529 "There are sixty-eight Singing Mothers in our chorus who have been practicing since last fall for this event. 'These are the mothers of 203 children, 109 of whom are school age, and ninety-four of pre-school age. We furnished nursery care during the practices and cared for as many as seventy-five children, and never less than fifty. The infants in arms were cared for in the various homes. "This was an outstanding musical event for which we have received much praise and are gratefully proud. The chorus plans further appearances for stake conference and Relief Society convention." Photograph submitted = Ethel O. Teen KOLOB STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETIES MAKE LEARNERS' QUILTS Left to right: Vivian Averett, Second Counselor; Dorothy Brown, work meeting leader; Ethel O. Jensen, President, Kolob Stake Relief Society; Maude Neilson, First Counselor. Sister Jensen reports: "In aneffort to teach handwork skills to Relief Society women, we asked each ward to make a learners' quilt. We have seven wards in Kolob Stake. The sisters were taught to purchase material, embroider or piece blocks, set them together, put the quilt on frames, and to quilt and bind the quilts. Through this project, seven beautiful quilts were made, with 163 women learning, and there were 854 hours spent on the work. All the sisters enjoyed the project, and they all wanted to know when we are going to do more quilting. "We judged the quilts according to hours spent and the amount of participation. The quilts were the highlights of a hobby fair, where there were displays from each ward of foods, clothing, and all kinds of handwork. "Our stake officers are proud of the efforts in the wards, and we feel that the project has accomplished the goal of teaching this skill to our young women." THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 41 — The Center Place of Zion* Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 57; 58:1-14) For Tuesday, October 2, 1962 Objective: To learn that ancient prophets forcsaw the New Jerusalem on the American Continent, and that the Lord's promise concerning Zion will not go unfulfilled. Background HE year 1831 was an eventful one in the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith and, consequently, of the Church. Among many important developments of that year, the Prophet had come to Kirtland, Ohio, for the first time. Within six months he was in Jackson County, Missouti, arriving there in July. With the publication of The Book of Mormon, the saints began to speculate as to where the New Jerusalem of which the ancient scriptures prophesied would be located. The Jaredite prophet Ether was shown many events of the last days, including the fact that the New Jerusalem would be built upon the American Continent. (See Ether 13:2-11.) Several centuries later, the resurrected Christ taught the same thing to the Nephites. (See 3 Nephi 20:22.) The Savior continued by explaining that with his Church established on the land of America in the last days, all of gathered Israel, including the Lamanites of that day, would build the city of the New Jerusalem. (See 3 Nephi 21:20-29.) 'The Lord said to Enoch, the seventh from Adam, that he and his city which were taken into the heavens would unite with the city of Zion on the earth at the beginning of the millennium. (See Moses 7:62-64.) Interest in the location of the New Jerusalem was shown by many saints. One of these, Hiram Page, claimed to know the place where this holy city would be built. As a result, the Lord revealed that this location was not to be known then (September 1830), but that it would be "on the borders by the Lamanites" (D & C 28:9). *"Zion"' in this lesson has reference to the location of the city of Zion. Page 530 LESSON DEPARTMENT In February 1831, the-saints were told by revelation that if they prayed for information on this subject it would be revealed (ibid., 42:62). In the following months it was made known that the New Jerusalem would be located in the western lands. In preparation for this, the elders were to preach the gospel and build up churches. (See ibid., 45:64-66. ) At the close of the June 1831 conference held in Kirtland, the Lord said that the saints were to assemble in the land of Missoun. (See ibid., 52:2, 42-43.) In the middle of July 1831, the Prophet rejoiced with his brethren, who had long awaited his arrival in Missouri. Upon arriving in the "promised land," the Prophet felt to exclaim: "When will the wilderness blossom as the rose? When will Zion be built up in her glory, and where will Thy temple stand, unto which all nations shall come in the last days?" (D. H. C. 1:189). These questions were soon answered upon receiving Section 57 in July 1831. Section 57 and the New Jerusalem Verses 1 and 2 of Section 57 point out that the land of Missouri is the land for the gathering of the saints. Wherefore, this is the land of promise, and the place for the city of Zion (_D & C m7:2). After revealing that the center place of Zion was Independence, Missouri, the Lord said that the land of inheritance should be purchased "even unto the line running directly between Jew and Gentile." (See ibid., 3-5.) The Jew here is the Lamanite or Indian. (See ibid., 531 19:27; Omni 14-19.) In this sparsely settled land the saints were advised to obtain land by peaceful means. The remainder of this revelation gives instructions to several brethren whose appointment to these callings had been made in former revelations (namely, Sidney Gilbert, ibid., 57:6; 54:4; Edward Partridge, ibid., 57:7; 41:9; 42:10; William W. Phelps and Oliver Cowdery, ibid., 57:11-135 55:4).. é The promise of revelation to guide the elders and members of the Church closes Section 57. (See ibid., 57:16.) On the first day of the next month a revelation was received in which the Lord set forth his plan for the Church in Missouri. Background of Section 58 As the Nephites knew ancient America to be the land of promise, so also do the Latter-day Saints know that within the greater promised land, the land of Missouri is "the land of promise" where the righteous will be gathered in the troublous days preceding the second coming of Christ. (See D & C 5751-2; 45:62-75.) A preaching service was held the first Sunday after the Prophet and his party arrived in Jackson County when two persons were baptized. (See D. H. C. I:190-191.) The Beginnings of Zion Just before Section 58 was received, the Colesville (New York) saints, more recently from 'Thompson, Ohio, numbering about sixty persons, arrived in Missouri by commandment. (See D. H. C. 1:191.) Concerning this branch of the Church and its part in the beginning of Zion, the Prophet wrote that the 532 first log for a house was "carried and placed by twelve men, in honor of the twelve tribes of Israel." 'The land was also dedicated by Elder Sidney Rigdon for the gathering of the saints. (See ibid., I:196.) From John Whitmer's "History of the Church," we learn that the saints pledged to keep the commandments in their new land. (See ibid., I:196.) A description of this part of Missouri at the time of the Prophet is found in his journal. (See ibid., 1:197-198.) A Message of Hope and a Forewarning For the saints who had arrived in Jackson County and for those who would follow, the Lord expressed a message of hope for the future, as well as a prediction of tribulation. These messages were directly concerned with the land of Missouri. For verily I say unto you, blessed is he that keepeth my commandments, whether in life or in death; and he that is faithful in tribulation, the reward of the same is greater in the kingdom of heaven (D & C 58:2). The predictive element in this verse is strongly present. 'lhe emphasis placed upon the two propositions stated — hope and also tribulation — is announced by the use of the word "verily," which means "in very truth." Although all men are expected to live the laws of God, as they know them, the Latter-day Saint is bound by acceptance of the atonement of Christ through baptism to keep the commandments. (See ibid., 18:42-43.) 'Throughout the scriptures, promises are made that the blessings shall be rich for those who remain worthy even unto death. In the revelation we are now RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 studying (Section 58:2), it is stated that continued faithfulness is required even beyond mortality. 'That we shall be the same persons in the spirit world that we are when we leave this life, is a part of our knowledge. (See Alma 34:32-34.) In that day we shall all realize that happiness results from obedience to divine law. With counsel concerning the necessity to be faithful in tribulation, the saints were immediately informed that the land of Missouri would not then be known as their permanent home. Granted that the saints may not have realized the full import of the following message, yet they were forewarned: Ye cannot behold with your natural eyes, for the present time, the design of your God concerning those things which shall come hereafter, and the glory which shall follow after much tribulation. For after much tribulation come the blessings. Wherefore the day cometh that ye shall be crowned with much glory; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand (D & C 58:3-4). It was not long before persecution was heaped upon the saints in Missour. Details of the future are wisely withheld by the Father that his people may look beyond temporary setbacks to their ultimate glory. (See D & C Commentary, page 334) In a subsequent lesson we shall learn more about the reasons why the saints were persecuted. For the present, however, two causes are mentioned: first, their religious beliefs, especially concerning the restoration of the gospel with its gifts and powers. For example, the Manifesto issued by a Missouri mob on July 20, 1833, referred to the LESSON DEPARTMENT saints pretending to receive revelations direct from heaven and to perform miracles as the apostles and prophets of old. (See DC. 1:374-376.) Second, that in consequence of the saints' transgressions, they were chastened and not allowed to redeem Zion at that time. (See D & C 101:1-10; 103:1-4; 105: 1-6.) The prediction that the saints would pass through tribulation was fulfilled when they were driven from Missouri, then Illinois, and then to the mountains outside the boundaries of the United States. (See D & C Commentary, pp. 331-332.) The manner in which most of the early saints endured "much tribulation" is a credit to their faith. The testimony of President Young concerning his own experience could be said of many others:... We have passed through a great many scenes, we may say, of tribulation, though I would have all my brethren understand that I do not take this to myself, for all that I have passed through has been joy and joyful to me.... I have, myself, five times before I came to this valley, left everything that the Lord had blessed me with pertaining to this world's goods, which, for the country where I lived, was not a very little (Journal of Discourses, 18:237). The ability of the faithful Latterday Saints to pass through tribulation or trials though they may come only as the normal experiences of life, may be attributed to the hope and knowledge that "the day cometh that ye [they] shall be crowned with much glory..." (D & C 58:4). One can understand as a Latter-day Saint that the testimony of the truth restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith has given and continues to give an assurance that the Lord's word will be fulfilled. Without this 533 divine promise, many would find it difficult to endure to the end. Glory to Come Ultimately to all the faithful will come blessings of eternal life. 'There will be a happy reunion with departed loved ones, and the joy of eternal increase with its manifold blessings of dominion and honor. But the message to the saints of our time is that the inheritance promised in Missouri [Zion] will yet be realized. "... The hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand" (D & C 58:4). "It must be much nearer now than when this inspired line was first penned" (D & C Commentary, page 335). This significant truth is found in the fifth verse of this revelation: Remember this, which I tell you before, that you may lay it to heart, and receive that which is to follow (D & C 58:5). The Lord has promised his people that after much tribulation would come the blessings of much glory. At the time, however, they were not to see the redemption of Zion. For us today, we may be assured that the prophecies concerning Zion will all be fulfilled. One of the rich legacies of the Latter-day Saints is to live in a period when the prophecies are being fulfilled. One important purpose of prophecy is to serve as confirmation of the prophet's mission and that the fulfillment will instil in the hearts of people the desire to obey the Lord's word. In the light of these purposes, what faith should the Latter-day Saint have in the future of Zion? Reasons for the Saints Gathering in Zion Several reasons are given for the commandment to gather to Mis- 534 sourl. It is clear from this revelation that the saints were to lay the foundation of Zion. Regardless of what would happen after the saints began their work, the time would come when Zion would prosper in the preparations made for the return of the Savior to the earth. The redemption of Zion would come only as the people knew and fully accepted in their lives the reasons which follow: Behold, verily I say unto you, for this cause I have sent you — that you might be obedient, and that your hearts might be prepared to bear testimony of the things which are to come (D & C 58:6). The Church of Jesus Christ is divinely directed. Strict obedience is essential for salvation. 'The direction of the Church requires the directing will of the Father through inspired prophets. (See D & C Commentary, page 336.) In verse 6 we have also another purpose in that the obedient would bear testimony of the truth revealed through the Prophet. In addition to keeping the commandments as stated, the saints of 1831 were to be honored in laying the foundation of Zion. (See D&C 58:7.) The Prophet Joseph Smith records that on the third day of August 1831, he dedicated the temple site, a little west of what was then Independence, Missouri. As a part of this service, the 87th Psalm was read. When one thinks of the glory which will yet surround this place and the purpose of the temple prophecied centuries ago, he can well understand the Prophet's comment: "The scene was solemn and impressive." (See D. H. C. T:199.) The fourth reason for the saints RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 coming to Zion, as given in verse 7 of this revelation, was to bear record of the land itself. Another purpose of God in establishing Zion is given in verses 8 to 10 which was realized at some period after laying the foundation of that city, as pointed out in the D & C Commentary, pp. 336-337. The Day of the Lord's Power Further information regarding the glory of the Zion of the last days is brought to our attention in verses 11 and 12 of this revelation. The interpretation of these verses indicates events which usher in the millennial reign of the Savior. (See D & C Commentary, page 337.) The assurance of the fulfillment of God's word brings forth the Lord's last reason for the building of Zion. (See D & C 1:37-38.) It is that his testimony or law is to go forth from Zion to enlighten the world. (See ibid., 58:13.) The Future Glory of Zion President Brigham Young in these words referred to the time when he saw the return of the saints to build up Zion in Missouri:... Before we were driven out of Missouri I had a vision, if I would dare to say that I had a vision, and saw that the people would go to the east, to the north and to the west; but we should go back to Jackson County from the west. When this people return to the Centre Stake [place] of Zion, they will go from the west (Journal of Discourses, 11:17). Because of the conditions which prevented the saints from building the temple in Zion, the Lord re leased the saints from performing this important duty at that time. LESSON DEPARTMENT (See D & C 124:49-51.) When the call comes from the divinely appointed servants of the Lord, the city and temple will be built as commanded for this generation (Ibid., 84:4-5). Due to the driving of our people from the land of their inheritance, being thus moved out of their place, they will return to build unto the Lord the long-predicted Zion. (See ibid., 101:17-10.) When this task is undertaken the saints will be led with power. In the meantime, the Lord's people must become great and sanctified before him. (See ibid., 105:11-13, 31-32.) The laws and commandments, including the living of the law of consecration, will be lived "after her [Zion's} redemption." (See ibid., 105:34.) When the Prophet Joseph Smith first viewed the land of Missouri, his vision was not on the then disadvantages of that place but upon the greatness of the Zion to be. Here is his message: 535 But all these impediments vanish when it is recollected what the Prophets have said concerning Zion in the last days; how the glory of Lebanon is to come upon her; the fir tree, the pine tree, and the box tree together, to beautify the place of His sanctuary, that He may make the place of His feet glorious. Where for brass, He will bring gold; and for iron, He will bring silver; and for wood, brass; and for stones, iron; and where the feast of fat things will be given to the just; yea, when the splendor of the Lord is brought to our consideration for the good of His people, the calculations of men and the vain glory of the world vanish, and we exclaim, "Out of Zion the perfection of beauty, God hath shined" (D. H. C. I:198; cf. Isaiah 60:12-22), Questions for Discussion 1. Give some of the prophecies relating to the New Jerusalem. 2. Why do you think the Indian is referred to as the Jew in Section 57? 3. Discuss: Before the expulsion of the saints from Missouri, the saints were forewarned of tribulation. 4. Give two reasons why the. Saints were driven from Missouri. 5. Why do you think the saints have been able to stand up against persecution? THE ONLY ROAD The only road on earth that is in no need of repair is the straight and narrow. — Shirley Taylor VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 41 (D & C 58:27). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, October 2, 1962 Objective: is that of giving love and service to others. LTHOUGH history is full of dramatic and _ world - shaping events, there probably never was a period more critical and yet more challenging than the present. There never was a time when the need was greater for men to be "anxiously engaged in a good cause." The word anxious means to be earnestly desirous, to be zealous and eager. It implies particular concern for both the present and the future. If we strive earnestly and with determination to help others we are "anxiously engaged in a good cause." More and more of our world's thoughtful observers are now coming to the conclusion that the only permanent solution to our heavy world problems lies in the area of service, brotherhood, and genuine love for one another. The Savior, who knew the solution to all mankind's problems, expressed this basic thought when he said that loving the Lord and our neighbor are the two commandments on which "hang all the law and the prophets." (See Matt. 22:36-40.) Many of us these days are asking ourselves how we can be anxiously engaged in a good cause and thus Page 536 — "Men Should Be Anxiously Engaged in a Good Cause" To demonstrate that the best cause in which we can be anxiously engaged make our personal contribution in meeting the critical demands of the time. Some of us might be tempted to conclude that the little contribution we might make would be lost in the face of the enormity of the world problems. 'The answer to this was dramatically portrayed in an incident which recently occurred in New York City. Crowds in that city's subways were startled not long ago to see, along with advertisements for soaps and toothpaste, a car card displaying the Ten Commandments. The advertisement was signed, "Paid for by a friend." In due course newspaper reporters, sensing the possibility of a story, tried to learn who this unusual advertiser might be. After considerable research, and some difficult detective work, they learned that the friend was an ordinary stenographer. This was her personal project motivated by the desire to influence others for good. When she was interviewed, the stenographer said she had read some place that "sometimes a small thing can change the world." 'To make this personal contribution, she had saved the cost of the advertisement, $400, from her personal earnings. |: f LESSON DEPARTMENT Her personal contribution did much to focus attention on the Lord's commandments.. In our own search for a good cause in which we can be anxiously engaged, we need not seek such a dramatic method as described in the above experience. Our good cause may be service to others of a more personal, less publicized nature. We can be anxiously engaged in a good cause by sharing the saving truths of the gospel with our friends and neighbors; by seeking to lighten the loneliness, sorrow, and heartaches of those with whom we associate; and by encouraging and strengthening those who are downhearted and discouraged. It has been said, ""The greatest of 537 the world's heroes could not by any series of acts of heroism do as much real good as any individual living his whole life in seeking, from day to day, to make others happy" (Jordan, Wm. George: Self-Control, page 191). He us, then, never allow the sun to set without making sure we have done some good, eased someone's burden, "cheered up the sad, and made someone feel glad." Let us always remember the words, ""There are chances for work all around just now, opportunities night in our way. Do not let them pass by, saying, 'sometime I'll try,' but go and do something today" (L. D. S. Hymns, page 58). WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 1 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized (Part 1) Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Tuesday, October 9, 1962 Objective: To show that successful home management begins with happy, wholesome family relationships. UR first home management subject is organization and planning. Perhaps it will help us to understand the scientific approach to home management if we know about the beginnings of scientific Management in industry. In 1880, Fredrick W. Taylor, after twentythree years of studying management, Stated his theory: "Efficiency is the end and aim of scientific management; it is brought about through planning, organizing, and learning to do shop jobs skillfully." Many countries tried out Taylor's efficiency theory and learned that it was lacking on two counts: first, the best results are not obtained from the worker if he does not have satisfying relationships with his work 538 group; second, a worker becomes dissatishied and unhappy and leaves his job if he does not have some creative outlet. Our problem is, how can we relate the theory of industrial management to home management? Have you read Cheaper By the Dozen? If so, you have become acquainted with the remarkable Gilbreth family that first tried out these scientific ideas in a home sit- 'uation. On the foundation of love, an efficient management system was developed. 'The family knew the jobs to be done. They knew who were responsible for doing them; and they knew how to have a good time while they worked. 'The story of their family life, as well as their scientific reports of time and motion studies put to the test in washing dishes and doing other household tasks, provide good reading for the homemaker who wants to make her work a profession. Today, there are some well-defined principles of home management that can be recommended for any home situation. If they are followed carefully and adhered to until proficiency is acquired, many dollars may be added to the annual income; and there will be bonuses or stay-athome pay that cannot be measured in dollars and cents. 'There will be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 the building up of a priceless family trust, a happy confident trust that rewards all dedicated home managers. To reap these rich rewards, the order of the industrial management theory must be reversed. Of primary importance in home management is first, a condition of happy relationships in the family group; and efficiency takes second plate. This means that a feeling of love and sincerity permeates the home and can be recognized by anyone who visits the family. Even though all members of the family are working on different projects, there is a feeling of togetherness. 'The interest shown by each member in the welfare of the others is ever apparent. Family loyalty is strong, and one sees a Cohesiveness that makes the family organization the matrix around which all else revolves. And so, our home management theory begins with happy, wholesome, family relationships. Family values that help to make such relationships are described in the Family Values Test. Check yourself and family on these values and you will be better prepared for the next lesson, which deals with scientific ways of making your home efficient. Family Values Test Our family has: 1. Security a. The safe feeling of having enough money to pay our bills and keep out of debt. B. The peace of mind that results from thrift, wise use of resources, and a nest egg for a rainy day. Yes SomeNo what | LESSON DEPARTMENT Our family has: c. The satisfaction of a high credit rating that comes from strict honesty and moral trust — worthiness in all dealings. 2. Health a. Well-planned meals, with all essential nutrients every day. B. A home that is based on love which feeds the heart and lifts the soul to meet each day's demands. C. A home that is clean and orderly and a suitable setting for healthful family living. 3. Comfort A home that makes cold days feel warm and hot days feel cool — where all have a place for relaxation, rest, and rebuilding of inner resources. 4. Privacy A feeling of protection against intruders, with each person having one place in the home that is strictly his own, even if it is only a small corner or a dresser drawer. 5. Friends A love of people and a sharing with them of family fun and hospitality, at mealtime, family nights, and on special occasions. 6. Convenience A home that is planned so that work and activities may be carried on easily. 7. Hobbies Special interests, such as music, art, books, collections, pets, or crafts which occupy much of our "at-home'"' time. 8. Religious Activity a. Family and individual prayers, blessing on the food, scriptural reading. B. Planning for Church attendance and activity. C. Study of ancestors — writing biographies, making Books of Remembrance and Treasures of Truth. G. Educational and Cultural Ambitions a. Enough schooling to help each member to live abundantly. B. Family trips and excursions to learn more about the world and its people. (This could be a trip to the park or museum.) c. A home library of books and records, with opportunities for home concerts and book Teviews. 10. Provision for Beauty a. A home made beautiful through creative effort. B. Attractive clothes to help us look and act our best (neat and clean). Yes Somewhat 539 LITERATURE America's Literature 1 The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 33 — Thoreau, Man in Nature Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 471-495) For Tuesday, October 16, 1962 Objective: gift of life. HENRY DAVID THOREAU AlMost everyone who has heard of Henry David Thoreau knows that he spent two years living in a shanty he constructed with his own hands on the shore of Walden Pond some few miles outside Concord, Massachusetts. And now as then the inevitable questions follow: Why did he leave normal society for so long? Other than verifying impressions of his being eccentric, Page 540 To feel and appreciate Thoreau's "imexpressible satisfaction" with the what did he prove? And most pressing, what did it get him? The desperate publisher of Thoreau's first book A Week on the Concord and Merrimac Rivers, dumped on the author over seven hundred of the thousand copies printed rather than burn them, so poorly did they sell. Thoreau's Walden, a compilation which "sprouted" from his journals, sold less than two thousand copies before his death in 1862. Yet, in our century, few American books have been more widely translated throughout the world. While many giants of English and American nineteenthcentury literature constantly diminish, he who received scorn and neglect from his contemporaries, continues to grow in stature, influence, and challenge. Thus our final question to ourselves might well be to ask why this is so, and what our own age finds in his long-neglected pages that lay there concealed so cunningly for more than a century. Here two widely accepted generalizations may help us. First, many accept Thoreau as the most pene- LESSON DEPARTMENT trating nature-writer America, if not all mankind, has produced. Second, no American has surpassed the power and subtlety of his prose. The following sentences reveal fully both Thoreau's all-consuming love of nature and the pristine purity of the out-of-doors as seen through his eyes.... Walden is a perfect forest mirror, set round with stones as precious to my eye as if fewer or rarer. Nothing so fair, so pure, and at the same time so large, as a lake, perchance, lies on the surface of the earth. Sky water. It needs no fence. Nations come and go without defiling it. It is a mirror which no stone can crack, whose quicksilver will never wear off, whose gilding Nature continually Tepairs; no storms, no dust, can dim its surface ever fresh; — a mirror in which all impurity presented to it sinks, swept and dusted by the sun's hazy brush — this the light dust-cloth — which retains no breath that is breathed on it, but sends its own to float as clouds high above its surface, and be reflected in its bosom still (Walden, "The Ponds," page 195). Thoreau loved Nature, and by giving himself completely to her on her own terms, he felt that he could change and grow nearer the perfection which Nature best symbolized to him. Again of Walden Pond:... It is itself unchanged, the same water which my youthful eyes fell on; all the change is in me. It has not acquired one permanent wrinkle after all its ripples. It is perennially young,... Where a forest was cut down last winter another is springing up by its shore as lustily as ever; the same thought is welling up to its surface that was then; it is the same liquid joy and happiness to itself and its Maker, ay, and it may be to me (Ibid., page 199). Herein Thoreau reminds us that tegardless of how brusquely visible nature may be roughed, her eternal identity is constant; she is ever young and self-renewing to those who can scrape aside irrelevancies 541 and commune with her. To those who will hear Thoreau out and come to him on his own terms, few writers are more challenging or rewarding. From 1845, when he went to Walden, to almost 1945, 'Thoreau the man has been so controversial a personality both to his critics and his would-be readers, that his words have not been read and evaluated on their own merit or in the light of his deeper intent. Thus we may justly say of Walden as Thoreau said of Walden Pond, "it is itself unchanged... All the change is in me." Before Thoreau's words could be fully appreciated, 'Thoreau, sharp-tongued yet tender, had to die, and also the false image of Thoreau as created by the influential James Russell Lowell, who by background and personal temperament simply could not understand him. To citybred, professorial Lowell a symbolic approach to nature was incomprehensible, and when, as editor of the newly launched Atlantic Monthly, he insisted on his privilege as editor to change some of Thoreau's carefully chosen words in a manuscript submitted for publication, Thoreau defended his integrity. The quarrel which followed emphasized the personal objections Lowell had_previously found in him, thus delaying a just and sympathetic reading of Thoreau for several decades. Thoreau the Man Outwardly, according to usual standards, 'Thoreau's life was barren. Born July 12, 1817, in Concord, he graduated from Harvard when he was twenty, briefly taught school but rebelled against dressing in 542 formal clothes and against beating his students into learning, as local administrators expected him to do. Aside from some few brief trips to Maine, Cape Cod, Staten Island, and New York City, he spent his entire forty-four years in Concord. Intermittently he helped edit the Dial, the mouthpiece of 'Transcendentalism, lectured almost annually before the Concord Lyceum and occasionally elsewhere, 'made _ pencils in his father's factory, surveyed, and performed menial domestic odd jobs. Ralph Waldo Emerson was attracted to the youthful scholar, who was able to read Greek, Latin, French, Italian, Spanish, and German. He saw in Thoreau a man of independent mind and of great promise. At Emerson's invitation, Thoreau served as hired man in the Emerson household while the famous writer and lecturer was abroad. Save for those rare occasions when his time was committed elsewhere, Thoreau walked in the woods and fields every day of his life, striding with a fierce Indian-like cadence which became his hallmark. It seems ironical that one who so loved physical exertion and striding through the woods unrestricted by trail or road should be afflicted by tuberculosis, yet so it was. During Thoreau's final months of confinement at home, when he saw lifelong friends passing by, he asked his mother, "Why don't they come to see me? I love them as if they were my own." Learning of his desire, his friends came often thereafter. As long as he could still sit up, he insisted in taking his place at the family table at mealtime. "It would not be sociable to take my meals alone." When death was not far RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 off, a religious, yet curious friend asked him, "Henry, have you made your peace with God?" 'To which Thoreau replied, "I was not aware that we had quarreled." His final words reveal his typical care in choosing words, as well as his sound wisdom: "It is better some things should end." An anonymous obituary notice in a Boston paper commented, "When we now look back at the solitude of his erect and spotless person, we lament that he did not live long enough for all men to know him." Emerson spoke of him in similar vein at his funeral: The country knows not yet, or in the least part, how great a son it has lost.... His soul was made for the noblest society; he had in a short life exhausted the capabilities of this world; wherever there is knowledge, wherever there is virtue, wherever there is beauty, he will find a home (Canby, Henry S.: Thoreau, Houghton Mifflin Co., 1939, Pp. 454-455)- Some people, however, did not share his esteem. They felt him to be an educated loafer who showed no leadership or respect for intellectual pursuits as a college graduate should, but instead escaped responsibilities of marriage and society by his zeal for being in nature and studying her, but only to please himself.. But others respected and loved him. Whittier felt his books were the work of a genius, for "to take up his books is like a stroll in the woods or a sail on the lake — the leaves rustle and the water ripples along his pages." He always re minded a lifelong friend of "an eagle, ready to soar to great heights or to swoop down on anything he considered evil." For his superior insight and honesty, Thoreau's LESSON DEPARTMENT greatest friend and lifelong influence, Emerson, deserves the final words, as he recorded in July 1852: Thoreau gives me, in flesh and blood and pertinacious Saxon belief, my own ethics. He is far more real, and daily practically obeying them, than I; and fortifies my memory at all times with an affirmative experience which refuses to be set aside. On two qualities in Thoreau all agreed. Children loved him, so freely did he give himself to them. He juggled for them, drew his knife out of their ears, sang folksongs, told Indian stories, and regularly took them for rides in his boat and led huckleberry parties. Conversely, with adults Henry was shy. Harvard classmates recalled that when he conversed at all, it was with eyes lowered. He abhorred group socials, particularly formal calls on friends when all sat about stiffly amid pauses, bantering respectable cliche phrases, while really each hid behind the bastion of his non-communicating self. The Emersons claimed that he could not walk through the kitchen where ladies were present without blushing, and Ellen Sewall's tefusing his one proposal of marnage did not make him less isolated. Perhaps Elizabeth Hoar was justified in saying of him, "I love Henty, but do not like him.... One would as soon take the arm of an elm tree." Thoreau, Lover of the Ideal in Nature Evidently Henry was not unaware of his "faults" as society defined them, for in 1852 he wrote of himself, "If I am too cold for human friendship I trust I shall not soon 543 be too cold for natural influences." He was the true son of nature who, according to Bronson Alcott, "had the profoundest passion for nature of any one of his time." Removing himself from all man-made distractions, he retired to Walden Pond, in his own words,... Because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to dic, discover that I had not lived. I did not wish to live what was not life, living is so dear; nor did I wish to practice resignation, unless it was quite necessary. I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live so sturdily and Spartanlike as to put to rout all that was not life, to cut a broad swath and shave close, to drive life into a corner, and reduce it to its lowest terms, and, if it proved to be mean, why then to get the whole and genuine meanness of it, and publish its meanness to the world; or if it were sublime, to know it by experience, and be able to give a true account of it in my next excursion (Walden, "Where I Lived and What I Lived For," pp. 96-97. See also Text, page 485.) No one has ever reduced life to a lower denominator than did Thoreau, nor wrested from one's existence in Nature a meaning and significance more sublime. "It is the marriage of the soul with Nature that makes the intellect fruitful, and gives birth to imagination," he wrote in his Journal in 1851, and no better proof of his statement exists than his own writing, afire with piercing keenness and apt image as he details his "inexpressible satisfaction" within himself once he realizes he is at one with Nature. In "Spring," a chapter in Walden, which was published in 1854, eight years before his death, Thoreau speaks thus: 544... We need the tonic of wildness — to wade sometimes in marshes where the bittern and the meadow-hen lurk, and hear the booming of the snipe, to smell the whispering sedge where only some wilder and more solitary fowl builds her nest, and the mink crawls with its belly close to the ground. At the same time that we are earnest to explore and learn all things, we require that all things be mysterious and unexplorable, that land and sea be infinitely wild, unsurveyed, and unfathomed by us because unfathomable. We can never have enough of Nature. We must be refreshed by the sight of inexhaustible vigour, vast and Titanic features — the sea-coast with its wrecks, the wilderness with its living and its decaying trees, the thunder cloud, and the rain which lasts three weeks and _ produces freshets. We need to witness our own limits transgressed, and some life pasturing freely where we never wander (Walden, ""Where L Lived and What I Lived For," pp. 317-318). While believing that "we must never under-estimate the value of a fact, for it might one day blossom into a truth," Thoreau greatly feared those who approached life and Nature with the scientist's objectivity, regarding all reality as fact only. For one truly alive,... The earth is not a mere fragment of dead history, stratum upon stratum like the leaves of a book, to be studied by geologists and antiquaries chiefly, but living poetry like the leaves of a tree, which precede flowers and fruit — not' a fossil earth, but a living earth; compared with whose great central life all animal and vegetable life is merely parasitic. (Ibid., page 310). Earlier in Walden, from his essay "Where I Lived," he memorably specifies this grand theme, namely, that the ultimate good life is here and now, beneath our feet and within our perceiving eye, if only we can learn to sense its real meaning. How good is here-and-now, as seen by Thoreau: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962... If the day and the night are such that you greet them with joy, and life emits a fragrance like flowers and sweetscented herbs, that is your success. The true harvest of my daily life is somewhat as intangible and indiscernible as the tints of morning or evening. It is a little star dust caught, a segment of the rainbow which I have clutched. Thus Thoreau reveals himself in true dress and dream: eternally he is discontented, ever stirring up trouble among his fellows by reminding them of the sweet joy of existence which they, too, could know and experience, if only they would believe and aspire. Once again in a final quotation, Thoreau tries to pull man and prod him to soar above himself by seeing himself in Nature not actually but symbolically. 'The quotation is from the essay "Walking" which was published after his death. We hug the earth — how rarely we mount! Methinks we might elevate ourselves a little more. We might climb a tree, at least. I found my account in climbing a tree once. It was a tall white pine, on the top of a hill; and though I got well pitched, I was well paid for it, for I discovered new mountains in the horizon which I had never seen before — so much more of the earth and the heavens. I might have walked about the foot of the tree for threescore years and ten, and yet I certainly should never have seen them. But, above all, I discovered around me — it was near the end of June — on the ends of the topmost branches only, a few minute and delicate red _conelike blossoms, the fertile flower of the white pine looking heavenward. I carried straightway to the village the topmost spire, and showed it to stranger jurymen who walked the streets — for it was court week — but they wondered as at a star dropped down. Tell of ancient architects finishing their works on the tops of columns as perfectly as on the lower and more visible parts! Nature has from the LESSON DEPARTMENT first expanded the minute blossoms of the forest only toward the heavens, above men's heads and unobserved by them. We see only the flowers that are under our feet in the meadows. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How does Thoreau increase your appreciation of life? 545 2. If Thoreau's ideas and style could be simplified, should they be? 3. How do you account for the fact that few American books have been more widely translated throughout the world than has Thoreau's Walden? 4. What particular memories of nature do Thoreau's vivid descriptions bring back to you? SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Foundation of Church Government Lesson 1 — The Meaning of Divine Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Tuesday, October 23, 1962 Objective: the definition of divine law. Belief in God Is Basic N order for us to have a clear understanding of the law of God, to recognize his right to authority, and to harmonize our actions with his wisdom, we must first accept without reservation the fundamental premise that God lives "... He that cometh to God must believe that he is" (Heb. 11:6). In Mosiah 4:9, we read, "Believe in God; believe that he is, and that he created all things, both in heaven and in earth; believe that he has all wisdom, and all power, both in heaven and in earth; believe that man doth not comprehend all the things which the Lord can comprehend." To accept the reality of God is an act of faith supported and sustained To establish in the mind the sacred nature of Church government through by available evidence. Evidence of the existence of God is found in two main sources: the first is in the orderliness of the universe and the earth we live on. The heavens are full of planets and stars moving in orderly orbit, each in its own sphere of action. The earth is teeming with the handiwork of the Supreme Being as evidenced in the movement of the earth on its axis, its movement through space in synchronized relationship to the other planets, the effectiveness of daylight and dark, the seasons of the year, and the extensive organization of life itself. All this was climaxed by the creation of man to whom God gave dominion over all living things. The second source is the evidence found in the records of sacred litera- 546 ture. The Bible is a record of God's dealings with man, including a report of the creation and the beginnings of man's conquest of the forces of nature. Supporting Scripture The Bible does not stand alone as the supporting evidence of the existence and reality of God. The Book of Mormon, a record of God's dealingswith man compiled by authorized agents on the Western Hemisphere, is another witness for the same great truth that God lives and that mankind is his greatest concern in the whole of his creation. The sacred records referred to above are replete with evidence of the reality of God. Sometimes their evidence is in the form of wisdom and counsel given for the welfare of man. Again it is found in the teports of his voice identifying his Son and giving approval to the plan of life and salvation as presented by the Lord: And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him: And lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased (Matt. 3:16-17). Upon the Western Hemisphere, some time later, there was a similar happening. The eleventh chapter of 3 Nephi in The Book of Mormon is a record of the Eternal Father proclaiming the Christ. The people... Did hear the voice, and did open their ears to hear it; and their eyes were towards the sound thereof; and they did look steadfastly towards heaven, from whence the sound came. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 And behold, the third time they did understand the voice which they heard; and it said unto them: Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name — hear ye him (3 Nephi 11:5-7). In modern times the Prophet Joseph Smith saw two Beings, God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ. Joseph bears record to the world that he heard the voice of God identify the Savior with the statement, "This is my Beloved Son." At the same time God approved the mission of the Savior, including the plan Christ had presented, by saying "Hear him" (PGP, Joseph Smith 2:17). A Definition of Theology The study of God through a careful, unprejudiced examination of the sacred literature and the organized information dealing with God is called theology. To analyze this word theos means God, and logos means an organized body of knowledge. It is out of this organized body of knowledge that we can discover the reality of God and the true meaning of his revelations to man, provided, as we study, that we have faith suf ficient to enjoy the inspiration of his spirit. To all members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been given the gift of the Holy Ghost. Only by the witness of the Holy Ghost can the members testify to the reality of God the Eternal Father and his Son Jesus Christ. This witness does not automatically follow our confirmation to membership in the Church; it comes through humility, service to our fellow men, and a sincere effort LESSON DEPARTMENT to incorporate into our lives the rules of conduct, the way of life or religion as found in the teachings of the divine will of God. A Definition of Divine In the use of the term divine, clarification and specific meanings must be given. According to the dictionary, the word divine may be a noun, meaning a clergyman, or minister; a verb, meaning to foretell or prophesy; or an adjective, meaning godlike, heavenly, or emanating from God. The Latter-day Saint Concept of Divine To the Latter-day Saint the defnition of divine refers specifically to God our Eternal Father, to his Son Jesus Christ, and to the Holy Ghost, for they are one in purpose. It refers to their dealings with us, including all that pertains to the plan of life and salvation. All that is good comes from God and is, therefore, divine. We recognize God as the Creator without qualification or limitation. Paul the apostle had this Same point of view when he said, For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: all things were created by him, and for him: And he is before all things, and by him all things consist (Col. 1:16-17). President John Taylor in commenting upon this scripture said, "Tf all things, visible and invisible, are made by and for him, he governs and sustains all worlds to us known, together with the earth on which we live. If he governs them, they are 547 under his dominion, subject to his laws, and controlled by his will and power ('l'AyLor, Joun: The Government of God, August 1852, page 1). In The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 132:12, we read, "I am the Lord thy God; and I give unto you this commandment — that no man shall come unto the Father but by me or by my word, which is my law, saith the Lord." And in ancient scripture we read, "Know therefore this day, and consider it in thine heart, that the Lord he is God in heaven above, and upon the earth beneath: there is none else" (Deut. 4:39). From the above statements, we must conclude that for a Latter-day Saint the term divine has a sacred, holy meaning in that things divine originate with God the Eternal Father. In this sense, divine refers to all the instruction, guidance, and rules of conduct that God has revealed through all ages for the benefit and progress of his children on earth. ""Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is the truth" (Psalms 119:142), and "... The truth of the Lord endureth forever" (Psalms 117:2). God Has All Wisdom With the above in mind we will consider the word of God to be divine law. Our study is built on the basic premise of the reality of God. Of equal importance is the companion idea that God knows all things pertaining to his innumerable creations. To man, the challenge was issued in the beginning to people the earth, subdue it, and have dominion over all living things upon it. In plain, simple terms the earth was 548 designed for the benefit of man; however, he must achieve the benefits through his own efforts by discovering the governing principles involved. As has been pointed out before, the earth and the universe operate on God's laws. The operation of the planets and the stars, the operation of the elements and the rules governing life upon this earth are fixed by divine law. Man does not have the control nor operation of these laws. This function of creation God has retained. Under his wisdom it has operated successfully according to his design. People — God's Crowning Creation The universe in its degree of perfection is the place provided for man to grow and develop and, in the process, bring under subjection for his use and comfort all that nature has to offer.... The fulness of the earth is yours, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that which climbeth upon the trees and walketh upon the earth; Yea, and the herb, and the good things which come of the earth, whether for food or for raiment, or for houses, or for barns, or for orchards, or for gardens, or for vineyards; Yea, all things which come of the earth, in the season thereof, are made for the benefit and the use of man, both to please the eye and to gladden the heart; Yea, for food and for raiment, for taste and for smell, to strengthen the body and to enliven the soul. And it pleaseth God that he hath given all these things unto man; for unto this end were they made to be used, with judgment, not to excess, neither by extortion (D & C 59:16-20). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 Divine Law Is for the Welfare of His Children From the beginning of the first dispensation of time, God has revealed himself to his children upon this earth. In a consistent manner and in language that could be understood he has pointed out the destiny of man. President Lorenzo Snow, a modern prophet, summarized man's destiny in his statement "as God is man may become." The mind and will of God concerning man have been expressed through revelation giving direction to man through which he can obtain the most out of life. Divine revelation has concerned itself primarily with laws governing man's relationship with man. The Social Aspect of Our Religion Basic to all the law given is the divine law of love, having its fundamental meaning expressed in the kinship relation of the Fatherhood of God, and the brotherhood of man. The love of one's fellow men is essential to the love of God. On this divine law—love of God and love of fellow men, are all the laws based. In the creation, man was recognized as a social being. 'The Creator said "... It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him an help meet for him" (Genesis 2:18). The first commandment given to Adam and Eve was to people the earth. With the coming of people the problems of interaction increased. The struggle between Cain and Abel was evidence of the intensity and importance of human association. This conflict invoked another basic law that we are our brother's keeper. From generation to generation the Lord has patiently LESSON DEPARTMENT continued to keep before his children the divine laws of human conduct. During Christ's ministry there was a reemphasis of the rules of conduct with clarification of the destiny of the human family. He stated anew the plan of life and his purpose in this world which was to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. How was this to be accomplished? By man's obedience to the divine laws and ordinances governing human conduct which is his gospel. We are told "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise' (D & C 82:10); and "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated" (D & C 130:20-21). The major concern of the great council in heaven was how man could obtain the most out of his earthly experience. The plan of God the Creator was to give man his agency. Christ volunteered to put the Father's plan in operation. The Savior was to provide man with direction and stimulation to develop and progress under divine rules and regulations. Man with his freedom can listen, learn, and choose. The divine law has been given for his benefit. If he will operate or direct his life according to the law, it is possible for him to achieve the full objective of his creation. To assist in the achievement of man's destiny the divine law has mmm rer SACRED MUSIC FOR WOMEN'S VOICES. COME UNTO HIM "MESSIAH" — Handel _._.............. 20.. COME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER — Madsen.20... FORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD, | GO Madsen.20. IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS — Madsen.25 _... IN THY FORM Madsen.......20 _ JESU, JOY OF MAN'S DESIRING — Bact.25. LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY — Stephens 20 LORD'S PRAYER — Malotte 25.. MY HEART EVER FAITHFUL— Bach 25. THE 23RD PSALM — Schubert.25. UNTO THEE I LIFT MINE EYES — Beethoven. 22 _— VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS — Scott 2.000000... 25 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank a ee DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY! 15 E. Ist South: Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated '! Above 1 On Approval Charge \ Money Enclosed NGine 2 =. Address | 15 E. Lst South | /salt Lake City 11, Utah } 550 CHESBRO MUSIC CO. Box 2009 Idaho Falls, Idaho THE WEST'S LARGEST MUSIC DISTRIBUTOR SSA Arrangements ( ) Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring — Bach — No. 8388.25 ( ) Still, Still With Thee — Madsen — No. 10381...........22 ( ) The Lord's Prayer — Malotte — No. 7987.............25 ( ) The Lord Is My Shepherd — Smart — No. 477 oc..20 ( ) Unto Thee | Lift Mine Eyes — No. 6221 _2..0o. Cec eee eceeeeee cee.22 ( ) Let Not Your Song End — Cain — No. 83238 2000000000000....25 { ) The Voice in the Wilderness — Neo 6..25 ( ) My Soul Is Athirst for God — Madsen ooo. Ee eee eeceeeeeeee.20 ( ) Abide With Me 'Tis Eventide — Madsen oii ceeece eee ee.20 ( ) Love One Another — Fox.......30 ( ) You'll Never Walk Alone — Rodgers & Hammerstein.......25 ( ) No Man Is an Island............ 25 ( ) Give Me Your Tired, Your POCO? Oo 45) ( ) Calm as the Night.................20 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 00... 35 150 to 300 miles 20000. 39 300 to 45 oe 600 to 1000 miles ww. 54 1000 to 1400 miles..0.000000 0..64 1400 to 1800 miles —....0000 0. 16 Over 1800 miles 200.000. 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, 0 GO RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 been organized into government and, through the Priesthood or the power to act in the name of God, it operates to assist man in obtaining the full joy of living in this world with assurance of eternal life and exaltation in our Father's kingdom. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why is the reality of God so important to a testimony of the truthfulness of the Latter-day Saint religion? 2. What is the Latter-day Saint meaning of divine? 3. What are the two main sources of evidence supporting the reality of God? 4. What is the significance of the references recording the voice of God the Eternal Father? References: Genesis, Chapter 1. The Book of Moses, Pearl of Great Price, Chapters 1-2. D & C Sections 84, 88, 121, 130, 132. The Apple Tree Evelyn Fjeldsted Our apple tree is gone. Chalice blossoms pink and white, Will never open wide again, To hold the rains and warm sunlight. Knarled old branches shielding homing birds Brought spring perfume, inviting shade, Gifts of apples brushed with red, And autumn leaves — a gold cascade. How many trees have come and gone Since this our land began to grow — Gone with this our tree — our pioneer? Only passing winds could know. Our family tree is gone — There is no singing now at dawn. Child Swinging Ida Elaine James Just seconds ago She was my own child And that was enough For me to know. Now, a handful of wild, Sweet air-borne fluff Lighter than snow, She is separate, free. Yellow hair afly, She is the essence of freedom, Feet pointed to the sky Away from me. Her cascade of laughter Is a bell's ding-dong; Air-emancipated spirit Beyond my claim, While she is swinging — A triumphant song Without a name. Mount Timpanogos Christie Lund Coles The entire valley lies Greening at your feet; The surrounding hills Are fawn beige, embroidered In varying shades Of green — from nile To emerald hue. The aspens, like groups Of small chicks running From their mother's wing, Cover the mountainside. Their foliage quivers In the spring sunlight. The straight pines Seem new-washed And stronger From the winter's Vicissitudes While you, like a matriarch In age and white wisdom, stand Serene, above the young, Renewing land. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July 20, 1962. Twenty-three days, including Boston, Washington, New York, and Chicago. Top Broadway show will be seen. Church historical places will also be visited, such as Nauvoo and Adam-Ondi-Ahman. EIGHT-DAY WORLD'S FAIR Including Victoria, Canada, leaving July 23. TEN-DAY WORLD'S FAIR Including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, and Victoria, Canada. Leaving dates: August 17, September 21. Ask about our tour to the BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY (Including Mt. Rushmore) Leaves August 19, 1962 See the Colossal Sculpture carved from solid granite of the heads of Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt. $98.50 ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 Gives you the ultimate in fingertip total electric living now... And for years to come. 'A, y When the future is allelectric, why buy anything but a Gold Medallion Home? UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Buy now from your dealer Birthday Congratulations Ninety-seven Mrs. Nora Ho. Uipay Britton Burbank, California Ninety-five Mrs. ELLEN FRANCE RosBINS Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Emma Goss CarTER BREWSTER Layton, Utah Mrs. FREDONIA BAKER Bicknell, Utah Ninety Mrs. AMELIA J. TOPHAM Parowan, Utah Mrs. Frances FowLer Morris Parowan, Utah Mrs. FLtora CARPENTER CRAWFORD Markesan, Wisconsin Mrs. FRANCES ALVERETTA CASSITY Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lovisa CoFFIN Milk River, Canada Mrs. Rosana NAEGLE Lunt Cedar City, Utah Mrs. ANNIE E. Rors MArsH Tooele, Utah Mrs. Emma BuTLer MAXFIELD Bakersfield, California Mrs. Mary A. WALKER EYRE Salt Lake City, Utah Page 552 NORTHWEST TOUR including Banff, Lake Louise, World's Fair — June 29, July 3, August 6 July 9 leaving from Phoenix, Arizona EIGHT-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR leaving every month — many dates TWELVE-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, Portland, Seattle, Victoria, B. C. — August 9, September 8, September 22. HILL CUMORAH TOUR leaving July 28 MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East, P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City 9, Utah HU 6-1601 — HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Blessed Point of No Return Iris W. Schow Heart, fainting in the dark, Press toward the dawn, Remembering how paper-thin The line is drawn Between success and failure, When complete Refusal to give up Can keep man from retreat; How frail the thread that separates Victory from defeat; How many of earth's greatest goals Had not been won Were not the turning back a longer trek Than pressing on. fla Fisher Maughan St Tie et wal let 'ua | el | fat Bech oases - lho Satrdile Cy Wiel Celebrate 'Days of LY" by readin ig. BRIGHAM YOUNG AT HOME Clarissa Young Spencer and Mabel Harmer This choice book contains heart-warming, intimate recollections of those pioneer days when President Young's home (the newlyrestored Beehive House) teemed with family life and when famous guests from over the world were entertained in the grand parlors. Now in a new edition, this book received national acclaim and recognition when it first appeared in print. Hosts of pictures of the Beehive House interior as well as personal comments on all members of the Brigham 2.95 Young household are included. 2 PIONEER THEATRE IN THE DESERT i = Sati lake. Cle, Ultad _ There was mighty splendor in pioneer theatri- + Supa | cals in Salt Lake City and the Utah territory. This fascinating book recalls all the highlights in the old Salt Lake | Theatre, the Social Hall, the boweries and elsewhere. For sheer color Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple © Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ( ) | have an account. Please charge. And glamour, nothing compares to | these times when entertainment This is a | book to read now since the Pioneer | was vibrant and _ alive. ) d money order Amount enclosed 4 $....... For encircled (numbered) books:; Memorial Theatre will be opening 1 2. N SS ee ~_~— Soon on the University of Utah il ge 'campus. Unusual illustrations. City. Zone........ State... Ce | Residents of Utah include 3% sales tax. Ce es ce ec es ee cee cee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee oe oe I r---------- | 2.50 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah sic Sen &. Ei ay 4 ENS -18-116-3927% JuL 63 Tops for berries... And your breakfast cereal @ Tops in preference for canning and freezing, both home and commercial @ It's as pure, as fine, as sweet, as white as any sugar you can buy... For every sweetening and preserving use @ It brings out the full flavor of fruit... And other pleasure foods, from ice cream and candy to soft drinks and bakery desserts. U and | SUGAR COMPANY @ SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Ths RIUoR)F SOCHETY MAGAZINB VOL. 49 NO. 8 AUGUST 1962: _bosronics for Nowver The Little Things Dorothy J. Roberts When the shadow of a grcat cloud falls Ominous, across the day, We think then of the little things, Turing the mind another way. A moment's respite in the dark, A recess taken from the pain, That we may bend more graciously And lift our burdens up again.... Once I saw a daisy grow Against a giant boulder's side, And a gnarled mahogany ascend A wind-torn mountainside. Once I paused, three pigeons came, And walked along the gutter rows; Gray, the pavement, wings, and sky, _ All, save the pigeons' coral toes. And once I watched a feather fall But a moment, and the mind goes on, More willingly after a rest. The Cover: Field of the Shepherds, Near Bethlehem Color transparencies on the cover and in the article, "Jerusalem, City of Peace," were taken by Dr. O. Preston Robinson Frontispiece: Mount Wilson in the San Juan National Forest, Colorado Photograph by David Muench Art Layout: Dick Scopes Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press tom Mear and Sar I wish to give you a great big "Thank You" from all of us here in the newest (May 21, 1962) stake of Zion, the Boston Stake. We all eagerly await The Relief Society Magazine each month. The serial stories, as well as the short stories, are wonderful. Every part of the Magazine holds its own special charm — the poetry, the lessons, and hearing about the Church throughout the world warms the hearts of everyone. —BMiss Joyce V. Bartlett Braintree, Massachusetts My dear mother, Mrs. N. E. Nielsen, gave me a year's subscription to The Relief Society Magazine as a birthday gift. I am delighted with the material the Magazine contains. I especially like the poetry. In the May issue I liked the frontispiece poem "On a May Morning," by Ouida Johns Pedersen, "Sonnet for a Somber Day," by Evalyn Miller Sandberg, and "The Sentinel,' by Zara Sabin. "Little Teamstress," by Frances C. Yost, and "Dare to Be Different," by Mabel Law Atkinson are my favorite stories in the May issue. "Hand to the Plow," by Tene H. Kingsbury, also has a commanding interest. —Remelda N. Gibson Tooele, Utah I have enjoyed the lovely writings in The Relief Society Magazine for many years. I couldn't possibly keep house without it. There are so many helps for everything, especially in being a good wife, mother, and neighbor. I have used the editorials many times in giving talks and also in helping my children with their assignments. —Shirley J. Brown Casper, Wyoming Page 554 Many items in The Relief Society Magazine for May were outstanding. "How to Give a Magazine to Someone Who Is Ill" (by Evelyn Witter) is very well written and so true. We should all follow the subtle advice in it, the advice of the poet who said, "The gift without the giver is bare." Then there is that lovely poem 'Wait for Me, Sun" (by Mabel Jones Gabbott), a poem with a new lilt. And the poem "I Love You" (by Florence S. Glines), different and heartwarming. I never had a sister, so I made copies of this poem for folks more fortunate than I. Then, on Mothers Day, my sister-in-law sent this poem to me, so I have the love of a sister, even if I missed having one. I hope we may see many new names in the Magazine and many more fine contributions from the old names. —Agnes Just Reid Firth, Idaho I love every issue of The Relief Society Magazine. It is wonderful reading to sandwich into my busy days of caring for our six young children. —Jean Longhurst Connell, Washington Last December my wife was given a subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. As soon as she has finished reading this wonderful little Magazine, then I get to read it. When her subscription Tuns out, you can be suse that a renewal to the Magazine will be one of her Christmas presents. "Sow the Field With Roses" (serial by Margery S. Stewart, concluded in June 1962) was a heart warming story, and we look forward to seeing more of Mrs. Stewart's stories. —Charles L. Collins III Buena Vista, Colorado 7 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1962 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spafford General Manager SPECIAL FEATURES She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part V — Margaret McIntire Burgess ca Preston Nibley 556 My Shadow... _ oyCelia Larsen Luce 573 Sunday Morning on Temple Hill... Mabel Luke Anderson 578 Jerusalem, City of Pee oo ccc cece cee cence eceeeneenennencenseesesensnececensnesneneaneChristine H. Robinson 589 FICTION Company Best Lael Jensen Littke 559 Out of the Wilderness — Chapter 2.... W......... Wesee-9hirley Thulin 566 Hand to the Plow — Part IV — Dedication 20... Cce ec ceeeceeee sees eeeeeeesIlene H. Kingsbury 580 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far ee 904 Sixty Years Ago 00.0.2. ———. 584 Woman's Sphere ooo. Eecececeeeeeceeeeteeenes Ramona W. Cannon 585 Editorial: In the Family There Is Strength 22... Ce cece ccc ceeee eee eeeeeeeeeeenene eeVesta P. Crawford 586 Notes to the Field: The Annual General Relief Society Conference 588 Relief Society Magazines for 1961 Available for Binding —WW00.2..- 588 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities. Hulda Parker 603 Birthday Congratulations 632 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Vacation By the Day Betty G. Spencer 565 My Shadow. Celia Larsen Luce 573 My Family Likes All Kinds of Fruit — Just So They Are Peaches................ Vilate R. McAllister 574 "Thou Shalt Not Be Proud" Martha Tucker Fugate 577 Make a Drip-Dry Apron Janet W. Breeze 600 Clara Partridge Stevens — Artist With Needle and Brush....... 602 LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER Theology — "Engaged in a Good Cause"' Roy W. Doxey 610 Visiting Teacher Messages — ''He Who Doeth the Works of Righteousness. A Christine H. Robinson 615 Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized — Part II Virginia F. Cutler 617 Literature — Henry David Thoreau — Individualist Briant S. Jacobs 619 Social Science — Divine Law and Human Welfare Ariel S. Ballif 625 POETRY The Little Things — Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts 553 Hour of Dusk, by Christie Lund Coles, 564; Hymns of Praise, by Ouida Johns Pedersen, 572; A Summarization of the Brief Life of Edgar Allan Poe, by Hazel Owen, 583; Supplication, by Catherine B. Bowles, 624; On Reaching Shadows, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 631. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 555 Family Desserts 202....... C.0.0cc cece cecceecececeveeseeneseceueeveseseeeeteaessusaveusueaesecivevetevenenene Mabel Harmer 597 Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian *The portrait of the Prophet Joseph Smith reproduced on the opposite page painted by Alvin Gittins. The original painting hangs in the board room of the Chur Office Building in Salt Lake City, Utah. Page 556 _of Mrs. Burgess, that the followin * |N The Relief Society Magazine, * for January 1918, there is a brief sketch of the life of Mrs. Margaret McIntire Burgess, of St. George, Utah, written by herself. In this sketch she relates that she was born in the State of Pennsylvania in 1837, and that, about the time of her birth, her parents were converted to the Mormon religion through the efforts of a young missionary named Erastus Snow. Then, in the year 1840, the father sold the family possessions in Pennsylvania, and with his wife and three children, moved to Nauvoo, IIlinois, the headquarters of the Church. "When we arrived in Nauvoo,' Margaret wrote, "our things were stored in a large frame building, unfinished, owned by a gentleman b the name of George Telling, bein on the corner of Main and Parl streets. Shortly afterwards my fath bought the building and had i finished up comfortably, and lived there until the general expul sion of the Saints to the West." It was while the family resid in Nauvoo, during the childhoo interesting events took place, whic she relates as follows: "We were close neighbors to th Prophet's family, and very intimate, too. The Prophet was often in our home for short visits. One morning he came in and noticed I had a piece of flannel around my throat. He inquired if my throat was sore. Mother told him it was, and she was afraid it was the mumps. He called me to him and took me upo his lap, then took the flannel o 558 and asked mother for the oil. He anointed my throat with the oil and then administered to me. I knew I was well, as I got down from his lap after which I felt no more sore throat—another proof of his tender loving heart. "One morning as we were on our way to school, my brother and I were forced to walk in some very muddy places as it had rained the previous night. The school was down near the river and there was one very bad place we had to go through where we got stuck fast, and I began to cry, as did my little brother. I thought I would surely never get out, but on looking up, we saw the Prophet coming right for us. The crying soon ceased. He carried me out first and then my brother. He took his handkerchief out of his pocket, wiped the tears from our eyes and cleaned the mud off our shoes, all the time speaking comforting words to us, sending us on our way rejoicing, at the same time pointing out a safer way to get to the school house. Oh, our beloved Prophet, how deep were his sympathies and how his kind heart yearned to do good. "Now let me tell you of another incident before I stop. My mother had twin baby girls, and Aunt Emma, as we called her (the Prophet's wife) had been confined and her baby had died.* Soon after the death the Prophet came in one morning and said, 'Sister McIntire, I have come to borrow one of your babies, and mother exclaimed, 'Why, Brother Joseph, what do you want with one of my babies?' "Well," he replied, 'I want one of them for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 my wife to comfort her only for a time. He talked with mother a while and she finally told him he could have one baby through the day time if he would bring it back nights, so the bargain was made and the Prophet smiled with gratitude. "The twins were so much alike that they could be scarcely told apart, but, of course, mother knew and their dispositions were not alike —one was a quick little thing and the other was mild. My mother would set them in the double cradle, made high at each end and low in the middle, and give each some playthings, and the quick one would take all the things away from the mild one. They were dressed exactly alike. "One morning when the Prophet came for the baby, mother reached him the other baby. He took it and looked at it, kissed it and handed it back and said, 'Not my little Mary,' so mother reached him little Mary. He had always taken the little mild one—her name was Mary and the other one was Sarah. "The Prophet would always bring the baby up himself at night. One night he did not come as usual and mother went down and found the baby was crying. Brother Joseph was sitting by the fire trotting it. He had it wrapped up in a little silk quilt, preparatory to starting out with it. When mother went in it reached its hands to her. When she took it the baby soon was still. When mother started back the Prophet took the baby from her and walked up home with her. When Aunt Emma's health returned, our baby came home to stay." *The Prophet's son Don Carlos was born June 13, 1840, and died in August 1841. Company Best Lael Jensen Littke 4 OW don't forget," Molly said, as she cleared the breakfast dishes from the table, "the hamburger is thawing on the third shelf of the refrigerator, and there's fruit for a nice salad. You can fix the hamburger any way you want, and then cook some rice or something." Sixteen-year-old Lois grinned. "Better make it potatoes, Mother," She said. "Remember what happened last time I cooked rice? I thought a cup of it uncooked looked like nothing at all, so I cooked the whole package." "A person isn't likely to forget a kitchen full of cooked rice," laughed Molly. "All right, make it potatoes." She glanced at the clock on the kitchen wall. "If I hurry, I'll have time to do the breakfast dishes before I go." "Tl do them," said Lois. "You tun along. Grandma Feeney will be expecting you. I think she likes to have you take care of her better than anyone else, and I don't blame her." "Flatterer," said Molly. "Now, are you sure you can manage dinner and everything by yourself? You can fix you and Ted and the twins a little snack when you get home from school, so you can all last until dinnertime. Daddy will be home about six, and I should be here about six-thirty." "Don't worry, Mother, I'll take care of everything." Lois turned the hot water on the dishes and then cleared her throat. "Mother," she said in her I-doubt-if-you'll-approvebut-there' s-no-harm-in-trying voice, "may I use the best china and silver and crystal and everything?" "Whatever for?" asked Molly. "What's the occasion?" Lois shrugged. "No occasion. I just think it would be a lot more fun to get dinner, if I could use the pretty things." She held up one of the breakfast plates. "This everyday stuff is so chipped and everything." "Tt's just fine for the family. You know the china is our company best." "But we never use it. When Uncle Dave and Aunt Bea were here last month, we used our everyday stuff." "They didn't mind," laughed Molly. "They're just family." 'And when Kathy came over to spend the night with me, we didn't use it either. She was company. Whom are we expecting to come to use it, the President of the United States?" "Our everyday dishes are just fine," said Molly. "I worked so hard to get that china, piece by piece, and I don't want the twins breaking it." "Aw, Mom," be so... Said Lois, "it would. Well, kind of romantic to Page 559 560 use the best things. It would make the hamburger taste like filet mig- »? Non. M°LLY grinned at her daughter. "My stars, a person needs a degree in psychology to understand sixteen-year-olds nowadays. Now you do as I say." She picked up her purse and the crocheting she was taking with her. "I've really got to tush. Sister Fletcher has been there with Grandma Feeney all night and I'm sure she's anxious to leave. Goodbye now." She kissed the gitl's cheek and hurried out of the house. Walking toward Grandma Feeney's house, she smiled fondly at the romantic notions of a sixteen-yearold. The best china for hamburgers, indeed. There was no place for chipped dishes and old tarnished silverware in the bright dreams of a young girl. Lois didn't know yet what it was like to work hard to get nice things, or she would know why Molly was reluctant to use the company best china. Molly remembered only too well the difficult days of low income and high expenses when she and David were first married. Slowly, over the years, one piece at a time, she had bought the lovely dinnerware, the sterling silver, and the crystal she was so proud of today. It had seemed so important to have something really nice. She supposed that Lois thought she was as old and crotchety as Grandma Feeney, but she was a good girl. And, speaking of Grandma Feeney, thought Molly, she'd better speed up a little bit. Sister Fletcher would be more than ready to leave after a night with the old lady. Grandma RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 Feeney wasn't exactly the smiling, co-operative patient envisioned in their home nursing demonstrations last year. 'To be downright truthful, she was a real trial sometimes, or so most of the sisters thought. Molly was of the opinion that she herself would probably act the same way in the same circumstances. Here Grandma Feeney was, at eighty-two, lying in bed after a serious illness, waiting to be moved to a nursing home, and depending on the Relief Society sisters to care for her since she had no family left. Her husband had passed away eleven years before, and "Grandma" was only an honorary title, since her only child, a daughter, had died of scarlet fever when she was seventeen. I don't blame her a bit for acting as she does, Molly said to herself. S she expected, Grandma Feeney was fretting when she arrived. "A body works day and night for eighty years," she was telling Sister Fletcher, probably for the twentieth time that morning, "and _ then kerblam! Something wears out, and you just fall apart like the Wonderful One Hoss Shay. You've heard the poem about the Wonderful One Hoss Shay, haven't you, Sister Jones?" "Sister Fletcher," said that good lady, also probably for the twentieth time, "you know I'm not Sister Jones, Grandma Feeney." "Guess I just forgot," said Grandma Feeney. "But I do remember the 'Wonderful One Hoss Shay.' I could still say the whole thing off by heart if a body was to ask me." She turned faded blue eyes on Molly as she came through the bedroom door. "You've heard of the "Won- COMPANY BEST derful One Hoss Shay,' haven't you, Sister Molly Andrews?" "At least she remembers your name," whispered Sister Fletcher. "Why, come to think of it," Molly said to Grandma Feeney, "I don't believe I've heard that poem for a long time. I'll let you recite it for me just as soon as I say goodbye to Sister Fletcher here. I'll be right back." "Honest to goodness," whispered Sister Fletcher, as she gathered up her belongings in the small parlor, "sometimes I just want to scream. I think she just plagues me for the joy of it." "Oh, I'd probably be the same way," said Molly, "if I had to be there on that bed day and night and didn't have any family to worry about me." Sister Fletcher smiled. "You have a good heart, Molly. Well, I'll turn her over to you." She threw a sweater over her shoulders, picked up her purse and knitting, bade Molly goodbye, and left. "Grandma Feeney," said Molly, going back into the bedroom, "will you recite that poem for me now?" THE faded eyes sparkled a little. "Aw," said Grandma Feeney, "you know I just do that to bother some of the ladies a little. Some of them can hardly wait for their time here to get over with, and I guess I just tease them a little for entertainment. Just to get their dander up, meouless," "My nine-year-old twins do the same thing to me sometimes." "All right, Molly Andrews, I know what you're trying to say to me," said Grandma Feeney. "Sure you do," answered Molly. 561 "And you want to know something? You're right nice company when you want to be." Grandma Feeney sighed. "It's just that I get so tired of lying here all the time. I have worked so hard most of my life, and it seems like a big waste of time to lie here. I'm just an old woman with nothing left to enjoy." "You're a woman who has earned a rest," said Molly. "Now, since you've already had your breakfast, we'll change your bedclothes and comb your hair, then maybe I'll read to you if you'll be good." She looked around the little bedroom. "Where is it you keep your sheets?" Grandma Feeney indicated a large cedar chest standing in the corner. "That was my hope chest," she said proudly. "I had it filled to the brim with pretty things when I married my Tom. I keep my sheets in there so they'll smell nice." "All right," said Molly, opening up the big chest. "I'll just dig some out, and we'll have you all changed in a jiffy." In the chest she found a variety of rough and rather ragged sheets. "These have certainly seen better days," she said, holding one of them up. "Just like me," said Grandma Feeney. "They're plenty good for me." "Tilssee af 1 Gin find some im better shape," said Molly, digging deep into the chest. Near the bottom, she came upon several pairs of pillowcases neatly folded. Lifting them out, she saw they were all delicately embroidered and resplendent with frothy crocheted edgings. She dug into the chest again and came up with four 562 sheets, also handsomely decorated with crocheted edgings. 6¢¢lRANDMA Feeney," she said, "IT struck a real gold mine here." She held up the prettiest of the sheets, one which had forget-menots embroidered on its border, next to a wide crocheted edge. "This is what we'll put on your bed today." "No, we won't," exclaimed Grandma Feeney. "I wouldn't think of it. Those are my company best. I'm not going to use them." "Whom are you expecting for company, the President of the United States?" asked Molly. A tiny memory of Lois saying exactly the same thing that morning fluttered across her mind. "Those are my trousseau things," said Grandma Feeney, "and I've kept them all these years. I am not going to use them now. When I think of all the work I put in on those things when I was a young gitl waiting for Tom to come back from his mission, my fingers just ache. Annie Olsen had a bigger trousseau when she married Ed Johnson, but everybody in town said I had the prettiest. And I don't aim to use those things now." "Good gracious, Grandma Feeney, haven't you used them at all?" "No, sirree," the old lady said with spirit. "That nice material wasn't so easy to get in those days. Unbleached muslin sheets were plenty good for the family to use, and these were for company best." The frail hands plucked at the delicate embroidery. "I guess we never did get much company." "Well, then, we'll just pretend that you're company, and we'll use them right now." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 Despite the old woman's protests, Molly expertly changed the sheets, lifting the thin body as she had been taught in the home nursing course. When she had finished, she found the prettiest of the pillowcases, a pair with appliqued pansies on the edge. "Not those," pleaded Grandma Feeney, "why those were Tom's favorites. You never saw a man for admiring nice things like Tom did. And Ellie Mae... You know, that was my girl that died... She used to want to sleep on them. She said it would be like sleeping in a pansy bed. You know how romantic young girls are." "IT know," said Molly, thought fully. "You put them right back in that chest, Molly Andrews." "Nonsense," said Molly, "I'm going to put them on your pillows, and while you lie on them you can think back about when you were young and sewing on them and how much you loved your Tom." Grandma Feeney's eyes softened. "T did those while Tom was on his mission. I used to write him letters about the nice things we would have in our home when we got married. And I was true to him all the while he was away, Molly Andrews. I never even looked at another young man." She chuckled. "Although Gus Horner was always asking me to go to dances with him. Guess that's hard to imagine, looking at me now, isn't it?" "You just let me get your hair combed now, Grandma Feeney,' said Molly, bustling about looking for a hairbrush, "and you'll look just as young and pretty as you did COMPANY BEST then. Why, you'll look so nice that when Dr. Roberts comes this afternoon he'll say, "What is a beautiful young girl like you doing lying around like this?' " Grandma Feeney laughed. "I feel like a queen lying here in my very best sheets with this old head on my prettiest pillowcases. Just like a queen." By the time Molly had finished brushing her hair, she was nodding sleepily. "Molly Andrews," she said drowsily, taking Molly's hand, "I want you to have all my nice things in that chest when I go. I haven't got chick nor child to leave them to, and you're the only person I would want to have them. After the work I put in and all, I don't want them handed out to just anybody. I want you to take them." Molly stroked the old woman's forehead gently. "Why, thank you, Grandma Feeney. I don't know when anyone's done anything so nice to me." "Imagine me sleeping in my company best sheets," smiled Grandma Feeney. "A body forgets how nice it feels. I sure wish now I had let Ellie Mae sleep on these cases. Like sleeping in a pansy bed, she used to say." The drooping eyes closed, and Molly tiptoed from the room. That evening after Dr. Roberts had been there and pronounced Grandma Feeney better than she had been for days, and Sister Sanford had come to stay the night, Molly said goodbye to the invalid. As she reached down to kiss the withered cheek, Grandma Feeney pulled her close and whispered in her ear. "You know what, Molly 563 Andrews," she said, "I feel like a million dollars here in my pretty things. Sister Sanford won't even know me, I'll be so nice to her tonight. I just want to thank you." Molly squeezed Grandma Feeney's hand. "And I want to thank you." "I didn't do anything for you. What are you thanking me for?" "For more than you know," smiled Molly. "Goodbye now." OLLY walked fast on her way home. She wanted to get there before the family started eating dinner. Sometimes, she thought to herself as she sped along, sometimes a person needs a house to fall on her before she can see something clearly. Thinking this, she walked a little faster. Lois was making gravy when Molly burst into the house. "Lois," she called almost before she was through the door, "we're going to have filet mignon tonight." Lois stopped stirring the gravy and looked at her mother, startled. "We're going to what?" "You scoot in the dining room and gather up all those old dishes off the table, while I get down the good china. We're going to eat hamburger in style tonight." Lois peered closely at her. "Mother, are you all right?" she asked. "Tm a lot better than I was this morning," said Molly. "After you gather up the old dishes, you can get out the best silverware." Lois stared. "But you said this morning I couldn't use the good things." "One of these days," said Molly, climbing up to the high cupboard where the best dishes were kept, 564 "we'll all fall apart like the Wonderful One Hoss Shay, and then what good will pretty dishes that have never been used be?" Lois shook her head. 'Mother, are you really sure you're all right? Are you sure you want to use the company best dishes?'" "Correction, my dear daughter," said Molly. "They are family best dishes from now on. After all, we won't be entertaining the President of the United States very often, and who is more important to us than our very own family, anyway?" From her high perch she smiled down at Lois' still bewildered young face. "Someday," she said, "T'll tell you all about the joy that went into getting these dishes, one by one, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 and how I had to put off buying the soup tureen one winter so I could buy you a snowsuit. There are lots of stories that go with these dishes, and I'll tell them to you when we use them. We won't use them every day, or we'd get tired of them, just as we get tired of our old dishes. But from now on we're going to use them for all kinds of special occasions, like when my very sweet and lovely daughter cooks hamburger for the family and wants it to taste like filet mignon." Lois threw back her head and laughed, then walked toward the dining room. "Honestly," she said, "a person needs a degree in psychology to understand mothers nowadays." Christie Lund Coles The soul has need of no companion here, Within this hour of gentle, mauve-soft dusk; With clouds, like pink sails floating on the clear Ocean of sky; air as fragrant sweet as musk. The new moon, like cantaloupe's green rind, Hovers beneath one star quivering above; While birds continue chattering till they find A nesting place; there is the coo of dove. I think God sends this hour to reconcile The intruding darkness and the glittering day. It is as though we stood before his smile And heard his words dispelling our dismay. The soul has need of no companion here, It stands serene in its own atmosphere. Vacation 'by-the -day Betty G. Spencer GEVERAL years ago, we discovered a wonderful new way to vacation. My husband's vacation was rescheduled for late fall, meaning no vacation for the children unless we could think of a new way to vacation. There was a new way — vacation-by-the-day! Rather hesitantly, we planned several short trips. T'o our surprise, we found our family enjoyed these one-day trips more than we had some of our lengthy vacations. Discoveries were abundant! Visits to the State Capitol, a pioneer fort, a pony express way station, a secluded mountain lake, were the beginning. Before the summer was over, we found we were all looking forward to the next trip. Vacation-by-the-day proved to be an inexpensive, interesting way to acquaint our family with the places of interest around us. Everyone helped in planning. Without suggestions from us, our children were seen consulting road maps, history books, and an ancient atlas, seeking new destinations. Occasionally, we would make an overnight trip, but usually left home early in the morning and returned that evening. Lunches, packed at home to save expense, were eaten at a roadside table or in a quiet park. The new way to vacation provided an unexpected bonus when school began. Our fourth-grader found that he would be studying the history of our State. Events and locations meant much more to him, because he had visited many of the places described in the text. This year, we hope to take a long out-of-State trip, but we will continue our favorite, year-around-way to vacation — vacation-by-the-day! Page 565 gynopsie* "Marian Moiim 2 a Pow and _... Mother-of szechildren, makes plans to take her family to spend the summer at a mining claim in Montana to do assessment work. Charles Neering, a widower, ss ' asked 'her to stay in town. Window. The countryside M ARIAN looked out the train had taken on a translucent shade of green in the early dawn, -and the sky was a silver and pink sea. She couldn't remember when _ she had taken time to look at the sky last. She stretched and shifted Jill to a new position, then looked at her children around her. The twins and Tommy on the seat opposite were still asleep, heads bob- "Chapter 2. 'Shirley —— her to change around." ~~ most of the passengers. Jim stretched Pew bing 'from side to side with the motion of the train. "Want me to hold Jill awhil Mom?" 'Sue. Asked. "Thanks, dear, but it might wa Now the train was slowing dowaal and the conductor announced, "Next stop, Rushville." — The change of motion awakened his long legs as though he were un familiar with their new length. Looked over at his mother. And Sue "Did he say Rushville?" "Yes," Marian answered, reachi for her purse and sweater. "Wa hildzen. Aoe wall 'have to "things. Gathered quickly. Sue." pu hang: om t ony. Jim; = itl, and.. Ae ato eet tra Stat bommy. 4 perenne we as Be all" "the. "sitidwithes, 's OF sue said. 'The store at the station will have "Y hing," Jim promised. It tare breakfast _all prepared," ' ™ ounced Marian, with an air, of a! Ph, She had anticinat yd their. Pergency—breakfast,:- % As they made theinway long the =~ e, stepping over protruding feet oe uggage, Marian noticed they ——« he only ones getting off. Jim to step down onto th platform. He walked over. N who was taking their bags from someone on - Sam?" Jim asked him. Straightened up and A hand at the conductor. E train started to pull d, he took off his hat, and around him. From one to of Marian's children he hen back at' Marian. E did you come from, and tamation do you think Salt Lake," said Marian. Fe going to the Silver Star e for the summer.". Ere's Sam?" Jim looked wornow, as he asked again for a; ster he knew.;; Jada bad spell last fall. Wit. I took over in NovemStar?' "How are you. G on getting clear up age?" 568 Marian suddenly felt ill. "I'm Mrs. David Morgan.... We wrote a letter...." Her words were small and they stuck in her throat. "We had expected Sam to drive us up in his station wagon," Jim said. "Mrs. Morgan? Howdy, I'm Tucker. Your letter likely got forwarded to Sam. I have a jeep, but I can't leave. Got to watch the post office here. My boy Dick has a station wagon, but he's gone to Butte. Won't be back until Monday morning." ARIAN watched the train disappear in the distance, and felt that her last tie with civilization had been cut off forever. She looked at the station. It was small and the windows were dirty. There were no buildings near, the town was farther down the road. "The hotel!" Marian remembered. David had brought her to town one week end for dinner and a show. "We can stay there until your son comes back." "Hotel isn't there anymore. Wasn't enough business to keep it up. Some of the stores are gone, too, and the library." "Could we borrow your jeep?" Jim asked. "Oh, yes, could we?" asked Marian. "Jim and I could bring it back Monday and then maybe Dick could take us back to the cabin." "Don't think it has any gas in it. Hasn't been used for awhile. It won't hold all of you and your stuff, anyhow." Jim went over and took the gas cap off. He found a stick on the ground and wiped it clean, then dipped it into the tank. Everyone RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 gathered around, leaning forward. The stick came out dry. "Oh!" Sue's one word echoed their disappointment. Marian felt like a trapped animal. Her mind was groping frantically. "Tm hungry," said Jill. Tommy began to cry. "Come on in the station." Tucker held the door open. "We used to have a store, but there wasn't enough business, so I made it into a bedroom and kitchen. Maybe we can find something for the youngsters to eat. The service station down town will be open soon. I have a gas can around here somewhere." "T have some food," Marian said, not so proud of her planning now. She was almost apologetic as she opened the box and began to hand out hard-cooked eggs and fruit. "You will have to leave your gear here, though, and pick it up Monday," Tucker said. "You'll be doing well if you get your family in the jeep, let alone your stuff." Marian couldn't eat. Charles was right, she thought, suddenly feeling alone and lost. I shouldn't have come! The children were chatting and eating. As far as they were concerned, all was right with the world again, but Marian didn't share their assurance. "Sam used to bring supplies to us," said Jim. "I wonder if you...." "You can talk to Dick about that," Tucker said. "He takes things to the Silver Bear." "We'll need potatoes and flour, things we couldn't bring on the train." "Mommy, have I ever had a jeep ride?" Tommy asked between bites — of banana. OUT OF THE WILDERNESS "No, I don't think so," said Marian. "You ever drive a jeep before?" Tucker asked her. Jim looked quickly at his mother. "Aren't they the same as any other car?" Manian asked. "No. They have more gears. But I'll show you." Marian didn't say anything. She was remembering what a hard time she had had learning to drive with only three gears. She looked at the six faces searching her own and knew she could do it. She had to. HE jeep jogged along the dirt road like a frightened buffalo. Marian, Jim, and Sue were in the front seat; the twins, Tommy, and Jill in the back, with three boxes of essentials on the floor under their feet. The road took them through a dream world of stately green pines and silverbarked quaking aspen. Sometimes, when they made a sharp turn, there would be a patch of sky so blue it took Marian's breath away. She had forgotten colors could be so vivid. At first they traveled in silence. Only the grinding motor and the whitr of the big wheels on the road could be heard. But, as Marian became more adept at handling the jeep, she started to hum a familiar tune. The others joined in. Soon they were singing at the top of their voices, with only an occasional squirrel to criticize or care if the notes were off key. The farther they went along the rugged mountain road, the more vivid the scenery became. Marian stopped the jeep once. The deep purple of a distant mountain, visible through the majestic trees, 569 made her pause to breathe, deeply, and she felt exhilarated. "We're almost there," Jim said. "It's just around this next bend and about a mile past the creek." But when the jeep rounded the bend, Marian pulled it to a sudden stop. "The bridge!" Jim shouted. "It's gone!" He jumped out of the jeep and ran to the steep creek bank. Marian got out, too, and looked at the angry water rushing along, carrying the spring runoff from the winter's snow. "Oh, it's so deep." Marian's words were barely audible. "Not a sign of the bridge. Sure must have had a bad storm," said Jim. "Oh," Sue was really frightened. So was Marian, but she dared not let the children know. "Well, now," she said, trying with all her might to control her voice, "this will take a little thought, won't it?" A little thought, and a lot of prayer, she told herself. "Jim is there any place else to cross?" "No. This is the only road." "What will we do?" Sue asked. "Can't jeeps go through water?" asked Jed. "Not when it's this deep, and the banks are steep," said Jim. Marian walked a little way from the creek. She knew she was in no condition to think clearly just yet. "You know," she said slowly, fighting the tightness in her throat, "I think this is an ideal place to have a picnic." Jim looked at her, surprise, almost unbelief, written on his face. "A picnic? Of all the crazy...." "That's a good idea," Ted said.? 570 "Oh, boy, a picnic!" yelled 'Tommy. "Mom, for goodness sakes Sue. Marian went back to the jeep. She took one of the boxes out and set it on a grassy spot beside the road, then took her sweater off. Her hands were shaking, but she moved quickly so the children wouldn't notice. "Come on, sit on your sweaters. We have some crackers, cheese, and some more fruit." "Mom, I don't see how this is going to help." Jim was upset. "Son, we have all day to cross that creek. In the meantime, it won't do any harm to enjoy the scenery and get our bearings." Marian opened the package of sliced cheese. Iz said IM sat down and pulled impatiently at a tuft of grass. 'Then a bird called shrilly at the intruders and he watched it dip and turn as it flew overhead and disappeared. They didn't eat much. It had been only a couple of hours since they ate at the station. The twins and Tommy began a game of tag among the trees and Jill could hardly be seen above the mountain grass. Jim was lying on his back, arms folded across his chest. "This is nice," said Sue. "Why don't we just stay here until Monday?" "We can't do that." Marian knew that to be in the open after dark would be terrifying to her. The mountains would become giants, closing in around her, and behind each tree would be something frightening and_ sickening great 1 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 ready to grab one of them, if she closed her eyes. She had to have walls and a roof and a door to bar. "We... We don't have any bedding," she said. "We have to get to the cabin somehow." Marian got up and went to the water's edge. Her thoughts were darting around everywhere, trying to find a solution. "Let's go back for help," said Jim, coming over to her. Marian was silent a moment, thinking. Then she said, more to herself than to Jim, "What could anyone do to help? Where would we stay while someone built a bridge? No one can help us...." Then suddenly Marian knew who could help. Going back to the children, she said, "Let's pray. Then we'll know what to do." They all knelt and bowed their heads. Jill pushed her way between Sue and Marian. The sunlight filtered down through the pines, and Marian asked the Lord for guidance. They lifted their heads, and all was silent. When she could talk, Mar ian asked Jim how far it was to the cabin. "Not too far," he answered. "Would it be within walking distance for us?" "T've walked from the cabin down here lots of times, but I don't know if Jill and Tommy...." "Tf we left the jeep here, would it be all right until Monday?" "Yes. No one comes up here this time of the year, exeept the other miners from the Silver Bear," "Then let's try to find a fallen tree. I saw some as we were driving along earlier." "You mean we're going to go OUT OF THE WILDERNESS across on a log? Oh, we can't!" She was close to hysterics, and Marian's heart kept coming up where it didn't belong. "Sue," Marian said, gently, "we can't drive the jeep over, and it's too deep to wade, so...." "But, Mother! A log...!" Jim was already walking downstream. He hadn't gone far when he called, "(Come here! I've found something!" They all hurried in his direction. "Look, Mom, a beaver dam! We can go across on that!" "Will it hold us?" "Sure, I've gone across them lots of times at scout camp. Most of them are good and strong, especially when they're new dams like this one. I'll go first to see if there are any weak places." He took off his shoes and stuffed his stockings inside, then rolled up his pants legs. The top of the dam was about two feet wide and fairly flat. Some of the water pushed its way over the top of the dam and fell down in a switling, foaming pool at the bottom, then went its way on down the creek. ARIAN held her breath as Jim made his way carefully across, the water splashing and pushing at him. "See? It's strong as cement," he said, coming back. Marnian's head was in a whirl, She looked at the rushing water and held jill's hand tightly. For an instant, she felt as if she was going to faint. "Come on, take off your shoes," Jim told them. "Tt's so swift." her mother. Sue looked at 571 Marian tried to reassure her. "Come on, I'll help you," urged Jim. "It isn't as bad as it looks. It only comes up to my ankles." "Ts it cold?" Ted wanted to know. "Mommy, take my shoes off," said jill. "No, darling, Jim will carry you." Marian had to smile at her eagerness. "Hang on to your shoes, Jed, and go in front of me," Jim said. The boys had no trouble at all making it over to the other side. In fact, Tommy wanted to do it again, but Marian's insides were all in a knot, and the knot got tighter as it neared her turn. Sue was hesitant at first, but Jim took her arm, and nol her over, then came back. "Mom, you go ahead, I'll go get the boxes." He started towards the jeep, and Marian couldn't call after him, her voice wouldn't squeeze past the tight place in her throat. She fought back the fright and bared her feet. "Come on, Mom," my, "it's fun!" "Tt really is, Mother," said Ted. Marian put one foot in and then the other, then stopped. "Don't look down, Mom," Sue advised. "Just look straight ahead, then you won't get dizzy." "Tm glad we didn't bring all our things," Jim said, bringing the biggest box first. "T'd have worn the dam away getting it all across." Marian, finally across, sat down on a huge rock on the other side and wiped her feet in the sun-warmed grass. She looked at her children. Their faces were glowing, and their eyes were sparkling, and Marian felt happy. Called Tom- 572 They were a strange caravan as they made their way up the dusty road stopping every once in awhile to rest, and to shift burdens. 'They traveled slowly, there was so much to see, a scarlet mountain flower, or a bubbling stream dancing over clean brown rocks. Little Jill began to get so tired she had to be carried. Once Ted and Jed made a chair with their arms for her, to relieve Marian. "How much farther, Jim?" Marian asked. "Not far now." They rounded the next bend in the road, and Jim said, "There it is, see, by that big pine." "T can see it," yelled Ted. The children hurried on ahead, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 but Marian was weary. She could see the cabin now, too, the ugly unpainted boards, the bare yard around it. As she came closer, the two windows were huge glaring eyes. She wanted to turn and run, but there was no place to run to. She wanted to cry out, but she didn't. "Mommy, bring the key...." "Jim has it." "Well, hurry...." Marian followed their voices, reluctantly, mechanically. She knew she had to go inside and begin to make a summer home for her family here in the wilderness. Suddenly Sue's terrified voice cut through the mountain air. "Mother!" she screamed. "Mother!" (To be continued) Ouida Johns Pedersen Firelight, warm-hued as the rosewood organ My father used to play, Carries me to the humble parlor Of another day. When his strong hand was gentled To its lightest touch As he pedaled and played the simple hymns We came to love so much. "An Angel From on High." I hear The sweet refrain And "O My Father," touches My heartstrings once again, Never a symphony sounded, Never a concert rang, As sweetly on my listening ear As the hymns my father sang. Paul's Photos UPPER KILLARNEY LAKE, COUNTY KERRY, IRELAND My Shadow Celia Larsen Luce S I walk in the sunshine I see my shadow. It follows along, falling on many things as I pass them. It is easy to see where my shadow goes. Ness or an evil deed — these things fall on others and influence their lives. I can never tell where the shadow of my influence may fall. Since this is so, since I may help change the lives of others for good or evil without ever knowing it, I must be very careful. I must live as close to God as I can, following in his ways. Then my influence will not be like a shadow, but like a light, showing others the way. Page 573; | | | | The shadow of my influence is a harder thing to see. A chance remark, a kind- ] rim of each bottle } or piece of paper es will be there to hinder the sealing, dip the lids in hot water, which softens the composition slightly, and screw them down snugly, but not tightly enough to cut the composition, with the screw bands. It may take a little shake to dissolve all the sugar. I might wish I had remembered the trick I used last year, to put the sugar into each jar, add enough hot water to dissolve it before adding the peaches. But, no matter, I prefer measuring the sugar for each jar, rather than making up a kettle of syrup, because I get a more uniform product that way. These seven bottles now go into the canner, enough hot water is added to cover the tops an inch or more, and then it is brought to a full boil. I regulate the heat so it won't boil over, but will keep up a good boil, write down the time the peaches should be cooked, depending on altitude, or set the timer. At 4,500 feet altitude, I process peaches one-half hour. The time can be shortened for lower altitudes. While this first batch is cooking, I continue to scald, peel, and prepare seven more bottles. 'The cold water in the sink, and the scalding water I change occasionally, but the water in the canner will only need to be added to, so there will be plenty to cover the jars well, as each new batch is put in. Usually between each batch, since the peeling takes less time than the cooking, there is a short interval, when I can walk out to the mailbox, hold a short telephone conversation, glance over the headlines in the paper, or take a minute to relax. When the time is up, I raise the — tack out of the water, sop the hot water off the tops of the bottles with a dishcloth, so that it won't soak through the hot pad with which I lift the jars out and burn me. Wiping each bottle with a hot dishcloth will remove any stick- — iness, although, if I have not filled the jars too full, the syrup will not have expanded to the point where it has escaped into the water bath, and stickiness will not be a problem. Leaving space for the air to circulate around each bottle, the bottles are set in rows on an asbestos sheet, or thick pad of folded newspapers, out of the draft and out of the way. Popping musically as the vacuum is formed in the jars, they cool. When perfectly cold, usually next morning, I remove the screw bands to use again, and line the bottles up on the pantry shelves, where they smile at me in mouth-watering lusciousness. The peaches that were not quite ripe have been set aside to do tomorrow, and the overripe ones now go into a jam kettle. I use ~ to speed the jam making. Hot suds quickly clears up what little stickiness has been made. What a satisfying morning it has been! I am not tired, because, having everything in the right places, the work went smoothly. Besides, I have enjoyed the exhilaration of making a contribution to the future health, security, and pleasure of my peachloving family. Mhna Ohealé#t Nant Ro Daeniin'' ee] hou Shalt INOt be Froud Martha Tucker Fugate UST where is the dividing line between dressing somewhat in harmony with contemporary fashions and having too much pride and concern over one's wearing apparel? This is a subject I have puzzled over at different times. I have found myself wondering if some people go places more to show off new outfits than for any other reasons. Even in going to church, a family's old clothing, clean and pressed, is acceptable to ourselves and before the Lord. There can be little lasting satisfaction in being lifted up in pride, instead of feeling reverence and humility. We are told not to lay up for ourselves treasures where moth can corrupt. The use of the moth for an illustration suggests that we should not treasure fine clothing, above all else, for we are warned "where your treasure is, there will your heart be also" (Luke 12:34). Perhaps some of the distorted attitudes on the importance of fine clothing begin with adolescence, when clothes seem so important, particularly with some girls, who feel compelled to follow passing fads and fancies, many of them expensive and some immodest. What can be done to give young people a proper perspective toward clothing? For one thing, we can see that they are familiar with the warnings from The Book of Mormon. For two hundred years after the coming of Christ, there was peace and happiness in the land. Then "there began to be among them those who were lifted up in pride, such as the wearing of costly apparel, and all manner of fine pearls, and of the fine things of the world.... And they began to be divided into classes; and they began to build up churches unto themselves to get gain, and began to deny the true church of Christ" (4 Nephi 24:26). There is a more positive, and also more pointed pronouncement in our modern scriptures for both old and young, "And again, thou shalt not be proud in thy heart; let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty the beauty of the work of thine own hands" (D & C 42:40). Perhaps it is unnecessary, and at times even impractical, to sew everything one wears, but certainly much of a girl's apparel can be made at home, and lovely sweaters hand knitted. With sewing classes being offered in as early as the seventh grade in some areas, every girl can develop enough skill to sew for herself. Perhaps, by this process, we can, over the years, supplant mere pride of fine clothes and appearance by satisfaction with being thrifty and delighting in our own workmanship and accomplishment. Page 577 As I occasionally do on Fast Sunday morning, when I have no hurried preparations for breakfast and dinner before going to Sunday School, I took an early walk to the Manti Temple. Reaching the top of the hill, I looked down on my town, a pioneer town with great rural charm. I knew the dear folks who lived in the homes set among the trees, and I was glad they were my neighbors and friends. It was a lovely morning. 'The sky was a powder blue, with soft wispy islands of clouds. 'The very air seemed hushed and still. Summer was just on the threshold. I wandered around the flower-girt temple. The dew had not quite vanished from the velvety petals. The colorful beauty of the flower beds brought a lump to my throat. Surely a flower is a miracle. The lines from Lowell came to mind: Every clod feels a stir of might, An instinct within it that reaches and towers, And, groping blindly above it for light, Climhs to a soul in grass and flowers. Each flower seemed to whisper of hope and faith and love. A gentle breeze wafted the mingled perfume of a dozen scents. There was an occasional burst of bird song, the droning of the bees, and the silkenwinged butterflies flitted in and out of the flowers like myriads of varicolored jewels. The smooth clipped lawns sloped down to the cemetery, where rows of pines stood like stately sentinels guarding that silent city. The gentle countryside stretched away in a patchwork panorama of fields, with their green sheen giving promise of a harvest to come, of pastures dappled with placid cattle and sheep grazing in the lush grass, to the changeless cedarstudded hills for a backdrop. Here was surely an oasis of peace. Worldly cares had been left at the foot of the hill. It was so quiet that I felt that truly here one could "Be still, and know that I am God." Surely in this stillness one could renew one's strength and find poise and peace and wisdom. I sat down on a low wall to rest in this quiet place, in the shadow ot this sacred edifice, and felt a precious sereneness in an age when serenity is so rare. I felt as if the earth had stopped tor a minute, and that I was suspended in a spot close to heaven. ON Temple FA ssa rite sno I gazed up at the spires and felt a mystic tie with my ancestors who had seemed so near to me as I had performed the saving ordinances for them in that holy house. This indeed was cherished ground. Always I am awed at the dignity and sublimity of the temple of enduring stone standing so permanent and protectingly above our valley. It is a legacy to us from those who have lived before, a monument to the faith and integrity, love and sacrifice of its pioneers. Surely they built well, structures of everlasting beauty. For many summers I have had such a glorious privilege of spending much time on this sacred hill as a guide to meet and greet visitors, telling them the sweet gospel story, telling them of our pioneers and the building of the temple, stories which warm my heart, and perhaps J am even guilty of a little possessiveness. I have felt a corresponding warmth in those visitors, a sincere interest, and a tremendous appreciation and admiration for our people, our way of life, and our temple which is a symbol of the continuity of the gospel, of our faith in God. I silently pray on each of these occasions that we may be worthy of that appreciation. I recalled these experiences as I sat there that Sunday morning. And in this hour on the hill, in the celestial silence, I felt a spiritual uplift, I felt a little cleaner, more attuned with the spirit of the Sabbath. I certainly should be closer to the Lord all day, all week, because I was on a hallowed spot on a hallowed day. As I walked back down the hill to my home, the town was awakening to activity. As I saw the menfolk leave one house after another for Priesthood meeting, they appeared to me truly men bent on doing God's work; mothers who stood in doorways or porches to see them off, good women. Later, as I walked to our ward meetinghouse, the scrubbed, shining faces and brushed, glistening hair of the little boys and girls going to Sunday School, attired in their Sunday best, thrilled me. I am sure Jesus was smiling on them. As we stood at a street crossing, to have one tiny girl trustingly put her hand in mine, confident I would guide her safely across the street, was heartwarming and made me aware of the oneness of our ward family in the gospel. With Browning, I could echo "God's in his heaven," and surely on a day like this, in a place like this, there is the world's surest promise of eternal peace. Hand to the Plow Part IV — DepIcATION Ilene H. Kingsbury Synopsis: A Welsh widow on her way to the valleys of the mountains in 1864, with her family of five children, pauses in a railway station in Philadelphia awaiting a train to take them westward. The widow's father and mother and some of her brothers and _ sisters, who have not joined the Church, have already established themselves in Bradys Bend, Pennsylvania, only about twenty-five miles from the railroad. The widow and her family had long planned to visit their relatives before traveling to the West to make a permanent home; however, the fear of not continuing westward to the body of the saints after being reunited with her family, causes the widow to decide to journey westward at once. "Almost thou persuadest me." Somewhere she had heard a song which praised the Father of all for just such sweet reunion as was now within her grasp. But she now had said I cannot, and I have thought. Children do not so easily give up coaxing, teasing, tearfully begging, and downright demanding. Is it too difficult by carriage or wagon to cover those few crow miles? Do you remember that only a few days back, on the fearful Atlantic, we yearned for any going just so it was on dry earth? Now we have that earth, that ease. Have we not Page 580 Ge imost thon she had _ read, enough means to swerve our course, as a scythe reaches to strike home? Is it so necessary — that arrival in the Far West — that one day or another would make a difference? Strength, time, means, distance; all as a drop in the bucket when so soon it will overflow for joy. Sweet reunion of heart. Catching of the breath at a thought of Grandma standing arms akimbo waiting for us to rush her off her feet. Is the eye never to see these kindred? "T cannot do it," she said again and again. Then arose that natural question, of why, why? In the scales, the reasons for the Bend far outweighed the ones for a few days of delay, then continuance of the way. The children slowed down in their thinking and talking. Those who could better express themselves in tears, when touched most deeply, did cry. Those who might believe that a cry of protest was not manly, kept silent and felt more the man for it. The six-year-old was not exactly to be considered in this family conclave, but she remembered when she was a great-grandmother that, as she reached for her mother emigrant's hand, it was trembling. 'This is perhaps our only clue that a great HAND TO THE PLOW battle had waged within the granite, lion-hearted woman. Another glance at her would reveal the very set of the jaw, the very mobile relentlessness of face of the king of the forest. She never looked so immovable, so chiseled, as that morning when she said she would not get off the train. When the whirlwind of protest had subsided, and each child had reached calm banks of emotion, their mother answered the why, why of her decision. In the first place, yes, she was afraid of Indians, and rebels, and walking a thousand miles, perhaps still another thousand across the wastes of North America. Yes, there were no loved ones awaiting them in the Rockies. 'True, a family or two of friends in the Old Country had preceded them to that far-off desert; but who knew where they were by now? Perhaps dead of _ cholera or of bleeding of a redman's arrow, or assigned even more distant valleys west and on west. Perhaps some were already rich on the Golden Shore. But go they must. Where? To Zion. HAT last word was said with a glint of the eye that could only reflect a spiritual dedication to a cause, only a religious fulfillment not found elsewhere. The word was the reminder to her boys and girls that goals had been set, vows taken, means gathered, and a journey begun, all because a faith had been accepted, tried on for fit, found to fit, and, now, must be worn right on into a certain valley. That valley of refuge was a place where pride of wearing that faith and living it could be called dedication, fulfillment, self-realization. The spirit of 581 the migration in that day came under the heading of gathering. It reminded one of Moses and the Red Sea, in religious fervor. This gathering, then, was worth all the hardships, the empty stomachs, the bleeding feet, the giving up of the world. Yes, the emigrant mother assured her children this was worth more than father and mother and brothers and children and husband. Even Grandpa and Grandma, their glances questioned. But why can't we have both? Give us a few days at Bradys Bend, give us the only chance we shall ever have to see our aunts and uncles and cousins. 'Then we shall start out refreshed for the valley. Why couldn't that be the way? If the hand was trembling and the voice showed a quaver, the eye and heart were steadfast. Her answer: Because I have not the courage, after such a joyful reunion, to go on. The children thought to themselves and questioned each other with startled glances. What is our mother talking about? They wondered. She who is iron and rock and lion and refuge, all in all — she says she has not the courage! What then of us who are young and fatherless and homeless and dependent on the ravens for bread? How must we feel about resolution and never deserting a worthy cause? These thoughts shook them as they realized their helplessness. But, Mother, they pleaded. Even in the face of her solidness, they hated to let go of their weakness and abide by her decision. Her inner thoughts weighed her strength under stress. This was part of the 582 testing, no doubt. If she could not withstand the cries of her children in this little island of privacy among strangers, how could she combat the tears of her parents and loved ones combined with the victorious offspring? Together, they would talk her out of the supreme goal in life, even the life hereafter. 'Temporary pleasure was pitted against permanent security. If one could be victorious in the little things, then their accumulation of power would bring one victorious in the great issues. 'T'hus she had thought since buying a ticket which would bypass the Bend. HE motioned to Eliza to open her carpet bag and retrieve from the folds of personal clothing a little Testament given her by the captain of the sailing vessel as a parting gift. The mother then said, "Eliza, turn to Luke nine and sixty-one and read to us." And this is what Eliza read: "And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee; but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house. And Jesus said unto him, No man, having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God." The Word had been consulted. If it took each hearer of that Word to make his personal interpretation, it also took his personal action which followed that hearing. This was almost the only time in each life of the children that they wanted time and privacy and strength to arrange their hearts and minds in such an order that an accuser in later years could be turned aside without a case against them. Their earthly mother had shown them the Word, and they believed. The sacrifice was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 stated as if meant for them instead of travelers to Jerusalem in the year thirty-two a. V. The reward was also assured, and they believed that, too. One by one they looked their mother squarely in the face. That was all the affirmative vote she needed. All were very quiet. No reproach was heard. It was not easy, but now they all knew that the valley and not the Bend was their immediate goal. Now the struggle was over, the tension was broken as water breaking through the headgate of adam. If tears were mingled with the flood, they were tears of triumph and not remorse. As hope rises eternally to lift all to ecstasy, so it did them. Some day, some day, maybe, maybe, we can come back to this station and start out for the Bend and reunion and contentment. We shall, we shall. But the emigrant made no promise for herself. The finality of her decision precluded the hope that she could retrace her footsteps to this bitter day to start out to find her parents. Her strength lay in forsaking, in renouncing the idea as a permanent thing. To consider that even in old age she should be so near this sentimental goal, was to make her half defeated at this moment. Forever behind her was this day, this trembling of the hand, this possibility of defeat. If time and strength were pitted against each other again, she would know what to do, and that without the great battle from within. The West and not the Bend was to be the daily cry. The Bend was to be thought of less and less, thus to hurt less acutely, thus to become a chapter of life entitled Lost, or HAND TO THE PLOW Never, or I Cannot. The very denouncement of this plan gave power to the shoulders to bear any burden, gave direction to the feet to trudge ever forward, gave resolution to the heart to live and love and dream and achieve in spite of disappointment and tragedy. In giving up this 583 side journey she would be the better fortified against other temptations, other passing pleasures, so that the big chance could be pursued and conquered. Only in saying I cannot can we ever say I can. The emigrant was ready to resume her journey. (To be continued ) A Summarization of the Brief Life of Edgar Allan Poe Hazel Owen If you were to walk in the shoes of Poe, Tormented by drink, aloneness, and woe, What would you do, if your life were so? What would you turn to, and where would you go? If you had a desperate desire to write, And the world was against you in your fight, Would you see the blue of sunlit skies? Or a darker hue, with your darkened eves? Life was confusion, and noise, and din, Overwhelmingly crowding and shutting him in; No one to hear him and no one to care, No relief sought through the power of prayer. He builded with words his cathedral gray, And made a tomb where his loved one lay; Fashioned a song for his sorrows to hide— Then he was gone, and was laid by her side. sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, August 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NatTIONs" RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN MALAD STAKE: On the stand were Apostle M. F. Cowley and Sister Emilia D. Madsen one of the General Board of the Relief Society.... Sister Madsen rejoiced to meet with the sisters of this Stake. We enjoy a glorious privilege in administering to our sick, let us be faithful to the sacred trust placed in us, never let the poor suffer.... Let kindness and love abound.... Apostle Cowley spoke of the kind and gentle influence in this meeting. Asked the mothers to solicit their sons and daughters to take an earnest interest in the work of God. Hope the young people would cultivate a spirit of charity and virtue. Many people have been saved by taking the counsel of their mothers.... — Eliza A. Hall, Sec. WORK One single day's allotted task well done — That is a comfort to the weary head; Better than feathers for the toiler's bed Is the sweet thought to rest upon.... — Maud E. Sargent ITEMS ABOUT ART: It is pleasant to note that the women artists of the State are recognized in the State Board of Art appointed by Governor Wells and the Senate of the State Legislature. At the recent election in the governing board of the Utah Art Institute, Miss Mary Teasdel was elected president, Mrs. Edna Wells Sloan secretary, and Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne treasurer — all places of trust and requiring executive ability.... Miss Mary 'Teasdel was the second Utah woman to have work exhibited at the (Paris) Salon. Three miniatures and an oil portrait were also received; one miniature was accepted at the Paris Exposition — a rare honor. — News Note A WOMAN SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS: Mrs. Mary Orser, of Vernal, Utah, was recently elected county school superintendent. — Ex. GAINS OF SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.... There is a greater gain, a more inestimable boon to the great unnoticed mass of womanhood. The unobtrusive woman who thinks much but says little; the careful woman who economizes and denies herself to make ends meet that excessive taxes may be paid... Who, satisfied to let well enough alone, contends not for the places sacred to men... The motherly woman, whose only care is for righteous government that her children may be free from all oppression.. — Emily S. Richards Page 584 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MILY DICKINSON'S _ best poems — 575 of them — have been collected for the first time in one volume, now on the market. Thomas H. Johnson selected them and wrote the introduction. 'The poems reveal the charm and insight of the woman who lived in great seclusion, but who as time rolls on becomes constantly more understood, and more beloved. MB. CALVIN S. (ETHEL LUCILE DIMOND) SMITH, of Bennion, Utah, was selected as Utah's 1962 Mother of the Year. She has had thirteen children, all outstanding for both intelligence and character. The Smith children (grandchildren of Joseph F. Smith, sixth President of the Church), were taught to work industriously, to stand on their own feet, to love and live a religious and spiritual life, and to give generously of themselves to others. MBS. HEROND (MARIE GUTKE) SHERANIAN, sixty-seven, and an active Latter-day Saint woman from Beverley Hills, was chosen California's Mother of the Year. Living in Utah until she moved to California in 1934, Mrs. Sheranian is the mother of nine accomplished, intelligent children. A descendant of 1847 pioneers and also of Julia Ward Howe, author of "Battle Hymn of the Republic," Mrs. Sheranian was cited in her award for her leadership among women. RS. MARJORIE L. FRENCH, a high school teacher of mathematics, from 'Topeka, Kansas, received the National Teacher of the Year Award from President Kennedy at White House ceremonies in Washington on May 14. OIS MATTOX MILLER has written an article, "Lung Cancer and Cigarettes," which appears in the June Reader's Digest as a summary of the British Royal College of Physicians' recent report on "Smoking and Health." The report is praised as the first to "spell out a practical program of preventive measures for the individual and the Government." The report stated unequivocally: "Cigarette smoking is a cause of lung cancer and bronchitis, and probably contributes to the development of coronary heart disease and various less common diseases." Page 585 EDITORIAL In the Family There Is Strength AMILY love and unity and the promise of an eternal pattern are part of the heritage of the generations. This legacy must be guarded as a present joy and as a future blessing. It is a brief time, the years when the children bless the home — their dear beginning words, strange and delightful; their swift feet, their little happy rhymes and songs; their questions and their young philosophy. So brief a time — like orchard trees that come to bud and bloom, then lose their petals, and, in their turn, bear fruit. This family unity, this building today for all the tomorrows, is best accomplished when the members of the family erect the protective structure together. Family activities are long remembered, and their comforting companionship can never be forgotten. A son, whose early years were spent on a western ranch, found that his responsibility to his country took him to an alien land. Yet in that place, with misty eyes, he traced the outlines of the strange mountains, and compared that silhouette with the hills of home, where he had companioned with his father in the fields of yellow Page 586 wheat and purple-flowered lucern. There was enduring comfort in those memories of home; there was strength and rejoicing. A daughter, whose adult life was beset with many trials, received a rejuvenation of spirit each time she recalled the days of summers past, when she sat with her mother on the veranda of the stone house, and they sewed together the intricate designs for quilts and fancy pillows, and the fine film of netting and crocheting. It seemed to the daughter, in later years, that the stitches of those summer days were destined to be everlasting, as if stitching together the love of the mother and the daughter, so that such a companionship could never be lost, and could forever be recalled in elements of affection and spiritual aspiration. So it has been in many families — brothers. And sisters helping and strengthening and comforting each other; one family unit tenderly caring for the elderly ones before them in the generations, and extendin; loving concern for the young chil dren in the new lines of the family, continuing the ideals and the purposes of a blessed family among the homes of earth, in a pattern of everlasting devotion. Ve GENERAL BOARD. Madsen, Second Counselor - Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron J. Madsen Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt Jennie R. Scott G. Layton Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Alice L. Wilkinson B. Stoddard Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen LaPriel S. Bunker W. Peterson Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Irene W. Buehner M. Young Elna P. Haymond lrené B. Woodtiord Irene C. Lloyd B. Bay Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny S. Kienitz Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love As the years hasten in these latter times, many mothers are earnestly searching for family activities that can be enjoyed within the limitations imposed by city life, or by small budgets, or by disparity of ages in the family group. A mother, whatever her home conditions may be, can, by careful planning, allocate to her children some gainful work, which can be accomplished by united effort — keeping the house shining and clean, caring for patio or porch, tending the yard and the garden — these are tasks of infinite possibilities. Keeping accounts and budgets, composing and arranging family histories, writing letters to loved ones away from home — these are rewarding activities. They can help to make the home the center of family life — the nucleus of well-beloved interests and activities. Hobbies, too, can bring a family close together, in discovering new knowledge, new enchantment, a new look upon the wonders of the natural world, or the endlessly intriguing objects that may be constructed with willing hands. A child's butterfly collection can be so enlarged that the whole family participates. A son's woodcarving can be enjoyed by others in the family who may help with patterns and materials. A daughter's interest in fancywork can be developed during the family story-telling sessions, and in their family evenings together. A father and a son who classify a mineral collection together are building life ideals together. 'Their delight becomes a visible and shining experience. Families who travel together in vacation time may find, in the new vistas of experience, an extension of their personal interests, and a vivid perception of their dear love for each other. Seeing together the cities and the industries, the shining highways, and the busy factories, unites a family in interests and _ experiences. Though each one may see a different aspect of a mountain or a wilderness, the horizon of each is widened and illuminated by the other's perception and choice of sight or sound. One may be a gatherer of herbs or flowers, another may rejoice in colored stones; one may listen for the song of birds, another may consider the curves of the highway and the construction of bridges. All are enlightened by each other. Home is where the family weave together the life pattern — the everlasting life pattern, and make it varied and beautiful, yet of one design and purpose. —V. P. C. Page 587 i B. Hart S. Elliott, President - Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell h/ § 3 vy D) Sa, The Annual General Relief Society Conference THE Annual General Relief Society Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 26 and 27, 1962. The general session will be held on Wednesday, September 26, from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards the general session of the conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the officers meeting on Wednesday morning, September 26, from 10 to 12 in the Tabernacle, and the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, September 27, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, September 26, from 7 to 10 in the Relief Society Building. Relief Society Magazines for 1961 Available for Binding ETS of the twelve issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1961 are available for a limited time, at the office of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. The price for the twelve issues is $2 postpaid. If it is desired to have the Magazines bound by the Deseret News Press (see advertisement on page 630 of this issue of the Magazine); the set of 1961 Magazines will be sent, if so directed, to them. Payment for the Magazines, for binding, and for postage on bound volumes should be sent with the order. A yearly index will be included in the binding. ERRATUM The name of Frances C. Yost was omitted as the author of "In a Time of Flood" in the July 1962 issue of The Relief Society Magazine — due to an error in the layout and heading arrangement. Apologies are extended to Mrs. Yost for this regrettable omission from her very fine article. Page 588 Jerusalem, City of Peace Christine H. Robinson Member, Adult Planning Committee of the Church Co-ordinating Council through the Judean Hills, provides a soul-stirring, never-to-be-forgotten experience. As the twenty-mile long road approaches the Holy City, each bend in the rocky, rugged hills provides a short but almost breathtaking view of the city with its ancient walls, yellow limestone buildings, and tall cypress trees nestled in the tops of the mountains. Nearer Jerusalem, the road swings around one of the final bends and enters the little town of Bethany, situated on the slopes of the Mount of Olives. This was the home of Mary, Martha, and Lazarus, and a place which Jesus loved and where he so often stayed with his friends and loved ones. Beyond this quaint little village, spread over four hills, are the magnificent walls and much of the imposing Holy City of Jerusalem. As spectacular and impressive as the city is today, it must have been even more beautiful during the period of the Savior's ministry. It was at Bethphage, just a short distance up and around the hill from Bethany, that Jesus, only a few days before his crucifixion, stopped and beheld the city in all its splendor "and wept over it" (Luke 19:41). Jesus wept perhaps not only because of the beauty of the city, but also because this would be one of the last times, as a mortal being, he would see it, and he knew how great and peaceful Jerusalem might have been if only its people had accepted his teachings. As Jesus pondered the condition and fate of the city, Matthew records that he lamented, "O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not!" (Mt. 23:37). Jerusalem, during the Savior's ministry, was a magnificent and important city. Only a short time earlier Herod had beautified it. He had erected many new buildings and had rebuilt the temple and the walls, including the massive golden gates leading into the valley of Kedron. His Page 589 To journey from Jericho to Jerusalem up the steep, winding road objective had been to restore Jerusalem to the ancient glory and splendor which it had enjoyed under the reign of Solomon. Less than six miles from Jerusalem is the little town of Bethlehem. On that world-shaping day, some 2,000 years ago, Mary and Joseph came there to the home of their ancestors and there Jesus was born. On the outskirts of Bethlehem are the shepherds' fields where sheep were brought in from the surrounding grazing areas for better protection during the night. It was there (see cover) on that eventful night that shepherds, tending their flocks, received the wonderful vision announcing the Savior's birth as the scriptures record: And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shown round about them: and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the City of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord (Luke 2:8-11). ODAY, a hostile border separates the Arabs from the Jews and cuts off the main road from Jerusalem to Bethlehem. Consequently, the roundabout distance between the two cities is much greater than it was during the Savior's ministry. Then, undoubtedly, he must have walked many times the approximate six miles from Jerusalem to the city of his ancestors and of his birth. Despite its spectacular physical beauty, during the time of the Savior, Jerusalem was a cosmopolitan, wicked city. Jesus foresaw its complete destruction and predicted that the time would soon come when the beautiful temple would be torn down with not one stone remaining on top of another. Yet, it was at Jerusalem where Jesus accomplished much of his mighty work, gave many of his great teachings, and performed many of his most wonderful miracles. It was here that mothers brought to him their little children "and he took them in his arms, put his hands upon them, and blessed them" (Mark 10:16). He said, "suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God" (Mark 10:14). In Jerusalem he healed the sick, caused the lame to walk, and made the blind to see. Here he exhibited his righteous indignation when he cast the thieves and money-changers out of the temple and proclaimed that his father's house "shall be called the house of prayer; but ye have made it a den of thieves" (Mt. 21:13). When Jesus taught at Jerusalem, the scheming Pharisees, hoping to trap him, asked, "Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy might, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" (Mt. 22:35-39). At Jerusalem Jesus emphasized the divine importance of service to one another, saying, "Inasmuch as ye have Page 590 sper ARES Color transparency by Dr. O. Preston Robinson The Old City and Wall of Jerusalem as seen today. Color transparency by Dr. O. Preston Robinson Bethany, near Jerusalein, near the spot where the house of Mary, Martha and Lazarus once stood. | | | | | fy Aidt sch wer 21 VAP st 42. Ry.°? Color transparency by Dr. O. Preston Robinson The Garden of Gethsemane. These old olive trees are said to be over 2,000 years old. Color transparency by Dr. O. Preston Robinson The Mount of Olives from near the site of Bethphage. done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" (Mt. 25:40). Despite Christ's mighty works and his great compassion for Jerusalem, the city rejected and scorned him. With trumped-up charges and on the basis of an illegal trial, he was brought by the priests and the people before Pilate and was condemned to death. Up a narrow winding street, similar to the one, today, which is called the Via Dolorosa (the Street of Sorrow), he carried his cross to Golgotha, the "Hill of the Skull," where he was crucified. Only a few short hours before, he had knelt in the Garden of Gethsemane, at the foot of the Mount of Olives near the path he had taken so many times to his beloved Bethany. In an orchard of beautiful olive trees, he had prayed mightily to his Father saying, "My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death.... O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt" (Mt. 26:38, 39). HE name Jerusalem in Hebrew means "The City of Peace." Yet, probably more than any city down through the ages, Jerusalem has experienced little peace. The history of the city has been largely one of conflict, conquest, destruction, and restoration. Nation after nation has fought over it, and each new conqueror has soon been faced with the necessity of holding his conquest against the determined aggression of another. 'These repeated conquests constitute a strange and puzzling fact about Jerusalem. Although the city has always had great religious significance, it has never been an economic prize for its conquerors. Except for the times when it might have harbored religious treasures, it has had no great economic assets. The city has no mineral wealth. It is not in the center of a rich agricultural district. It controls no important trade routes nor seaport. In fact, it has only a scanty independent water supply, and to support increased population it has been necessary to bring water in through an extensive system of aqueducts. Yet, the control of Jerusalem has been a symbol, and as long as it remained in enemy hands, the inhabitants of Palestine could not feel secure. Possibly, the earliest Biblical reference to "The City of Peace" is found in Genesis in the account of Melchizedek, King of Salem, unto whom Abraham paid tithes. "Salem'' means "peace," and many scholars believe this reference is to Jerusalem (Genesis 14:18). It was during David's reign that Jerusalem was conquered by the Hebrews and became the City of the Jews. Since David's time, Jerusalem has been known among the Jews as '""The City of David." David made the city his capital, brought into it the ark of the covenant, and surrounded it with a new wall. It was to his son Solomon, however, that the responsibility and honor came to rebuild and beautify the city and to construct its magnificent temple on Mount Moniah, one of Jerusalem's four hills. During Solomon's time, Jerusalem was truly a "City of Peace." This blessing, however, was not to be long enjoyed. After Solomon's death, the Page 595 city was fought over by the divided tribes of Israel. Then followed a long period of strife and conquest during which time the city changed hands so many times that even history does not record the number. Probably, no place in history has been more violently fought over than this so-called "City of Peace." True to the pattern of its troubled history, Jerusalem, today, is an embattled and divided city. 'Twisting like a serpent through the middle of this "Holy Shrine" is the armored border between the Jewish and the Arab sectors. This is the battle line where the bitterly fought 1948 Palestinian War was stopped by the United Nations. Here, today, fully alerted and battle-ready soldiers patrol both sides of the city, ready, at a moment's notice, to shoot if the command is given. Only at one spot on this fortified border can a civilian or tourist cross from one sector to the other. This is at the Mandlebaum Gate, a no-man's-land check point, where crossings can be made only with special permission and virtually only in one direction. Jerusalem is the "Holy City," not only for Christians but also for Jews and Moslems. For the Jews, this is the home of David and Sclomon. It is also the place, on Mount Moriah, where Abraham came on instructions from the Lord to offer his son Isaac in sacrifice. It is their capital city and the place where the ancient prophets lived, preached, and died. For the Moslems, Jerusalem is one of the most important "Holy Cities" in their religion. It is second only to Mecca and Medina and is one of the shrines where every orthodox Moslem must visit, at least once in his lifetime, if he is true to his Islamic faith. Here is the "Dome of the Rock," one of Islam's most ancient and most beautiful mosques. It is believed to have been built over the site where Mohammed ascended to heaven. For Christians, Jerusalem and the area of Palestine is the Holy Land where Jesus lived and taught. It was here that he organized his Church, restored the Holy Priesthood, and challenged his disciples to a new way of life and service with the words, "come, follow me." A familiar greeting in the Israel sector of Jerusalem, when one meets or takes leave of a friend or acquaintance, is "shalom, shalom," meaning "peace, peace." Despite this greeting, there has been little peace in Jerusalem, and there is only an uncertain, troubled peace there now. Yet, the peace which Jesus tried so valiantly to establish there and throughout the world, can be found, if one truly seeks it. However, it is not peace as the world knows it. It is the spiritual and personal "peace" that Jesus urged and taught. He said, "Peace I leave unto you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid" (John 14:27) Even in its present and divided and embattled condition, Jerusalem is still a holy and sacred city. If people would follow the counsel of the righteous prophets who have preached and died there, and if they would accept the lessons that Jesus taught there nigh on to 2,000 years ago, Jerusalem would indeed be the "City of Peace." Page 596 Mabel Harmer HE old "stand-by" desserts — bread or rice puddings, and custards, are substantial and appetizing, without being too rich or too expensive. Given an occasional new twist, and the correct ingredients, they will appeal to the most discriminating and healthy appetite. Apple Pandowdy This is an American favorite since colonial days. 4 tart apples, sliced thin 1 c. Sifted flour "2 C. Sugar 1% tsp. Baking powder " tsp. Cinnamon % tsp. Salt " tsp. Salt ¥% c. Shortening % c. Molasses ¥ c. Milk ¥% c. Hot water Fill an oblong dish with sliced apples. Mix sugar, cinnamon, and salt and sprinkle over apples. Combine molasses and hot water. Pour over apples. Bake in hot oven (425° F.) 25 minutes. Sift flour with baking powder and salt. Cut in shortening. Add milk. Knead lightly. Roll dough into a rectangle about %4 inch thick. Fit dough over apple mixture. Prick top with fork. Bake at 425° F. About 25 minutes. Serve warm with thin cream. Serves 8. Caramel Custard % c. Sugar 6 eggs 2 tbsp. Boiling water % tsp. Salt 4 c. Milk 1 tsp. Vanilla Page 597 598 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 Heat the dry sugar in a small pan over low heat, stirring until it melts. Add two tablespoons of boiling water and pour it slowly into the milk, which has been scalded. Beat the eggs, add salt and vanilla, and slowly pour the milk mixture on them and stir. Bake at 350° for 40 minutes in a casserole set in a pan of hot water. The custard is done when a silver knife can be drawn clean through the center. Serves 8. Gingerbread Custard 2 egg yolks 1 pint milk, scalded % c. Sugar 1 c. Gingerbread crumbs g ging Beat the egg yolks, add sugar and scalded milk. Pour mixture over the gingerbread crumbs which have been placed in a buttered casserole. Place the dish in a pan of hot water and bake at 350° for one hour. A meringue may be made with the egg whites by mixing 4 tbsp. Sugar, 4 tsp. Vanilla and spreading it over the custard for the last 15 minutes of baking. Serves 5s. Lemon Rice With Fruit Sauce % Ib. Prunes 1 tbsp. Cornstarch "% c¢. Seedless raisins % c. Sliced almonds 1% c. Water 1 ¢. Quick cooking rice 2 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 tbsp. Each of butter, sugar, and "2 ¢. Brown sugar grated lemon rind Cut up prunes and simmer with raisins and water for 5 minutes. Add the lemon juice and the combined sugar and cornstarch. Cook 5 minutes. Add almonds. Cook the rice with butter according to directions on the package. Fold in sugar and lemon rind. Pour fruit sauce over warm rice. Serves 4-6. Cinnamon Rice Snow % ¢c. Quick rice 2 c. Shredded raw apples "% tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Sugar 1 tsp. Butter 2 tbsp. Lemon juice "" ¢. Red cinnamon candies 1 c. Whipping cream Cook rice with salt and butter. Add cinnamon candies. Cover and let stand for 10 minutes to melt candies. Mix and chill. Combine apples, sugar, and lemon juice and fold into rice. Add whipped cream. Chill. Serves 6. Toasty Prune Betty 1% ¢. Cooked prunes % c. Sugar 4 c. Toasted bread cubes "2 tsp. Salt 1% c. Chopped apples % tsp. Cinnamon 1 c. Prune liquid 2 tbsp. Butter % c. Water Cut prunes into medium slices. Toast bread cubes in 450° oven until lightly browned. Place half of toasted bread cubes in buttered casserole. Add prunes in a layer, then apples, then remaining bread cubes. Combine liquids, sugar, salt, spice, and butter, and boil 2 or 3 minutes. Pour over bread cubes. Bake covered at 375° for one hour. Serves 6. _ Apple Cake With Vanilla Sauce For cake: For sauce: % |b. Butter 4 egg yolks 3 ¢. Stale sponge cake crumbs 4 tbsp. Sugar or cracker crumbs 2 c. Heavy cream 2% c. Sweetened applesauce 2% tsp. Vanilla 2 tsp. Cinnamon Melt butter in a skillet. Add crumbs and cook over medium heat five minutes, stirring frequently. Butter an 8-inch square baking dish. Place layer of crumbs on bottom and add alternate layers of applesauce, cinnamon and crumbs. Bake in a 350° oven for thirty minutes. Let cool, then turn out of pan carefully. For the sauce, beat the egg yolks in the top of a double boiler. Add the sugar and beat. Scald 1% cups of the cream and add to yolks, beating constantly. Place over hot water and cook until thick, stirring. Remove from hot water, add vanilla and cool for one hour. Whip the remaining cream and fold into the sauce. Cut the cake in squares and serve with sauce. Serves 8-10. Raspberry Bread Pudding % c. Butter 3 c. Bread crumbs % c. Sugar % tsp. Salt 3 «ees a beaten 3 tbsp. Raspberry jam 2 tbsp. Flour Cream the butter and sugar and add the well-beaten eggs. Add the flour, bread crumbs, salt, and jam. Mix well and pour into a buttered mold. Place in a large pan containing boiling water to a depth of 1% inches. Cover the pan and steam in a double boiler in a 275° oven for three hours. Serves 6. Coconut and Date Bread Pudding 3 c. Stale bread crumbs % Cc. Sugar " ¢. Shredded coconut 2 c. Milk %% c. Dates " tsp. Salt 2 eggs 1 tsp. Vanilla Put the stale bread crumbs, coconut, and dates in a buttered casserole. Beat the eggs, add the sugar, then the milk, salt, and vanilla. Pour this over the bread mixture and place in oven at 350° for 1% hours. Serve with cream. Serves 6. Plain Bread Pudding 1 quart milk % tsp. Salt 2 c. Stale bread cubes 1 tsp. Vanilla 3 eggs 3 tbsp. Butter % ¢. Sugar Scald the milk and pour it over the bread cubes. Let stand 10 minutes. Beat the eggs, add the sugar, salt, and vanilla. Put into buttered baking dish and add the milk and bread cubes. Add melted butter and stir. Place the dish in a pan of hot water. Bake at 350° for 1% hours. Serves 6. FAMILY DESSERTS 599 Do you have a baby? What you need is a bathtime coat of armor 'Make a Drip-Dry Apron Janet W. Breeze Got something at your house that's slippery as an eel and splashes like a fish? Must be a baby! What you need is a bathtime coat of armor. So make it — from one bath towel, plus one washcloth. When finished, you'll find that your terry-towel friénd is not only a great dress protector, but can be lifted up and wrapped around that wee little wiggler as you take him from the tub. No baby? Give an apron as a gift! First of all, cut the washcloth into four equal strips. Two strips will serve as the belt; and the other two, sewn end to end, will form the long piece that goes around the neck. Now double your strips lengthwise, right sides together, and stitch each one along the long edge. Then turn right side out and overcast ends to prevent fraying. Baste pleats in the bath towel at the neck and waist to whatever width you prefer. Stitch one of the short strips into pleat on right side of waistline and one into pleat on left side of waistline. Use gripper fasteners to attach neck piece and to fasten the belt. Two sets of snaps make the apron adjustable. y at A %. \: BN a ® Clara Partridge Stevens—Artist With Needle and Brush oe Partridge Stevens, Salt Lake City, Utah, finds much happiness in her many hobbies of handwork and painting, and brings warmth to the hearts of her friends and family by sharing her handwork with them. She has crocheted four full-size tablecloths, two afghans, hundreds of doilies, and the lace for many pillowslips. She has crocheted bootees for her twenty-eight grandchildren and her thirty-one greatgrand-children, and has embroidered and finished temple aprons for all her children and all her granddaughters. She has lost count of the great number of quilts she has made for her family and friends and for Relief Society. Her oil paintings have given her creative joy and have won much appreciation and admiration. The painting shown above was made from a natural scene in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming. Mrs. Stevens was born in Fillmore, Utah, a daughter of Edward Partridge, Jr., and Elizabeth Buxton Partridge. She is a granddaughter of Edward Partridge, the first bishop of the Church. She has been active in Relief Society for many years, as a teacher and as an expert quilter. As she approaches her eighty-ninth birthday (August 4, 1962), she still attends Sunday School, sacrament meeting, and Relief Society, where she still takes her place at the quilting frames. She keeps house for herself and her husband, works on genealogical research, and keeps busy with her crochet hook and knitting needles. Page 692 General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES - ii" BOUNTIFUL NORTH STAKE (UTAH), BOUNTIFUL FIFTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PROGRAM, March 15, 1962 Left to right: Alene Grundy as Margaret A. Cook; Zona Prusse as Phebe Ann Hawks; Beth Ivers as Sophia Marks; Barbara Houghton as Leonora Taylor; Shirley Woodhouse as Sophia Robinson; Kay Smedley as Philinda Merrick; Elder Edwin Jardine as John Taylor; LaVeral Smith as Elvira A. Coles; Beth Porter as Phebe M. Wheeler; Bishop William Stacey as the Prophet Joseph Smith; Velma Stacey as Emma Hale Smith; Nadine Nielson as Sarah M. Cleveland; Marvel Jardine as Eliza R. Snow; Beth Woodward as Elizabeth Ann Whitney; Ralph Thompson as Willard Richards; Lile Day as Desdemona Fulmer; Carol Thompson as Bathsheba W. Smith; Evelyn Parry, reader; Gerda Hansen as Sarah M. Kimball; Hettie Knight as Martha Knight; Sylvia Pack as Sophia Packard. Dora P. Webb, President, Bountiful North Stake Relief Society, reports that beautiful programs were printed for this occasion, and the sisters who represented the members of the first Relief Society were attired in costumes representative of that time. A chorus sang "Messengers of Mercy." A special tribute to Leah P. Chapman, who passed away recently, was printed on the programs, representing Sister Chapman as a sister who "loved Relief Society." Eunice Van Orden is president of Bountiful Fifth Ward Relief Society, and her counselors are Fawn Kizerian and Vera Holbrook. Page 603 604 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 eh EMOTE SITS 8S ns * LS Mls oS Se BLACKFOOT STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, April 1962 President Marie G. Baldwin is standing at the left in the second row; chorister Barbara Larson and organist Marilyn Dye, are standing at the left in the front row. Sister Baldwin reports that all nine wards of Blackfoot Stake were represented in this chorus and the Singing Mothers were most appreciative of the opportunity to present the music for quarterly conference. Co WORK P: = Sd ad a VISITING TEACHERS NORTH SEVIER STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS VISITING TEACHERS AT CONVENTION AND VALENTINE DAY SOCIAL February 9, 1962 Front row, seated left to ght: Esther Thalman, stake visiting teacher message leader; Stella Mason; Dee Rasmussen; Millie Martin; Bessie Miller; Lucy Nielson. Back row, standing, 'left to right: Verona Gates; Bernece Mickelsen; Othella Herbert; Bernece Sorenson; Josephine Thompson; Virgie Nielson; Helen Noyes. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 605 Gladys O. Johnson, President, North Sevier Stake Relief Society, reports that a valentine theme was followed in carrying out the arrangements for this lovely social: "We made a large valentine for the visiting teachers, which read: 'A Valentine For You, For the Wonderful Work You Do.' Our stake Singing Mothers presented the music, and a skit entitled 'Fruits of the Message' was presented by Brother and Sister Quentin Ottley and their family. Talks were given by Esther Thalman, and Clara Roberts, President, South Sevier Stake Relief Society, who was a special guest speaker. Onc hundred and forty-five sisters attended the convention. We paid special honor to eighteen sisters who had a one hundred per cent attendance at their visiting teacher meetings for the past year." MONUMENT PARK STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), TWELFTH WARD HONORS RELIEF SOCIETY LEADERS AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY March 17, 1962 Left to right: Elder Harold R. Boyer, President, Monument Park Stake; General President of Relief Society, Belle S. Spafford; Velma N. Simonsen, former second counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society; Henrietta H. Young, President, Monument Park Stake Relief Society; May J. Dyer; Leone W. Doxey; Thelma S. Buchanan; Beverly J. Pond, President, Monument Park Twelfth Ward Relief Society. Sister Young reports: 'The Monument Park Twelfth Ward Relief Society held a birthday reception at their new chapel on March 17, 1962, honoring General President Belle S. Spafford; former second counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society Velma N. Simonsen; Leone W. Doxey, recently appointed First Counselor in the General Presidency of the Primary Association; May J. Dyer, and Thelma S. Buchanan, to which all members of the Relief Society and their husbands and other stake members were Mvited. Sister Simonsen, Sister Dyer, and Sister Buchanan are wives of mission presidents recently returned to the Twelfth Ward after presiding over Relief Society in missions of the Church. Sister Pond and her counselors did much advance planning to make this a lovely affair. It was held on a Saturday between the hours of five and seven P. M., and refreshments were served in the beautifully decorated Relief Society room. In carrying out the theme 'Relief Society Is the Key to the Good Life,' attractive key chains were given to all the sisters who attended." 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 BOUNTIFUL STAKE (UTAH), 1 BOUNTIFUL SIXTH WARD WORK MEETING PROJECTS, December 1961 Ivy W. Richins, President, Bountiful Stake Relief Society, submits the following report from the Bountiful Sixth Ward: "The Bountiful Sixth Ward Relief Society has had outstanding accomplishments for their work meeting projects during the past year. At the meeting represented in the picture, eighty women were active in craft work. There was a class in knitting, crocheting, and embroidery; one in flower and grains arrangement, and one in making Christmas wreaths. Other groups made plastic poodles and stuffed toys. Three quilts were being quilted. The Sixth Ward always has a quilt on hand for beginners only, where the young women of the ward can be taught the art of quilting. Their motto is: "We have something of interest for every woman in the ward.' Mildred Patterson is work meeting leader, and Ruby M. Smedley is president of Bountiful Sixth Ward Relief Society." Ped falls e. E) polrinniee As ROSE PARK STAKE, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT SPRING MUSICALE, March 29, 1962 Front row, seated: Ruth J. Harrison, President, Rose Park Stake Relief Society, first on the right; Ruth Murphy, First Counselor, fifth from the right; Clea Fowler, Second Counselor, fifth from the left; Marilyn Mecham, chorister, second from the right; Ruth Pack, organist, third from the right. Vauna Moosman, Secretary-Treasurer, is standing tenth from the right in the second row. Sister Harrison reports: "The Singing Mothers of Rose Park Stake presented a most enjoyable spring musicale, March 29th. With a theme "There's Music in the Air,' each of the ten wards was featured in an individual number, and all 175 members of 4 combined choruses sang two selections. The group has 261 children and grandchildren. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 607 "In addition to the vocal music, a group of eight sisters formed a string ensemble for a special number, and accompanied one of the full-chorus selections. Four Relief Society organists performed a beautiful two-piano selection. "The large audience which attended this event was most appreciative of hearing our talented mothers featured in such a lovely musical presentation. This marked the first time such an event has been held in Rose Park Stake, and many comments were heard urging that this should become an annual event." ar Se aes yim ay SOUTHWEST INDIAN MISSION, POLACCA (ARIZONA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY MAINTAINS DEVOTED SERVICE AND ACTIVITY Front row, left to mght: Nadean Tryon; Alice Adams; Grace Chapella; Carol Namoki; Elva Tewaygewa. Second row, left to right: Helen Hill; Deana Tahbo; Lily Pahone; Alma Tahbo; Leah Garcia; Ivy Sidney; Edna Sequi; Anabelle Honie. Third row, left to right: Louise McGee, District Relief Society President; Zella Ray; Mae Mutz, President, Polacca Branch Relief Society; Remalda Williams; Mabel Dashee; Teresa Harvey. Back row, left to right: Nina Talayumptewa; Joyce Tewa; Anna Sidney; Mary Leone Navasie; Helen Sekaquaptewa; Elizabeth M. Baird, President, Southwest Indian Mission Relief Society. Sister Baird reports: "These sisters have kept the Relief Society organized and active, even when the branch was disorganized. They are a wonderful group of Lamanite women and they love Relief Society. They said last fall, 'We want the whole Relief Society program, just as it is being carried on in Salt Lake City, and in the rest of the Church.' "The day this picture was taken, these sisters served a pot-luck dinner to twelve missionaries at the regional meeting, and the next day, they served the entire congregation at District Conference."' 608 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 VIRGINIA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, January 21, 1962 Front row, left to right: Lucille Blackmon, President, Virginia Stake Relief Society; Myrtle Donahoe, chorister,; Mary Sanderlin, accompanist, tenth from the left; Gladys Johnson, visiting teacher leader, ninth from the left; Hettie Toler, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Blackmon reports: '"This group was honored by being invited to sing at the stake quarterly conference, January 21, 1962. This conference inaugurated the use of the Norfolk chapel. We are very proud of these faithful women who give their time so generously to meet for practice. They are now rehearsing for a concert to be presented for the stake." NORTH TOOELE STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY AND | BOARD HONOR VISITING TEACHERS AT SOCIAL, January 31, 1962 Left to right: Roxie Dobson; Marelle Sanderson; Geraldine Droubay; Millie Tate; Ethel Weight, First Counselor; Geneel Stewart, President; Fern Gillette, Second Counselor; Mildred Sagers; Arline Lindholm; Mignon Shields; Renee Burgess. Marie Williams, a member of the board, was absent when the picture was taken. Sister Stewart reports: ""The North Tooele Stake Relief Society presidency and board members presented 'Hats Off to You, Visiting Teachers,' at a party honoring the visiting teachers who had achieved 100 per cent visiting teaching for the year. The twenty-eight women in the stake eighty years of age and over were also honored. It was a wonderful party. 'The highly entertaining program was well received by the three hundred men and women who were in attendance. Favors were presented to the visiting teachers, and special favors and tributes were given the sisters over eighty years of age. Delicious punch and doughnuts were served from cleverly decorated blue and gold 'doughnut trees.' Our 'hats are off to the visiting teachers' for their fine achievement." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 609 FRENCH-POLYNESIAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, March 28, 1962 Standing in the picture is Ester Bennett, First Counselor in the French Polynesian Mission Relief Society, at the Hikueru Hao booth. The second tifaifai from the left sold for $110. Gabrielle Young, President, French-Polynesian Mission Relief Society, reports: "The French-Polynesian Mission Relief Society held an all-mission bazaar on the 28th of March. It was a big day, and all of the branches had sent their articles to Papeete. 'This was to see if an all-mission bazaar would not be more successful than holding many bazaars in the individual islands. The exposition started at nine o'clock in the morning, and the sale was at six o'clock in the evening. Meals were served at noon and in the evening. "The small articles were woven hats, bags, mats, fans, carvings, doilies, clothing, pillows and pillowcases, grass skirts, and some very artistic shell vases. Fifty very beautiful tifaifai (bed covers, with applique or crazy-quilt patterns) were also sold. The basketball court was divided into booths, with the name of each island in front, so that the customers could see from which island they were buying the articles, We were very proud to display a tifaifai which had won first prize in the territory-wide contest last July, and also the one which had taken first place for originality of design. - highest price paid for a tifaifai at the bazaar went to Hao, Tuamotu Branch, or $110. "The day was very rewarding, and the sisters have never had such a successful sale. Tourists and people from all Tahiti were in attendance, and the decision was made then and there that the mission-wide bazaar would be an annual affair. The total receipts for the day exceeded $2,000, and the morale of the sisters was boosted one hundred per cent." LESSON DEPARTMEN fe THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 42 — "Engaged in a Good Cause" Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 58:15-65 ) For First Meeting, November 1962 Objective: 'To show that obedience to the Lord's commandments involves working for the cause of Zion. Introduction N the year 1831, the Prophet Joseph Smith received a revelation designating Independence, Jackson County, Missouri, as the site for the city of Zion or the New Jerusalem. Hundreds of years before this the Lord had decreed that his holy city to which the faithful would come in the last days, would shine forth as a light to beckon earth's inhabitants to accept the gospel. This city will become a capital of the world government when the Savior comes to establish his kingdom at the time of the millennium. Although the saints were driven from the center place of Zion, their belief in the restoration of the gospel, and their own inability, at that time, to live the gospel as required, brought about the persecutions which drove them from Missouri. (See Lesson 41.) Page 610 Notwithstanding what happened in 1834 when our people were ejected from Missouri, the promises of the Lord concerning that land are still to be fulfilled. 'The leadership of this Church has always understood and taught that the New Jerusalem will become all that the Lord has said it would be. President George Q. Cannon, one of the apostles close to the events of Missouri, expressed the feelings of the saints concerning these matters. After twenty years in the West, he said: We talk about going back to build up the centre stake [place] of Zion; it is the burden of our daily prayers. The aspirations of thousands of the people ascend in the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth [hosts] in behalf of the redemption of Zion, and that the purposes of God may be forwarded, and that the time may soon come when the centre stake [place] of Zion shall be built up and the people be prepared to go back and inhabit that LESSON DEPARTMENT land. Why do we wish this? Because we anticipate when that day shall come that we will be that much nearer the day of triumph, the day when Jesus will come and reign among his Saints... We look forward to that land with indescribable feelings, because it is the place where God has said His City shall be built. It is the land where Adam, the Ancient of Days, will gather his posterity again, and where the blessings of God will descend upon them... (Journal of Discourses, 11:336-337). Preparations must be made for the building of Zion as commanded. The Lord revealed in this revelation (Section 58) why the saints should go to Missouri, beginning in 1831 as well as in the future. (See Lesson 41.) What is necessary today to realize the blessings of building the City of Zion? This question is answered in this lesson. President Cannon said:.. We expect when that day shall come that we will be a very different people to what we are today. We will be prepared to commune with heavenly beings; at any rate, the preparation will be going on very rapidly for Jesus to be revealed. We expect that a society: will be organized there that will be a pattern of heavenly society, that when Jesus and the heavenly beings who come with him are revealed in the clouds of heaven, their feelings will not be shocked by the change, for a society will be organized on the earth whose members will be prepared through the revelations of God to meet and associate with them, if not on terms of perfect equality, at least with some degree of equality (Journal of Discourses, mr 337). Edward Partridge Our discussion of Section 58 begins with verse 14 in which we are reminded that Edward Partridge, who received his appointment as bishop by revelation (D & C 41:9), was to place his full trust in the 611 things pertaining to the kingdom of God. This counsel is applicable to every person who has entered covenant relationship with God. Putting one's emphasis on worldly objects to the exclusion of God's purposes is to have "unbelief and blindness of heart" (Ibid., 58:15; D & C Commentary, pp. 338-339). Bishop Partridge's duties were known to him. He and _ bishops who have succeeded him are to be judges among the saints. He was to appoint to the saints their inheritances — land — as it was appointed in ancient Israel. (Cf, Exodus 18:13.) The bishop is "to judge his people by the testimony of the just, and by the assistance of his counselors, according to the laws of the kingdom which are given by the prophets of God" (D & C 58:18). In order for the Lord's representative, the bishop in this case, to understand his position as a judge, the law of the Church (Section 42) is to be his guide in morals and plans for the welfare of the members. (See D & C 58:19.) No bishop, however, should consider that he is a "ruler." The only ruler in the kingdom of God is Jesus Christ. Officiators in his kingdom are servants. (Ibid., 58:20.) The Law of the Land Not only are the saints of God to accept the rulership of Christ and to follow his divinely appointed servants, but, they should be obedient to the laws of the land. Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land (D & C 58:21). 612 The principle of law observance did not have its origin in this dispensation. Obedience to law is necessary that order and _ stability may exist. Judges who administered the law were known among ancient Israel. In Moses' day a just judgment was to be meted to those who transgressed the law. (Deut. 16:18; I Chron. 23:4.) Elder James E. Talmage pointed out how Chuist acknowledged the existing laws of the land, both Jewish and Roman, although the Roman law was sometimes exercised unjustly. A strong case for obedience to law was given by Jesus when he performed a miracle to provide tax money. (Articles of Faith, page 416.) The wellknown reply to those who attempted to trap the Messiah as one who stood against the ruling powers was: "... Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's; and unto God the things that are God's" (Matt. 22:21). The apostles followed their Master's example in teaching that observance of the law of the land was necessary for the full living of the religious life. (Acts 23:1-5; 'Titus 3:1; Rom. 13:1-7; I Tim. 2:1-3; I Peter 2:13-17. For the application of these and other examples, consult James E. Talmage, Articles of Faith, pp. 418-421.) As for our dispensation, by revelation and instruction from the leaders of the Church, the message is clear—to be a Latter-day Saint strict observance of the law of God and the law of the land is imperative. The Twelfth Article of Faith is well known to all (Ibid., page 3; Pearl of Great Price, page 60.) Obedience to law is a test of a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 man's religion. As Elder Talmage expressed it: Religion is essentially a matter of everyday life. It has as much to do with the adjustment of the individual to his material environment as with his abstract belief in matters spiritual. A man's religion should be a concrete demonstration of his conceptions concerning God and the Divine purposes respecting himself and his fellows. Anything less lacks both the form of godliness and the power thereof.... Loyal citizenship is at once a characteristic and a test of a man's religion; and as to the incumbent duties of citizenship, the voice of the people, as expressed through the established channels of government, must determine (The Vitality of Mormonism, 1948( pp. 180-181). That the Constitution of the United States was divinely established and thus to be obeyed by its citizens is a revealed part of our religion. (D & C 98:4-10; 101:76-80.) Subsequent lessons will consider Sections 98 and 101 and the Latterday Saint beliefs concerning details of law observance. Christ Shall Reign Distinctive in Latter-day Saint belief is our understanding of the eventual reign of Christ on the earth. The following verse carries the same truth expressed in the Tenth Article of Faith: Wherefore, be subject to the powers that be, until he reigns whose nght it is to reign, and subdues all enemies under his feet (D & C 58:22). When the Savior returns to the earth in power, his kingdom will be established. The inauguration of his rule will bring all of his enemies under control. Some of these enemies of God and man are tyranny, despotism, other evils of Satan, and LESSON DEPARTMENT for man, the last enemy, death. (I Cor. 15:26-28.) When the King of Kings comes, there will be no other king. (D & C 38:21-22.) When that glorious day comes, earth's inhabitants will be governed by laws which are righteous; freedom will then be enjoyed by all. Latter-day Saints, Law-Abiders In order that no Latter-day Saint shall misunderstand his obligation to the law of the land and the law of the gospel, the revelation continues: Behold, the laws which ye have received from my hand are the laws of the church, and in this light ye shall hold them forth. Behold, here is wisdom D & C 58:23). To Be Commanded in All Things? The next several verses of Section 58 (verses 24-33) are directed to Edward Partridge, his counselors, and Sidney Gilbert (D & C 57:69) to attend to their assignments in Missouri. Important instruction to these brethren are (1) that they are not to be commanded in all things; (2) they must have Initiative; (3) they have power within themselves to do much good; and (4) the revocation of commandments by God and loss of blessings. As we examine these scriptures it is apparent that the Lord desires all men to know these principles because they apply to all. For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward (Ibid., 58:26). The underlying principle in this scripture is that man is a free agent. 613 In all stages of his endless life, man exercises his right of choice. Among the many prophets discoursing on this aspect of man's life was Lehi. (2 Nephi 2:16, 26-27.) Elder James E.. 'Talmage wrote: The predominant attnbute of justice, recognized as part of the divine nature, forbids the thought that man should receive promises of reward for righteousness, and threats of punishment for evil deeds, if he possessed no power of independent action. It is no more a part of God's plan to compel men to work righteousness than it is His purpose to permit evil powers to force His children into sin... (Articles of Faith, page 53). Given his free agency, why should man be compelled in all things? Man grows by exercising his right to solve his own problems. There would be no growth if man were to act only as an automaton or robot. Guidance, however, eliminates waste of time and energy. When a person has a position in the Lord's kingdom, it is expected that he will use his initiative and not be teld precisely what to do in all things. Some people do only the bare minimum required of them without exercising their talents beyond duty. He is a slothful servant lacking in wisdom who expects to be compelled in all things. The good that men do will live after them. 'Their righteous purposes will bring a sure reward from the Father who knows all and will judge all men by their works. (See D & C 19:3.) Power Is Within Men Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much nghteousness; 614 For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And_inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned (D & C 58:27-29). It is true that men should engage themselves in causes which contribute to the happiness of their fellow men. Only the Church, however, is committed to programs that advance man's joy, and is able to give him happiness in the eternities to come. At the time this revelation was given, the saints were commanded to lay the foundation of Zion. (Ibid., verses 6-7.) Counsel regarding this had been given at the beginning of this dispensation. If one would seek "to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion," and seek for wisdom then the mysteries of the kingdom would be his and, if faithful, eternal life. (Ibid., 6:6-7.) Diligent service based upon a true desire to build up the cause of Zion is accepted by the Lord. Weak faith or a doubting heart brings weak effort characterized as slothful. Is This the Work of God? Some people believe that because blessings are not answered on their heads, although a try may have been made at keeping the commandments, although not fully and only half-heartedly, the Lord's promises are not fulfilled. To such, as well as to all, the Lord addressed some questions: Who am I that made man, saith the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 Lord, that will hold him guiltless that obeys not my commandments? Who am I, saith the Lord, that have promised and have not fulfilled? I command and men obey not; I revoke and they receive not the blessing. Then they say in their hearts: This is not the work of the Lord, for his promises are not fulfilled. But woe unto such, for their reward lurketh beneath, and not from above (D & C 58:30-33). The important question for every Latter-day Saint is, "Am I living the commandments so_ faithfully that the Lord will bless me as I am entitled to his blessings? On the other hand, should I complain against my Maker because of my own lack of diligence?" The lesson to be learned by all is found in this significant comment: The Saints sometimes fail to do their duty and to keep the commandments of God. But they expect Him to make good to them the promises He has given to the faithful. If He does not, they complain. They neglect their prayers; they absent themselves from their meetings; they break the Word of Wisdom; they withhold their tithing; but when sickness comes and falls like a dark, terrifying shadow across their path, they expect immediate Divine interference in their behalf, through the administration of the Elders. If their expectations are not realized, they say, in a rebellious spirit, "His promises are not fulfilled." The teply of the Lord to that is, "Their reward lurketh beneath." They must look "beneath" for their reward; they have no claim on heaven (D & C Commentary, page 340). If the saints have an opportunity to live a commandment to further their eternal progression and they fail, or conditions develop which LESSON DEPARTMENT do not allow them to keep that commandment, the law may be revoked, or put in abeyance, until the saints are able to live the commandments. An example is the law of consecration, studied in an earlier lesson. (Lesson 28, Relief Society Magazine, October, 1960.) In ancient Israel, the Lord, through Moses, sought to give his people higher laws, but they refused them. As a result, a lesser law was given, and thus Israel lost its great opportunity at that time. Further Directions Concerning Zion The remainder of this revelation (58:34-65) deals with specific direc- 615 tions to some elders and also to the members of the Church concerning Zion. Counsel to these individuals is applicable to all members of the Church as a warning not to fall into similar errors. Questions for Discussion 1. Review the greatness of the New Jerusalem to come and the expectations of the Latter-day Saints regarding that place. 2. Develop a scriptural case for obedience to the law of the land. 3. Why does not the Lord command in all things? 4. Discuss: The most important work in which one can engage is working for the cause of Zion. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 42 — "He Who Doeth the Works of Righteousness Shall Receive His Reward" (D & C 59:23). Christine H. Robinson For First Week, November 1962 Objective: To describe specific qualities and works which help to build righteous living. N this quotation from The Doctrine and Covenants, marvelous blessings are promised to those who are righteous. The Lord says that, "he who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his re- _ ward, even peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come" (D & C 59:23). The word righteousness is used extensively throughout the scriptures and is a word which all of us feel that we understand. Yet, when we speak of a person as being righteous, are we thinking in specific or in general terms? Do we know the specific qualities or. "works" of which righteousness is composed? 616 If we seek to do the works of righteousness, how can we develop the qualities which will lead to such works? A good description of a righteous person is to be found in the Old Testament in David's first psalm which states, "Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord; and in his Jaw doth he meditate day and night" (Psalms 1:1-2). In the New 'Testament, the Lord's Sermon on the Mount outlines most clearly the specific qualities of righteousness. Some of the more important of these are love, meekness, mercy, pureness of heart and mind, peacemaking, forgiveness, tolerance, chastity, faithfulness, constancy, prayerfulness, kindness, charity, humility, and benevolence. 'This is a rather inclusive list and one which, offhand, might appear overpowering. Nevertheless, we can find comfort and assurance in the fact that we will be moving toward the desired goal of righteous living if we are doing conscientiously all we can to practice these virtues in our lives. One of the choice examples which shows the effects of righteous living is found in Fourth Nephi in the Book of Mormon. Following the Savior's visit with the Nephite peoples and the establishment of his church among them, the people lived in righteousness for approximately 200 years. During this period, "... They did walk after the commandments which they had received from their Lord...." And '".., there was no contention in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people. And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults... And surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God.... And how blessed were they! For the Lord did bless them in all their doings" (4 Nephi 12, 15-16, 18). No nation and no community is any stronger than the righteousness of the individuals of which it is composed. 'This was true during the two-hundred year period after the Savior's visit to the American Continent and it is true today. Another Nephite prophet said, "if there be no righteousness there be no happiness" (2 Nephi 2:13). How can we individually do the works of righteousness and thus lay the foundation for happiness and peace in our own lives? We can practice a little more kindness. We can show more love and consideration to our families, friends, and neighbors. We can be tolerant and charitable and, through prayer, we can seek more diligently our Father in heaven's divine will. 'The practice of these and other qualities of righteousness will bring us more peace of mind and more joy of living. President George Albert Smith stated this basic truth beautifully when he said: "Surely there is nothing men need more than the blessing of peace and happiness and hearts free from fear.... 7 Lord [has] repeated what he has said so many times, the price of peace and happiness is righteousness" (Brigham Young University Address, December 1949). WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 2 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized (Part II) Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, November 1962 Objective: To show that our family values are learned by working toward establishing goals. ET us start this discussion by having our hidden panel* give a brief review of our Family Values Test. Questions for the panel: 1. What do we mean by Latter-day Saint family values? 2. Why should homemakers measure their values? 3. How can the family values test be a starting point for setting family goals? 4. Give practical ideas about ways in which family values are learned. Our Latter-day Saint family values are learned; they are not inherited. 'They become a part of each day's activities and a part of the life of each family member. They build within us spiritual strength, morality, human dignity, creativeness, inventiveness, productivity, and satisfying family living. Through these values we can be come an example to the rest of the world. We must know our values before we set our goals. See how this works: if health is important to you, but you cannot answer "yes" to all these items about health that are listed on the Family Values Test, then these items may become your goals. Likewise, you will find other goals as you examine the ten values on the test. The home manager, while having all the major family values in mind, can make a priority listing of goals. She will make progress faster if she concentrates on one goal at a time. She may decide that her family should be healthier and happier, so this week she will do her utmost to make mealtime the highlight in each day's experience. If she concentrates on this, she will find that planning meals for the week, shopping for the week, and organizing her work so that much of the preparation is done ahead of time, will free her to freshen up before sitting *Assigned panel members are seated in the audience rather than as a group around the table. As the leader asks a question, the assigned "hidden" panel member rises and comments. Another panel member in another part of the room follows quickly. Nonpanel members may join in after the main points have been considered. Page 617 618 down to the table, and she will have some moments to think about pleasant table talk to enrich each meal experience. Mastering all of these skills will take more than a week, perhaps more than a year, but if she concentrates on them long enough to work out a system with all the family co-operating, she will gradually develop a routine that will be second nature to her and her family. The new goal might grow out of her need for greater convenience in preparing meals. One homemaker found that her cupboards were filled with gadgets that she seldom used, and those she used most were not conveniently located. She put everything from her kitchen cupboards on the back porch. As she needed an item, she would bring it in and put it in the place where she used it. By the end of the week she still had most of the items on the back porch! Those that she had brought in helped her to work out a more convenient way of storing everyday equipment, and the seldom-used items were put away from the main working area. She selected some compact work centers for specific jobs, where the much-used equipment found its new home. The sink center was the place for cleaning vegetables and other foods, and for washing dishes, so the cuoking tools and equipment used first at the sink were stored there. She arranged for more counter space on each side of the sink by bringing up an old table from the basement; she planned for garbage disposal under the sink; and provided places for dish-washing equipment and supplies, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 for all of the foods used at the sink first. Her dishes were put into the cupboard at the left of the sink because she washed them from right to left. When she had finished this one job, she had taken an important step in organizing her home by having everything at the sink that was used there first. Then she started on the cooking center. Since this is the place where food is cooked and made ready for serving, she decided to store everything used first at the range in that place.: This included pans, cooking kettles, lids, and serving dishes and tools. Nearby were the cereals, noodles, and seasonings. Her husband helped her with the third center, for mixing and food preparation. This is the area where all foods are prepared for cooking, chilling, or freezing. She located this work area between the sink and the refrigerator and was able to get three feet of counter space on two different levels, one for "stand-up" work and one for "sit-down" jobs. All of the foods, cooking tools, and equipment used first at this place were stored there. Baking tins, casseroles, packaged and canned foods, as well as mixing tools and equipment, had a special place. The simple task of organizing the kitchen cupboards caused _ this homemaker to send for information about kitchen planning which she was able to get from the extension service and the local library. Her enthusiasm spread to other members of her family. They were soon helping her in getting a smoother production line for the preparation of food and in making the kitchen a more attractive and pleasant place LESSON DEPARTMENT in which to work. A space at the end of the kitchen was provided for children's play; the walls were painted and a new light fixture was put in the ceiling; better ventilation was provided, the wiring was checked to make sure that electrical equipment would be safe to use. 'There were comfortable working heights for standing and for sitting, and all of this started from trying to figure out where to put the utensils that are used first at each of the three major kitchen centers. The results were a place for everything and everything could now be easily kept in its place. 619 Thoughts for Discussion 1. Discuss the advantages of an orderly home. 2. What can be done to organize dresser drawers and closets? Exhibit some box dividers and other storage items that will improve organization. 3. Discuss the advantages of having duplicate cleaning supplies in different parts of the house, such as in the bathroom, kitchen, and laundry area. 4. Give suggestions for storage of a. Towels, soap, and other needed items in the bathroom. B. Detergents and other items needed in doing the family laundry. C. Children's toys. LITERATURE America's Literature The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 34 — Henry David Thoreau — Individualist Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 471-495). For Third Meeting, November 1962 Objective: To relive some of Thoreau's words, that we may feel the force of his integrity and independence. T was not until 1890, almost thirty years after his death, that Thoreau was truly evaluated in print, by Henry S. Salt, significantly an English biographer. Until well into the twentieth century the majority of his fellow Americans felt him to be an eccentric troublemaker, who, although he had written some nice nature-pieces, predominantly made his readers dissatisfied; therefore he was to be avoided. Although Thoreau's admirers wrote tributes to his memory, they could not detach themselves sufficiently from Victorian complacency and materialism to realize that while their beliefs and culture patterns 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 A Perry Picture THOREAU'S HOME, CONCORD, MASSACHUSETTS were crumbling, Thoreau's stern denunciations of worldly wealth and group cowardice were gradually being read by more people everywhere. Thoreau, Craftsman Many have been attracted to Thoreau by his idealism, perhaps stated the most purely in "Higher Laws," a chapter in Walden: Our whole life is startlingly moral. There is never an instant's truce between virtue and vice. Goodness is the only investment that never fails (page 223). Defining all sensuality as but one gross appetite yielded to in various forms, Thoreau likewise defines all purity as one; thus all forms of purity are but variants of chastity, which is the flowering of man; and what are called Genius, Heroism, Holiness, and the like, are but various fruits which succeed it. Man flows at once to God when the channel of purity is open.... If you would be chaste, you must be temperate.... Nature is hard to be overcome, but she must be overcome. What avails it that you are Christian, if you are not purer than a heathen, if you deny yourself no more, if you are not more religious?..... Every man is the builder of a temple, called his body, to the god he worships, after a style purely his own, nor can he get off by hammering marble instead. We are all sculptors and painters, and our material is our own flesh and blood and bones. Any nobleness begins at once to refine a man's features, any meanness or sensuality to imbrute them (Ibid., pp. 224-225). Many have gradually come to esteem Thoreau's contribution to their own lives, for honestly telling them the price they must pay if they are to advance toward their ideals. He shows them how — first of all in . LESSON DEPARTMENT his own personal life, then by writing them his method, by giving them of himself in an_ integrity of thought, deed, and word. The writing which resulted from this integration of the author and _ his thought produces sentences packed with power, as exemplified by the following excerpts from the chapter "Conclusion" in Walden.... If you would learn to speak all tongues and conform to the customs of all nations... Obey the precept of the old philosopher, and Explore thyself.... If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music which he hears, however measured or far away. It is not important that he should mature as soon as an apple-tree or an oak.... No face which we can give to a matter will stead us so well at last as the truth. This alone wears well.... Any truth is better than make-believe.. Love your life, poor as it is. You may pethaps have some pleasant, thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poorhouse. The setting sun is reflected from the windows of the almshouse as brightly as from the tich man's abode.... The town's poor seem to me often to live the most independent lives of any.... Sell your clothes and keep your thoughts. God will see that you do not want society.... It is life near the bone where it is sweetest.... Superfluous wealth can buy superfluities only. Money is not required to buy one necessary of the soul. Rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth (page 331). Such meaty prose exemplifies the uniqueness of genius; these sentences are as individual and as memorable as Thoreau himself. They are the man. Others through time have expressed similar ideas, nor has 621 Thoreau a monopoly on integrity, rare indeed though it may be. But it is his sentences which are his own, embracing and quickening all with carefully chosen words. 'Thus Thoreau attained perennial youth by creating immortal sentences, mirrors of his very self. 'These he recorded in his journals, polishing, reordering, condensing them later into his lectures and books. And, like everything else about him, Thoreau's theory of composition was uncompromising and noble; the hard, muscular sentences which give his pages their sustained intensity prove how thoroughly he applied his own critical principles of how to write. Some of his statements follow: 1. The one great rule of composition — and if I were a professor of rhetoric, I should insist on this — is to speak the truth. This first, this second, this third: pebbles in your mouth or not. Z. A sentence should read as if its author, had he held a plow instead of a pen, could have drawn a furrow deep and straight to the end. 3. Good writing is conversation folded many times thick. 4. It is the height of art that, on first perusal, plain common sense should appear; on the second, severe truth; third, beauty; and having these warrants for its depth and reality, one may then enjoy the beauty for evermore. Even the sentences which state his theories are themselves "rooted in fact and experience." They ring true when dropped on hard ground. Thoreau's Economics Although Thoreau had a keen sense of humor, he never played at life, which for him was far too serious an affair to be treated lightly. 622 True son of the Puritans that he was, Thoreau in deep moral earnestness felt that the great goal of mortality was to achieve here and now the greatest joy in living fully the precious gift of life. And the best life he considered to be attainable only through self-discipline and education, completely free of any bondage or self-slavery which might violate the most precious freedoms guaranteed to man under the laws of a most benevolent Nature. Thoreau's masterpiece Walden is one of the most self-conscious works of literature ever written. In its first great chapter, "Economy" (see text, pages 473-484), Thoreau makes his position quite clear. He knew exactly what he was doing, and the high price he would have to pay when he pointed out so bluntly to his money-hungry, materialistic contemporaries their selfcreated slavery to worldly possessions. But while they squandered their freedom to seek life's highest goals, Thoreau forcefully exercised - his precious freedom to point out their sin, aware that freedom never brings security but opportunity. And for Thoreau the opportunity which freedom granted those who were truly free, was the opportunity to "suck the marrow out of life" and to learn that "life is sweetest nearest the bone." He pointed out how man blunts the finest qualities of his nature by making himself into a machine and because men have willfully turned "luxuries into necessities," and have "become the tools of their tools," their material needs do not serve them but tyrannize them. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 In fear of this master they have become desperate and cowed. "Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared with our own private opinion. What a man thinks of himself, that it is which determines, or rather indicates, his fate." After remarking that he saw everywhere about him his fellows repenting of their sins in a thousand remarkable and endless ways, Thoreau attributed their self-imposed slavery to tradition and to things. He believed that although "God himself culminates in the present moment, and will never be more divine in the lapse of all the ages," men are so pressed by economic need that they cannot detect his presence, either within themselves or in Nature. As Thoreau looked at man, man never permits himself time to live, so desperate, so resigned is he: Why should we live with such hurry and waste of life? We are determined to be starved before we are hungry. Men say that a stitch in time saves nine, and so they take a thousand stitches today to save nine tomorrow. (See text, page 486.) If we are divine, and the culmination of God's goodness, "If the engine whistles, let it whistle till it is hoarse for its pains. If the bell rings, why should we run?" In contrast Thoreau advised his fellows to spend their days as deliberately as does Nature, which he himself did at Walden Pond. We must remove or minimize the pressure of material needs by "lowering the denominator," by keeping our accounts on our thumbnails, by learning that we must "simplify! Simplify!" Only then will our LESSON DEPARTMENT worship of things no longer "cost more than it comes to." Only then will we have freed ourselves of those self-created pressures of materialism, both individually and within our groups, which preoccupy our lives and prevent us from growing in the higher realms wherein our true potentials lie. If the doctrine of self-reliance, about which Emerson wrote so sincerely, was sound, how far could one carry it? The best way to find out was to try — to experiment by eliminating as many non-essentials as possible. 'Therefore, 'Thoreau built his cabin at Walden Pond that he might test the validity of this theory. Thoreau's Walden exemplifies the complete correspondence between word and deed which Emerson theorized about but did not achieve; in its defiance of traditional opinions and values Walden is self-reliance. 'Throughout its pages Thoreau feared no man's, no group's opinion save his own. In Thoreau's book the only true wealth is life, the only luxury worth coveting is the luxury of integrity. No American writer has spoken of integrity as truly as he; consequently, no words are more American than his. He began his "Walden" experiment on July 4, 1845, which he said, "by accident, was on Independence Day." Civil Disobedience In 1839, when but twenty-two years of age, Thoreau wrote in his Journal, "Verily, to be brave is the beginning of victory." We could not expect Thoreau to be anything but independent throughout his life, and so he was. And while his 623 forward, sometimes tart statements of his beliefs often brought him in conflict with some of his contemporaries, constantly he had his reward in knowing that he was free; that never need he doubt whether he served himself or the opinions of others whom he might have cause to fear. Ten years later, in 1849, he published the essay "Resistance to Civil Government," later retitled "Civil Disobedience." From this paper Mohandas Gandhi received his principle of passive resistance which he employed so effectively in India; its influence has been world wide. In this important essay, which represents horeau's theory of government, are to be found piercing questions which are neither easy to answer nor to ignore, such as those raised by the following quotations: Can there not be a government in which majorities do not virtually decide right and wrong, but conscience? Must the citizen ever for a moment, or in the least degree, resign his conscience to the legislator? Why has every man a conscience, then? It is truly enough said that a corporation has no conscience; but a corporation of conscientious men is a corporation with a conscience. As Thoreau turned to the world of nature for the lifespring of his thought, so thousands of his readers return to his writings for ideas that may enrich their own. Some of his well-remembered observations follow: _ 1. As if you could kill time without injuring eternity. 2. Most of the luxuries and many of the so-called comforts of life are not 624 only not indispensable, but positive hindrances to the elevation of mankind. 3. There are a thousand hacking at branches of evil to one who is striking at the root. 4. It is a characteristic of wisdom not to do desperate things. 5. The fate of the country... Does not depend on what kind of paper you drop into the ballot box once a year, but on what kind of man you drop from your chamber into the street every morning. 6. How many a man has dated a new era in his life from the reading of a book. 7. I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude. We are for the most part more lonely when we go abroad among men than when we stay in our chambers. A man thinking or working is always alone, let him be where he will. 8. Men will lie on their backs, talking about the fall of man and never make an effort to get up. G. Nothing is so much to be feared as fear. 10. The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 11. Our life is frittered away by detail.... Simplify! Simplify! 12. I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by a conscious endeavor. 13. Solitude is not measured by the miles of space which intervene between a man and his fellows. Thus, this man of essential kindness has left through his Walden and other writings, many signposts toward a philosophy of human happiness. 'There are digressions into the flight of geese, the way of rivers, and the sounds of night; but always a superb blending of nature with the life of man. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Discuss the relationship between what Thoreau said and how he said it. 2. What points in Thoreau's economic theory are outmoded? Which are still true? 3. Which of his aphorisms appeal most to you? Supplication Catherine B. Bowles Give me strength to fight life's battle, Strength to help another's need, Strength to frustrate all temptation, And the hungry hearts to feed; Strength to help the mind refuse All the dross and keep the gold, Strength to live each day atoning That I may live within his fold. SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Foundation of Church Government Lesson 2 — Divine Law and Human Welfare Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, November 1962 Objective: To make clear that divine law was made for the benefit and welfare of God's children. E have discussed in Lesson 1 how, through his Son, God established divine law on earth by which man can attain the full purpose of his creation. Revelation has provided the pattern of human conduct essential to man's perfection. The scriptures contain evidence to the effect that every part of the creation by the Lord was for the elevation and welfare of humanity. Irom sacred literature we learn that God, through his Son, created everything upon the earth — the plants of every variety, all things that live in the water, all life that lives upon the earth and in the air. "... And I, God, saw that all these things were good" (Moses 2:25). Then God said to his Only Begotten, "... Let us make man in our image, after our likeness; and it was so..." (Moses 2:26). Then God gave "them" (male and female) dominion over all of his creations. "And I, God, blessed them, and said unto them: Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth" (Moses 2:28). The creation was accomplished by divine law and for the benefit of man. "And out of the ground made I, the Lord God, to grow every tree, naturally, that is pleasant to the sight of man; and man could behold it..." (Moses 3:9). God brought all living things to Adam to be named. He placed "them" in the garden where all the useful and lovely products of creation were in abundance for their use, restricting only the eating of the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, but even in this allowing them the privilege of choice. After their decision to eat of the fruit, thus departing from divine counsel, they were face to face with the great opportunity to subdue the earth and to have dominion over it. But conquering the earth was not the major objective of the creation of man. Conquering himself was his greatest challenge. This was to be accomplished with directions furnished through divine law. In the Image of God It is quite common for us to say Page 625 626 "the boy is the image of his father" meaning his physical appearance. When the scripture quotes the Savior as saying "he that hath seen me hath seen the Father" our thoughts deal basically with the physical image. But the statement in Genesis 1:27, "So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them," has a meaning of far greater significance than the physical likeness to the Father, though this feature is very true. "In the image of God" must surely have reference, in some degree, to all of the characteristics and attributes of God the Eternal Father. Some of God's characteristics and attributes are: (1) God knows all things concerning his creations. To man has been given the power to acquire knowledge, to do reflective thinking, and, through the processes of evaluation and reasoning, make decisions, choices, and selections in dealing with the problems of living. Thus, through experience and study, man may progress toward "all knowledge." Joseph Smith tells us that "the mind or the intelligence which man possesses is co-equal [co-eternal] with God himself" (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 353). Mortal life is to provide a training ground for the development of this intelligence. The tules governing this development are the divine revelations God has given. (2) God has all power. To man has been delegated the power to act in the name of God as his representative on earth. As man proves himself worthy, the Pnesthood is conferred upon him. As he increases in knowledge and performs with honor the responsibiliRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 ties of his Priesthood callings, he can continue his progression toward the power of Godhood. The Priesthood is the power by which worlds were and are created, that is, organized and brought into a related order. The Priesthood, therefore, is a creative force entrusted to man in increasing proportions as his progress in righteousness increases. (3) God is love. Jesus said the first and great commandment is to love God, "And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets" (Matt. 22:39-40). We have also been taught that we cannot love God whom we have never seen if we cannot love our fellow men with whom we associate daily. Love is a most powerful force in the universe. It is the only force that can bring peace to the world. No atom or hydrogen bomb is powerful enough to bring peace to mankind. Bombs produce fear, hatred, and prejudice. Love of God and fellow men is the only means of touching the hearts of people so they can live together in peace. (4) Still another divine attribute included, certainly, "in the image of God" is spirituality. It has to do with the operation of the divine influence in the everyday life of an individual. Spirituality is the degree of influence of the spirit of God that is in the heart. From this very brief and limited reference to the intensity and magnitude of the personality and character of God, we may conclude that the image of God referred to in the creation of man includes not only the physical likeness but a potential LESSON DEPARTMENT likeness to all of the many attributes of the Father. With the possession and the expression of these attributes, man is in a favorable position to receive the divine law. The law itself is the direction and guidance that the Father has provided to assist his children in living the full life through stimulating them to the development of their greatest possibilities. Man being the offspring of Deity, he must surely have the potential of Godhood. The Plan of Salvation We have referred to the purpose of the creation of this world as a place designed for the blessings of mankind. We have also seen that the Creator gave to man, as his spiritual offspring, godlike attributes by which he could subdue the world and have dominion over every living thing. 'This was not a chance arrangement but part of a_ welldefined plan. God's plan for mankind includes at least three spheres of activity. Of the first or premortal existence, we have limited knowledge. But we do know that God is the Father of our spirits; that these spirits met in a great council in heaven and accepted the Father's plan of action whereby they could attain a physical body and have a chance to develop through the experiences of mortality. All spirits who have been and will be privileged to come to this earth were there. The second phase of the plan deals with mortality. The spirit children receive physical bodies and, at the same time, forget their experiences of the premortal world. Without the awareness of the 627 spiritual experience, man is free to examine, evaluate, and choose that which he will do. However, from the beginning of this earthly activity, the Lord has made available to man his divine will. In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88:5-14, we are informed that Jesus Christ the Son of God is "the light of truth" and that this light is in all the creation, "even the earth upon which you stand.... The light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed, even the power of God who sitteth upon his throne, who is in the bosom of eternity, who is in the midst of all things" (D & C 88:10, 13). In Section 130:20-21, it is written that "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." The third phase of the plan deals with life after mortal death. Here again, our knowledge is limited. However, with the manifestations given to modern prophets, the testimony of the scriptures, and the witness of the Holy Ghost promised to the faithful, a life after death is as certain as the fact that night follows the day. Let us look more intimately at the second phase of the plan. Our primary interest in these lessons deals with mortality. We are concerned with the operation of divine law in the growth and development of human beings. In D & C 88:34, we read "And again, verily I say unto you, that which is governed by law is also preserved by law and perfect- 628 a ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen................- 20 — GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Spofford, and AS ANGELS IN HEAVEN— Schreiner _....................-..--2-------.30 _ JESU, JOY OF MAN'S DESIRING—Bach |........00000........25 a... LET NOT YOUR SONG END— Ch == =. 25 — LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens................ 20 - LORD IS MY SHEPHERD— Sy.20 Pe. LORD'S PRAYER—Gates.........20 — LORD'S PRAYER—Malotte.......25 a. MY SOUL IS ATHIRST FOR GOD—Madsen_...................-...-.25 =... STILL, STILL WITH THEE— Madsen._....... Seen.22 — UNTO THEE | LIFT MINE EYES—Beethoven.....................22.. VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— SCOR con eeee. SEED osc onecno ne25 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South \ Salt Lake City 11, Utah! Please send the music indicated! Above. I (1 On Approval [ Charge i CL] Money Enclosed t Name Address ' j City and State mmo "7 Ist South salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 ed and sanctified by the same." This is further evidence that the intent of divine law is for the advancement and development of human beings. Beginning of the Plan As has been previously pointed out, God placed Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. They were directed to people the earth. They were also informed that partaking of the forbidden fruit would make them subject to death but the choice was left to them. Knowing his children and being fully aware of the force of evil in the world, the Lord in his wisdom had made preparation in his plan for redeeming man from the fall. Jesus Christ the Son of God, having power over death through his Father, had accepted the responsibility of breaking the bands of death by giving up his own life for the sins of the world. It is important to note that it was his choice. He gave his life. No one took it from him. From the very beginning the plan was made for the welfare of man. Every detail including the reality of the resurrection was made to insure for man the achieving of his ultimate goal — exaltation in the kingdom of his Father. The divine plan and its guiding influence expressed in laws, principles, and organizations have all been for the uplifting and stimulation of man to his greatest potential. Free Agency and Eternal Progress Another of the vital features of the plan of salvation is the promise and possibility of eternal progress. There is no compulsion upon man to comply with the divine will. If LESSON DEPARTMENT man is to progress, he must elect to do it of his own free will and choice. Lucifer's plan of forcing man was rejected because it robbed man of the chance of growth. Through the force that Lucifer wanted to exert, man could not develop in character or in the use of his intelligence. Brigham Young said, "What is the foundation of the rights of man? The Lord Almighty has organized man for the express purpose of becoming an independent being like unto himself, and has given him his individual agency. Man is made in the likeness of his Creator, the great archtype of the human species, who bestowed upon him the principles of eternity, planting immortality within him, and leaving him at liberty to act in the way that seemeth good unto him... To choose or tefuse for himself..." (Young, Brigham, Millennial Star, July 5, 1855, Vol. 20, page 43). Man's progress is related to his ability to investigate, discover, understand, and elect to follow truth. This implies free agency or freedom of choice. 'Therefore, his decisions determine not only his progress here but the full realization of his exaltation as a child of God. The Father has consistently extended his guidance to man, reminding man of his heritage and offering the fullness of life with the maximum of joy and _ happiness through obedience to the principles ' governing life. Man, however, must make the initial effort. He must ask "in faith, nothing wavering" (James 1:6). He must wage a constant battle against darkness (evil) grasping and holding onto truth and light, "Which light proceedeth forth from the presence of 629 TER including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, Portland, Seattle, Victoria, / B. C. — August 9, September 8, Sep- ' tember 22. Ask about our tour to the (Including Mt. Rushmore) Leaves August 19, 1962 See the Colossal Sculpture carved | from solid granite of the heads of Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt. $98.50 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-805] God to fill the immensity of space — The light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed, even the power of God " (D & C 88:12-13). Divine law is the law of progression to perfection. It has been available to man from the beginning, evidencing the constant concern of the Creator for the success of his creation but leaving the decision as the responsibility of man. When man makes laws on the basis of his own wisdom, they usually deal with the mundane things of life. It is most often to protect himself and his property from injury or loss. Generally, he enacts laws to defend and maintain his ideas, folkways, and/or mores (ways of doing with a moral significance), using 630 NORTHWEST TOUR including Banff, Lake Louise, World's Fair — August 6 EIGHT-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR leaving every month — many dates TWELVE-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR Including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, and Victoria, Canada. Leaving September 21. MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East, P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City 9, Utah e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 35 150 to 300 miles 39 300 to 600 miles a 45 o 600 to 1000 miles.. A 1000 to 1400 miles __...............64 1400 to 1800 miles 16 Over 1800 miles ____. 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 physical punishment to deter the breaking of the law. On the other hand, God's law has been revealed to man as a guide to perfection. God himself is a resurrected, perfected individual, having followed the well-defined law of life that produces such an attainment and he has given man, through revelation, these same well-defined laws to direct him to exaltation. Divine law is very simple and plain "adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all saints, who are or can be called saints" (D & C 89:3). To illustrate: God has given the laws of health for the development of a healthy body free from pain and disease. He has set up the laws of learning as a discipline for the development of the mind to the perfection of the individual. "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance" (D & C 131:6). He has given to mankind the great law of love which governs human association and produces perfection in personalities, and in all human relations by instilling peace in the hearts of men. All this can be achieved by choice, not by force. If one chooses to disregard the law of God, there is no physical force used directly against him as punishment. But the results of the disobedience on the individual are inevitable. He "has as full a measure of capability to violate the laws of health, the requirements of nature, and the commandments of God in matters both temporal and spiritual, as he has to obey all such; in the one case he brings upon himself the penalties that belong to the broken law, as in the other he inherits the specific blessings and the added freedom LESSON DEPARTMENT that attend a law-abiding life. Obedience to law is the habit of the free man; the transgressor fears the law, for he brings upon himself deprivation and restraint, not because of the law, which would have protected him in his freedom, but because of his antagonism to law" —TaLmacE, James E., Articles of Faith, pp. 52-53). Divine law is light and truth to mankind. It is the way and the light to continual progress, the fulness of which can be attained only by the expression of the eternal punciple of free agency, which is knowing the truth, the right, the good, and electing to do it, thus rejecting the evil. - 631 References D & CG, Sections 88, 131 Discourses of Brigham Young, Chapters V, VII, XIX Talmage, James E.: Articles of Faith, Chapter 3. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What was God's purpose in creating the earth? 2. In what way is the "conquering of self" the greatest challenge of the creation? 3. What does "in the image of God" include? 4. How is divine law designed for progress? 5. What is the liberty and license? Difference between 6. How is obedience essential to advancement and progress? On Reaching Shadows Mabel Jones Gabbott The boy was small, the sun was bright; His shadow stretched ahead; "When will I grow to reach my shadow?" Wistfully, he said. _ Now often as the sun points up My shadow on the wall, I wonder, "Will I ever grow In mind and heart that tall?" How far the shadow of my dreams Outruns my present gain, How short my steps of my ideal! How much to still attain! Announcements For Your Daughter's Temple Marriage Custom Printed by Handy Mail Order 100 only $7.95 Other Styles 100 for $5.95 Write for FREE brochure and samples or send 25¢ for complete catalog. REXCRAFT Dept. R Rexburg, Idaho Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Three Mrs. Mary Ann Brown CLarK Provo, Utah One Hundred One Mrs. FRANCES Epwarps Salt Lake City, Utah One Hundred Mrs. Jos—EpHINE Kitstar HarrMaNn Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-eight Mrs. CHLor SPENCER Aurora, Utah Ninety-seven Mrs. IpA May Lowry ALLEN Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Mituicent Curtis SMITH Bakersfield, California Mrs. Louisa RaPpPLEYE NELSON Ferron, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Harriet Bronson Woop. ANnD Ogden, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. EvizABETH Copp ANDERSON Vancouver, B. C., Canada Page 632 Ninety-two Mrs. Frances Cotsy Myrrs Richfield, Utah Mrs. ANNA LieBscHER MUELLER Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. MacpaLena Wurnricu [lirscui Idaho Falls, Idaho Ninety-one Mrs, EvIzABETH CARPENTER ANDERSON MAxweELL Glendale, Utah Ninety Mrs. Mary Frances Houcu RosBeson Farmington, New Mexico Mrs. Martua StTHAR Bonto New Castle, Colorado Mrs. Resecca ANGELINA O'BRIEN NALDER Raymond, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Emma Jacosps WILLIAMS Cardston, Canada Mrs. Hanna Vicroria BONE STEWART Lehi, Utah Mrs. Marie E. Becx Ovid, Idaho Mrs. MarrHa ANGELINE KELLY Harris Monte Vista, Colorado Mrs. Hannau Victoria BonE STEWART Lehi, Utah Mrs. RosaNNAH CANNON IRVINE Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Matira SPENCER JOLLEY Lovell, Wyoming Mrs. Macpatena Boss SCHOENFELD Salt Lake City, Utah Latest book by President Hugh B. Brown CONTINUING THE QUEST This bounteous treasury of sixty-eight selections contains all the ability, energy, and_ spiritual powers of President Brown. In the collection are general conference addresses, radio talks, articles, writings, 'musings' and "'browsings'' — each one touching intimately and unforgettably the hearts of those who read them. 534 pages. $3.95 sO YOU WANT TO RAISE A BOY? W. CLEON SKOUSEN oa + at — te a et APPR FIDA hk This readable, common-sense account spans "'boyhood" from birth to age twenty-one. It portrays physical and emotional development year by year, outlines behavior patterns and problems and recommends how parents should react to them. The boy's relationship to the family, his adjustment to school, and such problems as "'telling tales'' and "taking a bath'' are considered. Illustrated. $4.50 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) | have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed $ vecteeterscerseereseseeee FOF INGUIN nance cccccco eee cscecnnsoduailuec obec: ceeetaaetees Nolo | ¢-\ 5 City Zone.. State... | I | I I I (encircled) numbered books: 1 2 | | I | Residents of Utah include 3% sales tax. | i Is your life insurance Beneficial? Many teachers — and family heads in other businesses, professions and trades — have discovered in Beneficial's Family Benefactor Plan a program exactly suited to their needs. This one plan covers not only the father, but mother |< want a Second Class Postage Paid | at Salt Lake City, Utah and children as well — including any future additions to the family. The cost is low and the benefits great. Your Beneficial Life agent will be happy to explain this plan — and other flexible modern insurance programs that can be tailored to your needs, family size and income. Call on him soon. Over a half billion dollars of life insurance in force. BENEFICIAL LIFE Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah a, ( 2) fA ~™ XO & ac [vv = w — a. Us no VOL 49, Before the Falling heat. ** « Eva' Willes Wangsganrd es September Tifpers' richly gold anc blue, Insisting on extension of the warm Sun-smothered mellowness that summer knew, A shining interim before the storm. |. => - =" An. Azure wing limns garlands on the sky, -_ Adyllic notes give voice to shrub and tree. C ~*~ Tall; bold chrysanthemums, 'unhurried, try ~*~... To*paint a wall'in bronze and burgundy. Se Still heavy- -leafed, the Norway maples hold "«; Aparasol oF green' for-us 'beneath. Your hands encompass mine, and all is gold" het And crimson, warm as love's vermilion sheath. Savor this time of fullness ripening, Before the fallen leaf, the southems me. The Cover: Autumn at Mouth Whitney, Catifomia, Fish h Hatchery Color Transparency by Josef 'Muench - Frontispiece: Mount Timpanogos, Utgh, Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout: Dick Scopes ' Cover Lithographed in Full Color' by Deseret News Press TOM bar cal' Se For many years I have enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine, and now let me say an orchid to the June issue, with all the information pertaining to our organization's growth, previews of lessons for the coming year, poems, lovely pictures, recipes, the beautiful cover, the frontispiece poem on the Lion House, but loveliest of all is the tribute to our dear President McKay's lovely wife, Sister Emma Ray McKay. I think the picture of her at the age of sixteen is the most beautiful I have ever seen. Likewise, almost seventy years later, she is equally as beautiful. How grateful I am for Sister McKay and for the Magazine. —Veatrice Poulson Los Angeles, California How I do enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. When the June issue arrived, I turned to the tribute to Sister McKay, with her picture at age sixteen on the opposite page. I don't think I have ever seen anything so beautiful, innocent, lovely, and sweet. It really touched me. Then I turned the page and there she was — just as lovely at eighty-four — kindness, love, and understanding radiating from her face. She is truly a wonderful woman, and we are proud of her as the companion of our good, kind, and great President McKay. I was also interested in the article ""The Blessings of Family Unity," by Irene W. Buehner. They must be a wonderful family. —Mae W. Cardon Farmington, New Mexico I turn first to the stories and poems in The Relief Society Magazine, but I enjoy also the articles, recipes, and lesson materials. What an economical way to receive a college education! And what a help to busy mothers in rearing their children. —Uneva L. Workman North Las Vegas, Nevada 634 My sister and I have been members of the Church for nearly two years, and have been receiving The Relief Society Magazine since the beginning of 1962. We wish to express our appreciation for the Magazine, with its beautiful covers. These covers give people who live so far away a feeling of almost being right there in that wonderful continent of America. We love this Magazine, with its heart-touching stories, inspiring lessons, beautiful poetry, and the wonderful testimonies that strengthen our own of this glorious gospel. Our branch here in Bulawayo is small, and it is wonderful to receive news through the Magazine about members living in America, and in other lands. —Shirley and Charlotte Woolf ~ Bulawayo, Southern Rhodesia South Africa The Magazine is wonderful. The lessons on The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants have been most helpful in studying the standard works of the Church. The other lessons are equally helpful, the stories and articles interesting and enjoyable. I love to read the poetry. —Edna I. Hayes Lorenzo, Idaho The sisters in our Scottish-Irish Mission have been so happy and thrilled with our new Relief Society Magazine. | am so proud to hand it to our new sisters and explain that it is just one of our many lovely Church publications. Each time a new issue comes, I eagerly read and enjoy its contents. I have especially enjoyed Ilene H. Kingsbury's lovely stories, as she is an acquaintance of mine. I was very happy to read of Sister Hazel S$. Cannon's appointment to the General Board. She, too, was a school friend of mine. —Nada R. Brockbank President Scottish-Irish Mission Relief Society THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SEPTEMBER 1962 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spafford General Manager Erratum: Date for 1962 Relief Society Conference. 656 SPECIAL FEATURES Birthday Congratulations to President David O. McKay 636 Our Redeemer Lives David O. McKay 638 Portrait of Freedom. - Alberta Huish Christensen 640 FICTION Please Call Me Timmy Myrtle M. Dean 646 Relief Society — A Must.. Jeannene J. Nelson 658 Out of the Wilderness — Chapter 3 Shirley Thulin 660 Hand to the Plow — Part V — Westward Once More Ilene H. Kingsbury 678 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far..... 634 Sixty Years Ago 652 Woman's Sphere oo... Ceils - _ Ramona W. Cannon 653 Editorial: "Upon... The Parents' oo... Cece eeeeecceeceeeceeeee cece eneeceneneeseeeneeeeneeeseeeceMarianne C. Sharp 654 Irene B. Woodford Released from General Board 656 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 683 Birthday Congratulations. 712 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Magic of Indoor Gardening Maude W. Howard 666 Baking Day at Home Linnie Fisher Robinson 672 It Is Never Too Early For Making Gifts - Clara Laster 674 Mae Martindale Johnson — Organist and Teacher of Music 690 LESSONS FOR DECEMBER Theology — The Day of Rest and Devotions Roy W. Doxey 691 Map Available for Theology Course... 696 Visiting Teacher Messages — ''Be of Good Cheer" Christine H. Robinson 697 Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized (Part III) Virginia F. Cutler 698 Literature — The Alcott Family Briant S. Jacobs 701 Visual Aid Packet Available for 1962-63 Literature Lessons.. 708 POETRY Before the Falling Leaf — Frontispiece Eva Willes Wangsgaard 633 Autumn, Zara Sabin, 651; The Summit, Mabel Jones Gabbott, 657; The Bird's Song, Belle W. Anderson, 665; End of Summer, Agnes Just Reid, 673; As Trees Grow Old, Bertha A. Kleinman, 682; Discovery, Vesta N. Fairbairn, 709; Dawn and Sunrise, Mabel Law Atkinson 709; Dusk, Dorothy J. Roberts, 711. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 635 Birthday Congratulations to Sided DL wide on his Eighty-Ninth Birthda At this time in the month of September, Relief Society women "in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend birthday congratulati¢ ue to President David O. McKay. In gratitude, and with thankful" hearts for his blessed years upon the earth, we rejoice that a Prophet. Of thes Lord lives among us and directs the Church and all its aoa s 2 organizations through the power of revelation. = In these latter days, in a time of multiplied membership in ut Church, we are among those whose hearts are lifted up to cha; that" the voice of President McKay has been heard among the nations-and =) that thousands in many lands have looked upon his face and have pus taken of the inspiration of his devoted leadership. From early manhood" and into his late years, President McKay has carried afar the message of _the everlasting gospel and has bridged the continents in witnessof th dispensation of the fulness of times. He has visited every mission of Church upon the face of the earth. Tg — It is our prayer that President McKay's stirring words of testimon' = his message of comfort, his witness of the Christ and the everlasting - gospel, may be long upon the earth. May his influence be upon the gef-« erations to come, that thousands, from the shining example of Preside ae | McKay, may have their own lives illuminated on the pathway of eternal progress. <- M: feptember 8, 1962 Great Britain Ireland ~ 'Canada Peru Brazil Argentina "» | Uruguay tee) Chile aCenkia Ametiea g" "For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he Shall stand at the latter day upon the earth..." (Job 19:25). E who can thus testify of the living Redeemer has his soul anchored in eternal truth. That the spirit of man passes triumphantly through the portals of death into everlasting life is one of the glorious messages given by Christ, our Redeemer. To Him this earthly career is but a day and its closing If everyone participating in Easter services knew that the crucified Christ actually rose on the third day from the tomb — that after having mingled with others in the spirit world, His spirit did again reanimate His pierced body, and after sojourning among men for the space of forty _ days, ascended, a glorified soul, to His Father — what benign peace would ' come to souls now troubled with doubt and uncertainty! While it is true that knowledge of individual immortality does not depend upon the actuality of the resurrection of Jesus, yet the establishment of the fact that He arose from the grave and communicated with His disciples would furnish in many ways the strongest support of that hope. 638 td Li V CS President David O. McKay There is no cause to fear death; it is but an incident in life. It is as natural as birth. Why should we fear it? Some fear it because they think it is the end of life, and life often is the dearest thing we have. Eternal life is man's greatest blessing. If only men would "do His will" instead of looking hopelessly at the dark and gloomy tomb, they would turn their eyes heavenward and know that "Christ is risen!" Christ came to redeem the world from sin. He came with love in His heart for every individual, with redemption and possibility for regeneration for all. By choosing Him as our ideal, we create within ourselves a desire to be like Him, to have fellowship with Him. We perceive life as it should be and as it may be. The chief apostle Peter, the indefatigable Paul, the Prophet Joseph Smith, and other true followers of the Risen Lord recognized in Him the Savior of the individual, for did He not say: "... This is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man'? (Moses 1:39), not the sacrificing of the individual for the perpetuation of the socialistic or communistic state. Members of the Church of Christ are under obligation to make the sinless Son of Man their ideal. He is the one perfect being who ever walked the earth; the sublimest example of nobility, Godlike in nature; perfect in His love; our Redeemer; our Savior; the immaculate Son of our Eternal Father; the Light, the Life, the Way. With all my soul I know that death is conquered by Jesus Christ. Because our Redeemer lives, so shall we! 639 640 Hrom the Dunes 1620 Alberta Huish Christensen: Member, General Board of Relief Soctety Portrait o What can you see, William Bradford, Looking seaward, looking skyward, Looking landward from the dunes? Seaward and misty, are three months of ocean; Between sky and water, a small ship faced homew Above you, the airborne, is a wedge of geese flyin Can you see tomorrow's silver wings tying Continents together and erasing time? Trace circling orbits of the satellite Beyond the pull of earth into lunar night? Back from the beachhead, in from the broken sho Your small, transplanted Bible-world Makes roof against the storm. Though more Are silent than will speak, thinned By the sickness to a remnant few, They look to you for healing; less for the curled Herb leaf than words to mend their ailing dreams; Yet puny now seem words — thin syllables of so Like washing waves or echoings of wind Within the harbor's coved and granite seams. *This poem sequence received the George Washington Honor Medal Award by the Freedom Foundation at Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, April 1962. Hreedom How can you vision from that stony ledge Tomorrow's subtle skill, companioning The scalpel's thin and severing edge, Mending the broken cell, the fractured bone? You cannot pierce the tree-dark wilderness, Where cities rise, tomorrow, tower-high; Or see their scholared men intent upon The search for truth, from layered earth to sky, Tracing the path of evidence and cause With slide rule and the searching lens; Defining fossil and the deuteron. But, looking Plymouthward, how well you see That hunger cuts irrelevance away, And that compassion is a friendly fire: That memory can rear a sinewed wall Against the apathy of lost desire. Oh; looking Plymouthward, how well you see That faith grows tall to meet adversity. Need you see more, young Bradford, from the dunes? Four months after the arrival of the Mayflower, in 1620, William Bradford, age thirty-one, was elected Governor of Plymouth Colony. He held the position for approximately thirty years. The survival and prosperity of the Plymouth Colony were largely due to his great faith and guidance. 641 Philadelphia Su Significance and Sound (Toleffersont Do not remember Monticello now, Or tidelands where Rivanna River flows, The pale magnolia night, a moon full set On terraced gardens, cyclamen and rose. Do not recall the music of her voice, A meeting of the eyes, a gilded fan — Remembrances can tear the hour apart, And you must speak tonight for every man. You phrase, rephrase, then write, yet write agaim, Deep urgencies are crying to be heard... "Created equal... Self-evident" — Significance is focused in a word. Oh, do not dream of Monticello now, Think only concept, syllable, and sound; Your phrases will be sun to pierce the dark, Your words — a treasure-vessel — outward bound Portrait of Freedom Thomas Jefferson, 4 delegate to the Continen Congress of 1776, which convened at Philadelphi Pennsylvania, was assigned the honor of draftin the Declaration of Independence. Only duty ¢ country could lure him from his beautiful Monticell home in Virginia and_ his beloved wife Mart Wayles Jefferson. ©@YL (Constitutional Convention, 1787). Prelude Although unnumbered summers come to leaf And pass, as winds across the dormant field, Leaving no imprint on the land, no yield Of image in the heart, this heirloom sheaf Of days, from waning May through mid-September, History has bound against time and ember. Of Those Who Did Not Sign These lines are of a patriot three who stood Upon the edge of greatness; each declined That immortality time has assigned To names affixed, for evil or for good. Conviction, stoutly held, made them reject The structure they had labored to erect. Yet here is testament that they would keep Its basic cornerstone — did keep and use. And here is witness that they held heart-deep The sacred, the inherent right to choose. Of Those Who Signed These are the signatures of seasoned men. The war drum silent now, its passion spent.... Homespun and velvet clothed they came, Who sealed approval with a written name To words engrossed and paragraphed upon A parchment reservoir of clear intent. Here compromise, opinion, swift debate, And all the worded currents of dissent Have merged, as tributaries to a stream Merge into even flow. Recall how deep, How wisely wide the channel of their dream. How like a lantern hung against the night — These signatures of freedom, uncoerced; Like pilot flares of wonder that ignite The embered hope to flame and flame again; How like a spring to whitened lips that thirst! These are the signatures of men who made The spirit of a people word-articulate; The yearning hope, the fear, and the intensity Of their belief, that man in God's design is free. Portrait of Freedom. A Poem Sequence Alberta Huish Christensen 644 Immigrant Speaking 1%2 They ask of me, for they do not know, What is this freedom in your new land? And I say to them: Freedom it is, where all in mv house Are safe. Men do not take us away, one from another. And freedom it is, to speak all things — What is in the heart and what comes to the mind Sometimes they are happy words, Sometimes questions. In my new land, I speak all words To my family, to friends, to all people. Freedom it is, to speak all things. Most wonderful it is, the right to believe, To teach the little ones (nine children I have). No one there is to stop me, Saying, 'There is no God." Freedom it is — the right to believe. So I say to them, for they do not know, Freedom it is, that does not build a wall. Freedom is my country — my new land! Do Not Forget (Words for Today) Do not forget the nights upon dark water, The pathless waves of sea; Do not forget the bravery Of men seeking uncharted harbors, Wildemess of mountain and the barrier stream. Do not forget their dream To own, to sow, to reap, And then to sleep In peace and unafraid. Recall the winter months at Valley Forge And men with neither shoes nor food; Remember one in solemn prayer Who wept for them — Who wept for them, in the white wood. Do not forget how Founding Fathers built That deep foundation, on a misty reef; Their shaping of conviction, word by word, With implements of phrase not used before. Oh, hold inviolate their firm belief. Recalling one who framed by taper light The watchword of a nation, not yet born, Remember yet another, lean and tall — A lonely man upon a lonely road — Anguished, and yearning for the guns to cease, Who held the soul enslaved, Too great a price for peace. America, my Country, Do not forget. 645 Please call me Tiinin Myrtle M. Dean \ LLIE Stevens — sixth grade — this information was neatly printed on a placard and taped just outside the door of the room in the Benton school. Allie was there early to greet her pupils as they came in. Thirty seats ran in rows through the room. A frightening sense of responsibility swept through her as each child entered and looked her over. Their new teacher, a woman, slight of figure, and an easy mark, probably, was the judgment many of them were forming right now, Allie thought. After a brief greeting and a curious glance at her, each went to locate the seat he preferred. The students who lived far from the school came in on buses. It was one of the boys who came with this group that caused Allie to wonder, and left her vaguely disturbed. He came in hesitantly, and glanced about. She thought the look he gave her held more than mere curiosity. He did not search about for a special seat, but went uncertainly to the back of the room. He sat heavily in one on the last row. There was something in the boy's 646 face that she could not divine. Was it mere shyness or heart hunger, or perhaps the boy had been ill? Something in his eyes made Allie's heart turn over in sympathy akin to pain. Allie had taught school in her home town for two years be fore she was married. David was on a mission. When he returned they were married in the temple and came to live in Benton, David's home town. Little Cindy had been born a year later. Now as Allie saw fathers, driving fine cars, stop to let their children out for school, and go on about their business, her heart gave a wrench of pain. This morning she had left Cindy at the kindergarten for her first day. David would have been so proud to see her sparkling eyes as she ran to the teacher. Why did she have to lose David when they had only begun their lives together? She had asked so many times. She had tried hard to keep bitterness out of her heart since he died. When the school board had asked her to teach, it had seemed a challenge, and might be a way to turn her thoughts from her own PLEASE CALL ME TIMMY troubles, now that Cindy was in school.... As Allie called the roll, she made some mental note on each pupil as he answered his name. They were each so different. She wanted to evaluate them fairly. She must gain their respect and understanding. Carol Adams — a blonde girl, with a child face and grownup manner, she thought. Evelyn Carroll — a pleasant child, with dark sparkling eyes, was the judgment. Ronald Gardner — a lad who likes fun more than study, Allie found herself thinking. Jimmy Stuart — a show-off, and maybe a bully. Allie checked herself hurriedly — first impressions may count, but I don't want to draw hasty conclusions, she thought. She continued on through the roll. Thirty boys and girls. She came to the name of the boy on the back row — Timothy Parker — She called his name and smiled, trying to assure him that she was a friend. He answered his name quietly. 'There was a slight response to her smile. Again, that puzzled feeling swept through her. I must get acquainted with his mother. This boy seems so different, Allie told herself. As the days passed, 'Timothy nearly always recited well, yet at times, he sat with a faraway look and gazed out of a window. Sometimes she called his name twice to bring his attention back to the class. Some days she felt that she was teaching the boy, then he would fall back on his unresponsive manner. Allie began to feel almost frustrated with trying to reach him. 647 HERE is nothing like having a pupil reveal himself in telling of a true experience, Allie told herself, a few weeks after school started. "IT would like each of you to write a composition. 'The subject is to be, 'A Trip I have Taken.' Tell of the things you did, the place you went, and with whom." Would Timothy really express himself so that she might understand him better? "Do you know Timothy well? Do you live near him?" she asked one of the boys who rode in on the same bus as Timothy, from the south benchland. "Timothy lives farther out than I do," John told her. "He lives with his uncle on a little farm. You know his father and mother were killed in a car accident a few years ago. His little sister, too. Timothy was with them, but he was only hurt and got well. His uncle has a lot of kids of his own," John added. This revelation left Allie weak and ashamed that she had not sooner tried to learn more of 'Timothy's real life. She had just kept probing from the surface. "Timothy doesn't talk much. He won't say anything about his folks. They say he is a little queer since the accident," John said. "John, I hope we will all be kind and understanding of Timothy. He is really a bright boy. It is only this deep shock and his sorrow that cause him to act differently," Allie explained. "Golly, he has had lots of trouble. He stayed with his grandmother after his folks died. She was real old, and she died last year, so that is why he stays with his uncle 648 now." John related these facts with serious eyes. Allie wondered now if she had made a mistake in asking for a composition on the subject she had. A trip, when probably the only trip Timothy would be able to think of would be this tragic trip of the accident. She watched carefully as the papers were handed in for Timothy's name on one of them. Maybe he would not write at all. Her hands trembled as she shuffled through the papers at the end of the day. Relief filled her as she saw Timothy Parker at the head of the neatly written page. "A Fishing Trip to Hilton River," was the title. The class showed interest in the things their classmates had experienced, as each one read his story. Allie began with Ronald Gardner. His was a trip to the circus. Carol Adams told of a trip to Yellowstone Park. Jimmy Stuart's trip, as a teacher might expect from Jimmy, "A Trip to the Moon." The amusement the class displayed satisfied his ego and paid him for his effort. "Timothy, may we hear of your trip now?" Allie asked, trying to keep unusual concern from her voice. The boy hesitated briefly, then moved to the front, and after a fleeting, fearful glance at his class, he began his story. "A Fishing 'Trip to Hilton River,' he announced. The boys sat up straighter as he mentioned fishing. Confidence came into Timothy's voice more and more as he heard the chuckles of his classmates and saw the interest in their eyes as he read. Sentence after sentence in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 boy's story revealed to Allie the closeness and love Timothy had felt for his father. "My father was a good fisherman. Mama fixed us a nice lunch and sent it along in a basket. I felt sort of funny at first when I baited my hook, but I didn't want Father to think I was a baby." 'Timothy's eyes sparkled as he read: "I felt a hard tug on my line. 'I've got a bite. A real hard one,' I told Father. 'Don't let him get away. Hold your line tight, Timmy.' I reeled fast and here came in a whopper of a speckled trout. I hoisted him onto the bank. 'You are a real good fisherman, Timmy,' Father said. He always called me Timmy." "That is excellent, Timothy," Allie said. 'Tears were close behind her eyelids and she blinked them back hurriedly. "My father called me Timmy," spoke so much of tenderness and love from this boy's father. She wanted to call him Timmy now, but thought, maybe the boy would want the name held for only his own to call him. "T am very pleased with all of your stories. I feel that I know all of you better," Allie told them. ACH afternoon Allie stopped by the kindergarten to get her little Cindy and take her home. One evening they came upon Timothy as he walked along the street on the outskirts of town. Allie wondered that the boy should be there after school, instead of riding the bus home as usual. It was several miles to the South Bench homes. She saw he had several parcels in his hands. "Timothy, oh, Timothy," she PLEASE CALL ME TIMMY called out to him. "Come and ride. We will drive you home." The boy turned in surprise and hesitated a moment. Then, with a grateful look, he hurried over and climbed in the seat beside little Cindy and his teacher. 'Did you miss your bus, Timothy? It is a long walk out to the bench," Allie said. "T had to stop at the drugstore and get some medicine and some things for my aunt. The baby is sick, and my uncle doesn't get off work in time to get to the stores," Timothy explained in a tired but uncomplaining voice. Allie looked at the boy closely as he rode beside her. He was a handsome lad, with dark brown eyes which held too much of sadness, his features made thin by loss of stimulating and happy surroundings to give him strength of body and spirit. How David would have loved such a son, Allie thought. Cindy seemed delighted by Timothy's company. She chattered happily, told him about her school, asked questions. He answered her, seeming to feel at ease and a smile was on his lips and a sparkle was in his eyes. "Is my Mommy your teacher?" Cindy asked him. "Yes, she is.' The way the boy replied made Allie feel that he was pleased that she was his teacher. "Now, Cindy, you mustn't ask too many questions," Allie told her. Cindy needs a companion at home, too, Allie thought. I'm sure she is lonely. I let myself fall into a depressed mood too often. I'm not very good company for her. As they stopped at the Parker's house, Allie noted the surroundings. 649 A small white cottage with peeling paint. The yard was small and somewhat cluttered. There was no adequate place for children to play. "Cindy, you wait a minute in the car, dear. I want to help Timothy in with his parcels," Allie said. "I'd like to meet your relatives, 'Timothy. You have quite a few things to carry, too, with all your books and things." "Thank you for bringing me home, Mrs. Stevens.'" The boy's voice was grateful. Mrs. Parker came to the door, a question in her eyes. There was a small child clinging to her skirts. Mr. Parker sat in a chair across the room with a baby in his lap, who was coughing and crying pitifully. Two small boys came in from the kitchen door, scuffling and arguing over a ball one of them had tucked in his hands behind him. Oh, dear, this is no time to try and call on Timothy's people, Allie told herself. She hurried to explain her presence there. "Ym Timothy's teacher, Mrs. Parker. I just happened along the street and saw Timothy walking, so I drove him home. It is so nice to be outside these evenings after being in the schoolroom all day." Allie didn't want the boy's folks to think she was censuring them. "Won't you come in?" Mrs. Parker invited in a tired voice. "Timothy has spoken of his teacher. I hope he is a good boy in school," she added. Timothy hurried on ahead and into the kitchen to deposit his things. He wants to evade a report on his deportment, Allie thought. She answered promptly, so that he might hear, "Timothy is a good stu- 650 dent, and is always obedient at school." Allie stepped inside. "I won't sit down," she said, as Mrs. Parker drew up a chair. "My little girl is waiting for me in the car. I do hope the baby will soon be well." As she went out she noticed a girl of about ten setting the table in the kitchen. Another small girl came in carrying a little gray kitten which was trying to squirm from her too-tight grasp. That makes six children I have seen here. All of them are younger than Timothy, Allie thought. No wonder their mother seems so overburdened and weary. Timothy must feel that he is an added burden. As Allie went out she saw Timothy peeking through the kitchen doorway. He had changed into everyday clothing. The boy would probably find home chores to do. He smiled and called to her, "Thank you, teacher, for driving me home." ' To see a smile on this boy's face gave her a warmth inside. She returned his smile, and replied warmly, "I'll see you tomorrow, Timothy." "T like Timothy, Mommy. He is geemice boy, He talked to me," Cindy said as they drove homeward. "Timothy is nice, darling. Glad we took him home." I'm BETWEEN brief replies to Cin- ~ dy's queries, Allie was meditative and silent. Since seeing the condition of the Parkers, she was more concerned than before over this troubled boy. They wanted to do their best for Timothy, she knew, but they had so many problems with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 a large family of small children. Timothy would never be a real part of that family, nor could he find there the comfort and fulfillment that was necessary to a boy who had met such misfortunes. "Mommy, I wish I had someone at home to play with me. I wish I had a brother." For a moment Allie looked at her child in surprise. She had not thought of Cindy being lonely, and she had tried always to hide her own loneliness from her. | "Cindy, I wish...." Allie's words were cut off by a sudden thought. It so forcefully pressed upon her that for a moment she could not speak. David, oh, David, if you were only here to tell me what to do. If you were here, this wild, crazy idea I am having would be different. It would be all right with you to help, but I am only a woman with one little girl to care for. But, David, this boy needs someone. Someone to take time to love and help him. Sometimes it did seem that David had been so near that he could help her make decisions. "See, Mommy, there is Jeff Dawson and the Boy Scouts. 'They are on a field trip." Cindy clapped her hands excitedly as a bevy of quail scurried from the place where Jeff and about a dozen boys stood grouped about him. The birds scampered across the roadway in front of their car. Timothy should be with groups of boys like those, and with men like Jeff, Allie thought. He should have time to run through green meadows, to hear the singing of birds, and to climb the hills, and fish, and swim and play. It seemed that now the sight of Jeff Dawson PLEASE CALL ME TIMMY and these boys had made her know she must do something for Timothy. "Cindy, do you think it would be nice if Timothy came here to live with us? He could be like a brother to you." Allie spoke these words fearfully. What if the boy would not wish to come? "Oh, Mommy, I'd like Timmy." Intuitively, Cindy had spoken the name Timmy, just as a sister would call him. HAT night Allie poured thoughtfully over the words she was writing. It was a very important message; important to herself and to her own child, as well as to Timothy, and to his people who, in his dire need, had kindly taken him in. She must not let this be a mistake for all of them. The next day was Saturday. Allie was full of anxiety. Prayerfully she went about her morning tasks. She went to her bedroom alone and knelt by the side of her bed. "Heavenly Father, if Timothy comes to us, please make me a wise and good mother to him. Help him to love me, as I will love him." Cindy burst into the room hurriedly, calling, "Mommy, Mommy, here comes Mr. Parker, and 'Timmy is with him!" Allie could hardly breathe with the mingling of fearfulness and the 651 happiness she felt as she went to meet them. Cindy ran ahead of her and took Timothy by the hand. As they walked up the path together, Timothy was smiling and Cindy looked up into his face with beaming eyes. Now Allie knew that her fears that Timothy would not want to come were unfounded, and she saw also in the face of Hyrum Parker a look of gratefulness, even before she had talked to him. She knew now that Timothy's relatives did not consider her presumptive to make this request for their nephew. Later, she could talk with him about legal adoption. After Hyrum Parker had bade Timothy goodbye, she saw him turn away and brush tears from his eyes. For only a moment the boy's face clouded, then he said, "I'll come to see you often, Uncle Hyrum." Then, when Hyrum was out of sight, the boy turned to Allie. The bright light in his eyes spoke more than any words could have told her. He was glad to be here. "Timothy, we are glad to welcome you in our home, and hope you will be happy." Her eyes were moist as she spoke to him. "Won't you please call me Timmy?" he asked simply. "Yes, yes, and we love you, Timmy." Autumn Zara Sabin Thistle and goldenrod are lining the highways, Tall in the meadow the sunflowers glow, Spider-web lace mantles bushes and byways.... Soon it is time for the coming of snow. nixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, September 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NATIoNs" EDITORIAL: There is so much opportunity given to young people for spiritual development among the Latter-day Saints, that it would seem comparatively easy to keep in the channel of truth and the path of righteousness, and yet there are many temptations to those inclined to be wayward, and therefore a constant warfare must be waged against sin and evil. Parents, teachers and guardians of the youth of Zion, and in fact all who stand for the public good and the welfare of the community, cannot be too diligent in watching, praying and working in season and out of season, and setting an example worthy of imitation.... MRS. GATES RETURN: Mrs. Susa Y. Gates who went to Copenhagen to attend the Executive meeting of the International Council, returned home the last of August. She had a most interesting trip while abroad. In Copenhagen she was the honored guest at many gatherings.... She visited the branches of the Relief Society there. As the representative of Mrs. Sewall, the president of the International Council, she was entitled to courtesies from the most distinguished ladies of that august body.... Mrs. Gates read the address of the president (Mrs. Sewall) which occupied one entire day.... — News Note SEPTEMBER On leaf and flower the sunlight lay After the close of a mild, delightful day — In softened beauty the landscape showed, Above the azure, below the green, And a mystic glory of light between.... — Authors Magazine AN INTERESTING TRIP: President Ann C. Woodbury and Emma J. Mortis, her counselor... Left August 12 to visit the southwestern [Utah] settlements.... We started out early, this being a hard day's drive, owing to the road being sandy and up hill. We arrived at Pine Valley in the rain, which was very welcome.... The next morning we held a Relief Society meeting, Sister Ann Snow presiding. We urged the sisters to store grain, live their religion, feed the poor, clothe the naked and comfort the hearts of those that were bowed down. After partaking of Sister Jane Gardner's hospitality, we went to Pinto and met with the Relief Society in the afternoon.. We had a delightful time. Sister Neil Forsyth entertained us nicely.... We went on to Hebron and met a few sisters.... We had a nice meeting and went on to Sister Mary A. Terry's ranch, where we were kindly cared for. We then went to Clover Valley and met with the Relief Society.... — Ann C. Woodbury BATHSHEBA W. SMITH Live long, dear one, to bless thy sisterhood, With smile benign, with words and deeds of love.... — Ellis R. Shipp 652 ey ty eee & & Sees ®We MBS. EMILY SMITH STEWART, Salt Lake City, Utah, daughter of President George Albert Smith, has been awarded a bronze plaque for "outstanding contributions in the field of medical care.' 'Ihe award was presented in June at a special meeting of the Utah Medical Association. Mrs. Stewart has spent much of her life as a volunteer worker in public Organizations, having held many State and National posts with the National Foundation, and_ with other organizations devoted to raising the standard of medical care. MAY mothers find the Children's Bureau 106-page booklet Infant Care very helpful with their baby problems. Its advice is based on the experience of doctors, psychologists, nutritionists, nurses, and parents. Published first in 1914, it is continuously revised and brought up to date. A copy may be obtained by sending fifteen cents in coins (no stamps) to the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D. C. JACQUELINE AURIOL, fortyfour years old, and daughter-inlaw of former French president Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Vincent Auriol, on June 22 broke American Jacqueline Cochran's world speed record for women fliers over a 100-kilometer closed circuit. She piloted her French Mirage-3 jet at about 1,150 miles per hour, flying almost constantly at twice the speed of sound. Jacqueline Cochran won the woman's speed record over a year ago, and in 1953 she became the first woman to break the sound barrier. ISS HELGARD VOIGT, seventeen years of age and a member of the Frankfurt Branch of the Servicemen's District of the West German Mission, recently became the European champion in the 1962 American Legion Oratorical Contest. She won over approximately 290 American high school student contestants in Europe. BRITISH commoner Toni Gardiner, daughter of a colonel stationed in Jordan, married that country's King Hussein more than a year ago, and is now the mother of infant Prince Abdullah, heir to the Hashemite throne. She and the king live most of the time in a small two-servant farmhouse, "The House of Goodness and Love," ten miles from Amman. 653 EDITORIAL SEPTEMBER 1962 "Upon... The Parents" TERNAL progression is only possible through the righteous exercise of free agency which is given to every soul in this world. While repressive laws may limit the full exercise of free agency, everyone has the power to choose good or evil. When a woman marries she does her part in building a happy marriage by the choices she makes in her everyday actions and works. However, when she and her husband become parents, then their free agency is not only to be exercised in their own behalf, but must also be exercised in behalf of their children, for the responsibility for their eternal welfare has been placed by the Lord upon the parents. A young teacher looked around her class of attentive, seven-year-old boys as she finished a lesson, "And Joseph Smith saw Heavenly Father and his Son Jesus Christ." One of the boys spoke up, "I don't believe it.' The teacher showed her consternation as did the other boys in the silence that followed. "My daddy says it isn't so," the boy concluded. "Well, Jack," the teacher spoke firmly, "I know he saw them." "So 654 do I," the rest of the class chorused. "My mama says so and so does my daddy," many added. The teacher realized that all the lessons she had so earnestly given Jack the past year had been unable to overcome the false teachings Jack had received at home. Where truth had been instilled in the boys, her well-prepared lessons had strengthened them, but she learned that the words of a teacher, however sincere, had little power to confute the words of a child's parents. Section 68 of the Doctrine and Covenants instructs parents in Zion or in any of her organized stakes to give understanding to their children when eight years old in "the doc trine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands," and "to teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord." This charge cannot be passed on to anyone else or any organization by parents. The Lord has placed it upon the parents. Because of the different duties and responsibilities which devolve upon a father and a mother, it is SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth the mother who gives the hourly training and teachings to the children. From the time a young child prays to his Heavenly Father, a wise mother explains about him and compares Heavenly Father's love and attributes to his earthly father. From the time a child lisps "in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen," the wise mother builds her child's faith in Jesus, the Savior, as the dearly beloved Son of Heavenly Father. The use of proper picture books is a great aid in teaching of the mission of Jesus. The child also learns of the principle of repentance as the mother causes him to feel sorry for his misdeeds. He is taught of the blessing of baptism and to realize that after baptism he will be given the Holy Ghost to lead him aright and guide him through his future life. The constant training opportunity given to a dedicated, loving mother to nurture each child in the ways of the Lord, as each new occasion arises, is one of the most cogent reasons why a mother remains in the home. The father, the bearer of the Priesthood, directs the instruction of his children and evaluates their S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lioyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love progress. Through his daily attention and in Family Hours he gives needed instruction and clears up uncertainties. Yet even in the absence of a father, a faithful, devoted mother can accept the responsibility laid upon parents by the Lord and prayerfully bring understanding to her children on these most vital matters. Some of the great leaders of the Church have been children of widows or ones whose fathers have not been active Church members. A testimony of the gospel may be firmly rooted in a child by the time of his baptism and also the realization that at baptism he will have reached the age of accountability. Yet in the training of children, as in all else in the world, free agency is given to parents. The child who is faithfully reared as a Latter-day Saint usually returns to the fold, even after a period of inactivity, but a child whose early doctrinal training is neglected by the parents may never accept the teachings of the gospel, and the awful responsibility for his eternal welfare always will remain upon the heads of the parents, as decreed by the Lord. —M. C. S. 655 Lj Irene B. Woodford Released from General Board T is with a sense of loss that the General Board announces the release of Irene B. Woodford from the General Board of Relief Society a of August 15, 1962. Her release is necessitated by her appointment t the Adult Committee of the Church Co-ordinating Council. Irene Briggs Woodford was called to the General Board on Februa 19, 1958. She came to this position with a thorough knowledge of Reli Society work and a background of gospel study and continuous service 1 the Church since her conversion in Canada in 1944. During her time of service as a member of the General Board, Sist Woodford has given unstintingly of herself. She has accepted eve assignment willingly and has been meticulous in the performance of ea one. She has served on the theology, social science, poetry, short sto convention, and mission lesson committees. Sister Woodford combines the proselyting spirit of a convert wi the seasoning gained from holding responsible Church positions. 5S brings to her new and important position both secular and gospel scho ship, coupled with rare judgment and a sweet spirit. The members of the General Board and Relief Society sisters eve where extend to her their appreciation and love and best wishes as s begins her new Church calling. ERRATUM THE ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE HIE. Dates for the Annual General Relief Society Conference, as announced on page 588 of the Magazine for August 1962, arc in error. The correct dates are October 3 and 4, 1962, with schedules as follows: The General Session will be held on Wednesday, October 3, from 2 to 4 P. M. In the Tabernacle. It is suggested that Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards this General Session of the conference to which the general public is mvited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, October 3, from 10 to 12 in the Tabernacle, and the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, October 4, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, October 3, from 7 to 10 in the Relief Society Building. 656 Photograph by Harold M. Lambert The Summit Mabel Jones Gabbott I have reached the summit, and this place Is good; yet I have come too soon, or so It seems. I loved the climb; I loved to race The wind; I loved to flatten new laid snow With quick and eager step; to mount the rocks In conquest of the trail ahead, rough, Perhaps, but always up and new. Walks Now are smoother. Is it enough? The coming up held wonder, and the bend Of wisdom, and surprise, a constant store Of truth, fresh-cut; and challenges to send A mind full forward, to a heart's red core. Why am I so reluctant to descend? All this I have and more — much more. 657 Relief Society -A Must Jeannene J. Nelson RIP, drip, drip. As Melinda lay in bed, she could hear the familiar drip of the rain as it hit the tin air vent on the roof of their four-room house. Melinda wondered if it rained every day in Southern California, or if she and Les just moved here from Utah in an unusual year. At any rate, the rains came down every Tuesday — Relief Society day. To Melinda, the week just wasn't nght unless she went to meeting. Relief Society was a must on her list of events. Today was a special day — theology and testimonies. The sisters' testimonies established strength for the whole month. And now for the news.... "Well, rain or no rain, the clock radio still goes off, and Les still has to go to his teaching position at the engineering college," sighed Melinda as she jumped out of the cozy warm bed to catch the alarm before it went off. She and Les didn't really need to set the radio alarm, because fourmonth-old Bryan usually awakened at six. But then, there was always a chance that he might sleep until seven, and then everyone would be off schedule. Melinda prepared Les' breakfast of grapefruit, cereal, and milk. As usual, little blue-eyed Bryan was wide awake and anxious for his breakfast. 658 six o clock With Les off to school and Bryan back to bed, Melinda leisurely washed the breakfast dishes. Another rainy Tuesday, why does it rain on Relief Society day? Thought Melinda, as she watched the rain pour down into the already overflowing street. Because the Tain was coming so fast and hard, Les had driven to school. He usually walked on Tuesday. Melinda's thoughts were interrupted by a radio report: "Traffic is congested on Manchester and LaBrea, due to slick roads caused by the heavy rain. Motorists are advised to drive cautiously." "Guess I best forget about going today..." Melinda mused unhappily. As she scurried about the living room straightening the morning newspaper and setting yesterday's sewing in order, another news item came over the radio: "Sixty homes in South Inglewood have now been evacuated because of the flooding waters." Oh, dear, Melinda said to herself, these rains are taking control of everything. We had better stay home for sure. As Melinda was making this final decision, the telephone rang. "Hello. Oh, Sister Timothy, how are you this fine rainy morning?" Sister Timothy explained that she RELIEF SOCIETY — A MUST thought the rain had let up some, and she was going to go to Relief Society and take her two little boys. "T'd love to go, but it was raining pretty hard this morning, so Les drove to school. Oh, no, it's too far out of your way for you to come and get us," Melinda protested. Sister Timothy said that she would be over in fifteen minutes. "Come on, Bryan, we've got to hurry. You and your mother are going to Relief Society — rain or no rain." Bryan smiled up at Melinda as if to say, All right, Mom, it's all up to you. "Maybe we should call Daddy first and tell him we won't leave the door open for him when he comes home at noon." Melinda dialed the college number, and Les was called to the phone. "Les, Sister Timothy is going to stop and take us to Relief Society, so we won't leave the door open for you. Do you think it's all right for us to go?" As Melinda hung up the phone, she said to Bryan, "Daddy said to make our own decision. A big lot of help he is!" Bryan just continued to smile up at his mother. ELINDA and Bryan were ready when Sister Timothy pulled up in her white station wagon just outside the door. Melinda opened the door and dashed into the back seat. "Did you ever see so much rain?" Melinda asked. Sister Timothy replied, "I keep thinking that it will quit sometime. I've had the radio on, trying to de- 659 cide which way we should take to get to the chapel." Sister Timothy started out cautiously. The drains weren't taking the waters off very fast, and the streets were filling. "Maybe you should have brought an extra bottle in case we get stalled somewhere along the way," Sister Timothy remarked. "Maybe I should have. Well, we've just got to make it, Relief Society is a must." Melinda surveyed the streets as they progressed. Some of them had water flowing over the sidewalks. Maybe she and Bryan should have stayed home. "We can't go down Inglewood Avenue, look at the stalled cars. We don't want to be among them,' Melinda said. "Shh, here's a weather report," Sister Timothy said quietly. "This is a news extra: Cars are stalled on Arbor Vitea and Inglewood. Motorists are advised to take other routes. Please drive carefully." "We can still make it down LaBrea, then," Sister Timothy was saying, as they drove cautiously along. Melinda continued to look down each overflowing street. After what seemed hours to Melinda, she heard Sister 'Timothy say, "Here we are, and it only took us twenty minutes. Looks like the rains are going to let up, too." Melinda, Bryan, Sister 'Timothy, and her two little boys darted for the chapel entrance. What a beautiful spirit dwelt inside. Every sister was so warm and _ friendly. Every effort was worth it — rain or no rain, they had made it to Relief Society. Out of the Wilderness CHAPTER 3 Shirley Thulin Synopsis: Marian Morgan, a widow and mother of six children, makes plans to spend the summer at the family mining claim in Montana, where assessment work is required to hold the property. After a long train trip and a hazardous ride up the mountain, the family arrives at the cabin in the wilderness. ARIAN ran up the dirt path M to the cabin. Sue's voice echoed such fright that Marian momentarily forgot her own fear of the wilderness. As _ she neared, she could hear the children's excited voices mingled with Sue's near hysteria. "What happened? What's the matter?" Marian hurried inside. "A bear, Mommy! A bear!" Baby Jill came running to Marian. "Tt was a wildcat," Tommy said, "a great big wildcat with...." "Oh, Mother, it was a little old muskrat," Jim said. "That's the first time I've seen one so far away from water." "Maybe he was lost,"' said Jed. "Yes, he was lost," Tommy repeated. Marian felt like sinking in the nearest chair, her knees were so weak. She looked at Sue, who was still standing in a corner with both palms pressed against her cheeks. "Sue, everything's all right now, dear. It's gone." "He won't come back again, Sue." Jim was quick to defend his wood 660 friends. "They don't like to be this far away from the water." "He squeezed outside under that board." Tommy pointed to the floor. "You scared him," Jed said. "Tll bet you did, Sue," Marian said. "He'll surely have something to tell his family about, won't he?" Sue managed a weak smile and relaxed. Marian put her arm around her shoulders. "How about helping me unpack some of these things, honey? We had better start getting something ready to eat." Jim and the twins brought in fresh water from the well and firewood from the shed. "Sure am glad Dad and I cut plenty of wood last fall," Jim said as he put an armful in a box behind the stove. The rest of the day was spent in getting things straightened around. Sue and Marian heated water and washed all the tin plates, cracked china, and black pots and pans they found in the cupboard. Jim got out the two coal-oil lamps, but there was no coal oil. There were four sleeping bags and several blankets on the bedroom shelves. Sue and Marian took the dusty bedding into the yard and shook it well. What I could do with my automatic washer, thought Marian! Jill kept close to Marian's heels, OUT OF THE WILDERNESS and Sue seldom went outside the cabin door, but the four boys were in their glory. Jim took the twins and Tommy to see his favorite haunts, and they gathered wild flowers and small rocks. Marian found a broom with only half a handle, but the more she swept, the dustier the floors seemed. "We'll have to make the beds as best we can until we get our other boxes," Marian told Jim and Sue. "You didn't bring any bedding, did you?" Jim asked. "Only some sheets and pillow cases." "Sheets and pillow cases... In a cabin?" Jim smiled. "Mom, we don't need sheets...." But Marian's look told him he hadn't better tease... Anyway, he knew she would find out soon enough that there were no pillows. Marian had to admit to herself that the cabin was quite cozy there in the dimming eventide. She looked from one child to the other and smiled to herself. Sue and Jim were just finishing up the dishes. The twins were taking stock of their treasured rock collection, while Tommy and Jill looked on admiringly. Marian found herself quite content, and even a little pleased with the day's accomplishments. UT, as she opened her eyes on Monday morning, Marian felt a hundred years old. All the bending, scrubbing, and trying to clean what would not come clean, had tired her. Even though they had rested on Sunday, the hard bed had made her flesh tender. She yawned and stretched, then her gaze followed the ray of sunlight from the small window across the floor to 661 where it rested in Jill's butter-yellow hair. Jill and Sue were sound asleep. They both had smiles playing at the corners of their mouths. Marian couldn't hear a sound from the next room where the boys were bedded down. 'This mountain air and the chores must be good for them, she thought, and she smiled to herself in spite of her aches and pains. The family took turns washing in the tin basin, then dressed. 'They ate heartily the pancakes Marian made from the packaged mix. And though there was no milk this morning, there was plenty of cold, fresh water and canned fruit. Marian cooked more pancakes to leave for the children while she and Jim went to town. She knew it would take most of the day to go back after the supplies. "Mom, can't we all go?" Sue was nervous about being left alone with the children, and Marian was even more anxious about leaving her. She almost told Jim to stay, too, but she knew she would need him to help her. Somehow, she just didn't feel equal to hiking all the way down to the creek and driving the jeep to town alone. "Sue, if we take all of you, there will be no room for our things," Marian told her. "We'll hurry as fast as we can." "Keep everyone inside the cabin so you won't get lost," advised Jim. "And if you get hungry, open cans of fruit and eat the hot cakes, but don't try to cook anything. You've never built a fire before. I'll cook a good meal when we get back," Marian said, and then, more to herself than aloud, "maybe I had better take the baby." "No, Mother," Jim said, "that would slow us down too much." Marian knew he was right, but it was hard to leave. Finally, after their family prayer, they said goodbye and started down the road. Just before they came to the turn Marian looked back. She could see five little faces framed in the windowpane and her throat squeezed dry. "They will be all right, Mother," Jim assured her, and with a prayer in her heart, Marian reluctantly followed Jim down the winding trail. VEN before she and Jim could see the creek, Marian heard the men's voices punctuated by blows of their hammers. "You hear that, Jim? You don't _ suppose.... Oh, it couldn't be that...." "They're fixing the bridge!" Jim started running now, and so did Marian. "T'm so glad. I couldn't figure out how we were going to get our things back to the cabin." "Come on, Mom, I'll race you to the creek." Marian stopped as she came around the bend. There were a dozen men working with new wood. As she neared Jim, she heard one man say to him, "Oh, so you belong to the jeep. I thought it was Dick Tucker's." "It is. We borrowed it." "The jeep's all right, isn't it?" asked Marian, coming up to them. "Oh, sure, Ma'am. It's all night. We just couldn't figure out how it got here." Marian and Jim told them who they were and what they were doing there. Then one man stepped forward and said, "I'm Jake Hadley, owner of the Silver Bear. We came up Saturday afternoon and found the bridge out, so we got right busy on it." "T'm glad to meet you, Mr. Hadley," Marian said, only she wasn't just right sure she meant that. There was something about his mouth and eyes that disturbed her. "Why don't you just call me Jake? I was a good friend of your husband's. Sure sorry to hear about his accident." "Thank you. Get along." "You and the boy going to do the assessment work?" Jake stepped in front of them. "That's a big job for a boy and a woman to take on." "T can do it," Jim said. "Dad and I worked together five years. He told me last year what he was going to do this spring." "Well, fine, boy. Say, why don't you let me drive you on to town? It's quite a long way for a lady to drive a jeep." "Thanks, but I don't think...." "Mom can manage just fine," Jim cut in. "She drove it up here all right." Jake eyed Jim for a minute and then looked at Marian. "T''ll be by the mine in a day or two. 'There must be something I can do to help you out." He stepped aside, and Jim and Marian walked across the finished part of the bridge. They got into the jeep with Jake's eyes following them. "You were rude, Jim," Marian said. "T'm sorry, Mother, but I've seen him someplace before and I don't like him." "['m sure he means no harm, dear," and Marian erased him from Well, we'd better 662 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 OUT OF THE WILDERNESS her mind, in her eagerness to get on about their duties. YW HEN Jim and Marian neared the railroad station, Jim yelled, "Oh, boy, Dick's back from Elko. There's a station wagon in front!" And as they stopped, Dick came out. "Hello. Dad told me about you. I'm Dick." "Hello," Marian said, and she felt as though she had met an old friend. "Have they finished the bridge? Dad said they came for timber Saturday." "They're nearly finished," Jim said. "I think by the time we get back, they will be." "T don't know how to thank you for the loan of the jeep,' Marian said. "Then don't try." Dick smiled. "I was sorry I wasn't here to drive o> you. They went into the station and began to load their things in the station wagon. It didn't take them long, and after a trip to the store in town, they were ready to start back up the canyon. Marian's thoughts were miles ahead of the car. It seemed to be going much too slowly. She was increasingly anxious to get back to Sue and the children. When they got to the bridge, the men were still working. Marian's heart sank. What if it isn't finished enough for a car to go over? She thought, or what a... "Hi." Jake came over to them. "Well, we got the bridge about done. Just the handrail left. Hello, Dick." "Hello, Jake. Looks like a good 663 job. Not a bit too soon, either, look at the clouds overhead." Marian looked. She had been so worried about getting back to the cabin she hadn't noticed them — black and threatening. "Yes," Jake was saying, "looks like we'll be in for a good one." ARIAN'S mind raced to the children just as the first flash of lightning split the air and made a path for the downpour of rain. The men ran for cover, and Dick started the car and drove it across the bridge. The raindrops were bigger than any Marian had ever remembered, and the sky was dark. Sue will be petrified, Marian thought, and she leaned forward, as though that would help the car along the muddy road. Oh, why did I leave them? I should have at least let Jim stay, too. He would have known what to do to comfort them. What if they became frightened and tried to come after us? What if some kind of an animal tried to get in the cabin out of the rain? In the short mile from the creek, Marian had a thousand nightmares. Then as they rounded the bend, the nightmare became reality, for as the headlights picked out the cabin, they could see black clouds of smoke billowing skyward. Even in the semi-darkness, they could see the smoke come rolling out from the space beneath the door, and from the cracks around the windows. "The cabin.... It's on fire!" Marian hardly waited for the car to stop before she was out and running up the path. "Mother, come back!" Jim yelled. Dick and Jim got out of the car 664 and ran past her. Just as they reached the door, it opened and the children came out, coughing and tubbing their eyes. "Oh, Sue, what in the world?" Marian began.... "We tried to build a fire to...." Jim grabbed a bucket and headed for the well. "How can we put the fire out? The cabin will burn to the ground!" Marian's voice was asking... Pleading. "The cabin's not on fire," Sue told her. "Tt's just the stove," said Jed. "Tt's just smoking," Ted added. "My eyes hurt," 'Tommy cried. "The cabin's not on fire?" "No, the stove is just smoking," Jed repeated. "The damper," said Dick, "I'll bet they forgot about the damper." He went inside, and Marian gathered the five children close to her. "Oh, Sue, I told you not to build a fire." "You said not to cook anything," corrected Sue. "And we didn't," said Ted. "We had to dry out the blankets," explained Jed. "Yes, they're all wet," said 'Tommy. Marian felt a little bewildered. She didn't quite grasp what was going on. "How did the blankets get wet?" "Tt's raining," said Jill "Even in the cabin," said 'Tommy. ICK came back. "It was the damper. See, the smoke's going out the chimney now." Jim came in with the bucket of water. Marian couldn't help but smile, he looked so funny carrying a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 little bucket of water to put out a fire. "We don't need that, honey. It was only the damper." "Mommy, what's a damper?" Jill wanted to know. "Come inside and I'll show you. Then I'll cook something to eat." "All the pans are on the floor," Jed said. "T'm hungry," said Jill. "The beds are wet, too," Tommy told Marian. "Oh, dear..." Marian groaned. "We didn't notice at first," said Sue, "but as soon as we did, we put pans around to catch the rain." "And we hung the blankets over the chairs," Ted said. "Then we built a fire to dry them," explained Jed. "What's the matter, Mom?" Jim asked, coming in with a big box from the car. "Oh, everything's drenched! Just look! It will take days to dry things out." "Dad and I tried to put the tar paper on the roof before we left last fall, but we didn't get a chance to." Jim's voice faltered just a little, and Marian knew he was missing his father. "Roof leaking?" asked Dick, coming in. "Yes," said Marian. "I'm sure glad Mr. Hadley is coming over in a few days. I'll ask him to put the tar paper on for us." "No, Mom. I can do it." Jim was emphatic. "But he offered, and it really is a man's job...." "Jim's right, Mrs. Morgan. If he can do it, it would be better. That Jake Hadley's a no-good character. I would come up and help you my- OUT OF THE WILDERNESS self, but I'm behind with my spring planting." "Jake will be over in a day or two." "T know, but he's not one to offer to do anything without strings attached. If he made an offer to help you, you can bet there's something behind it." The rain stopped, and the sun was making an attempt to brighten things up before it went behind the mountains. Marian's thoughts were still dampened, though. She hated the cabin more than ever. She looked around her. Dick and her family were chatting and eating, but she could not join in. She kept turning the wet bedding and thinking about the dismal cabin and about Jake Hadley. Her first impression of him was right, she knew, but she didn't know why it would 665 hurt to let him help if he wanted to. She thought of Charles. He had said she needed someone. She knew she did, even if it were only to help fix the roof. But she remembered Jake's eyes and knew he wasn't the one to turn to. What could he want, Marian wondered?.. How could he harm me? 'Then she finally told herself that he was just trying to be nice. I'm sure he won't even come around, she said to herself. But she was wrong. The very next morning, as she looked up from the well, she saw him coming towards her. Her throat felt suddenly dry, and she almost dropped the bucket. "Howdy, Mrs. Morgan,' Jake Hadley said. "Here, let me carry in that water for you." (To be continued) Belle W. Anderson I chose a lovely, summer rose, To place within my verse, Although I worked with earnest care, My lines were harsh, perverse. I knew the thrill of sunset's glow, In radiance-sublime, The colors would not blend or flow, The pulse was out of time. I listened to a singing bird, And in its sweet refrain, I caught the fragrance of a rose, The sunset's coral flame. . Few Plants create magic and augment scanty furnishings' with their luxurious growth. They provide unsurpassed decoration for any place in a room, any period of furnishings, and any type of architecture. With the colorful flowering varieties, the exotic tropical types, and the familiar favorites, the choice of plants to furnish a home is unlimited. Green foliage plants and planters not only add living beauty to a home, they are an integral part of a room's decor. Planters made of a variety of plants complement the architecture and furnishings. 'They should be chosen to suit the mood of a room as well as for suitable size, form, and color. Windows of all kinds \~ hay, )i ture, small panel, colonial, and, the everyday standard window with radiator beneath, are enhanced | green foliage plants. Place your plants with a definite purpose. More and more decorators are using green plants and planters as important decorative elements in furnishing a room. They choose big plants to punctuate a focal point or camouflage an architectural defect. To do this, they plan the placement of plants as carefully as furniture and accessories. They select plants in proper scale to the room and location within the room. They group them impressively to gain a dramatic effect that is utterly impossible when single plants are scattered about in a helter-skelter fashion. What is new today in green plants is the exciting varieties available. There are tall towering plants, as well as low compact ones. 'There are leaves that are large, small, smooth, crinkled, and in various shades of green. Allow spaces for planters, keeping in mind the new "Fretwork Look" in plastic and cement that forms a beautiful background. Often the curious corners or unused nooks in a room can be used for planting areas and bring interest into the room. Depending on the size and the style of the particular room, its color, the space available, you will consider whether you want to mass a number of plants in one impressive strategic location that makes it a focus of interest. Think, too, in terms of scale, a big expanse of plain wall demands a plant or a group of plants of generous dimensions. But, if you have a small area to decorate, chose one of harmonious proportions. Often we can reinforce our green planters or planting areas with colorful blooming plants, such as a chrysanthemum or a group of chrysanthemum plants — red tulips in the spring of the year or Easter lilies around Easter time and Poinsettia plants around Christmas time. We must always keep in mind color harmony — blending or co-ordinating with walls, draperies, rugs, and other accessories. HE mass effect of a handsome group of plants satisfies a universal love of the spectacular. Any one plant in the group may be attractive in its own nght, & though it is possible it can 668 be overlooked alone. But put several together in the right setting, and you just can't ignore their presence. We should always choose contrasts of color, textures, and form in our green mass planting areas — unless we are trying to achieve a more formal look Then it is better to use one type, one shade, and one variety of plant. Plants can be part of a room divider where they are part of a substitute wall that separates space. A floor-level planter acts. As a good room divider and can be built very easily, keeping in mind that it must have a metal liner. Here, again, use larger and huskier green plants, such as Sansevierias, Philodendrons, and rubber plants. A series of open shelves in simple bookcase style may carry a collection RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 of ivies and African violets, remembering if all the light comes from one side, plants must be turned regularly, so their growth will be even. Philodendron poles and Dieftenbachia in a brick planter which is an extension of a fireplace wall, soften the lines and will improve the effect of a room divider. Many architects very often include sunken floor areas in their blueprints, knowing the charm which indoor gardens add to a spacious room, Many beautiful occasional tables have built-in planters, and the variety of circular, tiered, and hanging planters is endless. The bird-cage planter, with graceful trailers of ivy, is a smart accent note for any room. A tiered wire planter has a trick to offer in planting and is an eye-catcher. It can hang gracefully from a beam, causing much excitement and interest. Exposed windows are a wonderful place for planting areas. Ivies and Philodendrons on sills or makeshift shelving or, again, the large pot of ivy hanging from the ceiling to eye level is a dramatic note, or three different pots of ivy hanging at different elevations create interest. Indoor gardens of ivies, Philodendrons, Dieffenbachia, Chinese evergreen, and watermelon pepperonia can be placed together attractively in one area. LANTERS of various kinds divide kitchen and living areas in many of our ranch style homes. The brick walls and massive fireplaces of some contemporary homes are softened with massed green plantings and trailing ivies and vines. THE MAGIC OF INDOOR GARDENING Houses built on an "open plan," often include planters — dividers — as a basic design element. We must keep in mind always, though, that because these plants have such prominence, care must be given to develop healthy, glossy plants. Today the use of bamboo curtains is popular and can be exotic with the use of greenery, such as a giant schefflera or a Philodendron. The ceiling-to-floor pole that holds pots of greenery lends itself well for a "look through" room divider or an excellent corner interest. We should remember that small plants look better on smaller tables and in small areas and large ones are more appropriate in more spacious areas. Pothos and variegated pepperonia are interesting to look down into placed in a low tripod with a potbelly container. If your planter has no bottom drainage hole, be sure to put in a good layer of pebbles or broken crockery before you set plants in place. This allows good area circulation and drainage. Referring back to the reinforcements of blooming plants in green planting areas, if you like the dramatic emphasis that a living plant in bloom gives to a decorating scheme, plan ahead for it. You can buy beautiful seasonal plants from your florist, always choosing plants in bud, so that you will have the pleasure of watching them swell and open. Remember always that a blooming plant requires more moisture. 670 FRICAN violet groupings are worth a try and can be planted in a wire basket lined in moistureholding moss. The wire basket always should be set on a ceramic tray to hold moisture and prevent table staining. A group of African violets of one color is most striking. 'This is a beautiful way to display all those extra young plants that are so easy to grow from leaves. Choose dish gardens of assorted green: plants when the room area is small and doesn't afford larger planting facilities. 'These can be planted in attractive copper, brass, or ceramic bowls. 'These dish gardens are long lasting and lush and instant room decorators! Well-placed plants and flowers always contribute greatly to the natural charm and distinction of a home. But we cannot suggest too strongly that September is the time to select most of your green plants for the winter months. Coming as they do from moist and humid greenhouses, plants need to become accustomed gradually to the atmospheric changes which occur in the average home as winter nears and home heating increases. So, as we prepare for the fall months, we should make our homes most enjoyable and cheerful with beautiful plants. To hold their proper place in decoration, plants must be healthy and beautiful. Too often we hear, "T don't know what happens to all my plants. I water them regularly." The secret is that plants need more than water, and different plants require varying amounts of water at different times. Too much water can be more harmful than too little. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 Plants need fresh air, but require protection from chilling drafts. They need light, extra food for the soil, moisture in the air, and regular baths. Most plants need a weekly bath. Often it is well to cover the soil with a metallic paper to prevent oversoaking, then turn plants on side while giving them a fine mist spray. 'They also need to be kept free of insects and pests, and there are many indoor plant -sprays available on the market. Some plants yearn for hours of sunshine, while other plants want light, but not direct sun. In many homes we can see where plants grow toward fluorescent lighting, and sometimes under the presence of an infrared light. So we see plants thrive under properly controlled natural and artificial heat. OST plants abhor dry heat and every effort should be made to give plants the best circulation of air and the right amount of moisture and water. Each plant's needs should be carefully considered before giving it a place to live indoors. An important point to remember about watering is that it should be done regularly. A plant is just as sensitive to the timing for a drink of water as an animal, bird, or even a human being. When it is watered one day and forgotten the next two or three days or even a week, immediately its beauty and growth are destroyed. 'The beauty and vigor have been taken out of the leaves of the plant. Generally speaking, watering should be somewhat reduced during the winter months from October to March. In the winter months let THE MAGIC OF INDOOR GARDENING the water stand until the chill is out of it before giving it to the plants. The challenge of keeping plants beautiful becomes an exciting one and success brings the reward of beauty. Smooth-leafed plants need all surfaces cleansed and refreshed with a damp cloth at least once a month. Never use oil to make leaves glisten, for oil prevents foliage from breathing. The soil needs extra food from time to time, at least once a month. Always read and follow directions on the various commercial fertilizers. It might be well to check with your florist regarding this matter of how much and how often to use. Fer- 671 earth in the pot from becoming moldy or sour. To all who delight in the daily presence of green and growing plants and indoor gardening, remember that it is never out of season and helps to keep. Memories of spring and summer alive — no matter what the calendar may say or how the cold winds blow. Add pleasure to your daily life by | enjoying an "Indoor Garden." tilizers can be obtained in liquid, i powder, and pill form, however, liquid food has been found to reach the root system quicker and_produces outstanding results. It is well to water plants before applying fertilizer. It is necessary to have a rich mixture of soil, using a heavy field base mixed with some loam and sharp sand, about one quarter sand. You may make your own soil mixture or buy it commercially prepared, just be sure it is moist when using, not dry, not wet. Tender roots suffer least damage in moist soil. A good hint is to keep a little bit of good soil from the garden in a plastic bag to have on hand when added soil is needed for the planting area. In planting large areas it is better to leave plants in their pots, then individual watering can be given them according to their needs. Remember, good drainage prevents the if ay J a "yy « ¥ Ty} = Oe A {- - {f. Ww a Hakine Vay At Home Linnie F. Robinson c. Whole-wheat flour 2 envelopes yeast powder 2 1 ¢. Slightly warm water 7 c. White flour 2 tbsp. Sugar 4 tsp. Baking powder 1 cooked, mashed, medium-sized potato 4 tsp. Salt 2 c. Milk 2 c. Slightly warm water 1% squares butter or shortening 2 eggs, beaten 1 Cc, sugar Dissolve yeast powder and 2 tbsp. Sugar in one cup slightly warm water. When active, add the mashed potato. Scald the milk, add butter and one cup of sugar and set aside to cool. Combine flour, baking powder, and salt. When the milk mixture is cool, stir in the yeast mixture and the beaten eggs, and add enough flour to make a batter. Let rise until light. For mixing the dough, a plastic pan and a wooden spoon will facilitate the process. Add alternately the two cups of slightly warm water and the remainder of the flour mixture, stirring well and folding in the flour. If the dough seems too sticky, push it to one side of the pan with the mixing spoon and add some of the water to the bottom of the pan. If it is desired to knead the dough with the hands, wetting the hands in some of the water will make the mixing easier. A soft dough will make the lightest rolls and bread. After the dough is mixed, cover it and let rise at kitchen temperature. When dough is double in bulk, mix it down and let it rise again. Then scrape dough out of mixing bowl onto a floured board and roll out to desired thickness. Cut into circles with a glass or can. Dip circles in melted shortening and fold together, pinching the edges. Bake at 350° for 20 minutes. This recipe makes about 75 rolls, depending on the size. 1 E 1 medium-sized cooked, mashed potato 2 c. Milk 1 ¢c. Water 1% squares butter or shortening 2 envelopes yeast powder 1% Cc, sugar 2 tbsp. Sugar 3% tsp. Salt 2 eggs, beaten 4 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Raisins cooked plump Use same mixing method as for whole-wheat rolls. This recipe makes good cinnaman rolls and orange rolls. (This recipe also makes good white rolls by decreasing the sugar to one cup and leaving out the raisins.) 2 ¢. Flour. "% c. Shortening 4 tsp. Baking powder 5 tbsp. Light cream or evapanne milk % tsp. Salt 2 eggs (reserve some white) 3 tbsp. Sugar Stir flour, baking powder, salt, and sugar together. Cut or beat eggs into shortening. Add light cream and mix with flour mixture. Roll out on floured board lightly 672 " and cut in about 3" squares. Then cut the squares into triangles. Brush with a bit of egg white saved from the eggs. Sprinkle with sugar and bake at 400° oven for about 10 minutes. Serve immediately. Orange Filling for Rol Peel and cut oranges and combine with grated rind and sugar. Cook until a heavy syrup forms. Roll out dough and spread with melted butter and with the orange mixture which has been cooled. Roll up like a cinnamon roll and slice. Bake at 400° about 20 minutes. Makes filling for about 30 to 4o rolls, depending on how thick you spread it. Cinnamon Roll Filling Roll out dough on board and spread with softened butter. Then sprinkle with brown sugar, cinnamon, and raisins. Roll up and slice % inch thick. Let the rolls double their bulk and bake at 400° for about 12 to 15 minutes. Both of the above rolls are better when iced. I also ice the plain raisin rolls. Agnes Just Reid I called the roll in my garden This bright September day. Most everyone was present, Flaunting his colors gay. Golden glow, dahlia, pansy, "Mum," Delphinium, "glad," Morning glory, petunia, The best we had ever had. Alyssum, low and thrifty, Poppies so bright, so gold, African daisies, roses Blooming in spite of the cold. I gave them a hearty greeting, But my throat was strangely dry, I hope they didn't know it — But I also said goodbye. BAKING DAY AT HOME 6 medium-size oranges cut in pieces 2 tsp. Grated orange rind 2 tsp. Cinnamon % c. Brown sugar 673 1 c. Granulated sugar 3 or 4 tbsp. Soft butter % c. Softened butter 1 c. Seeded raisins cooked plump It is never too early for making gifts cits Any season is gift-making time, and the wise and provident homemaker considers the convenience and joy which come to her and to her loved ones when appropriate gifts are on hand for birthdays, Christmas, and other special occasions. Have you ever stopped to think how man gifts and home decorations you can actually make with very little expense? You do not need an idea so fresh and original that no one else has ever heard of it. Use a basic idea and add unique touches, making the details of color and trimming a little different. Soon you will see how a pattern can be changed to become your original handiwork. Here are some suggestions for attractive and lovable gifts for children, Finger Puppets Puppets are for sale in many shops, but not like the ones I shall instruct you to make. Here personal touches are added to a basic idea, and we come up with something the children will love. To make them you will need baby socks, felt, cotton, sequins, upholstery fringe, yarn, needle, and thread. You need only two basic head patterns to make the following finger puppets. The round head makes a rabbit, clown, Santa Claus, snow man, and as many more as you can think up. The profile head makes a dog, donkey, sheep, and many more animals, just by changing the ears. Look in children's color books for ideas, also ear patterns. 674 IT IS NEVER TOO EARLY FOR MAKING GIFTS 675 Rabbit Finger Puppet I shall tell you in detail how to make a rabbit finger puppet, and you can use this pattern to make all of them, remembering that each one is made by changing ears and adding bits of material here and there. First, take a white baby sock and cut off the foot part. The leg part left should now be cut right down the middle, lengthwise. One sock will make two finger puppets. Turn it wrong side out and sew up on the machine, sewing the top together, also. Now, turn it right side out and place finger inside, making sure it fits snug. Take the head pattern and place on pink felt. Cut two pieces. Cut two ears from pink felt also. When these are ready, sew head together, placing ears in at bottom of ear pattern, to a position on top of puppet head. Do not turn. Leave neck of head open, for it fits down on top of sock. Now, stuff head with cotton, and place head on sock which you should have on your finger. With needle and thread stitch head to sock, turning it on your finger. At this point you can make only a rabbit form puppet, because of stitched in ears. Use two sequins for the eyes; for the nose and whiskers, use two tiny pieces of yarn and sequin beads. For the bushy tail, use a pink ball from the upholstery fringe and place where finger bends. The little arms are made out of pink felt and stitched into position on sides. The puppet will look more like a rabbit if a bow of ribbon is tied around neckline for a bow tie. RABBIT EAR DOG puPPET FLOP ARM EAR 676 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 Use the foot of a white sock, cutting the heel part off. Stuff the entire foot with cotton. Now, take a piece of yarn and tie tightly around the sock, allowing more for the body part than you do for the head. You will find the head part is round as it should be. With needle and thread, sew sock together at place where you cut off heel. This is where the feet of your doll will go. Take the foot pattern and place on green felt. Cut two pieces and sew them together on machine. Now, secure these feet to bottom of doll by tacking carefully. The clown's cap is made from a corner of a square piece of felt. The tassel is red and this is a small ball from upholstery fringe. Use a ruffle of red net for cap brim. With needle and thread, secure to head of doll. Use a larger ruffle of net around throat of doll, and three balls from red fringe down the front. The clown's face is decorated with small pieces of felt and sequins. These dolls have no arms. To make them you will need men's socks, large and small sequins, small squares of felt, yarn, and upholstery fringe. You will need bits of net for decorating the clown. There are dozens of clever ideas for making these dolls. Some of them are cute with words stitched on saying different things. One might say, "Love me," another might say, "I'm sweet." 'These letters are cut out of felt and stitched on with sequin beads. You might make 'Merry Christmas" dolls and let them sit about your living room to add that novelty touch when decorating the home for Christmas. IT IS NEVER TOO EARLY FOR MAKING GIFTS 677 et ee | 2 To make a Santa Claus, use red socks and pink felt head. The cap is made of ted felt with a white ball from upholstery fringe for tassel. Place white strip of felt around bottom of cap. The whiskers are made of cotton or white felt. Sequins are used for eyes; beads are used for the mouth. CUT TWO LARGE PIECES SOCK NOVELTY DOLL FEET Enlarge the pattern as needed, for horses of various sizes. The horse might stand about seven inches high at top of head; thé length might be about nine inches for this height. These are easy to make and are good for quick sales at the Church bazaar. They are made out of felt, sewed on the machine, but not turned. To make them you should cut two large pieces and two smaller pieces. The smaller pattern is the lower part of the pony. First, sew the pony together, leaving a small opening down the middle of stomach for kapoc or cotton stuffing. Be sure to stuff the horse well, so it can stand when placed on a table. When this is completed, pull stomach together and stitch well with needle and thread. Cut ears from felt and stitch into position on head. Make a mane out of yarn for neck of pony, also a long, full tail, Cut a saddle from a different color felt and stitch on with sequins or rickrack. The eyes are sequins and the bridle is made of gold cording, rickrack, or whatever you desire. Hand to the Plow Part V — Wesrwarp ONcE More Ilene H. Kingsbury Synopsis: A Welsh widow on her way to the valleys of the mountains in 1864, with her family of five children, awaiting a train to take them westward, was faced with a momentous decision. Her father and mother and several of her brothers and sisters, not members of the Church, had already established themselves in Bradys Bend, Pennsylvania, only about twenty-five miles from the railroad. The widow and her family had long planned to visit them before traveling to the West to make a permanent home. However, the fear that, once reunited with her family, she might lack the courage to leave them, causes the widow to resume her journey West. F the silence of dedication en- | cased this Welsh unit trying to become something they had long dreamed of, that same quietude did not touch the rest of the travelers. Louder and louder became the buzzing in the hive station. As the voices shrilled, the bodies started on the move. The emigrant, now that victory was so sweet, found herself too tired to drag herself and young brood back to reality. She motioned to the older boys to see what all the noise was about. 'They were happy to arise and walk about and stretch and talk aloud. They looked as relieved as she to have met the enemy and to have conquered. They began to hum a little tune together as they 678 sauntered about, which was most Welsh of them. The song was "Men of Harlech," an appropriate enough legendary air that told families afar off that one had been vallant. The boys circulated back, in due time, to report that any time now a train would be coming down the tracks going in their general direction. How did they know that?_ Well, some boys had been stooping with their ears on the rails. As they had listened often in such a posture for several weeks now, they were experts in telling even the exact time the train would clang to a shuddering stop at the station. Long since they had mastered the direction from which it would come. Before the waiting families could move their property to the platform as preparation for getting aboard, the whistle was heard to warn them forlornly, as it lamented its way along the narrow tracks. The previously well-ordered and undisturbed piles of boxes and bags were now shunted to the door. Almost no family needed to make two trips to carry all they owned from inside to outside. Each member took his share, deposited it, and stood guard. Just so as in the case of the emigrant's possessions, each HAND TO THE PLOW child bent to and lugged at his previously assigned bundles, ran arms through straps, hoisted great bulks upon shoulders, and staggered under untold weight. With bent backs and flexed muscles, they directed their paths over the timeworn doorsill and to the outer corner of the platform near the down end. This was a prearranged formation which worked as a clock. Showing pleasure, each child laid his burden in such a manner that in the blinking of an eye the whole lot of belongings was in exactly the same position and form as had been seen but a moment ago near the forge stove inside the station. Actually, the children loved these moments of lifting and carrying and _ heaving. They smiled and talked and played the game in great spirits. The mother had her share of possibles, too: smaller bags and baskets, to be sure; but their value was not quite in the class of those carried by her offspring. We may hear more about their contents at a less hurried moment. THE islands of valuables about the outer station were not of permanent value, however. As soon as the train chugged into sight the surge to deposit these material objects within the box-like cars began. The little islands dissolved and became a part of small streams flowing into the cars. The ticket agent came to the door to see them off. Well, he thought, there they go. Guess I should have told that Welsh lady more about the war and the Indians and the great rivers. She really should have gone to Bradys Bend. It would be safer 679 there, even from the war. Guess she'll have her own way like as not. Well, it won't be anything like Wales. Maybe she won't live to get West. Maybe she will never be heard from again. Well, I told her so, didn't I? As this was the third train the family had boarded since leaving their ship, the novelty of the travel was lost. It was just as noisy, just as dirty, as drafty, as adequate to transport human beings, as crowded, as any other they had ridden in before. The little family had decided that they would have more privacy if they could stay at the end of a car, so they made their way where they could have at least one end wall to enclose them. They shunted their luggage under the seats, all that would fit there, then piled the rest in tower-like arrangement with the hope that the jarring of starts and stops would not dislodge the bundles upon their heads. The aisle through this little conveyance was so narrow that one was forced to sidestep through it. The seats were twin benched, facing each other — exact copies of church benches. Neither springs nor cushions were thought to be an adjunct to comfort. A solitary, swaying lantern of a make to accommodate either a candle or a cup of oil gave the only light after nightfall. The windows of the car were small, dirty, rattletrap squares, giving a distorted vision of the outside world. It did not pay to take too seriously a view that bulged and squeezed itself into an oddity of nature. Just move the head a bit and another effect could be achieved. If one was sensitive to light and color, this, with distortion, brought on car sickness. The prevention was never to look outside. The family noticed all too late that they should have been on the opposite side of the car, for some carpenter-skilled passenger had, at a lengthy stop, built himself a sort of platform or bunk midway between seat and ceiling. 'This was now being occupied by numerous children who climbed aloft and sat there looking quite like chickens on a perch. When their parents threw them a blanket and a bundle or two to be used as pillows, they had a sleeper the whole traveling world could envy. HE emigrant's oldest boy resolved to build such a second story in their little nook. If the train didn't get under way immediately, he knew just the pile of lumber back at the station which could afford him his supply. A hammer and nails could be _borrowed from the agent. He therefore left his family corner and struggled past the still embarking passengers and finally regained the platform. He ran to the agent to explain his plan, but was forced to about face as word was wafted back with the ribbon of black smoke that the engine was ready to move. He dashed back to the car with his plan of construction still taking form. This was an objective which could be realized at the next stop, if not now. He was scarcely seated in the family pew, as they laughingly called their cramped quarters, when a continuous ringing of a bell was heard as one of the many official signals that the train was about to roll. Other signs, either in noise or motion, quickly followed. The agent now took the part of starter of the rolling stock of his company and his self-importance had its greatest chance to renew itself. He filled his lungs, braced himself with thumbs in the armholes of his vest, opened his mouth and put forth a roar of command. His call was made of a series of words, all unintelligible, and seeming to lack an interpreter. He no doubt was the pattern for future masters of the art of train calling. But with or without his vehemence, the effect would have been the same. The passengers had received a call to go West long before he was an employee of any transportation system. The impetus was to move onward. 'The going was accelerated with each mile en route and showed no signs of running down as does a pendulum ora ball thrown in motion. Let us give the agent credit for at least being the color and essence of a very new mode of getting about the earth. Evidently every nose was counted, every owner surrounded by his worldly goods. Evidently nothing now could mar the journey which up to this time had been eventful and hazardous. The rumble of the wheels became as a sedative. The air became sickening. It would take more than the cracks beneath the doors and around the windows to ventilate the place. No wonder a broken window or two had not been replaced. Even cinders sweeping through them to the hair and lungs of the passengers were preferable to this close feeling. Someone mentioned that, at almost any place along the line, the 680 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 HAND TO THE PLOW Rebel forces might commandeer the train and take it off to transport troops, or more likely, the Union soldiers would get there first and do the same thing for their cause. This rail company maintained that it was neutral in the great fight, and hoped thereby to preserve its regular business no matter how the wind blew in the conflict. Actually, it was at a constant disadvantage. Uncertainty was ever present. Unless something like decisive victory could be achieved quickly, the owners feared for their investment. HE striving engine hammered its way, and panted and spewed clouds of volcanic fire over its back in the best manner of dreadful dragons. The writhing, twisting motion of the cars never ceased. The couplings threatened to let go the precarious hold they had been designed to maintain, and with slackened or gathered speed, the antagonism between the parts of the whole continued. This multiple-sectioned monster remained a unit only because the teeth of one part tore at the tail of the next. Heads bobbed, jerked, snapped, and rolled. Heavy Shoulders slumped, short legs dangled in jointless fashion, and whimperers were heard to complain and wheedle and threaten. In this atmosphere it was an achievement for any mother to gain the ear of an infant either to issue commands or to enjoin to prayer. It was easy, then, to drift off on a memory jaunt, which in most cases made one homesick, or to recede within oneself to renew covenants or formulate stratagems. The emigiant indulged in a little of both, and got to the point of feeling a 681 re-enforcement of courage and energy now that they were underway again, when she was interrupted by little Sannie demanding, "I want something!" The boys broke into a laugh at this most childish of all sentences. At least they always knew what it was they wanted. The mother brushed aside her thoughts in solitude and tried to lead the little girl into a statement of just what it was she wanted. A sea cake? No. A part of a peeled potato? No. Nothing to eat? No. A little sleep with head resting on the mother's lap or shoulders? No. A story? Yes, that was it. About nice, wonderful Uncle David who could sing better than anyone else in all Wales? Yes, yes. This subject was an unfailing source of entertaimment even to children who could sing all day long and never repeat themselves, for Uncle David was very romantic as well as talented. Of course it was a sort of sad, mysterious romance. In the first place.... But no one wanted that phase of Uncle David today. As there were other choices, one boy called out, "The money story." Yes, indeed. This event involved a piece of money which could not have purchased even the meanest item of food or clothing, yet, again, it was worth a bucketful of other near-alike pieces. The source of this valued bit of metal reached back to legendary times in Wales when singing first became the greatest of arts. Mothers prayed that the newly christened infant would be the most famous singer in all Wales. No other career beckoned or mattered to a Welshman 682 after that idea had taken hold in the national heart. For it was the heart of Wales that sang. Its heartbeat was set to music, its eye only focused on the hills and vales of its country to conjure up melodies of praise to God for their land and people. Other peoples trained their children in the arts and sciences, still others valued the efforts of the printed page or held physical prowess as a fetish. But Welshmen sang and lived for song. All else, one might | Bertha a Kleinman RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 say, interfered with singing. Labor in the mines for eighteen hours a day, at the wharves, in the fruitless valleys, the tragedies of deep shaft cave-ins — all fell behind one as the wake of a ship — all joy and sorrow, the sweat of the brow, the closing of the grave, the birth of sons and daughters, the courage — all were expressed in that minor key of melody which is not a dirge but an eternal hope over the strangeness of life and love and labor. (To be concluded) Fa 'ig; God made a tre he a To stand the wind, h. Me — theevening star DW promise after strife, All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. Al RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Ensign Stake (Utah), Ensign Fourth Ward Relief Society Presents Anniversary Program "Reflections," March 14, 1962 Front row, left to right: Catherine H. Thompson; Margaret Tingey, as Mary Magdalene; Fern Clissold, as Esther; Grace Ovard, as Anna; Erma Hinckley, as Eve; Lois Sorenson, as Elizabeth; Geraldine Ballard, as Emma Smith; Elma Bradshaw. Back row, left to right: Connie Fuller, as Salome; Winona Jensen, as Hagar; Darlene Butler, as Ruth; Esther Snow, as Eliza R. Snow; Wanda Pedersen, as Lot's wife; Eunice McGinnis, as Mary; Arlene Kirton, as Miriam; Gwen Shurtleff, as Sariah; Sybil Noall, as Deborah; Ruth Cunningham, as Delilah. Standing, rear, center, Lucy T. Anderson, President, Ensign Stake Relief Society. Sister Anderson reports: "'An original birthday party program 'Reflection,' honoring all womankind, with special emphasis on our Latter-day Saint Relief Society leaders, was presented March 14, 1962. An imposing gilt mirror reflected the images of outStanding women from the past, while the spoken description was accompanied by appropriate organ background music. An outstanding organ-piano duet, a vocal solo, and a song by a trio of young mothers completed the program. Immediately following the program, was a special birthday luncheon prepared by a committee of visiting teachers under the direction of Norma Rees." 683 684 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 685 Provo Stake (Utah) Relief Society Honors Former Presidents At Leadership Meeting, March 16, 1962 Front row, seated left to right: Virginia B. Keeler, Hazel K. Petersen, and Mary Day, present presidency; Mary Hatch, who served as a counselor to two presidents. Back row, standing left to right: Pearl Snarr; Hannah Oldroyd; Rozella Callard; Tess Brienholt; Orah Van Wagner; Mabel Kirk. Hazel K. Petersen, President, Provo Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Provo Stake Relief Society was organized in February 1939, under the direction of President Charles E. Rowan, Jr., who was present at this special program commemorating the anniversary of Relief Society. Inez Allred, deceased, was the first president, and her counselors were Clara Warnick, deceased; Hannah Oldroyd, and Pearl Snarr. The second presidency members were: Greta Romney, president, who was unable to be present when this picture was taken, with Mary Hatch and Naiomi Robertson, as counselors. The third presidency consisted of: Mazie Knell, president, deceased, with Mary Hatch and Veda Williams, not in the picture, and Rozella Collard, as counselors. The fourth presidency consisted of: Orah Van Wagner, president, with Mabel Kirk, Tess Brienholt, Vivian Lambert, now residing in California, and Hazel K. Petersen as counselors. "Each presidency was introduced and responded with a narration of outstanding events that took place during their service. The anniversary observance was a lovely Stake affair, and the program was very inspiring. Beautiful musical numbers were presented by the Singing Mothers, directed by Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society. We were especially honored to have with us Stake President Dean C. Christensen, and Alice L. Wilkinson and Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society." Sugar House Stake (Utah), Marlborough Ward Presents Unique Anniversary Program, March 13, 1962 Front row, seated, left to right: Vera Hoggan; Berniece Cox; Mabel Bergman. Second row, seated, left to right: LaVerne Milne, Second Counselor; Margaret Wonnacott, President; Lela Wright, First Counselor; Maxine Knoble, Secretary; Ina Hatch, narrator. Standing, left to right: Gertrude Lobrot; Erma Berg; Elsie Parry; Selma Coleman; Rosette Graham; Berniece Anderson; Lucile Laxman; Nellie Purrington; Anna Milius; Edna Stephens. Anne Done, Ziska Waters, and Anna Frewin were not present when the picture was taken. Ruth B. Kimball, President, Sugar House Stake Relief Society, reports: '"' 'Many Happy Returns of the Day,' a spiritual playlet, combined with narration and music, cleverly bridged the time from prior to the organization of the Relief Society, up to the present day. Phases depicting organization, music, teaching, service, visiting teaching, testimony, and motherhood showed how, from a small beginning in a room over he Prophet's store, the Relief Society now encircles the world. Those sisters who tepresented the early women of the organization were fittingly costumed." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 686 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 687 Moroni Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Front row, seated, left to mght: Rita Allred, accompanist; LuJane Cook, chorister; Bessie Cook, Counselor; Euleda B. Cook, President, Monroe Stake Relief Society; Izola Blackham, Counselor; Verdeen Jacobson, Secretary; Venice Anderson, former president. Sister Cook reports: "This chorus includes members from all five wards of our stake and has held regular practice periods for more than a year. We were honored to have our annual stake excursion to the Manti Temple on March 17, 1961. At this time our stake Singing Mothers chorus sang in the temple. On August 27, 1961, the chorus sang for both sessions of stake quarterly conference. Santa Monica Stake (California) Visiting Teacher Convention, April 13, 1962 Front row, seated, left to right: Evelyn Bluth, Second Counselor; Audra E. Emfield, President; Geneve A. Cannon, First Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Jane Jamison; Helen Wilkinson; Lydia Jenson; Dorothy Jensen; Marybeth Bone; Vinnie Veth; Nellie Stevenson. Sister Emfield reports: "The Santa Monica Stake Visiting Teacher Convention and luncheon was held April 13, 1962. Special guests were the Stake President and Sister E. Garrett Barlow, and former stake Relief Society president Elva Cusworth and Brother Cusworth. We honored the ward Magazine representatives for attaining the Magazine honor roll, with a little gift presented by Helen Wilkinson, stake Magazine representative. 'There were two skits given. The first was 'Streamlining the Relief Society,' directed by Lydia Jenson, stake visiting teacher message leader, and the second A 'Builders of the Kingdom,' directed by Nellie Stevenson, stake theology class eader. "A lovely luncheon was then served to 350 visiting teachers. The tables were decorated by Jane Jamison with red ivy geraniums and many antique pieces, such as curling irons, oil lamps, stiff collar boxes, and other items. This opened the way for much fun and conversation, such as 'I remember when....'" "Emaline Bluth, Work Director Counselor, and Helen Berger, from Santa Monica First Ward, had gathered from the wards and arranged on display a wonderful collection of 'Creative Art in the American Home.' Part of our Relief Society heritage is the reviving of The American Arts, the remembrance of things past and the traditions made mellow over the years." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 and Luncheon urs ¢ Aa _ Emily E. Burr, President, Sacramento Stake Relief Society, reports: "On April 27, 1962, the Sacramento Stake Relief Society held a luncheon and social honoring all of the sisters in the stake over seventy years of age, of which we have ninety-five. There were forty-nine sisters in attendance, and three of them were eighty-nine years of age. The tables were beautifully decorated, and a lovely luncheon was served by the stake board. The short program was enjoyed by all. It was a real joy to hear the sisters talk of the times they had when they were presidents and counselors in Relief Society. Some of the elderly sisters were unable to attend the luncheon and social, but a great many of them are still very active in Church work." ( "i fs 3¢ od | me 2 ad > a. ¢ x * Kansas City Stake, Kansas City (Kansas) First Ward Singing Mothers Concert, February 2, 1962 Front row, left to right: Joyce Sanders, director; Clarine Downs and Mary Condie, accompanists; Doris Watkins; Donna Fry; Rowena Gillette; Virginia Rowe; Emma Kemp; Janice Bassett, First Counselor; Norma Clark; Norma Tracy, Second Counselor. Second row, left to right: Audrey Kelly; Elsie Parnell; Lucille Molen; Wilma Sneddon; Lois Smith; Leona Danbury; Venna Witbeck; Janet Mollus; Kay Pope; Zina Walker; Verda Willyard. Back row, left to right: Birdella Corcoran, President; Marian Laudie; Ann Scott; NOTES FROM THE FIELD 689 Norma Wheatley; Marjorie M. Reeve, President, Kansas City Stake Relief Society; Helen Smith; Laura Midgley; Geri Fackrell; Ingaborg Midgley; Sharron Newberry. LaRue Wilde and Jacquelin Kirkpatrick were not present when the picture was taken. Sister Reeve reports: '"The Kansas City First Ward Singing Mothers presented a concert for the building fund. Thirty-four sisters spent long hours in rehearsals. Many nonmembers attended, giving an excellent opportunity to ask "the Golden Questions" and to explain our Relief Society program. Our selections for presentation in the concert were excellent. We all love the Magazine very much." Andes Mission (South America), Magdalena Del Mar Branch Singing Mothers Present Music at Leadership Meeting for Two Districts April 15, 1962 Left to right: Gloria Malaga; Victoria de Manquez; Isabel de Hurtado; Bertha de Vergaray; Nancy Brown; Amparo de Ramirez; Mavie Dye; Celinda Clements, Augstina de Lopez; Graciela de Pachas; Josephine de Ramos; Adriana Ramos. Fawn H. Sharp, President, Andes Mission Relief Society, reports: ""The first twodistrict leadership meetings of the Relief Society was held in the Mira Flores Branch in Lima, Peru. All of the officers and teachers of the two districts were in attendance. "Informative displays were made of the lesson materials for the year, with one of the sisters explaining the display. Charts were on display of the monthly report, and Sister Ruth Ojeda (a Peruvian missionary) explained the new roll book and the procedure for filling out the monthly report. "There were several displays of suggestions for work meeting, with each branch bringing one idea to show and to share. The sisters brought a pattern for each article to be exchanged with the other branches. "A Singing Mothers chorus directed by Nancy Brown and Mavie Dye presented music for the afternoon. One of the members of the chorus, Bertha Vergaray, gave a short talk on the value of a Singing Mothers chorus in the branch. The slides of the work meeting articles displayed by Relief Society in Salt Lake City at the time of the mission presidents conference were given to each branch, along with a copy of the directions and instructions translated into Spanish. "It is the plan now to hold a meeting of this type for the two districts in Lima four times a year, giving the sisters the helps and instructions most needed. All the materials discussed and ideas used will be taken or sent to the scattered branches in Peru, so that all will benefit from these meetings." Mae Martindale Johnson — Organist and Teacher of Music | Mae Martindale Johnson, Rupert, Idaho, has faithfully served Relief Society and other Church auxiliary organizations for many years as an accomplished musician and organist. Her service as a musician began in 1900, when, at the age of thirteen, she was named assistant organist for the Oakley Ward, Idaho, where her father, William C. Martindale, was presiding elder, having been sent to head the Church colony in that part of Idaho in 1879. Since this first assignment, Mrs. Johnson has served as organist in all the Church auxiliaries and has been a member of the Minidoka and Burley Stake Relief Society boards over a long period of years. She is generous with her talents, and she and her husband, Herman Johnson, are much in demand for entertainments, at which he plays the guitar and she the piano accompaniment. Although barely able to reach the pedals of the pipe organ, she is an accomplished organist and is dearly loved for her beautiful music and for her devotion to the community. Mrs. Johnson is the mother of six talented children, five of them musicians of note, and all of whom serve the Church and their communities. Mrs. Johnson also reared her husband's youngest brother and sister. She is devoted to her grandchildren and great-grandchildren, many of whom are following her love for music and her service in the Church. 690 LES Ider Roy W. Doxey | or First Meeting, December 1962 bjective: ath day. Troduction On Sunday, August 7, 1831, the -rophet Joseph Smith attended the funeral of Polly Knight, wife of _ Joseph Knight, Sr., who had given aterial substance to the Prophet. (D&C 12; 23:6.) Their son, Newel K. Knight, wrote that his mother sisted upon traveling from Kirtland to Missouri notwithstanding the fact that she was very ill. Her greatest desire, to stand on the land of Zion, was granted her. Of Polly Knight the Prophet wrote that she as the first to die in the land of ion, and as "a worthy member sleeps in Jesus till the resurrection." (DHC 1:199, footnote.) By the 7th of August the land of Zion was conecrated as a gathering place for the aints, the temple site was dediated, and the first conference was eld in Zion, this being the Fifth eneral Conference. The Coles:. THEOLOGY e SON DEPARTMENT The Doctrine and Covenants esson 43 — The Day of Rest and Devotions Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 59:1-14) To learn what the Lord has said regarding rest from labors and the Sabville Branch members were present at this conference. They Shall Rest From Their Labors The Lord promised blessings to those who were to come up to the land of Zion, provided that they would have an eye single to God's glory. As Section 59:1 points out, 'an eye single to my glory" requires that one keep the commandments. | Consistent with _ this thought is the: verse which follows: For those that live shall inherit the earth, and those that die shall rest from all their labors, and their works shall follow them; and they shall receive a crown in the mansions of my Father, which I have prepared for them (D & C 59:2). One may reflect upon this scripture with joy, realizing that when men and women follow the Lord's plan of life here, their righteous labors will be rewarded when mortality ends. 691 Following the necessary sojourn in the spirit world where advancement is made toward the ultimate glory of the resurrection, a place is received in the mansions of the Father — the celestial kingdom, for those who have had their minds single to God. (D & C 88:20-22, 66-68. ) Revelations Are Blessings The good things of the earth are promised those who obey the gospel. This is a blessing discussed in Lesson 41 (Relief Society Magazine, July 1962) concerning Zion. In addition to these temporal blessings, the saints are to be blessed with commandments and revelations: And they shall also be crowned with blessings from above, yea, and with commandments not a few, and with revelations in their time — they that are faithful and diligent before me (D & C 59:4). There is the fact that one's spiritual welfare is greatly enhanced by obedience to all of God's commandments. 'There are some people, and their numbers are great, who believe that commandments are restrictive, little realizing that the gospel frees people from bondage. (John 8:31-32; D & C 84: 49-53.) Real freedom consists of a clear conscience toward God and man. Commandments come by revelation. Revelations also provide the faithful with hope, peace, and courage to continue on to the end. Great Commandments Only the Father can say that one of his commandments is greater than another. This he has done through his Son by saying that one should love God as the first commandment and second, that one should love his neighbor as himself. (Matt. 22:37-40.) In the revelation comprising this lesson, notice the important information given about these two great commandments. Wherefore, I give unto them a commandment, saying thus: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve him. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Thou shalt not steal; neither commit adultery, nor kill, nor do anything like unto it (D & C 59:5-6). In this revelation specific reference is made to certain commandments the violation of which clearly indicates that one does not love his fellow man. These laws condemn stealing, adultery, murder, or anything like it. All one needs to do to verify the importance of these laws in relation to the second great commandment is to ask: "Does one love his neighbor if he commits any one of these infractions of the moral law?" (Lessons 26 and 27, Relief Society Magazine, August, September, 1960. ) Thanksgiving and Humility Thanksgiving is to be shown to the Lord in all things. For what should the saint be thankful — life with its opportunities to prove oneself? The fulness of the gospel that brings purpose into life? That divine direction is received today by inspired prophets? The joy of knowing that great blessings accrue to those who are faithful? These and countless other blessings should be acknowledged to the Father in 692 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 LESSON DEPARTMENT prayer. But this is not the only way that gratitude is to be expressed. When one keeps the commandments, he prays, and he also loves the Father and the Son. (John 14:15; D & C 46:7.) Prayer offered in humility with a thankful heart assists one to continue in the faith. Humility is the quality of being teachable, of responding fully to the Lord's will. The humble person, one who has a broken heart and contrite spirit, will demonstrate his gratitude for all things, and he will be made glorious. (D & C 78:19.) The Sabbath Commandment All of the foregoing truths from Section 59 were given in preparation for the Sabbath day commandment, as follows: And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; But remember that on this, the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto the brethren, and before the Lord. And on this day thou shalt do none Other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full. Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or in other words, rejoicing and prayer (D & C 59:9°14). 693 Shown in the form of "thou shalt," or what is required on the Sabbath day, these commandments may be stated as: 1. "Thou shalt go to the house of prayer." For what purpose? "... That thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world." Under the most favorable conditions people may fall away from the truth, but the person who goes to the appointed Church meetings will find a place of faith, of learning, of glory, of order, and verily, a house of God. (Ibid., 88:119.) In the house of the Lord, as in a sacrament meeting, the communicant meets friends from whom he receives encouragement. Sometimes members of the Church absent themselves from the sacrament meeting because they feel that they hear the same messages often, or for some other reason. President Heber J. Grant had this to say on this thought: There are some who say they will not go to meeting because they know just who will talk and what they will say. I realize that such persons are becoming indifferent to the spiritual things of the kingdom. I know people, who, in the old world, would go many miles to a meeting because they were in love with. The gospel. They will not cross the street now because they have lost that love. Just as surely as failing to eat will cause our physical frames to shrink and die, just so sure neglect to supply our spiritual natures will bring death to them (Gospel Standards, page 98). 2. Thou shalt "offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day."- What does this mean? Sacraments and devotions are similar. Specifically, a sacrament is a ceremony wherein one makes a covenant with the Lord. For Latter-day Saints the partaking of the sacrament constitutes a covenant-making and a covenant-renewal opportunity. When partaking of the sacrament worthily, the member is promised the blessing of the Spirit to be with him. Here alone is sufficient reason for attending the sacrament meeting in the true spirit of worship. 3. "This is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors." Verse 10 of Section 59 informs us that the keeping of this commandment is essential to Sabbath worship. What does it mean to rest? Certainly it does not mean idleness. But from what are we to rest? Elder John A. Widtsoe suggested that a true rest is one in which the person has a change from the occupations or work of the weekday; however, we should devote our activities to the requirements of the Sabbath day. (Evidences and _ Reconciliations 1:220-221.) But are there activities of the week in which some people must be engaged? There is necessary work to be performed, such as the feeding and care of animals on the farm, some public service industries as power, light, hospital, police and fire protection, etc. In the main, however, the person who engages in Sunday work may find himself an inactive member of God's kingdom. 4. Thou shalt "pay thy devotions unto the Most High." As indicated earlier, devotions are similar to sactament as given in this revelation. What are the devotions of the saint in meetings of the Sabbath? Instructive on this question is the following: On the Sabbath, the Saints should be in the house of prayer and offer up their "sacraments"; that is, present their devotions before the Lord, in the form of songs of praise, prayer and thanksgiving, testimonies, partaking of the Sacrament, and contemplation of the Word of God. All this is meant by the word ''sacrament," which, in its widest range, stands for any sacred rite or ceremony whereby we affirm our allegiance to our divine Lord (D & C Commentary, page 351). In the words of President Joseph F. Smith: Men are not showing zeal and ardor in their religious faith and duty when they hustle off early Sunday morning on the cars, in teams, in automobiles, to the canyons, the resorts, and to visit friends or places of amusement with their wives and children. They are not paying their devotions in this way to the Most High (Gospel Doctrine, page 246). 5. "Thou shalt offer thine oblations... Unto the Most High." Spiritual as well as temporal offerings (which are really spiritual) are to be rendered to the Lord. An enlightening explanation of the meaning and application of "oblations" anciently and today, may be found in the D & C Commentary, Page 352. 6. Thou shalt confess "thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord." The following statement of Elder Marion G. Romney, delivered in general conference, suggests an explanation: I would assume that we are to confess all our sins unto the Lord. For transgressions which are wholly personal, affecting none but ourselves and the Lord, such confession would seem to be sufficient. For misconduct which offends another, confession should also be made to the offended one, and his forgiveness sought. 694 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 LESSON DEPARTMENT Finally, where one's transgressions are of such a nature as would, unrepented of, put in jeopardy his nght to membership or fellowship in the Church of Jesus Christ, full and_ effective confession would, in my judgment, require confession by the repentant sinner to his bishop or other proper presiding Church officer — not that the Church officer could forgive the sin (this power rests in the Lord himself and those only to whom he specifically delegates it) but rather that the Church, acting through its duly appointed officers, might with full knowledge of the facts take such action with respect to Church discipline as the circumstances merit. One having forsaken his sins and, by proper confession, cleared his conduct with the Lord, with the people he has offended, and with the Church of Jesus Christ, where necessary, may with full confidence seek the Lord's forgiveness and go forth in newness of life, relying upon; the merits of Christ (Romney, Marion G.: Conference Report, October 1955, page 125). 7. Thou shalt "let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart." It seems that the intent of this inStruction is that Sunday does not become a feast day. On this point we have the following: Upon the Sabbath, even the food should be prepared "with singleness of heart"; that is to say, in simplicity. Our hearts, our desires, on that day should not be elaborate feasts, whereby some are prevented from having a Sabbath. A simple meal should suffice. To that extent every Sabbath should be a fast day, one bringing perfect joy (D & C Commentary, page 352). 8. "And on this day thou shalt do none other thing." 'This admonition seems to point out that the positive requirements of observing Sunday, as listed above, provide enough counsel on what should be 695 done. It is also apparent to the careful reader of this revelation that the Lord did not seem at that time to catalogue the negative aspects of this law. In time, however, disobedience by the world to the Sabbath law in making Sunday a holiday instead of a holy day, and the use of the automobile with public places of recreation open on the Sabbath became widespread, and members of the Church began to succumb to these temptations. Accordingly, First Presidencies have issued formal statements about Sabbath observance. The latest, issued on June 19, 1959, by President David O. McKay, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and Henry D. Moyle, emphasizes the commandments given anciently and in Section 59. After quoting the modern revelation and Exodus 20:8-11, 20, the following appears: Latter-day Saints should not permit these commandments regarding the Sabbath to slip from their minds. All during this, the Last Dispensation, the Prophets of the Lord have urged Sabbath-observance upon the people. Different concepts of Sabbath-observance have been urged upon us by unbelievers, partial-believers, and by the thoughtless, concerned primarily with the pleasures of the world, sometimes under the guise of recreation, sometimes by activities the Lord has told us were sinful. The Sabbath is not just another day on which we merely rest from work, free to spend it as our lightmindedness may suggest. It is a holy day, the Lord's Day, to be spent as a day of worship and reverence. All matters extraneous thereto should be shunned. We must bear in mind all these principles. We must remember particularly actual Sabbath-breaking labor which might be required from a great number of Lesser Priesthood members in any Sabbathbreaking activities, including interference with their duties and attendance at quorum meetings. For all these and for many other reasons affecting injuriously the religious duties and activities of the whole Church membership, Latter-day Saints, with a testimony of the Gospel and a knowledge of the spiritual blessings that come from keeping the Sabbath, will never permit themselves to make it a shopping day, an activity that has no place in a proper observance of the Holy Day of the Lord, on which we are commanded to pour out our souls in gratitude for the many blessings of health, strength, physical comfort, and spiritual joy which come from the Lord's bounteous hand (Deseret News, Saturday, June 20, 1959). Parental Example The Lord established the Sabbath as a holy day that man might benefit spiritually. Unto Moses, Israel's prophet, the Sabbath was known as a sign between the Lord and Israel. (Exodus 31:13-14; Ezekiel 20:19- 24.) The counsel to keep the Sabbath holy is as applicable today as when it was given. 'The observance of Sunday as the Lord's Day is a fact of modern revelation. (D & C 59:12.) The keeping of the Sabbath today will have the same effect as was promised anciently, the sanctification of the person. How will the world know the Lord's people today? One way is by their observance of the day of rest. The testimony of the truth comes to the obedient. A witness of the gospel must be based upon the faith of the individual. Every parent should ask, "Is my attitude toward Sabbath observance reflected in the faith of my children?" In other words, if the parents break the law, will the children feel that they also may disregard the Lord's commandment? Observance of the Sabbath day by the parents brings forth fruits of faith in the lives of the children and the testimony of truth through keeping the other commandments. Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss: The commandments of the Lord are blessings. 2. Name some of the commandments (not Sabbath day) given in the forepart of this lesson. 'Tell why they are important. 3. Enumerate some of the blessings for which the Latter-day Saint should be thankful. 4. Name as many of the eight "thou shalts"" of Sabbath day observance as you can. 5. What does it mean to (a) offer up thy sacraments (b) rest from thy labors (c) pay thy devotions to the Most High. 6. Discuss: Sabbath day observance by parents affects the lives of their children. AAD AVATT ARTI VD Tr MAP AVAILAB F¢ A map (28" x 21"), "The Mormon Exodus to the Rocky Mountains," We lav ah (NTT ™ OT ¢ ( XN C( pc showing the journeyings of the saints from New England to the West, is available at the Deseret Book Store, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, 65c postpaid. Its use is recommended by the General Board of Relief Society. 696 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 43 — "Be of Good Cheer" (D & C 61:36). Christine H. Robinson For First Week, December 1962 Objective: To teachings. AN ancient story told in Hebrew households a sage who met the Prophet Elijah in a the prophet the charactet qualities the Lord looks for when he bestows Looking over the square, crowded with barterers and traders, the sage inquired if any of those would earn the Lord's blessings. The prophet replied, "None, save these," and pointed to a small group of people obviously lacking fn, worldly goods but whose faces radiated cheerfulness and kindness. The sage, seeking to learn the reason why these people had been singled out to receive the Lord's blessing, inquired of them as to their virtues and deeds. Their leader replied, "We are poor people. Our main virtue ls that we have We seck to bring comfort and hope to those who are discouraged. When we meet one who is sad, we strive to chase away his sorrow and to bring sunshine and good will into his life." As we think of the essential elements »f the gospel, characteristics such as love, faith, hope, charity, oint out that cheerfulness is an important element of the gospel's The Lord wants us to be of good cheer. And mercy come instantly to mind. Probably but few of us would immediately associate cheerfulness with the teachings, yet he frequently i quality. Casion when the Master's disciples were sailing on the sea and the wind them, Jesus came toward them walking on the water, and called to them, saying, "Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid" (Matt. 14:27)- On several occasions when the Savior healed the sick, he said, "Be of good cheer." (See M After Paul's miraculous conversion, when he was preaching to the people in Jerusalem and they threatened to kill him, "the Lord stood by him, and said, Be of good cheer, Paul" (Acts 23:11). Cheerfulness implies having courage, optimism, confidence, and a feeling of comfort and repose. One thoughtful author has said, "Cheerfulness radiates confidence and enthusiasm. It is the antidote to worry, fear, discouragement.. Cheerfulness gives mental alertness, serenity of rnind, and broadens 697 sympathy. Cheerfulness brings contentment and tranquility" (KLEIsER: Inspiration and Ideals, page 94). To be cheerful means to look for the joy and sunshine in life rather than to dwell on the gloom and shadows. To be cheerful means to gladden, comfort, and raise the spirits of those with whom we associate. It means to be kind and courteous, gentle, gracious, sincere. Ours is a cheerful religion. The gospel teaches us to be happy and confident. The prophet Nephi emphasized this when he. Said: "men are that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25). All gospel principles are aimed at bringing peace, confidence, and happiness into men's lives. To be cheerful is not always easy but it is a truism that as we think cheerful thoughts, we become cheerful. Someone has aptly said, ""Those who bring sunshine into the lives of others cannot keep it from themselves." Solomon said, "A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance" (Proverbs 15:13). Cheerfulness, then, is probably nature's most appealing cosmetic. It shines through from the soul like a wondrous light. Therefore, let us always remember the comforting counsel of the Lord when he advises us to "be of good cheer... For I am in your midst, and I have not forsaken you" (D & C 61:36). WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 3 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized (Part III) Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, December 1962 Objective: To help us understand the value of organizing our time. WHEN you have achieved the goal of making your home convenient, of having each item located where you use it first, of having duplicate items, such as cleaning materials, in different parts of the home to save backtracking, you are ready for attacking the next goal, which is organizing your time, You should start looking at time from the standpoint of a daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly sched- 698 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 WORK MEETING ule. There are some folks who look down life's path for a five or ten year stretch and try to make each day's activities add up to meet their longtime goals. A prominent educator tried this idea and was determined to complete her master's degree before reaching age thirty, her doctor's degree before age forty, and to have her sons well on their educational path, with missions accomplished, before reaching midcentury. She has other goals for each decade before becoming a centenarian. 'There have been interruptions and minor changes along the way, but the big goals have been accomplished. The time schedule of each day, if 'carried through to completion, can give one the satisfaction that comes with accomplishment. A calendar with large squares that would give one an opportunity to make notes for each day, would be an invaluable aid in making timeplanning easier. Go through your yearly calendar and make a special note of all of the birthdays, special celebrations, and significant events for your family. Then, with a colored pencil, block off the time that will be required for getting ready for special events or for certain types of work that must be done. When you see the over-all picture for the year, you will be able to space out your work to avoid overloading the daily and weekly schedule. Now, look at your schedule for the week (the blackboard is used to demonstrate the method). Relef Society is written on one square; Church events are scheduled in their proper places, and family hour, the highlight of the week, is starred. 699 After all the items important to you and your family are on the schedule, then it is time to think of how you are going to get your work done in between all of these other obligations. No two people organize and plan their daily work in exactly the same way. 'The essential thing is that you do organize, that you do have a plan, that you do get up early in the morning and get yourself ready for the day's work. This means wearing suitable clothing, not a house robe and bedroom slippers. A careful planner and organizer can accomplish more in three hours than another person who works aimlessly can accomplish in a whole day. Scientific planning requires that you know what is to be done, who is to do it, when it is to be done, and how it is to be carried out. Your day's work may include these jobs: meals to prepare, lunches to fix, beds to make, rooms to clean, walks to sweep, animals to feed, darning to be done, a hem to turn up in a dress, and a visit to the dentist. Just listing the jobs will help you to plan who should do them. Homemaking is a_ co-operative enterprise, and each member of the family should share the responsibilities as well as the benefits. Rotating assignments to keep interest going is an asset; teaching the method for doing the work is the manager's task; accepting the work done without redoing it is a must; checking and teaching ways to improve is part of the follow-up. Very young children can be taught to put their clothes away and will later welcome the oppor- 700 tunity to make their beds. Give them praise and encouragement for what they do and lead them into greater responsibility. The efficient home manager does not do all the work herself, but considers the home a training center for improving home and family life and sees to it that every member is part of the plan. Here are some tips for streamlining some of the jobs to be done and for finishing work on schedule: Plan meals well in advance. Pack the lunches the night before. Pick up misplaced items and straighten the living room before bedtime. Develop the "while'"' technique — while the bread is baking have the darning handy. Learn to be ambidextrous. In all this planning, don't forget to save some time for self-improvement. Have you heard about the homemaker who complained to Louis Agassiz after hearing one of his lectures that she never had a chance to do any of the things he suggested? She was always busy and never finished her work in time to do any reading. She said that one of the main jobs she had to do was to peel the vegetables and get the food ready for dinner. "Where do you sit while you peel the vegetables?" he queried. "I usually sit on the back step," was the answer. "What is the step made of?" he asked. "Tile," was the answer. He asked her what kind of tile and she said, "I don't know. "How many years have you been sitting on that step?" he asked. "Fifteen" was the answer. "Lady, here is my card," said he, "find out everything you can about tile and send me a report." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 This experience changed her life. She started planning her work so that she would have time to study about tile. She read about it in the dictionary and in the encyclopedia. She borrowed some books from the town library and she found something made of tile everywhere she looked. She wrote a twenty-seven page report of her findings and sent it to Professor Agassiz. He was very pleased with the information and used some of it in a report he was making. He sent her a check, and asked her what was under the tile. She replied, "Ants." He sent word back that he would like to have her make an investigation about ants. This study took her to the country, to the museums, to the science laboratories of the university, and she wrote a lengthier report about ants than she had written about tile. Professor Agassiz had her report published and she received enough money to buy several books and to enroll in some classes that would help her with her new interest. She eventually earned enough to travel extensively and to enlarge her understanding of the world and _ its people. Every homemaker should feel that she at the end of the day has learned something new — that she is a better person than she was the day before. She must continue to build herself if she is to be an interesting member of the family group and be able to inspire others to greater accomplishments. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How can time planning assist one to be the master of her fate? WORK MEETING 2. How early should a homemaker begin to train her children to assume responsibilities in the home? 3. When is one justified in forgetting 701 the time schedule? 4. In what must a home manager be skilled in order to make her home an example of good organization? LITERATURE e America's Literature The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 35 — The Alcott Family Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York) For Third Meeting, December 1962 Objective: To accept the Alcott home, real and fictional, as a memorable example of the unity which kindness and love can create. EW children's books have ever received or deserved the popular reception given to Louisa May Alcott's Little Women from_ its publication in 1868 until almost our own day. Before her death twenty years later, at the early age of fifty-six, Louisa saw hundreds of thousands of copies of Little Women printed, which made her a fortune, paying her far more than the other two hundred and fifty works she published during her lifetime. From her girlhood, Louisa had determined to succeed at writing. This she accomplished, thus earning the financial security so entirely absent from the home in which She was reared. Poverty, and sometimes actual want, characterized her. Early life. All during her constant struggles to lighten the financial burdens in her home by tending and teaching children, doing sewing, and hiring out as a housemaid, she was constantly writing on one story or novel after another, until she developed a style of her own and achieved a considerable literary skill. But technical skill alone could never have produced books so many children have loved so intensely. The memories of her childhood years in a home environ- * ment of imaginative freedom, kindness, and mutual love give to her pages the strength and joy which make Little Women charming and "be A Perry Picture LOUISA MAY ALCOTT real. Before we can fully appreciate that the people of this novel are portrayals of the parents and sisters who dominated her life, we must first let them come alive in their own right. Amos Bronson Alcott (1799-1888 ) Bronson was born in the pioneer community of Wolcott, in western Connecticut about twenty-five miles north of New Haven. During the summers of his later teens he borrowed money from his frugal father, shipped to various southern ports, then went on extensive walking tours, carrying baubles and jewelry and knickknacks in two metal trunks which were strapped over his shoulders, one in front, one behind. The isolated southern folk welcomed him with enthusiasm, often allowing him to stay in their large mansions as long as he chose. On his most memorable peddling trip, he found himself among Quakers. 'Their simple lives and intense religious idealism shaped his own thinking profoundly. Long before he met Emerson and the Concord 'Transcendentalists' he was the purest of idealists; indeed he was unique even in his own day, not merely because he was an idealist, but because throughout his life he was nothing else. The Teacher Alcott He returned from his peddling as heavily in debt to his father as when he left, but now determined to bring others the light and ecstasy which he had found by becoming a teacher. After reading his own definition of his calling, it is not surprising that he devoted his life to teaching with a zeal so intense that his innovations caused him to be misunderstood, ridiculed, and so forced to close his schools. His words soar with fervor: If there be any employment which, among the inhabitants of our earth, claims a precedence, that of instructing the young in the duties and pursuits of time and eternity seems to hold itself conspicuously to notice. And this deservedly. No other employment in which men can be engaged is more intimately connected with the welfare of human beings.... It is the employment of God. The supreme principle by which he hoped to guide his life-long 702 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 A Perry Picture Lovisa May Alcott's Home, "The Orchard House," Concord, Massachusetts career as a teacher was his own "General Maxim" that one should "teach in imitation of the Saviour." For him, teaching was never merely instructing, but the rising to a lofty spiritual level where, for a moment, the teacher lent his mind to his students. Each day they were given five minutes during which time they were encouraged to discuss their intellectual and Spiritual progress or retrogression during the past twenty-four hours. To our modern young mothers it may well seem strange that Alcott used the following method of discipline in his home; when a child merited punishment, he was denied the privilege of being allowed to tend the baby or help mother clean up the kitchen dishes. The supreme punishment was not for the child to be deprived of his supper, but for him to eat while glumly watching the empty place of his father, who, by abstaining, brought the erring child to contrition. In 1827 he met Miss Abigail May, daughter of Colonel Joseph May, one of Boston's first citizens. She was twenty-seven, he twenty-eight. He was overwhelmed to find a woman of breeding and culture who enjoyed listening to his elaborate plans and theories and she, in turn, was impressed with his idealism and his sweet spirit. When they were married two years later and _received a wedding gift of three thousand dollars from her father, Bronson calculated that if he sold all the copies of his current book and spent the entire sum in payment of his debts, he would still owe $3,400.00. In 1843-44 he organized Fruitlands, an idealistic attempt to solve the problems of society and education by rural communal living. Founded in June, it lasted until January, when starvation for his children forced him to abandon his dream. 'Though friends took his family in, during the next few months he well nigh died of a broken heart, but the love and patience of his wife restored him. From 1879 until his death nine years later (just two days before the death of his daughter Louisa), he was Dean of the Concord School of Philosophy which gathered during the summer months to hear him and others talk, but this was after Louisa's success had solved all his financial problems, which he had _ never acknowledged anyway. Mother "Abba," Strength in Love With every reason to scorn her husband's extended conversations with the great, his endless search for "minds," and his occupying himself with a daily journal which totaled more than fifty volumes containing over five million words, his wife "Abba" sold her personal possessions to buy food, and finally went to work in the slums of Boston as, perhaps, the first paid social worker in our country's history. The miracle that only love can perform became in their relationship and in their home a common, everyday fact. From the day she first met him until her death, she preserved and protected their love high above quarrels and her dreamer husband's failure "to provide." In 1856 she recorded in her diary, "This is the twenty-fourth time of moving. We have been married twenty-six years." And again, "Mr. Alcott cannot bring himself to work for gain; but we have not yet learned to live without money or means." While she appreciated his "quiet reliance on Divine Providence" she believed "a little more activity and industry would place us beyond most of these disagreeable dependencies on friends. They have to labor. Why should not he?" But in her journal how often she expressed her love and happiness! For example: May 29, 1842 Three weeks today since Mr. Alcott sailed.... I am trying to get accustomed to the thought that I can do without him. I think I can as easily learn to live without breath. Most central is Abigail's definition of love, which reveals not only how much of her skill with words Louisa inherited from her mother, but how everyone in this home felt its radiance and reflected it back to its source. Abba wrote,... When I speak of love, I do not mean that flippant little God to whom the votaries of fashion address their prayers, whose wings they sometimes borrow and flutter through the bowers of 704 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 LOUISA MAY ALCOTT ideal roses and lilies; not those more careless pursuers who kneel: at every shrine, and lay their hearts on none. No, — I mean that clear though deep current of affection which, stealing silently, unobserved, into all the recesses of the heart, issues thence only in the pure, healthy rills of kindness, tenderness, good will, devotion. This is what I feel for the only being whom I have ever loved as companionable, or with whom I could associate in the heavenly tie of matrimony. Alcott, Successful Father With such a wife, to fail would be difficult, indeed. And while he was well aware that the gold in which he dealt bought nothing in the Concord market, he too filled the home with his gentleness and kindness. It is not by chance that Little Women is filled with references to Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress; all the children knew it almost by heart, so often did their father read to them from its pages. He loved his children enough to teach them constantly, design _ their clothes, and tend them when ill and often to prepare their meals. He played with them on the floor or in the barn and went walking with them in the woods. He loved beauty and love so strongly that he desired most of all to give these priceless values to his daughters, as shown in the following excerpt: My children, I will show you what is beautiful, beautiful indeed: It is a pure and happy, a kind and loving family, a home where peace and gentle quiet abide... Around whose hearth gather serene and loveful countenances, where every hand is quick to help, every foot swift to save, every eye agile to catch the wishes and every ear the wants of others; where every day is a long and well-gotten lesson of love and wisdom and _ patient resignation and steady trust in that Good 705 and Generous Power that sends Health and Hope and Peace. How well he succeeded is best proved in Little Women, justly loved for its vigorous yet tender picture of the ideal New England home of the nineteenth century. Louisa's Education Born on November 29, 1832, 1 Germantown, Pennsylvania, an Bronson was then teaching, Louisa was reared in the idealistic, intellectual atmosphere which radiated from her father. In addition, she learned many lessons from sources other than those she might have known had she ever received a formal education beyond the grades. Perhaps her battle with practical need and the heavy routine tasks she undertook "to help out" in her family might best be summarized by some of her own words, I can't do much with my hands so I will make a battering ram of my head and make a way through this rough-andtumble world. Life is my college. May I graduate well, and earn some honors. I wrote it [An Old-Fashioned Girl] with left hand in a sling, one foot up, head aching, and no voice. Yet, as the book is funny, people will say, "Did you enjoy doing it?"... I certainly earn my living by the sweat of my brow. So every day is a battle, and I'm so tired I don't want to live; only it's cowardly to die until you have done something. Twenty years ago I resolved to make the family independent if I could. At forty this is done: debts all paid, even 706 outlawed ones, and we have enough to be comfortable. Much as she loved and honored her father, Louisa found it difficult to be the daughter of a philosopher. When she was at Fruitlands, aged eleven, she arose at five on a September morning to have her bath. "T love cold water," she wrote, "the rubdown with coarse linen towels. At seven the family sat about the table to eat the meal father had prepared: water, unleavened bread, apples and potatoes." Since Louisa was reared a vegetarian, relatives who came visiting brought their own chunks of meat. Though "Abba" sewed and took in boarders, the Alcotts were always accepting gifts, Louisa wearing her first new dress when she was twentyfour. Beholden, constantly moving, with strangers living in their family circle — no wonder she wrote in her journal, "I wish we could just be a real family, like everyone else." Yet she knew many people and many happy moments. She wrote and produced plays with Emerson's children, and he was her firm friend, writing of her, "She is a natural source of stories.... She is and is to be, the poet of children. She knows their angels." 'Thoreau often took her boating, along with neighboring children, and in the middle of the stream would raise the oars and play his flute, then suddenly in grave tones begin stories about Indian lore of the area. The Young Writer Driven by her strong desires to help her family and to succeed as a writer, throughout her teenage years Louisa faithfully kept a jourRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 nal, wrote down the stories which she loved to tell to children, and wrote and produced plays in collaboration with her sisters. It was while she was teaching school in Boston and hating it, that she made the following entry in her journal: My first story printed, and $5 paid for it. It was written in Concord when I was sixteen, cat rubbish. Read it aloud to my sisters, and when they praised it, not knowing the author, I proudly announced my name. In 1854, when she was twentytwo, her first book 'Flower Fables," written for Emerson's little daughter Ellen, appeared. 'This was a collection of tales for children for which she received $32. It was not long until she was earning more from her writings than from her various employments, which enabled her to make increasingly sizeable contributions to the sparse family income. When Moods appeared in 1864 (four years before Little Women), she wrote in her mother's Christmas copy. My five years of labor, love, disappointment, hope and purpose are a useful experience that I shall not forget. Now if it makes a little money and opens the way for more I shall be satisfied, and you in some measure repaid for all the sympathy, help, and love that have done so much for me in these hard years. I hope success will sweeten me and make me what I long to become more than a great writer — a good daughter. And so God bless you, dear mother, and send us all a Happy New Year. Hospital Sketches Louisa May Alcott gave generously not only of her money, but also her personal service to relatives, friends and strangers alike, and QUISA MAY ALCOTT lously supported such causes as bolition and woman suffrage. From the beginning of the Civil ar, that great humanitarian reormer Dorothea Lynde Dix had rved as supervisor of volunteer urses, but she was given no real ower until July 1862, when the nt out a call: Only women of strong health, not subi, nor liable to sudThe duties of he station make large and continued deLouisa, age thirty, was strong and illing. On December 14, 1862, e reported for hospital duty in ashington, D. C. Accustomed to As soon as she felt capable of the ttempt, she began writing of her August 1863, ospital Sketches appeared and was er first real success. And typically t her grandmother's funeral. Her count of the war conditions ranks ith Walt Whitman's Specimen ays as a trustworthy, moving acunt of the suffering and heroism 707 which were prevalent. In contrast to many other observers, Louisa was neither excessively sentimental nor grim; her words have the ring of truth and restraint. She writes of John, the giant bachelor blacksmith from Virginia who must be told he must die, as he sat, _.. Lonely and forsaken just then, with bent head, hands folded on his knee,.. But a great tear rolled down and dropped upon the floor. It was a new sight there; for, though I had seen many suffer, some swore, some groaned, most endured silently, but none wept. Yet it did not seem weak, only very touching, and _straightway my fear vanished, my heart opened wide and took him in as, gathering the bent head in my arms, as freely as if he had been a little child, I said, "Let me help you bear it, John." Little Women and Other Writings After Hopsital Sketches Louisa continued writing "pot boilers," which brought in money but nothing else. Often she belittled her efforts, longing to write another Wuthering Heights. The time was ripe for her own masterpiece, which she worked on fourteen hours a day until she sent off the first twelve chapters to a publisher. He found it dull, as did she, but with her usual pluck she kept polishing and revising it until she caught that rare aura and feeling of actual people in real circumstances which gives the book its strong appeal. Every girl who reads the book identifies herself with one of the sisters, and knows the others as well as her own family — indeed they are her family until the book closes and the spell is broken. In addition to Hospital Sketches (1863), Moods (1864), and Little Women (1868), the following are among her most familiar writings: An Old-Fashioned Girl (1870), Little Men (1871), Work (1873), Eight Cousins (1874) Rose in Bloom (1876), Jack and Jill (1880), and Jo's Boys 1886). Louisa's "angel" was her _ gift to speak to the hearts and imaginations of children of all ages; her family's gift to her was a home scene unique in its goodness and love. She blended her writing skills with the supreme values of her life — family unity, love and joy — into America's ciassic contribution to children's literature. But in thus giving to posterity her contemporary domestic scene, she gives liberally of herself and her family as well, gifts always to be esteemed by those who would know and love the enduring qualities of their fellow mortals. Thoughts for Discussion 1. To what extent was mother Abigail responsible for the unity of the Alcott family? 2. What ideals do you find incorporated in Louisa's own life? In her writings? 3. How did the Civil War aid Louisa in attaining the maturity as a_ writer which she needed? Visual Aid Packet Available for 1962-63 Literature Lessons Appropriate visual aids can be of great assistance to a class leader. If wisely used, they can enrich the lesson material by adding interest, strengthening a point, and clarifying an idea. They also can be used effectively in introducing or concluding a lesson. A picture kit of carefully planned visual aids for the 1962-63 literature lessons may be obtained from the Department of Audio-Visual Communication, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, price $3.50 (not obtainable from Relief Society General Board). 1. Portraits of Henry David Thoreau, Louisa May Alcott, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Abraham Lincoln, Herman Melville, Walt Whitman. 2. View of Walden Pond (for lessons on Thoreau). 3. Illustration of a whaling ship for the lesson on Moby Dick (Melville's masterpiece). 4. Six small pictures for the literature map. 708 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government No lesson is planned for December in his department, due to the holiday season. Discovery Vesta N. Fairbairn Delight may stay Throughout today, But the heart's deep sorrow Includes tomorrow. Dawn and Sunrise Mabel Law Atkinson A silver flute-call! Dons copper lace. A white gull curves in flight; With slow, smooth grace Through silences of space. Night Tiptoeing light as a fawn, A breeze ballets. In a mirror-pool, a swan.... And a white birch sways. Hush! Stillness speaks his praise. In the peace of quietude, Calm, beautiful, From the mountain top, cool-dewed, Comes the miracle: Pale gold illumes the gull. For ~ SINGING MOTHERS _ ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen................20 —= GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Spafford, and AS ANGELS IN HEAVEN— Schreiner...........-..--...-------------+-.30 y...... JESU, JOY OF MAN'S i_ LET NOT YOUR SONG END— ] Cain.25 i...... LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT fe.. LORD IS MY SHEPHERD— —_— LORD'S PRAYER—Gates.........20 a. LORD'S PRAYER—Malotte _.....25 > MY SOUL IS ATHIRST FOR I GOD—Madsen _.... 25 _— STILL, STILL WITH THEE— I Madsen.... 22 | UNTO THEE | LIFT MINE | VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— l Scott 25 | Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated | 1 1! ' ' O Charge ' 1 ) 1 \ '! (1 On Approval O Money Enclosed Name Address City and State 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Ow 100k Yea v SE2-1962 | | | I above. DESIRING—Bach.....................- 25 FOR JOY—Stephens.................20 Smart............---------0--eeeeeeeeeeeeeeee.20 EYES—Beethoven...................-.22 i Gives you the ultimete in fingertip total electric living now... And for years to come. When the future is allelectric, why buy anything but a Gold Medallion Home? > o UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Buy now from your decler e Wee Temple Wedding Announcements For Your Daughter's Temple Marriage Custom Printed by Handy Mail Order 100 only $7.95 Other Styles 100 for $5.95 Write for FREE brochure and samples or send 25¢ for complete catalog. REXCRAFT All of the Numbers for the Relief Society and M. I. A. Are obtainable at BEESLEY Music (o. 70 SO. MAIN ST. EM 4-6518 SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Mason & Hamlin — Hardman and the Original Cable Pianos ROSE PARADE TOUR Eight fun filled days, including San Diego; Tijuana, Mexico; Catalina Island; Los Angeles; Las Vegas. Grandstand seats at Rose Parade Leaving December 26, 1962 MEXICAN TOUR Leaving end of January, 1963 Mexico City; Cholula, Pueblo, Taxco, Ruins Cuernavaca, Acapulco, Archaeological Ruins Ask about Mardigras Tour in February ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 Dept. R Rexburg, Idaho It was 33 years ago last April that we first offered SNELGROVE "DISTINCTIVE" ICE CREAM It wasn't long before our finer Product found its way into the hearts of particular folk, and today we are producing a product that is preferred by ali who demand the industry's supreme achievement. Over the years Conference Visitors have had a great part in our unusual success. "AMERICA'S FINEST ICE CREAM STORE" is more beautiful and larger than ever. "Artistry in Pleasurefoods" rove 7" Yoo Ercan OUR ONLY STORE- 850 East 21st South — Open until Midnight — (Closed Sundays) Dusk Dorothy J]. Roberts Darkness seems to come first from the trees After their triumph in the afterglow When they stand, shadowless, in amethyst — Darkness seems to cling to them and grow. E BEAUTIFUL pANDY iembie, Emaar e DURABLE tion of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in @ handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is preincludes British Columbia | Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the ' Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed Leaving September 8 Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate IN DECEMBER Up to 150 miles. 150 to 300 miles 300 to 600 miles __ ¢ 600 to 1000 miles - 1000 to 1400 miles 1400 to 1800 miles Hawaiian Tours Over 1800 miles 0... BT Leave them at our conveniently locatDeseret News Press — 3021 South 23rd East, P. O. Box 2065 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Ask about our 71 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instrucpared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Ed uptown office. Phone EMpire 4-258] Leaving September 14, EIGHT-DAY WORLD S FAIR TOUR ROSE PARADE TOUR MARGARET LUND Salt Lake City 9, Utah Birthday Congratulations One Hundred One Mrs. Saran LEGGE JACOBSON St. George, Utah Ninety-seven Mrs. JENNIE GILES SPRAGUE Monroe, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Ciara West BREWER Ogden, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. LuELLA PARKINSON COWLEY Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Harriet ELLEN Forspes ADAMS Layton, Utah Mrs. Litre P. STRAHE Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Mary Soputa PETERSON BuRKE Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Marcaret ELNoRA WISEMAN Mituer Davis Coalville, Utah Mrs. Errie Ensign MERRILL Logan, Utah Ninety Mrs. MawAta JANE GARDNER BRACKEN St. George, Utah Mrs. Minna MANDELKOW KIRCHOFF Salt Lake City, Utah 712 The Art of Homemaking by Daryl! V. Hoole 259 Second edition just off the press First edition sold within two months "THE ART OF HOMEMAKING promises to decidedly change the outlook of womankind towards her obligation within the home. After reading it through, | begin each day's routine with a feeling of delight and anticipation. Mrs. Hoole should be considered 'the Dr. Au Spock of homemaking arts'. Now available at your local book stores or by ordering copies direct from B. Y-U. Salt Lake Adult Education Center 200 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah or Extension Publications Brigham Young University Provo, Utah MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS! New Arrangement of Abide With Me—by Dr. Florence Madsen................20c __Such Lovely Things..................25¢ ~So Little Time..........................25¢ a. Kindness.........00....0.0ccceceeeeeeeee DOE osLord, God of Our Fathers........25¢ aLet Not Your Song End............25¢ ee. How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings.............--.-----1.-.00--200+25¢ oeEye Hath Not Seen..................20¢ e,. Eternal Life................0..--0.---1---- 22€.. The Silent Sea................--.--.----25¢ —_.. Lord, We Dedicate This House to Thee..................--------20c Go Ye Forth with My Name....25¢ We carry complete stocks of all types of music! Music sent on 10 days trial Postage free GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 246 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah Deserey Boo Gentlemen. For the encircled (numbered) k Company / 44 East Encloseg YOu will fing "--... Cheek South Temple / Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City Book (0. Utah: y and Served j+ Secretary of Second Class Postage Pai at Salt Lake City, Utah XX a. 2 " » al yp, OOD de checked ed s 4 nn —— Tod eg te a aa a wa ae a, pe a "peachy" family dessert... Fresh peaches, cream and sugar! Nothing tantalizes a weary summer appetite like juicy, plump Utah peaches topped with cream and sprinkled with pure, sparkling-white U and I Sugar. Try serving peaches topped with cream and sugar to your family tonight, and see if they don't agree. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY General Offices: Salt Lake City, Utah / wi.. Dorothy J. Roberts Gold hung high where poplar stems were leaning; Crimson were the maples, kissed by frost. Light lay, amber, even in the shadows And dappled the clear streamlet as we crossed. Golden halls arched down the autumn canyon, Coral carpets rustled at our tread. Darkness was a stranger to the mountain Save where the emerald boughs of fir were spread. So brief the gold that trembles on the aspen, The flare of crimson climbing up the slope, But I have held fall close another season And breathed again the brave, clean air of hope. I shall remember, long, the tall stems, leaning, Their shadows stretched like streamers on the trail. I shall recall this flaming glade and hollow, This golden day beneath a cloud's white sail. The Cover: Autumn in Owens Valley, California Color Transparency by Josef Muench Frontispiece: Autumn Tracery, Mount Timpanogos, Utah Photograph by Hal Rumel Art Layout: Dick Scopes Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press 713 TOM Var anu' Sep Ts I was so thrilled with the July issue of the Magazine. I have enjoyed every issue for years, and they have always seemed so perfect that I didn't think any improvements could be made. I enjoyed especially the article and pictures "Jesus and the Land He Loved" by Christine H. Robinson and Dr. O. Preston Robinson. The cover picture of the Jordan River was very beautiful. "Hand to the Plow," by Ilene H. Kingsbury is beautifully written, also "Out of the Wilderness," by Shirley Thulin. I have loved the series "She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith" (AprilAugust 1962), by Preston Nibley. The article by Frances C. Yost "In a Time of Flood" shows how people should demonstrate their love for their fellow beings by relieving their distress and suffering. The women of the Church are extremely fortunate in having such a wonderful Magazine. —Golda A. Thomas Bonne Terre, Missouri I am a teenager from Glasgow, Scotland. I have been a member of the Church all my life. In fact, I am a third-generation Latter-day Saint on both sides of my family, of which I am very proud. I really enjoy reading The Relief Society Magazine. The only thing I have against the Magazine is that I have never seen any letters from Scotland on the From Near and Far page, so I thought I would let you know that the saints over here read and enjoy the Magazine. —NMiss Christine Scott Glasgow, Scotland I loved the last issue (July) of The Relief Society Magazine, with its beautiful cover, its inspiring poetry and articles, as well as interesting stories. I especially loved Doris Duncan's "The Pea Patch" and also "One of the Pioneers," by Adrian Hansen. They are both so vivid and appealing. —Maude Rubin Santa Ana, California 714 I just have to express my appreciation for our wonderful Magazine — the beautiful coloring and the new type of paper add so much. The July issue was extra special — especially the article by Christine H. Robinson, "Jesus and the Land He Loved." What a wealth of information the article contained, and the pictures. Are priceless. The frontispiece poem "Summer Interval," by Dorothy J. Roberts, sparkled with beauty. I love all her poems. —Sylvia Probst Young Midvale, Utah After reading "In a Time of Flood," and wiping tears away, I was more prepared to enjoy the wonderful July issue. Sister Yost told about the flood in such a way that I actually felt I was there with her. Our home was Soda Springs (near Bancroft, Idaho) years ago, so this story seems very close to me. Each Magazine seems to fill my need from daily cares with the joy of poetry, stories that never fail to give courage, the beautiful scenes, and, most of all, the lessons, for spiritual food and growth. —Mrs. Zerelda Sapp Weed, California I just have to tell you how much The Relief Society Magazine means to us sisters here in Alaska. There are times when we cannot get out as the weather is so cold, and what an uplift it is to go to the mailbox and bring in the beautifully colored Magazine. The stories, poems, and the visiting teacher messages are wonderful. —Wilma Poff Fairbanks, Alaska Now for several years, through the generosity of Mr. And Mrs. Virg Bird of Springville, Utah, I have enjoyed the lovely Relief Society Magazine. Each edition is a renewal of their love, faith, and friendship. This Magazine is full of beauty, inspiration, understanding, and I enjoy every page. —Marie Lewey Blountstown, Florida THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE OCTOBER 1962 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spafford General Manager SPECIAL FEATURES Gospel Restoration — Part of the Eternal Plan Mark E. Petersen 716 Patterns of Family Life and Organization Lucile Dimond Smith 722 A Permanent Home eeNorma Dee Ryan 729 Hands Across co Quilt 0... Ccecceccescececneceseceneneeecneneencteeeeee Aleine M. Young 738 FICTION The Spirit of Thanksgiving Helen H. Trutton 730 Out of the Wilderness — Chapter 4 _. Im Shirley Thulin 750 Hand to the Plow — Part VI (Conclusion) Ilene H. Kingsbury 756 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 714 Sixty Years Ago ow... Z. 734 Woman's Sphere ooo... Eeeeecccceseseecneneceeeesecesesesenscoeees Ramona W. Cannon 735 Editorial: The Wages of Indulgence... Marianne C. Sharp 736 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities —.........-Hulda Parker 762 Birthday Congratulations... 792 FEATURES FOR THE HOME The Joy of Working. Caroline Eyring Miner 721 A Time for Giving _ ww = May Walkenhorst 741 Recipes From Calgary Stake = _ Virginia N. Myers 744 Two Handy Gifts for Christmas.......... - Adelle Ashby 746 Dorthea Strom Knits Sweaters for Missionaries 761 LESSONS FOR JANUARY Theology — Rewards of Keeping the Commandments Roy W. Doxey 769 Visiting Teacher Messages — 'Thou Shalt Not Idle Away Thy Time" Christine H. Robinson 775 Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized — Part IV sencenee Virginia F. Cutler 777 Literature — Oliver Wendell Holmes, Amiable Amateur Briant S. Jacobs 779 Social Science — Divine Law and Human Welfare (Continued) cccecccccecssosecseesseseAriel S. Ballif 784 POETRY October — Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts 713 Autumn Pageant, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 721; Tweed Time Again, by Maude Rubin, 740; In Summer's Wake, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 745; New Design, by Lucille R. Perry, 755; Indian Summer Song, by Viola Ashton Candland, 760; Interlude, by Thelma J. Lund, 774; Waiting, by Gladys Hesser Burnham, 776; Dusk, by Carolyn Despain, 790; Grandmother's Ouilts, by Zara Sabin 19]. Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c #2 copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Repor:; change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Sali Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 7 Gospel RestorationPart of the Eternal Plan Elder Mark E. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve his presence before the world was formed. The earth was created as a home for us. Adam and Eve were sent here first, and through them we, the rest of the human race, were destined to be born. The purpose of our coming into mortality was to obtain flesh and bone bodies, so essential to our progress, and to be placed here in a probationary life in which we could prove our worthiness to come back into our Father's presence, for it was his desire that we develop and become like unto him. In order to have Adam and Eve and their children clearly understand their relationship to the Almighty, it was necessary that God appear to them and talk with them face to face, so that they could see him, hear him, and know him. They were commanded to worship him, and to make their worship intelligent, they were permitted to see and talk with him. It is interesting to note that God even appeared to the first murderer, Cain, and talked with him face to face after his crime. Not even Cain and his children — banished as they were into the land of Nod — would have any excuse for not serving God, for the Lord did appear to and talk with Cain. 716 S children of God we lived in As the human race began to grow, Satan came among them, and sowed seeds of disbelief. He taught them to love darkness better than light, and as he did so an apostasy from the truth developed. Many fought against God. Always there was the faithful group, but many drifted away into error and sin. The apostasy developed so fast and so far that in the days of Enoch the Lord called him to bring the people back from their disobedience. So evil were they that they at tempted to slay Enoch, but the Lord protected him. The Lord was determined to save his people if they would only listen to him. But many of them, having fallen away so far, had lost their true knowledge of God. Therefore, that knowledge had to be restored once again, and so God appeared to and walked and talked with his servant Enoch. It was a new revelation of God in that day. It was another attempt of the Lord to call his people back to the way of truth. Angels were sent to help him as part of this new revelation of God in his day. Enoch told the people of this new appearance of the Lord. Said he: "I saw the Lord and he stood before my face, and he talked with GOSPEL RESTORATION me even as a man talketh one with another, face to face." As a result of his labors, a great conversion took place among the honest in heart, all of whom were gathered together into the city of Enoch and were called Zion, the pure in heart. But there were many who rebelled and continued in their apostasy. Enoch wept for them, and the heavens wept. When Enoch and his city were taken into heaven, only a few faithful were left remaining on the earth. The apostasy continued until the time of Noah. Again, the Lord attempted to call his people back, once again by a personal revelation of himself. Just as he had appeared to Adam, to Seth, to Cain, to Enoch, so he now appeared to Noah and walked and talked with him, in what was a new revelation of God for that day. Mankind could not have excuse, for God _ personally came to earth and made himself known. It was another attempt to stave off further apostasy, and to bring the people back to the knowledge of God. But the people still rebelled. The Lord gave them 120 years in which to repent, but they would not. Noah preached with power, but they resisted him. "There were giants in the earth in those days," and they sought Noah to take away his life, and the Lord warned that "My spirit shall not always strive with man." "And it came to pass that Noah continued his preaching unto the people, saying: Hearken, and give heed to my words; Believe and repent of your sins and be baptized 717 in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, even as our fathers, and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost, that ye may have all things made manifest; and if ye do not this, the floods will come in upon you." But the scripture says "they hearkened not," and Noah's "heart was pained that the Lord had made man on the earth." So great was the apostasy that "The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was cortupt; for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth." So came the flood, and Noah and his family — eight souls — were saved, together with the living creatures they had taken with them into the ark. But the Lord was not to give up. He was ready to start a new dispensation on the earth with Noah and his family. To make certain that they understood the gospel, and knew God, the Lord appeared, and walked and talked with Noah, and gave him commandments. Again, the Lord was granting unto man a new revelation of himself as a means of convincing them of the truth of the gospel. But it was not long until sin again overcame much of the righteousness of Noah's family. As new generations came, they, too, drifted away; they, too, began to apostatize. This new apostasy continued to the days of Abraham, who, in speaking of his own family said, "My fathers having turned from their righteousness and from the holy commandments which the Lord their God had given unto them, un- 718 to the worshiping of the gods of the heathen, utterly refused to hearken to my voice." Abraham's own father was an idolator. But the Lord appeared to Abraham in that time of idolatry, giving to him the true knowledge of the living God, despite the apostasy even in Abraham's own family. God walked and talked with Abraham, as he did also with his son Isaac and with Jacob. Evidently there were few faithful believers in the day of Jacob, for when he and his family went to Egypt to avoid the consequences of the famine, there were but "three score and ten" to go. The Israelites multiplied rapidly in Egypt, and by the time they had spent 400 years in that land they were numerous. But 400 years in Egypt — a land of idolatry — took their toll in a loss of faith among the Israelites, who began to follow the ways of their captors. Israel began to apostatize again. Many of them adopted the ways and the religion of the Egyptians and departed from the true faith. The Lord had a great destiny for Israel, but he could not work it out with them in a state of apostasy. So he raised up Moses to bring them out of Egypt, and lead them to the promised land. God knew how far they had departed from the truth, and endeavored to bring them back. As was the case with earlier similar apostasies, only a restoration of the truth would overcome error. So God gave to Israel of that day another — and to them a new — revelation of himself. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 Moses walked and talked with him. Seventy of the elders of Israel went into the mount where they beheld the Lord in person, and even ate and drank in his presence. They could testify of him to the rest of the people. The Ten Commandments were given. 'The mighty sequence on Mt. Sinai took place, much to the fright of the faithless and unbelieving, and finally the law was given. It all was a new revelation of God to these wayward people. It was another attempt of the Lord to save them, and he provided this new revelation as the means of doing so. Time went on. As the Israelites entered the promised land they pledged their allegiance to the Lord, and for a time kept his commandments. But again apostasy developed among them. Many were faithful, but many were not. Prophets arose among them, such as Elijah, Elisha, and Jeremiah, in the midst of apostasy, warning them of destruction if they would not repent. Captivity came to them as a result of their rebellion against God and his prophets, some of whom they killed, others they put in prison. Part of the apostasy was a changing of the law of the Lord in that day on the part of the learned among them. This led the people farther than ever from the Lord. Y the time of John the Baptist, they had drifted far, and he endeavored by his preaching to draw them back to the Lord. Again but few responded. When Jesus came he opened the dispensation of the meridian of time. As Paul expressed it: "God, GOSPEL RESTORATION who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in times past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son." It was another new revelation of God, for Jesus, as Paul explained, was the "brightness of his [the Father's] glory, and the express image of his person." Truly the coming of Christ was a new revelation of God to the people of that day, and it was an effort of the Almighty to once again draw his people away from apostasy and sin, and back to the true work of God. Jesus preached throughout' Palestine for three years. 'Throngs followed him. At one time he fed five thousand, at another time four thousand. But apostasy took place even in his own day. Early in his ministry, as recorded in the sixth chapter of John, a great falling away took place, so great that he turned to the twelve and asked if they, too, would leave him. Then it was that Peter replied for the group and said, "Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life." When the arrest and crucifixion came, the Lord's few followers were scattered. Most of them fled. Even Peter denied him. A mere handful were present at the time of the resurrection, and when the day of Pentecost came, only 120 — of all the thousands who had followed him — assembled. Filled with the Holy Ghost, and with the power of the revelation of God which had been provided through the life and ministry, death and resurrection of the Savior, the 719 Twelve carried on the ministry against great odds. At last apostasy came again, led by bitter persecutions and encouraged by the Greek philosophers who confused the people in doctrine, by the sins of the people themselves, and the loss of divine authority in the clergy. This went from error to error, until there was great disputation and contention in the Church. Constantine tried to correct it, but failed. Finally, it was he who decided upon the mistaken notion of God which was handed down for years to come. When the Protestant reformation came, new churches were formed, new doctrines were advanced, and the apostasy grew. But the Lord loved his modern children as well as he had loved his ancient ones, and he determined to save them from the darkness of spiritual bondage. Again, there was only one way to pierce the gloom and to correct the false notions of God and religion so widespread among the people, and that was to give a new revelation of himself to man. There was much to do before the second coming of Christ. The way must be prepared. The true Church must be brought back among men, with the divine Priesthood to conduct its affairs. S the Lord raised up Moses for his day, and Abraham for his, so he raised up a new Prophet in modern times to begin his work. He prepared his mind and led him into spiritual paths. He inspired a little boy whom he had sent unto the earth with a great 720 mission. 'The boy was confused, as was his family, when they listened to the contending preachers of the day. They did not know which church was right. This boy, Joseph Smith, was guided by the Lord to read in James: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God." This Joseph determined to do. Going into the woods near his home, he knelt in humble prayer, asking for guidance. Which church should he join? In answer to his prayer, the Father and the Son, God the Eternal Father, and Jesus Christ the Savior, appeared to him there in western New York, and gave him direction. It was no dream. It was not even a vision in the usually accepted definition of the term. It Was a Great Reality. God came down from heaven and appeared here in the United States in modern times to a modern boy. So likewise did the Savior, Jesus Christ. It was as real as the appearance of God to Moses, and for the same purpose. It was a new revelation of God to man — given as a means of bringing salvation to those who would follow the Lord in sincerity and truth. As was the case in Moses' day, so in our day, this new revelation did not end with one appearance. It included setting up an organization through which God could do his work. As the Lord established his laws and practices and his Church organization in the days of Moses, as he did likewise in the days of Peter and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 Paul, so in our day this new revelation of God included setting up his Church on earth again. It was part of the great divine plan. This modern appearance of the Lord was not merely in answer to the prayer of a little boy seeking guidance. That prayer was the immediate act which God used to open his new and modern dispensation, fulfilling the predictions of the prophets of old. This dispensation is different from all previous dispensations which had been given to combat apostasy throughout the history of the world. It is different in that all others ended in one form of apostasy or another. This one will not end in apostasy. This new dispensation will continue on until the coming of Christ. The gospel will not be taken away from those who now are its custodians, nor will it be given to another people. It will. Remain on the earth and grow — even, as the prophet saw — until it fills the whole earth. This is the last dispensation, the last time because it is in the last days, preliminary to the coming of the Savior. The testimony of this dispensation is the same as all others before it — God lives, he is our Father; Jesus is the Christ; he is our Savior; his Church is upon the earth, and only through it can salvation come, "for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved.": At itumn Paqeant Evelyn Fyjeldsted Yellow leaves are turning somersaults, Across the lawn and down the walk. Shadow silhouettes move listlessly, With the gentle rhythm of the wind. Like a stately ship at sea, The grey hawk aerials his course, With graceful might he disappears, Upon the waves of sun-streaked clouds. A banished little moon design — A dandelion too late — alone, Is hiding from the changing winds, A refugee of golden light. The chorus in the tree is gone. One small note drifts through the sleepy calm, A lonely sound and hesitant As a dry weed shaken by the wind. The reassurance of the hopes, Disclosed in autumn's pageant ways, Is challenging to unbelief, Although these witnesses are brief. The Joy of Working Caroline Eyring Miner *¢7'D rather work at chemistry than eat. I really feel guilty about taking money for a job I love to do so well!" I have heard my famous scientist brother Henry make this statement many times. Fortunate indeed is the person who has found work to do that he loves. The greater part of our lives is spent in work, and if we have enthusiasm for it, and would rather do it than eat, we are going to live happy lives. The chances are also that we are going to live successful lives, for we do well the things we like to do. My father loved horses and cattle. To ride the range in the lush pasture land of Old Mexico, where the grass was tall and beautiful, was never work in any sense of burden to him. He loved horses and cared for them and rode until he was past eighty. Making cheese at the mountain ranch on the Tanejo River was a sheer delight. My mother's hands were never idle. She braided rag rugs, darned stockings, knitted lace, or did some useful work almost every minute of her so-called leisure hours. "Life is joy when your work is well done, so pitch in, sons," said an old poem I learned as a child. 'The world of work is an adventure, if our minds are set to make it so. 721 Calvin Smith; Lucile Dimond Smith, holding baby Wayne Smith; Mary Smith. Picture taken about thirty-five years ago. Patterns of Family Life and Organization Lucile Dimond Smith "Utah Mother' of 1962 T@2 rea vs. = ae "" a THE CALVIN S. SMITH FAMILY Front row seated, left to right: Claudia Smith; Maurine Smith; Kathleen Smith. Second row seated, left to nght: Elizabeth Smith Wrathall; Mary Taylor Smith; Calvin S. Smith; Lucile D. Smith; Susan Miller, granddaughter; Helen Smith Rabe. Back row standing, left to right: Lucile Smith Hutchings; Nora Smith Grover; Virginia Smith Scharffs; Margaret Smith Miller; Calvin Smith, Jr.; Wayne Smith. James Dimond Smith and Mary Smith, deceased, are not in the picture. Picture taken about six years ago. Pattern for family living is like A a pattern for a dress. It is a design, a way or mode of life one selects to achieve a goal or an objective. What one wants out of life, what one values for himself and his family, and how much one is willing to sacrifice for his objective, determine the pattern or design for family life he will choose. What is God's purpose in creating man? Different nations, different cultures, and religions show a marked divergence in their outlook on life and life's purposes. What constitutes the good life? Primitive peoples are said to be kindly and indulgent with their children. National patterns among the poor and the middle classes in some nations are strict, authoritarian, and harsh. They exploit the children. One nation rejects the family altogether as a means of survival. Choosing a pattern of living is a very complex problem. In choosing a pattern for my family, I was greatly influenced by the family living in the home of my parents. 'They were sincere, honest, industrious Latter-day Saints. My father was a 723 724 convert to the Church, an immigrant from England, and the first bishop of Bennion Ward. My mother was the daughter of a pioneer of 1847, and the first president of Uintah Stake Relief Society. My father's home and the pattern of family life were based on the Church principles of love and service. My parents extended themselves, with their limited resources, to give us every advantage of religious training and education. We were a healthy, happy, integrated group. We were given consideration and respect. We loved each other, worked, and co-operated together to make the most of our resources. In being mother to my family, I have had in mind the fulfillment of what I conceived to be woman's noblest and most important function — having a family and rearing the members of it so that each individual in it could find the greatest happiness and _ satisfaction possible out of life, and render the best service of which he was capable. It is my belief that woman finds her greatest joy and reward, and _performs her most useful services to God, her children, and her community in rearing a healthy family of trained, useful citizens who find joy and happiness in life and in service to their fellow men. The mother is the "fountain of life"" It is she who is the most important teacher, the example, the stimulator for good, the protector against evil and dissension, and the guardian of peace. It is she who must be responsive to the divine purposes of God, and_ transplant them into the daily living of all her family. It is she who must seek to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 understand and interpret the good from former times, and the worthy and enduring trends of the changing present. She must be responsive to the moral and ethical impulses of society, whether represented by the Church, the schools, or by society in general. The mothers and fathers should be the major line of defense in keeping the atmosphere of the home and of society in conformity with accepted standards of right and wrong. HE unwritten code and the family pattern for training our children seem to be: 1. Our children are God's gift to us. They give purpose and meaning to life. We accepted the responsibility for rearing our children, educating them, and find our greatest source of joy and happiness in working for and with them. It has been my major responsibility. 2. I have tried to be patient and understanding with my children in order to keep the lines of communication open between them and me. Anger, corporal punishment, condemnation, harsh criticism, tend to close the lines of communication between parents and children, and prevent empathy and understanding. I recall with resentment instances of unmerited and what I thought unjust punishment and criticism in my own life. I have tried to establish a permissive environment for our children, where they would feel free to express their feelings, where they could democratically experiment, share, evaluate, and grow. This was a major challenge. With all my getting, I have tried to gain understanding of them. 3. We have tried not to kill the PATTERNS OF FAMILY LIFE AND ORGANIZATION child's interest by negation and evasion. The children have all wanted to help. We have encouraged them by giving them opportunity and by patiently teaching them how to perform household tasks most efficiently. If, with patience, persistence, and love, you can put a premium on individual development, it pays a thousandfold. Sometimes it seems so much easier to do the task than to teach the child how to do it. I shall never forget Calvin sitting by the fire trying to lace his shoes, with the tearful lament: "You always give me the hard things to do." We tend to forget the difficulties we had in learning to do things when we were small children. 4. We have tried to set a pattern of orderliness in the home. To teach children cleanliness and orderliness is one of the difficult things to do. Parents who succeed in this are the envy of all their neighbors. Some children must be reminded continuously to hang up their clothes, to polish their shoes, to make their beds, and clean the bathroom facilities after they have used them. Sometimes all it requires is a visit to the home of a careless acquaintance, and, by comparison, they feel the need of maintaining the family tradition of cleanliness and order. Personally, I have been grateful many times for the opportunity to co-operate with the schools in teaching the girls better home management by planning to redecorate their bedrooms, closets, or in the installation of the newer devices for hanging clothes, caring for shoes, and various storage items. Girls like projects. Every child needs a dresser and 725 a clothes closet, if possible, especially in the demanding adolescent period. For the boys we bought a small pants presser, particularly for use in their pre-professional days when clothes were at a premium but had to be kept neat and clean. The presser was used every day. It was also a boon to the pleated-skirt girl, who could not throw her skirt into discard because it needed a pressing. Once I watched with sadness the collapse of a fine family. The father had a keen sense of orderliness. For years he poured his wages into new furniture and new clothes for his children. But the odds were against him. The buttons were never sewed back on. Stitches that had become loosened were never repaired. The beds and overstuffed furniture were mere trampolines. Then he became discouraged. When all members of a family participate in planning and beautifying the home, assuming responsibility for decorating, painting, and cleaning their rooms, one of the problems of accepting and carrying responsibility is on its way to a solution. 5. | have not injected myself into childish disputes. It seemed better for the children to settle their own disputes. I did not want to be a referee. Intrusion was necessary only to prevent injury or domineering. é We do not overprotect our children. I would hesitate asking special favors for them, from the school or the Church. I would rather expect them to stand on their own feet. We have not encouraged belligerency. It is better to promote a spirit of sharing, of give and take. 726 7. I have tried to find constructive, useful tasks to keep the children growing; to expose them to good books and music, to supply them with attractive, appropriate recreation at home. Our home has been available to their friends. I have tried to lead the way, to encourage, to motivate, to provide incentive, to recognize their needs, and to cooperate in providing for the needs. I have hoped they would find pleasure in their tasks. When we all worked together at a job to be done, I think they, as well as I, have found teal happiness. We all worked in the fields together. How to keep the children busy was of constant concern. I have struggled in my mind over and over as I have said The Lord's Prayer, "Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil," and tried to make an interpretation for the benefit of my children. It seemed especially important when companions whom we knew did not have a good background, would gravitate, day after day, to our home. One would fear they might undo all the patient efforts of years of training. So the children said I "invented" work — music to be practiced, books to be read. 'The boys oiled the machinery so many times it was almost bathed in oil. They constructed cars out of discarded motors. (That took considerable time, and brought a bevy of little boys.) We cut down trees for the winter firewood. A lathe and jigsaw in the basement made furniture and playthings for the smaller children, and provided hours of recreation in cutting molds and patterns. My husband accumulated a fair-sized library of plans for children's projects: boats, kites, meRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 chanical toys, furniture. This library was kept in the working area. The boys made their own play equipment: a Ferris wheel, teeters, tricky bars, swings — some on pulleys that extended the length of the yard — sand boxes, and dog houses. 8. I wanted my children to learn to play one or more musical instruments. I set a schedule, often at five in the morning, and until late evening. Scarcely a day passed that I did not practice with some of them. Stringed instruments are so difficult to learn by oneself, so I studied the violin to help them. They have all co-operated with me. I noticed that if I played music, a rhythmic tune or melody, and left the music open on the piano, that, one by one, the children would try it out and soon learn it. They liked melody. Eventually, they would want to play it better than I. Music, to be enjoyed, cannot be a static thing. It is movement, joy, exuberance. 'That is one reason I have wanted each child to be a part of an orchestra or choir. J am amazed at the superior musical training young people are receiving in the schools. If they will only qualify, they will have one more anchor for rich, purposeful living. 9. We have made regular attendance at school important. There has been little or no truancy on the part of our children. 10. "When I grow up, I want to be just like Papa." So said a small boy of our group. When questioned what he had in mind, he said, "Papa never wastes a minute." 'Truly the eyes of our children are always evaluating. 'They will be our judges now and later. We have tried to be forthright and honest — no idle promises or threats, and no evasions. Integrity and honesty and truthfulness are important. Our children and we must face the realities of life. We have tried to treat each child fairly, and to deal justly with them, and to encourage them to be just with one another. 11. I have led the way; I have tried to set the example. I have not forced the children to accompany me to church. They have usually followed because they have found friendship and companionship there. Love and persuasion — not with a strap or a stick, not with coercion, but by patient insistence and firmness — have usually won out. A mother should not be too sure of herself; she must keep flexible. She should listen to her children, She may be wrong like the little boy's mother, when he said, "If my mother says it is so,. It is so, even if it isn't so." The child may be right. Unjust punishment leads to resentment, and blocks communication and understanding. HEN I decided to make homemaking a life's work and profession, my husband concurring, I had some advantages. We were able to select a home site with enough area for home, garden, and domestic animals, and possibility for expansion. In the absence of zoning laws, we could finish our home as money permitted. We have kept to the policy of staying out of debt. Our home has never had a mortgage, although it has taken twenty years to build, on a pay-as-yougo basis. Thus we could put a major emphasis on education for husband and children. Both boys and girls were encouraged to select their vocations as early as possible, with the help of intelligence, aptitude, and interest tests, in order that high school and college time might not be wasted in a trial and error selection of vocational objectives. Each of our children has learned to milk cows, care for chickens, run a tractor, to plow, harrow, and cultivate before he learned to drive a car. They have hauled hay, combined grain, and irrigated. Each girl has learned from experts to cook and to make her own clothing. Through 4-H clubs and woolgrowers contests, they have had opportunity to win firsts and grand championships in clothing at county and State fairs. Each child has learned to play one or more musical instruments. All the children use the typewriter, and have had some traming in bookkeeping and accounting. They have gone to political meetings and participated in political campaigns. We were greatly blessed in that our children have been normal physically and mentally. We do not wish to give the impression that they were all little angels and never got into any mischief. They did as all normal children do. They learned to swim in the dirty waters of the canals. 'They played with the neighborhood children. Wayne and his friend shot the neighbor's ducks. He traded two fine turkeys for some hair oil, with a salesman who convinced him he was going bald. Elizabeth spent two years in bed with rheumatic fever. Experiences such as these have made life exciting and uncertain. And so it has been a busy life, trying to fill every minute with PATTERNS OF FAMILY LIFE AND ORGANIZATION 727 728 Church, school, and civic services, when needed. All the children are grown now. Claudia graduated from high school this year with honors. She is still with us. The others have graduated into responsibilities of their own. We have occasional family reunions with the children and grandchildren. We rejoice in the family solidarity, their interest in each other, and their friendship. So far they have shown no disposition to depart from the way in which they were brought up. Sorrow and tragedy have come into our lives, but there has been an acceptance of the inevitable, and no vain, useless lamenting. As far as we know, there is no truer, finer, more satisfying purpose in life than that accepted by the Church as revelation from God: Man is that he may have joy in abundant living, here and hereafter. Co-operation, service, industry, integrity, frugality, compassion, and neighborliness beget love and are the elements of happy living. In our family there has been a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 unity of purpose. Differences in patterns of family living have been talked over together, with the same goal in mind. For example, we have been unable to provide a weekly or monthly allowance for each child, as we should have liked, but we have allocated the income so as to satisfy the most important needs of each child. Where wages would have been paid for farm and other work, the children have been reimbursed. Whata child earned was his own to use as he desired. One cannot have financial maturity or security unless one has a chance to handle money of his own. The gospel objectives of life have been our goals. The patterns of family life we have chosen, often after trial and error and study, have been designed or selected to achieve the gospel goal of joy in life for us and our children. 'The happiness and joy in life our children achieve, and the measure of their service and usefulness in their communities, are the criteria of our success. Cloud Cover Betty G. Spencer re day was gloomy! Clouds covered the lofty mountains that were usually framed by my picture widow. Yet, even though I could not see the tops that dreary morning, I knew those granite sentinels were there. That morning was a simile to life. Often, we find life's issues obscured by clouds of our own making. When we fail to do our best or evade our responsibilities, excusing ourselves with flimsy, contrived reasons to justify our actions, we are covering the truth with clouds. Beneath the clouds the truth remains—ready, waiting, to guide us in righteousness. Just as the sun's warm rays dispel the clouds on the mountains, our willingness to accept the truths of life, will sweep away the clouds which have hidden the truths from our view. cA Permanent Home Norma Dee Ryan "We moved into our house when we were first married and have lived there ever since." Hearing these words expressed at various times has, in the past, filled me with much envy, for due to my husband's military service and, subsequently, his occupation as a commercial pilot, we have had to move many times. To hear an acquaintance relate the history of a certain tree planted in her yard several years ago, or to have pointed out to me the thrill a friend has had in remodeling or adding to a beloved home, has been disheartening to me, when I can barely recall some of the apartments and houses we have lived in across the country. This thing that I envied for so long is a feeling of permanence, and I used to think that the only way to find it would be to stay in one spot, one home. 'Then one day I realized that all along I had been enjoying another kind of permanence which is stronger and more stable than any home. And that is the Church. When moving to a new location you must adjust to the climate, the housing, the schools, but when you go to Church, whether it be a large chapel or a small branch of a few members meeting in a rented hall, you are immediately at home. There is no adjustment to be made here! This is the same Church you have always known, the same teachings, and the same procedures. It is the one, steady, dependable "holdingon-place," while you feel your way into your new surroundings. S the mother in your family you can attend Relief Society, where you will feel welcome at once, for the women there will always seem the same as those you have known all your life. Here you continue, without interruption, the course you were following in your previous ward. The strength you derive from these associations and the lessons presented in Relief Society, will equip you better emotionally to be able to help the rest of your family make adjustments to their new environment. The best antidote for any homesickness or instability you may feel is to plunge immediately into the Church work that is familiar to you. I may never have a chance to return to Big Spring, 'Texas, to see if the flowers I planted survived the dust storms, and I know that at least one house we have lived in has been torn down, but the association I had with other Church members and the testimonies I remember which helped strengthen my own, are more valuable to me than any flowers. Our nomadic life may come to a halt, and we may yet be able to watch the small trees we plant grow into big ones, which will be wonderful, of course, but I am glad to know, should we have to move again, that for a sense of belonging, a feeling of permanence, we can always depend on the true, reliable permanent Church. 729 The Spirit of Thanksgiving Helen H. Trutton 66 HERE," Cleta said aloud, A} sticking the' last chrysanthemum in the vase, "they may not look florist quality, but they are decorative." Lucky, at least a few stragglers stood the ordeal, she thought, of these crisp November nights. She moved to the window and watched the big fleecy snowflakes switl to the sidewalk, then melt away. This would be the first Thanksgiving she and the children would be alone. It had always been such a special day in the family. Kent had felt that they should spend the day filled with the traditions and lore of that first Thanksgiving, and she had agreed. "It helps the children appreciate their great heritage," he had often said, "and reminds us all to give thanks for our blessings." 730 Her thoughts were interrupted by her young son Danny as he came dashing into 'the room carrying his snowsuit. "Mommy, help me put this on. I can't do it alone." She turned from the window and took the coat. "Of course, dear." "It's too little," he said, as she tugged to get his arm into the tight sleeve. "T know, but it will have to do this year. We'll manage it somehow." "Why?" he asked. "Well, it's quite simple. We haven't the money to buy you another one. Come on, darling." She gave him a slight shove after zipping the suit. "We have shopping to do, and I want to stop by and pay Mrs. Larson." "You had better hurry," he yelled site we to his two sisters in the next room, "Mommy and I are both ready." "So are we." Dawn and Heather appeared in the doorway, with Dawn, as usual, the spokesman for both of them. "We've been ready longer than you." Cleta managed a smile in spite of the loneliness that had clung to her all morning, as she reached down and took Danny's hand. "You really do look rather 'poured into that suit, but you look precious." "What's precious?" he asked seriously. She squeezed his hand. "That I love you. Come on, let's go. Our insurance check will be here today. We have things to do." All the way to town, she listened to the girls in the back seat chatter about their plans. "We will do the same things as always, won't we, Mother?" Dawn asked, "I mean the big dinner and program?" "Of course,' Cleta always." said, "as KENT would want it that way, she knew that. Ill read the same story, she thought, of that first Thanksgiving. Danny will stop me often to ask questions and add his ideas about the friendly Indians who had joined in that first gathering. Dawn and Heather had asked the same questions when they were four and a half. Then the story would be over, and everyone would take a turn telling what they were especially thankful for — and, in the past, Kent had closed the little program by reading Psalm 100 from the Bible. "Daddy won't be home for 731 732 Thanksgiving?" Danny asked, looking up at her. "Will he?" "No, dear," she answered. "Tl miss him." "Danny!" Heather leaned over the seat, and took his arm. "Be quiet." They were at the post office now. Cleta stopped the car, and slipped an arm around her young son. "We'll all miss him, Danny, but we'll have the best 'Thanksgiving we can. And, in the meantime, you stay here with the girls. I'll be right back." "All right, Mommy," he said. "T won't move." She reached in her purse for the key to her box, and walked quickly up to number 218. But even before she stuck her hand in the box, she could see it was empty. "That can't be," she said aloud. "It's always here." Cleta hurried to the window and spoke to the man at the general delivery department. "Is the mail on time?" "Yes, Ma'am," he said, without looking up. "Tt has all been boxed." "I was just thinking, my letter might be mislaid, or placed in the wrong box." She tried to appear calm. "It's always here on this date." He raised his head and looked at her. "Not likely, Ma'am." "Are the trains running behind schedule?" she tried again. "T guess so, back East. Been some bad storms according to the papers." She thanked him and left. There was no need going to the grocery store now. She had no money for extra groceries. At the door, she paused, watching a group of youngsters along the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 street tossing the snowballs at one another. They were having such fun. Dawn, Heather, and Danny were enjoying themselves from the safety of the car. "Oh, Kent, what shall I do?" she breathed softly. HEATHER came running. To meet her when she started down the steps of the post office. "Is anything wrong, Mother?" she asked anxiously. Cleta didn't answer until they were both settled back in the car, and then she said as calmly as she could, "Our insurance check didn't come, children." "Why?" Danny asked. "The check comes from Philadelphia. Trains are running behind because of bad storms," she said. "What will we do, Mother?" Dawn asked. "Do?" she said, and then she remembered the ten dollars she hadn't given to Mrs. Larson yet. If she used it today, and paid her when the insurance check came, the children wouldn't be disappointed. It was just too much to dampen their expectations by telling them there would be no big Thanksgiving dinner. Only — she had promised Mrs. Larson she would pay her today. "Can we still have the story, Mommy?" Danny scooted over against her when she started the car. "Can we, Mommy?" "Yes, dear." "Who will read Daddy's part?" Heather asked quietly. "I know part of it." "We'll see,' Cleta answered absentmindedly, "later." THE SPIRIT OF THANKSGIVING If she asked Mrs. Larson if she minded waiting until her check came, naturally she would insist on waiting, even if she needed the money badly. Mrs. Larson was like that. She was elderly, and had very little to live on. Still the children.... Decisions, decisions, how she wished Kent were here. He always knew the right thing to do. They were nearing Mrs. Larson's little cottage now; she slowed down, and then suddenly stopped the car. "TIl only be a minute," she said, climbing out before she had a chance to change her mind. "We owe Mrs. Larson, and I think we should pay her — even if it means no turkey dinner tomorrow. Don't you think?" The children looked at her but said nothing, not even Danny. Quickly she left the car and walked up the steps and rang the doorbell. Mrs. Larson answered the door, smiling broadly. "Hello, Mrs. Thornson. Come in." "I brought the ten dollars I owe you." "Thank you, dear. I have my bag all packed. When you said you would bring the money over, I called my son and told him that I could come and spend Thanksgiving with his family." "Oh, that's wonderful. And you were counting on this?" she asked, handing Mrs. Larson the money. Eilies." "Well, ''m certainly glad I didn't forget to come by," she said with relief. "Have a good trip. Now I must run." 733 "Goodbye, Mrs. Thornson, and thanks so much." Snow was sifting silently down from the sky as she walked slowly back to the car. She was so thankful she had paid Mrs. Larson. But now she must face the children. They would be brokenhearted. She didn't blame them. She had failed them on this first Thanksgiving without Kent. "Heather really can say part of Psalm 100," Dawn called out when she neared the car. "Want to hear it, Mother?" "Very much," she said, fighting back tears. "I'm listening." "IT know this part," Heather said quietly. "Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: be thankful unto him, and bless his name." "Wonderful!" Cleta said. "Then you most certainly may do Daddy's part." She hesitated, looking from one to the other. Weren't they going to complain? She waited. The children were still making plans. Finally she said, "You don't mind the delay in our Thanksgiving dinner?" Serious Heather wrapped her arms around Cleta's neck. "No, Mother," she said. "You and Daddy always said that wasn't the important part of Thanksgiving. Didn't you?" Cleta's heart was too full to speak for several moments. When she could control her emotions, she said, "You really do understand the true spirit of Thanksgiving. Our precious little family — Daddy would be so proud of you, and so am I." '++. Early § Chupa, located IN an Pen valley £ M2 special] Meeting with the Rel; —— Come Inspira tion, flame Y thoughts attune Unveil the Past, o'er the fut Ah! Memory: By Courtesy of Miss Ada "+ + entitled "By the Stage Door." ~ study in th w It i aN inno Ough, in langy Be a Pearance + Palatia] mansion, | — In the lety Islands __ 1850 The king is q > agreeable NVersation. Ased with th American elders be "ause of their dustrioys hab © Prides hims If in do & more than any Other Native ma He subject in his ficia] Pacity to the Fry Nch Governor On the 27th we attended the Morning sg Vice in th House of Tayer. After the close Hoatan, Our fatherly chief, address the Pele The seq abound th luxuries and th d teems With good things, -.. The North star Wwe Not see, he grand "TOSS is in the firmament OMG Tse Te the same God we Pray and invoke bless; — Mrs, Addison Pratt 734 ings,. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon R. FRANCES OLDHAM KELSEY, a specialist on drugs, who serves with the United States Food and Drug Administration, is credited with preventing many babies — possibly thousands — from being born with deformities. She was instrumental in prohibiting the marketing of Thalidomide, a sleeping pill linked to deformities in the newborn. For this achievement, she was presented with the Government's highest civilian citation for distinguished service, at the White House, August 7, 1962. RS. MAUDE FRAZIER, a legislator of long standing from Clark County, Nevada, and also an educator, has been appointed by Governor Grant Sawyer to serve out the remainder of the term of the late Rex Bell as lieutenant governor. PANISH girls are attending coeducational institutions more and more, breaking away from strictly Spanish customs, and adopting the styles of dress and manners current on the Continent. Interested in the political future of Spain, they are looking forward to greater freedom. "THE following facts, reported by the United States National Committee on the Status of Women, are of interest. Women make good physicians, and the United States should have more of them. About twenty-four million women in Sweden are working, approximately one third of the working population. There are more women pharmacists and dentists in France than in most other countries. MADAME BARBARA KARINSKA, in her seventies, personally designs ballet costumes exclusively for choreographer George Balanchine, but she heads a company which produces costumes for wide distribution, including the entire Metropolitan Opera cast — heroes, villains, and choruses. Hers is a difficult art. She says an actress can just stand and look beautifully garbed, but a ballet dancer must still appear beautiful while performing. Madame Karinska is an American citizen who fled from Russia in 1917. She received this year the eleventh annual Capezio Award for her contribution to dance culture. F 2) EDITORIAL The Wages of Indulgence A woman of achievement wrote in her memoirs that, probably, the one thing that contributed to her success and kept her from "early ruin," was the fact that she grew up during the depression years of the '30's and her parents couldn't give her money they didn't have. At least in her own mind, she believed that her parents would have granted her every wish and ended up by spoiling her, as they took away her incentives to work for her own desires and her development through working for her own advancement. It seems difficult for some parents to say no to their children, even when it is a matter of teaching obedience to law. Because of the pleadings of one young boy who was not old enough to obtain a driver's license, his father allowed him to drive, resulting in an accident of serious proportions. In walking through a supermarket, it 736 is interesting to observe the behavior of children in different family groups. Some mothers are besieged with requests which almost end up as commands. "I want that, why can't I have it? Mary's mother bought her one." The mother's initial refusal often ends up in a grudging yes, if the child continues begging long and loud enough. The children of another family may look just as longingly at the merchandise on display, but ask for nothing. It seems fairly obvious that the two family patterns are developing in different directions. An indulgent parent or grandparent can undermine a child's sense of values and the worth which he places upon his possessions. Contrast, in some instances, the care which a child gives to a bicycle for which he helped earn money to the care given by a child who was given a bicycle as soon as he expressed a desire for one. Hands Across a Quilt Aleine M. Young Member, General Board of Relief Society President Belle S. Spafford and Sister Chiyuko Oko standing in front of the Relief Society Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. ANDS across a quilt, as well as hands across the sea, is a wonderful H way of bringing us closer to our lovely sisters in faraway Japan. Such was the feeling of Sister Chiyuko Oko, who left her home in Tokyo last April to attend the General Conference of the Church, to do some temple work, and to learn as much as she could about the Relief Society, which is very dear to her. The General Conference was a revelation to her, making her realize the magnitude of the Church and that it is now world-wide, with people from many countries meeting and worshiping together. She does not speak the English language, but this did not deter her from accomplishing her goals. Her Japanese sisters were happy to act as interpreters, and many other members of the Church joined in making her visit most enjoyable and profitable. Sister Oko and her husband, who passed away about a year ago, were previously members of the Buddhist religion, but, due to the kindness shown her husband by Latter-day Saint servicemen when he was seeking work, and to their invitations to attend the Latter-day Saint meetings of the servicemen in Japan, they both received a firm testimony of the gospel and were baptized in 1949. She said that they were impressed by the friendly atmosphere of the meetings, the Word of Wisdom, and the 738 Left to right: Mardis Motoki of the Dai-Ichi Branch Relief Society, Salt Lake City; Anne Shino, Dai-Ichi Branch; Lily Shino, hostess for the quilting party, and Work Director Counselor, Dai-Ichi Branch; Chiyuko Oko, work meeting leader, Tokyo North Branch Relief Society, Japan; Aleine M. Young, member, General Board of Relief Society. Belief in the work for the dead. Her great joy was that she was now able to take her endowments and do some temple work. She was the first native Relief Society president in Japan, and, at that time, sent a beautiful Japanese doll to each member of the Relief Society Presidency. When she visited the Relief Society Building, she was delighted to see a doll in a case in the office of each member of the Presidency. She said, "It is like a dream come true to see these dolls displayed in this beautiful building." At the present time Sister Oko is work meeting leader in the Tokyo North Branch Relief Society of the Northern Far East Mission. She reports that the sisters there are now working on their annual bazaar and are making the same type of articles that the sisters are making in this country, as well as some that are typically Japanese, such as kimonos and zabatons. Sister Oko was interested in every phase of the Relief Society as she is anxious that meetings in her branch be carried on just as they are throughout the rest of the world. She visited several ward meetings, a bazaar, and a stake convention, where she observed the wonderful handwork of the sisters and found many suggestions to take back to her sisters in Japan. 7139 740 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 After seeing the many beautiful quilts on display at the convention and bazaar, and inasmuch as quilting has always been a tradition in Relief Society, she was particularly anxious to learn to quilt so that she could teach it to her sisters in the mission. So arrangements were made by Sister Lily Shino, Work Director Counselor of the new Dai-Ichi Branch of the Salt Lake Stake, to satisfy this desire. She invited a group of sisters, who were also anxious to learn to quilt, to her home for an old-fashioned quilting bee. Under the able direction of Sister Mattie Stembridge of Grant Stake, they were taught the art of putting a quilt on the frame and taking the small even stitches, not forgetting to prick their fingers just a little to be sure that they had sewed through both sides of the quilt. The sisters invited to learn with Sister Oko were Mardis Motoki and Anne Shino, also members of the Dai-Ichi Branch. Sister Oko spent a great deal of time in the temple, visiting friends and former missionaries, gaining information, and absorbing as much of the spirit of the Church as possible. Her mission accomplished, she returned to her own country in June. Did those first eighteen members of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo realize that this great organization would bring sisters together from all parts of the world in love and fellowship? Perhaps they did. Could they foresee, however, that the sisters in this country would be teaching an old American art to the sisters of a country where art is thousands of years old? God moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform. Tweed Time Again Maude Rubin The in-betweenness of the season now Styles autumn tweed for mountain meadow-lands. Each northern slope is nubbed with flecks of snow And chilly wind whips loose the woodbine strands To scarlet ravelings.... A flicker's wings Weave rust through leafless woods, and pasture creeks Are narrow tinsel threads; now gathering For pinon nuts, in sudden vivid streaks Of indigo, these raucous mountain jays Are grumbling at the shortness of the days. A time for GIVING May Walkenhorst Christmas is a time for giving — not only of gifts, but of oneself. And what better way to express the thoughtfulness and spirit of the season than by giving a gift you took the time and effort to make or decorate by hand? In addition to handmade gifts having more meaning than commercial gifts, handmade articles can be economical as well. The cost of materials is small, and you may find most of the necessary items already on hand. For the Golfer Create your own "Golfie the Gloworm." The fun with this one is in the packaging of golf balls. The price will depend on how much you choose to pay for the balls. Stuff a white sock with six golf balls, tying the sock between each ball with wool yarn. Insert tees for legs; tie a ribbon to make the neck; use gummed stars for eyes above a glued-on paper mouth; and glittered pipe cleaners for feelers. Weal 742 For a Child's Desk Use a small empty jar for creating a paper-weight snowstorm. Set a small plastic figure from the variety store in a mound of plaster of Paris the size of the jar neck. Glue the set plaster figure to a washer cut from an old inner tube the size of the inside of the jar lid. Fill the jar with water, adding one teaspoon of moth flakes. Insert the figure and screw the lid on tightly. Edge the lid with decorative tape. Cost, about fifty cents. Knitting Bag for a Doll Any little girl with a small "teenage" doll would love to have a miniature knitting bag which can be made for no cost at all, provided you saved the plastic container from the last tooth brush you bought. Using a razor blade, carefully cut the container down to 2!/" in height. Work a hole in each side with a hot needle or an ice pick for attaching a yarn handle. Roll up three tiny balls of yarn, tucking the ends under securely. Push two nails with small heads through the yarn balls to represent knitting needles, and place in the "bag." Replace the plastic cap, and stand by to watch a delighted face on Christmas day. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 fl ' i ' 4 } 1 A TIME FOR GIVING For a Convalescent Child Cover a blank notebook with brightly colored paper, bound with decorative tape, giving the front a personal inscription to start young "wheels" in motion. Cost, less than fifty cents. For Little Learners Trace around a child's_ hand, allowing extra width for the thumb. Use this pattern to trace and cut four pieces of felt for "Stop" and "Go" mittens. Apply green letters for "Go" to one piece, and red letters for "Stop" to an opposite piece. Join the pieces together on the machine or by hand using the blanket stitch. 'These help a young child to learn the traffic signals and colors. Cost, about fifty cents. A Bib for a Boy Many instructions are given for making bibs for girl babies, but here's a bib idea just for boys: Cut a "V" in the center of the top and bottom of a washcloth or piece of terry toweling. Bind the edges with bias tape, and machine applique a folded strip down the front, extending on each side for ties. Stitch unfolded strips 114" long on each side for "pockets," and decorate the vest front with small buttons. Cost, about fifty cents. 743 Recipes From Calgary Stake Submitted by Virginia N. Myers President, Calgary Stake Relief Society T our Relief Society Convention in Calgary (Canada) Stake, we served a sherbet which was so much enjoyed, and which received so many compliments, that we thought the sisters throughout the Church might like to have the recipe. Also, here in Canada, our weddings and parties are not complete without dainty cakes and "squares," as they are called. Included here are several other choice recipes from our good Canadian cooks. Three-Fruit Sherbet 3 c. Sugar 1—4 oz. Bottle maraschino cherries, 3 lemons (juice of) quartered and drained 1—4 oz. Can pineapple, crushed 1 c. Whipping cream milk to fill 4-quart freezer Mix all ingredients and freeze in a 4-quart freezer. Raspberry Squares f % ¢. Butter tbsp. Raspberry jam 1 c. Flour Cover with topping as follows > 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 ¢c. Sugar Cream together and add: 1 tbsp. Butter 1 C88 1 C88 1 tbsp. Milk 2 ¢. Coconut Press batter in 8" x 8" pan and 1 tbsp. Vanilla spread with: Bake at 325° for 25 minutes. Cut into 1-inch squares. Pecan Rolls % |b. Butter 2 tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Powdered sugar 2 ¢C. Pecans 2 c. Sifted flour % tsp. Salt Mix in order given. Shape in fingers. Bake at 300° for 30 minutes. Will be pale in color when done. Roll in powdered sugar while hot. Nut Smacks Cc. Sugar 1 c. Flour ¥ c. Butter 1 tsp. Baking powder Cream together and add: 1 tsp vanilla 2 egg yolks Press into 8" x 8" pan and cover with the following topping: 2 egg whites, beaten stiff 1 c. Chopped walnuts 1 c. Brown sugar Bake slowly at 325° for 30 minutes. 744 3 bananas, mashed 1 tall can evaporated milk (14% ounces) Nanaimo Bars —————__— First Part Cream % c. Shortening, add % c. Sugar and 1 egg Mix separately: 2 ¢c. Crushed graham wafers ¥Y, c. Chopped walnuts 5 tbsp. Cocoa 1 c. Coconut Add to above and spread in pan. SECOND Part 2 tbsp. Custard powder % c. Shortening 1 tsp. Vanilla (if powder is used) 3 tbsp. Cream Cream above mixture and spread on first part. IcING Mix and pour over above Mark in squares and store in refrigerator. —_— r t —— = = 1 can sweetened condensed milk 1 tsp. Almond flavoring 2 ¢. Icing sugar Mix all together, tint a pale pink. Press into buttered loaf pan and chill in refrigerator. 'Then shape like wedding bells. Place a silver candy on top. May also be colored green and shaped as wreaths for Christmas. In Summer's Wake Eva Willes Wangsgaard I stand above exotic tropic bloom Begonias yield within their sun-flecked shade, The hose relinquishing a silver plume Of liquid life to burnish leafy jade. While all about petunias climb and spread High up the fence and over moistened roots. Bright garlanded in apples overhead, The Hopa crabtree molds its crimson fruit. Yet something indefinable repeats A thin familiar warning "Autumn's near." And deep within me smoldering protests beat A sharp denial to the waning year. Each mellow moment caught in summer's wake Tempers my 'joy with its peculiar ache. RECIPES FROM CALGARY STAKE (or vanilla pudding mix, not instant) 1 tsp. Butter, or other shortening (5% ounces) 745 2 c. Icing (powdered) sugar 4 squares chocolate, melted 2 8-ounce packages fine coconut =, wy WY 4 LALh 4 ibhd GL SS for Christmas Adelle Ashby Cheery as Christmas itself are these tree-shaped place mats with matching napkins (Figure 1), and the gay, colorful shopping bag (Figure 2). Both are easy to sew and inexpensive, and they make a good pre-Christmas sewing project. The Christmas trees make your holiday table a joy to look at, and whether you use them as place mats, or march them along the tablecloth as center pieces, they are attractive. The shopping bag will add an extra bit of Christmas glamor and fun to your Christmas shopping, as well as being practical. The bag is much more attractive than a paper bag and will not fall apart or tear when out in the rain or snow. It is also handy and useful for carrying records and books, or sewing and knitting. Make one for everyone in the family, from grandmother to teenager. 7147 748 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 For the place mats, you will need: 2 yards of broadcloth, or linen, emerald green. 17 yards of white sawtooth trim, or jumbo rickrack. To Make: 1. Make a triangular paper pattern for the tree, the base measuring 1614", the height 1434", and the sides 16'. Cut six of these triangular trees from the fabric. 2. Mark where the horizontal trimming lines go on the tree, by placing the first line 2!4" from the tree point, then space the remaining lines 3" apart. 3. Cut six tree trunks from scraps, each 31/," by 4". 4. Fold the trunk in half lengthwise. Seam the sides, leaving the top edge open. Turn to the nght side and press. 5. Fold the lower edge of the tree 14" up to the right side and press. Center and stitch the unfinished edge of the trunk over this folded edge. 6. Now stitch a row of trim over this raw folded edge with two rows of stitching on the trim to hold it fast. 7. Stitch the rows of trim on the tree, horizontally, and clip the ends even with the outside edge of the tree. 8. Fold and press the outside edges of the tree 14" to the right side, then sew a row of trim all around the outside of the tree to cover this raw edge. For the napkins, you will need: 1 yard 36" material to make 12 napkins, each g" square, or more cloth, if larger napkins are desired. To Make: 1. Cut cloth 9" square, or larger if desired, and wider material ls used. 2. Narrowly hem all the edges of the napkins. 3. Top stitch a row of trim over the hem at one corner 6" along one edge. Fold a miter at the corner and continue with 6" along the adjacent edge. Finish the ends neatly. For the shopping bag: You will need 1/4 yard of green sailcloth or other heavy fabric, 11 yards of jumbo rickrack, red, and 11/, yards of white jumbo rickrack. Also Y yard of red satin ribbon, 1" wide. TWO HANDY GIFTS FOR CHRISTMAS PPPALPLLAAALY To make the candy cane motif: 1. Stitch the ends of the red and white rickrack together and _interlock them together all along by putting one point over the other, similar to braiding, only with two strands. Catch the other ends with stitches, and press. 2. Cut a 20" strip of this interlocked rickrack to use for the candy 749 To make bag: 1. Cut two rectangles of the cloth, both measuring 18" by 14". 2. Cut two handles from the cloth 14" by 314". Fold the long way and press to triple thickness. Now stitch securely along the edges. 3. Apply the candy cane design (directions for making candy canes are given below) on one piece of sailcloth. S 4. With right sides together, stitch the seams at long sides and lower edge. Invert and press. 5- Fold and press under 2" for the top hem. Stitch. 6. Center and pin the handle ends to the wrong side of the front and back hem 3" below the edge of the bag. Firmly stitch the ends to the bag and then stitch again at the top edge of the bag. A Oe ow oe we ee cane. Form the cane-shape diagonally onto one piece of the sailcloth and stitch in place, folding the raw edges under. 3. Stitch the remaining interlocked rickrack onto the inner edge of the top hem of the bag so that only the points of the rickrack show. 4. Tack the satin bow and a tiny bell where indicated on candy cane. Out of the Wilderness CHAPTER 4 Shirley Thulin Synopsis: Marian Morgan, a widow and mother of six children, has come with her family to their mining property in Montana, planning to oversee the assessment work which must be done to hold the property. In the mountain wilderness Marian meets Jake Hadley, the owner of an adjacent property, whose motives she mistrusts. ARIAN put the bucket of M water down. Her fingers were suddenly too weak to hold onto the handle. Jake picked it up and started towards the cabin with the long strides of a confident man. For a minute she could not follow him, then, knowing there was nothing else to do, she turned and made one foot go in front of the other. At the cabin door Jake stood waiting for her, looking at her, and she felt uncomfortable, like a schoolgirl caught by the football captain with her hair amiss. "Sure is a lot to be done around here," Jake told her, not seeming to notice her embarrassment, and yet at the same time enjoying it. "Yes, but Jim and I.. "T have a full crew at 'my mine this year. That gives me some spare time." Jake was a big man and now he was in the doorway. Marian could not get past to open the door. She had to stand there, 750 not knowing what to do. She had felt this way once before, when she was in a play at school, and the leading boy wouldn't give her the right cues. "Maybe I could come and help out some each day. You would be surprised what a little paint and fixing can do to a place like this." "Yes, I suppose so, but we hadn't planned...." "Oh, should I take this in?" he indicated the water bucket, and she knew he had timed his question to interrupt her objections. Jim looked up from the table where he had been working all morning, making lists and planning. At the sight of Jake, he got up and took the bucket. He didn't say anything. He just looked at his mother and then at Jake and set the bucket on the drainboard. "Howdy, son," Jake said, "I was just telling your mother how much there is to be done around here. Why, the work on the cabin alone would cost quite a bit, and take a lot of time, not to mention the work on that old worthless mine." "Yes, we know," Jim said, "we plan...." "T bet if you were to add up all the cost of the improvements that need to be done around here, and OUT OF THE WILDERNESS the cost of the labor it would take, you would be going way in the hole each year. Now, I'd suggest you let me help you...." "We don't need any help." Jim was suddenly like a young animal trying to protect what was his. "Now, wait a minute, son. There's no use to get all upset." Jake had a half-smile on his face. It was as though he were enjoying Jim's upset. "I only want to help you." "I told you we don't need any help." Jim's words were measured. "We can get along just fine." ARIAN could see that Jim was angered. "Just what is it that you want, Mr. Hadley?" she asked. Jake's grin disappeared at the unexpected firmness in Marian's voice. "Well, I thought you might consider selling out. I'm prepared to give you a good deal, and you'd be wise to accept." Marian thought of the leaky roof, the ugly black stove, Sue's frightened screams at the sight of a little animal. She thought of the bare floors and the old scrubboard. "Well, we hadn't thought about it, but maybe...." "Mom! You wouldn't.... You just wouldn't!" "Don't decide just yet." looked at Jim and then back at Marian. "I never did believe in hasty decisions. I'll come back in a week or two." Jake left then, and there was silence between mother and son. Jim stood at the doorway with bent shoulders and Marian sat down near the table. Then Jim said, "Mom, you really hate this place, don't you?" His Jake 751 words were like something he didn't want to say but had to. "No, dear, I don't hate it, exactly," Marian spoke slowly. She wanted to tell him how she truly felt and didn't know how. "It's more that I just don't understand the cabin, the forest.... I'm just not at home here." "Mom, please don't sell. Keep it for... For when I grow up. I want to have it always. Please, Mom. You won't have to come back ever again.... I'll take care of it from now on...." "We'll see, son. Now, tell me what all this is." She picked up one of the papers he had been working on. "Dad told me that each year we have to do $150 worth of improvements for each claim we have. I am figuring out how much money I'm going to have to charge myself per hour to add up to the right amount." "Charge yourself?" "Yes, you see, I won't really collect any money. That's how Dad and I did before. You just estimate how much your time is worth. If you had to hire the help, that is...." He stopped, not being able to find the words to explain. "T think I understand." Marian felt his need for understanding. "You are sort of making a bid on the job, but instead of hiring anyone, you do the work for yourself, is that it?" Jim looked relieved. "Yes, and I have to figure how long each job is going to take me to make it come to the right amount." "What jobs are you planning to do, Jim?" "Tll have to dig a shallow ditch along the railway back into the mine 752 so that the water can drain out. That's one of the things we've had to do each year, so I know how. Then Pll have to fill in all the chuck holes in the road that leads to the mine from the cabin. They are pretty bad this year. That will take quite awhile." "But, I don't see how digging along a track that no mine cars are going to go on, and filling in chuck holes on a road that no automobile will travel on, is going to accomplish anything," Marian told him. "Mom," Jim began, then whatever he was going to say, he decided against it and began anew. "Let's just say that it's sort of the rules. Anything you do to Improve the mine, keeps your lease for you." His voice was patient, as though he were explaining something to a child. ARIAN looked at her halfgrown son in a new light. She could see that he knew what he must do, and just as she had let David make plans, she must now let Jim. It was a comfortable feeling, having an almost-grown son, and she smiled to herself as he went on telling her of the way he was going to haul dirt with the wheelbarrow to fill in the pit holes, and what a job it would be to cut down some small trees for replacing some of the badly rotted timber in the mine. He ended his explanation with a faraway look. "Someday I'll be able to go deep into the mine as far as Dad did, and make a lot more repairs. Maybe next year...." "Jim, the mine isn't any good any more, is it?" "No ore has been taken out for a long time. Costs too much to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 ship it. It used to be one of the richest mines around here, but shipping costs went up. Dad told me that if someone ever builds a mill close, it could pay again." "Then why did your father want to keep it? Why do you?" "Tt isn't only the mine, mother. It's the land. Its...." His words ended, but in his eyes, the dream continued. Marian knew what he was feeling and how deep the feeling was within him. She hadn't known in time for David, but she was thankful that she did know for Jim. Marian got up and looked out of the window to check on the children. 'They were still playing near the cabin. They had been all morning, and now besides little colorful rocks, their collection included pine cones and snail shells from along the bank of the small stream. Marian was glad that Sue no longer felt the need for the protection the cabin afforded. She seemed almost as much at home outside as did the bovs. Jim was busy writing more figures, so Marian got out her cookbook and turned to her grandmothers bread recipe. 'The batch she made long years ago had not turned out well, and she had given it up. But now there wasn't a grocery store handy on the corner, and she knew she had to learn. We can't eat baking-powder biscuits the rest of the summer, she told herself. "Mom, do you suppose Ted and Jed could help me?" Jim looked up from the table. "T think they could. They're ten, and pretty husky." A smile spread over Jim's face. OUT OF THE WILDERNESS "T used to help Dad plenty when I was ten. I could handle a shovel fairly well, and could help smooth and tramp down the dirt on the road. I dragged trees to the mine and...." He picked up his pencil and made a new row of figures. "There, that ought to do it,' he said and folded the papers. "I'll go to the mine this afternoon and look things over, and then tomorrow I'll get a good early start on my work." "What about the roof?" Marian was reluctant to mention it, but she didn't want to go through another rainstorm without its being fixed. "Oh, yes, I almost forgot...." "Are you sure you can do it?" "Yes, I helped Dad with the woodshed."' ARIAN stirred and measured and smiled to herself as she thought how like a man it was to tarpaper an old shed first and let the house go. And in so thinking, a feeling of loneliness for her husband filled her. She stirred faster and tried to see the words on the page, but they were dancing through her tears. Jim went out, and Marian knew that more than the wilderness of her surroundings, or fear of the unknown, she would have trouble conquering loneliness of heart, and the wilderness of her soul. Marian gave the fresh dough a final pat and covered it with a clean cloth. She went out into the dooryard and watched the children. Her eyes swept across the stretch of blue sky circled by giant green pines. She looked at the road which led to the mine, and it seemed to beckon her, but she could not follow. The mine had somehow been an enemy 753 all these years. Maybe tomorrow she could follow the short road and make the mine her friend, but not today. Today, she would make some hot suds in an old bucket and scrub the bare boards clean with a sturdy brush. She would find the hammer and nails in the shed and try to fix the loose boards along the wall and in the floor. She would wash the windows and have Sue shine them with bits of torn newspapers, and she would look for some wire or rope to make a clothesline between two trees. Marian went into the shed and hunted for nails and wire with a wary eye. She remembered the spiders she had encountered in the shed as a bride. Picking up boxes, and looking in old crocks, she happened to find a large shoebox filled with seeds. There were packages of carrots, peas, radishes, and lettuce. "Jed," Marian stepped outside the shed, "look, I've found some seeds. Would you and Ted run up to the mine and tell Jim to bring the shovel when he comes? We're going to plant a garden!" The twins hurried along. They enjoyed being near the mine and were glad for an excuse to go there. "Mommy, what's a garden?" Jill asked. "Oh, don't you know anything, jill?" Tommy said. "A garden is a held with cows and horses and hay in it, like at Grandma's." "Not that kind of a garden," Sue corrected, "ours will have... What will ours have, Mom?" "See? Carrots, peas, lettuce. 1 found them in the shed." "T don't like peas and carrots." Tommy screwed up his nose. 754 "You'll like these, fresh from our own garden." "T like cows and horses," said Jill. Marian laughed and hugged her baby close to her. She was so glad for the prospect of a new project, especially a garden to tend. "Here comes Jim already," pointed Sue. "And he's got something." ARIAN looked. Jim and the twins were just coming out of the wooded area, into the clearing. Jim was holding something—an animal, with long legs. Jed and Ted were having a hard time keeping up with Jim's long strides. He was very disturbed, and for a moment Marian was frightened, then as he neared her, her fears turned to compassion. "What is it?" "A fawn, Mother. Just a little fellow, left to die." Jim stooped and tenderly laid the bewildered little animal down on a grassy spot near the shed. "Left to die?" Marian knelt with Jim, and so did the children, all but Sue, who kept a little distance away. "Mom, how could anyone...?" Marian looked at Jim. His mouth was drawn in a hard line and his face muscles were tightening. "How could anyone do what, son?" "Someone killed the mother deer and left the fawn to go it on his own." "Killed his mother?" 'Tommy asked, his big blue eyes wide. "Maybe they didn't know about the fawn," Marian said. "Maybe they didn't kill her, maybe she just got sick and died," 'Ted suggested. "Maybe he's an orphan," Jed said. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 "Yes, an orphan," peated. "He's an orphan, all right." Jim rubbed the deer's head and then patted him on the side. "Jim, what makes you think someone killed the deer?" "T found the fawn first, and then could see where something had been dragged through the brush to a big tree. And there at the bottom of the trunk, were the feet and part of the hide where they had cleaned her." "Maybe someone was lost and hungry. They might have had to do it, Jim." "No. Those miners do this all the time — shoot them out of season. I heard Dad talking about it. We found one once. It was on our property that time, too." Jim's eyes Tommy renarrowed. "Now I know where I saw Jake before. Dad was talking to him.... Telling him it was wrong...." Marian put her hand on Jim's shoulder. "Don't, Jim. Don't feel so strongly about it. You're not sure Jake did it. Maybe it was someone else." Jim pulled himself from her. "Stay close to him, so he won't get up and run. I'm going to see what I can find to make a pen with." "Mommy, is that a horse or a cow?" Jill asked. "It's a baby deer, sweetie. What shall we name him?" And while the children were suggesting one name after another, Marian's heart went out to Jim. He is so intense, she thought, and so lacking in judgment. I dare not think of what may happen if Jake comes back here again. (To be continued) New Design Lucille R. Perry October's air has disciplined the vine Whose restless march entwined the porch in green; Shorter days have shaped the new design Of arrowed flocks, and time, caught in between The sweet and somber seasons, join the two In wedded beauty — a rose unwilted grows Beside the border of chrysanthemum. Like a wind-twirled prism, earth delights In tawny color, while westward evening comes With deep blue mists foretelling winter nights. 15 Part VI — "Bid Them Farewell" (Conclusion) Ilene H. Kingsbury 1) 7 OW, the emigrant was con- ~\\ cemed with only the immediate past of Uncle David. This was a past of victory for her brother whose songs echoed the Merthyr hills, filled the gentle valleys of Wales and sent reverberations straight to the great national song fest called an Eisteddfod. His mother's dream had come true. His medals of honor lined the mantel for all to see. Look closely. 'The one attached to a gold chain had the picture of the Queen on one side. On the reverse was a wreath, a motto, a date, a name. One summetr's day the "Swedish Nightingale" Jenny Lind had unclasped that chain from around her neck and, in the seeing of thousands, placed it about the neck of Uncle David. He had fairly won this treasure from the wor]d-loved voice of song. When he made his way home up the Cardiff Valley to Merthyr, his kindred and friends met him afar off. They mingled their voices with his. They knew joy. In a sort of ceremony the medallion had been passed from one admiring hand to another. 'Then, with near reverence, it was placed 756 among other wonderful honors. When the emigrant mother and her five children viewed this memento for the last time, they all wondered what would become of it after Uncle David no longer could catch the gleam from its surface. At this point in the story the emigrant unloosed the drawstrings of her little velvet bag and unfolded a white silk handkerchief most carefully. There, before their very eyes, reposed Uncle David's chain and medal! All hands reached to caress it. All eyes feasted on its beauty. All hearts wondered just how it was that their mother could now quite magically produce the very item they believed back across the great Atlantic. They all smiled and hummed as she explained that at the last minute Uncle David had very secretly pressed it into her hands. To cover its beautiful presence he had drawn his handkerchief from his pocket and swaddled it carefully in silken folds. He had exacted a promise from his sister to keep it as a remembrance and perhaps, in some far-off place, award it to a sweet-voiced niece or nephew. She had promised. HAND TO THE PLOW "T want to wear it!' demanded little Sannie. Her mother quickly slipped the chain about the little neck, and Sannie instantly became a beautiful singing princess who was loved by all the world. The problem then became how to get the chain off of her. The mother decided to let Sannie wear it at least until sunset. At that moment David, the namesake of Uncle David, said that, well, if he couldn't sing very well, at least his was not a bad voice, and perhaps he should have it. The brothers and sisters laughed at him. His looks of misery startled them. How else could they know that he had yearned for that piece of honor from the moment Uncle David had placed it on the mantel? Mothers are masters of compromise. 'The emigrant now made a most unusual one. She leaned forward, released the special spring that held the medal to the chain and, with a quick thrust, laid it in the palm of David's hand. He was as speechless as the rest. "That's it!" she said. William blinked incredulously. Eddie felt called on to remark that the thing looked like a common old shilling piece to him, which in America was worth about twenty-four and a third cents. It couldn't be so great, then, could it? DAVID flipped the gold piece from side to side. He ran his thumbnail along the minted wreath, he wet his forefinger and pressed it against the raised surface. How it gleamed! How it beckoned the glance to stay and admire. He tossed it from one hand to the other, he 757 pretended to make it disappear, which frightened his mother. He became quite adept at spinning it on the arm of the pew seat. But games and stories and gifts were not the entire order of that war-torn afternoon. 'The writhing train lurched, shuddered, and shrieked. It shunted itself to a sidetrack. 'The boys tried to ascertain the cause of such a commotion. Their secret hopes had at last been realized — they were in the war! Great logs had been thrown across the track just ahead. The repairmen had ceased to try to remove them. Instead, they had come running toward the train yelling of disaster and waving hats and shovels. The only fortunate aspect was that the siding was near, and a temporary refuge could be claimed. Eddie and William jumped off the still moving car and ran forward to the engine. David sat down again with disdain for such trivial excitement, for wasn't he now the owner of a gold piece that money could not buy? A noise resembling a wail, a moan, a cry of distress was heard coming from outside. The roll of a drum officially announced the approach of army men who had power to capture, impress, or conscript soldiers for their cause. The word was screamed from car to car that soon every man and boy who could carry a gun would be dragged away. Terror swept every soul. A cringing of size waS apparent in each traveler. A prayer ascended for preservation from this bloody conflict. Each mother feared the day when she could no longer say her son stood 758 beside her, but was a memory of this day of horror. The emigrant now remembered every word the station agent had said about this thing called conscription. This forced enlistment was a part of every war, she knew that, but this was so newly her country and thus not quite the part of her that Wales had been, that she was not ready to spill the blood of herself and children that it might endure. Loyalty she knew. Honor she had lived for. But give them a chance of decision, a moment to stride about these ways, a day in which to become a part of their new land. LREADY the mother had lost sight of two of her boys. Heaven help them now. In haste she tore off her shawl and tall black hat and draped them around the head and shoulders of David. His little sisters began to laugh at the sight of their handsome brother looking all of a sudden like an old woman. He was about to shove them to silence and toss off this feminine disguise when some men of uncouth looks entered the car. The emigrant glanced in panic at the two girls now huddled in a far corner of their little sanctuary. Quickly she sat down beside David and gently turned his shoulders with her own so his face was averted from the aisle. Inexorably stomped the recruiters. They dragged a youth from the arms of his dear ones. He was no longer a traveler, an emigrant, a free man. He was a soldier in a war. As the men approached David they seemed to suspect that here was an odd creature. But then, one couldn't always tell about these RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 foreigners. Didn't they? One of the Southerners tried to peer beneath the brim of the hat. In doing this his eyes caught a gleam of gold. He snatched at David's hand. Wasn't money better than a raw boy who probably couldn't speak English and might run away from camp when the back was turned? The four travelers involved were paralyzed with fear. Pray now little mother. 'This is the most crucial moment of your days. The man suddenly dropped the hand that held the medal and tainted the air with an oath. He straightened up, twisted himself about so as to extricate himself from the property of these queer people, and stumbled toward his companion. No breath was drawn. Only hearts burst with fright. This man, then, waved his arms and in excited phrases fairly yelled his displeasure. "See that piece of money? That's the kind English sailors give to boys they want to spirit away to the sea! First they get these boys dead drunk, then they put a shilling in their hands as the sign that they now belong to the Queen's navy. When the boys get to know anything, and see the coin in their hand, then they know that they have to go to sea. Conscription, they call it. Say, now, I never thought that the Union boys were putting this trick to practice. If they have been through this train, they must be hiding near in the hills. Get out of here!" The two soldiers hunched their shoulders and quickly sidled out of the car. They forgot to take with them the lad they had already captured! Dressed awfully funny, HAND TO THE PLOW THE emigrant mother had always believed in miracles. Here, indeed, was one right under her very nose. David brushed aside the hat, then leaned over and placed it on his mother's head. At the same moment he kissed her on the cheek. He folded the shawl and laid it on her lap. Then, with a grin of inner satisfaction, that of knowing all the time how things would turn out, he tossed Uncle David's present from Jenny Lind high in the air and caught it with a swoop of his hand. The little girls laughed at this sign of confidence. The mother said nothing. The noise outside the train was as loud as when the warning was raised, but now it took on the nature of spectators at a parade who cheer the floats and ihe horses and the marshal of the day and generally feel that this is a jubilee. However, as the emigrant counted her children, she knew that her two other boys were nowhere to be seen. She got a wider view of how the land lay by looking up and down the tracks on each side of the train. She could not recognize them among the throng of workers and travelers. She noticed that each person had a feeling of questioning, a thought of wondering why the men had left so suddenly — and that without taking a single conscript with them. Funny people, those from the South. The emigrant became frantic for the whereabouts of William and Eddie. She ran to the engine end of the train, all the while searching for a clue to their whereabouts. Her strength was about gone by now, and she thought to sit down 759 on a railroad tie that was part of the usual supply along the tracks. As she did so she heard her name called. As she looked up she just could not believe what she saw. There was William standing on a part of the engine, the sort of running boards kind of platform near the huge boiler. He looked like a worker for the railroad, for on his head he wore a tight fitting cap with a little visor front. In his hand he held a small bucket of grease. He called down to her. "Mother! See, I am a tallowpot!'"" If he had said he was a man from Mars she would not have been more astonished. He took a flying leap from the side of the hot boiler and landed almost at her feet. "See what I have been doing! Just as I got to the front of the train the troops came riding up. I didn't know what to do or where to hide. The man in the cab window called to me, put his hat on my head, and this tallowpot in my hand, and said to climb on the engine and pretend I worked for him. As I poured tallow into the steam chest where all the valves were, I thought I would be burned alive. The rail man ordered me to be a little more careful or we would all be on fire. As the troops rode by they thought I was a real tallowpot and didn't stop to take me to the war." A flash of thought shook the emigrant. If only one could have enough hats handy, one could work a miracle with each of them. How sacrilegious a thought. But now was no time to straighten out such a tricky thought. She stood up and walked back to her part of the train. She glanced quickly about, search- 760 ing for Eddie. All of a sudden there he was running toward her. He put his arm about her shoulder. "Mother, guess what happened?" She could not reply. "TI lost William just as the soldiers came riding in so I crawled under the logs that had been covering the track. The horses jumped nght over me once, and I thought it was judgment day at last. After they rode away I wiggled out, and here I am." A mother certainly has a lot to endure, thought this one, whose three sons were still hers, whose lives she could guard and guide and take on to the valley. Do not wait for nightfall for silence to pray, do Bon, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 not wait for silence and calm, do not wait to say that word of gratitude for prayers answered by miracle. The journey continued when the logs were removed and the soldiers were no longer a menace. As the wheels rolled and the smoke of the wood burner up front became as a mantle over the top of the train, the mother thought that the war and the Bend and the ocean were better left in the past. For now she faced the West, and there was no turning back. She gathered her children around her as twilight descended and the evening enclosed them under the watchcare of the Lord. Od _ Teatanata' a i ss q JU! >| Long Viola Ashton Candland October, let me savor Your mellow, ripened days Of Indian summer flavor, Before cold winter flays All nature with its icy whip. October, your elixir is sweet upon my lip. October, let me gather A beautiful bouquet. Too soon the frosty weather Lays waste your fine array Of autumn-clad chrysanthemums. October, hold them tenderly until November comes. October, let me glean from you Tranquility in age; Let Indian summer's warmth imbue Me with the faith to gauge The waning-season's worth. October, let me hoard your wealth Against the winter's dearth. Dorthea Strom Knits Sweaters For Missionaries ])ORTHEA Strom, Williston, North Dakota, has many talents, but she is most noted for her excellent craftsmanship in knitting sweaters. She has made eighteen sweaters for missionaries assigned to her area, and has also made many other sweaters for friends and relatives. In the picture with Sister Strom, are four missionaries, wearing sweaters which she knitted for them, left to right: Gordon Oborne; Maurine Jensen; Katherine McFarland; David Hawworth. Sister Strom, who was born in Denmark, learned many of the handwork crafts of her native land, and, in addition, she has become an expert in other handicraft, including china painting, crocheting, making punchwork pillows, quilting, and making Tugs and afghans. She gives generously of her talent and teaches other women her ways with hook and needle. She is dearly beloved among her associates and remembered with affection by the many missionaries she has served and befriended. — an SroayrrRom THE FIELD General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Central Atlantic States Mission, Danville (Virginia) Branch Anniversary Program, March 17, 1962 Left to right: Elsie Yarbrough, President, Myrtle Morris; Grace Martin; Pauline Walker; Beulah Doss; Virginia Hinton; Ora Garner; Lucy Lowe; Ella Rader; Minnie Compton; Hattie Overstreet. Catharine W. Aposhian, President, Central Atlantic States Relief Society, reports: "The Relief Society of the Danville Branch had a special program on March 17, 1962, in honor of the birthday of Relief Society. It was a special occasion for the small branch, with a larger than usual number in attendance. An account of the organization of Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith was given by Elsie Yarbrough. Also included in the program was the reading of some beautiful poetry by Pauline Walker. There were also some special musical numbers. The color scheme of blue and gold, Relief Society colors, was used in the decorations and refreshments." 762 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 763 Weiser Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Music for Weiser-Nyssa Stake Relief Society Convention April 24, 1962 Seated on the stand, left to right: Marion Mathewson, President, Nyssa Stake Relief Society; Irene H. Baxter, President, Weiser Stake Relief Society; Elder Evern O. Youngberg, President, Weiser Stake; Elder Dehlin A. Erickson, President, Nyssa Stake; Irene B. Woodford and Irene C. Lloyd, of the General Board of Relief Society. Standing at the left of the chorus: Pauline Jensen, chorister, Weiser Stake Relief Society; Jeanette Thornock, organist. Sevier Stake (Utah) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Conference, March 18, 1962 Seated, front center, in dark dress: Betty Erickson, chorister; Marilyn Madsen, organist, seated at the right of Sister Erickson. Madge G. Parks, President, Sevier Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our stake Singing Mothers chorus numbered ninety-four, although some of the sisters were unable to be present when the picture was taken. This group is newly organized, and we were proud and thrilled at their performance in rendering four beautiful songs, which added much to the spirit of the conference. We love and appreciate these sisters for their service. Many hours were spent in practice in preparation for stake conference and other occasions. Much credit goes to our stake chorister and organist for their untiring efforts in bringing this group together." 764 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 St. George Stake (Utah), St. George Second Ward Relief Society Presidents Honored at Birthday Social, March 1962 Front row, seated left to right: Rosilla B. Porter; Paula Mathis; Hazel Bradshaw; Zetta W. Stucki; Hannah Wells. Back row, standing left to right: Marie Booth; Louise Englestead; Barbara Hunt; Bertha Weaver; Nola Jones. Violet C. Esplin, President, St. George Stake Relief Society, reports: 'All ten Relief Society presidents of St. George Second Ward attended the social, representing thirty years of service. To commemorate these years of service, a skit written by Cleo Gentry, pointed up special and amusing incidents in the work of each of the former presidents. Each sister was given an appropriate gift in commemoration of her services." New Orleans Stake (Louisiana) Honors Visiting Teachers at Social January 15, 1962 Seated, left to right, honored visiting teachers: Grace Nicol; Mary Brian; Anna Westbrook; Iris James; Myrtle Bankston; Lena Brian; Lula Smith; Irene Crawford. Standing, left to right: Gloria Phillips, stake Magazine representative; Mollie Brady, stake Secretary-Treasurer; Cleora Williams, stake Second Counselor; Lea Larson, stake President; Florence Chapman, Stake First Counselor; Fern Wakefield, garment representative; Dolores Brian, stake visiting teacher message leader; Mary Nelson, stake literature leader; Joyce Grigg, stake chorister. Sister Larson reports: "A social honoring all visiting teachers in New Orleans Stake was held in the Baton Rouge Ward Chapel. 'This area covers most of the southern half of Louisiana. Visiting teachers with over fifteen years of service were presented corsages which had all been handmade by Second Counselor Cleora Williams. Record cold weather conditions throughout the State failed to daunt seventy-two sisters from attending this social, the first of its kind since the stake was organized in 1955. A luncheon, featuring seafood gumbo, was served, and the theme 'messengers of love and service' was carried out in the table decorations, as well as in the program which followed the luncheon. It was a rewarding day for all attending." East Long Beach Stake (California) Inter-Faith Social May 25, 1962 At the right: Gladys Phillips, theology class leader. Melva Orgill, President, East Long Beach Stake Relief Society, reports: "A very lovely inter-faith social was held May 25, 1962. A program designed to explain the history, purposes, and activities of Relief Society through words and music, was well accepted by those in attendance. The adjoining hall was then opened to allow the group to view closely and leisurely demonstrations and displays of all phases of the Relief Society program: the educational program, the homemaking program, the recreational program, the Welfare program, and other activities. Light refreshments were served, as well as samples of bread, candies, relishes, and other foods distributed from the demonstrations. This social was felt to be a most successful activity, with many women joining their hands and hearts to show nonmember friends the greatness of Relief Society. The picture represents the theology display." Pe sad iat? FEA ee a ' rv i eR ed Be b. 2 ™ 7961 838OoLSO—INIZVOWW ALIIDOS 431734 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 767 South Carolina Stake Relief Society Celebrates the Anniversary of Relief Society, March 17, 1962 Left to right: stake board members Fannie Thornton, Sylvia Bass, Carolyn Hurren, Bernice Kneece and Alice Voyles; Lottie P. Joyner, First Counselor, South Carolina Stake Relief Society; Elder Benjamin W. Wilkerson, President, South Carolina Stake; Harriet W. Capps, President, South Carolina Stake Relief Society; Malcolm B. Fagan, Second Counselor; Nellie Opie, Melba Ross, Donna Jensen; Geraldine D. Petty, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Capps reports: ""The South Carolina Stake Relief Society celebrated the 120th birthday of Relief Society on March 17, 1962. Refreshments were served before leadership meeting began. Members of the stake board were attired in costumes, similar to those worn by the sisters of the first Relief Society in 1842." Palmyra Stake (Utah), Spanish Fork Sixth Ward Relief Society Presents "The Relief Society Memory Book," March 20, 1962 Left side, seated, left to mght: Ann Leek, as Emma Smith; Effie Sorensen, as Clarissa Williams; May Christopherson, as Emmeline B. Wells. Left side, standing, left to right: Edith Ludlow, as Eliza R. Snow; Flora Belle Davis, as Zina D. H. Young; Delores Nelson, ward chorister; Luana Clark, ward organist; Vera Jenkins, as Bathsheba W. Smith.. Right side, seated, left to right: Jennie Dart, as Amy Brown Lyman; Lula Hermenson, as Belle S. Spafford; Dora Stewart, as Louise Y. Robison. Right side, standing, left to mght: Kay Lowe, director; Helen Olsen, narrator; Zelma Hair, President, Sixth Ward Relief Society; Blanche Bradford, First Counselor; Emma Hancock, Second Counselor; Ruth Hancock, Secretary-Treasurer. Bernice S. Swenson, President, Palmyra Stake Relief Society, reports: "This was one of the best and most exciting Seventeenth of March affairs we have ever had. To see so many of the older women participating and happy over the event was a great thrill to us, and we sincerely feel that there is no better way to learn of the lives of great women in our Church and in Relief Society, and to enjoy each other's association, than by accomplishing such a presentation. The nine general presidents of Relief Society were represented in an oval opening of the album. Special tributes were given to the Sixth Ward Relief Society presidency. The play was written by Virginia D. Clark, with revision and additions by Marianne C. Sharp and Alberta H. Christensen, and directed by Kay Lowe. Small portraits of each president were placed in silver frames and given to each sister present." South Davis Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Stake Relief Society President Ilene S. Bagley stands first on the right in the second row, as a member of the chorus. Standing in front: Blanche J. Ellis, Education Counselor, who was the author of the continuity and one of the narrators for the May 4th concert; Maurine M. Haycock, Work Director Counselor, who acted as publicity chairman for the concert; Gladys C. Van de Merwe, narrator; Mona M. Jensen, stake chorister; Inez C. Tanner, stake Organist, seated at the piano. Sister Bagley reports: "The South Davis Stake Singing Mothers chorus of sixty voices began rehearsing in February 1962, in preparation for stake conference, which was held in March, and for a concert held on May 4th, as well as for the two-stake Relief Society convention held in conjunction with Bountiful South Stake. Twelve numbers were learned by the group and artfully presented on these occasions. The concert was the musical highlight of the year in the stake. It is hoped that this will become an annual affair. Each of the stake board members was given an individual assignment concerning the concert, and all were co-partners in its success." inging Mo any Occasions Convention on ay 11th; for the morning Session o > and on May 31St presente a co lends. The h; 1€ stake cen are indeed Stateful for having - / - oe > Work D ethodist Church: a 4 President, Glend > "ust Lutheran Church Ister Beg] MEPONSH <u ' social. We ale Stake Relief happy With th © women in attendance of our Inter-faith of whom > 5° were women of other questions," Ishops of the ward have Ineteen different faiths were Tepresented We felt that thi &teat missiona help, 1 I € also had Priesthood members j THEOLOGY e The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 44 — Rewards of Keeping the Commandments Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 59:15-24) For First Meeting, January 1963 Objective: To learn the promises of the Lord for the faithful who keep his commandments. Introduction N last month's lesson we learned that on the day the Prophet Joseph Smith attended the funeral of Polly Knight, the Lord gave a most important revelation for the comfort of the saints. It was a message of hope concerning the future life where the deceased continue to find joy in activity. The saints also learned that they would be blessed with commandments received b revelation through the Prophet. One of these commandments was the Proper observance of the Lord's day of rest. Eight positive requirements of Sabbath day observance were enumerated in the lesson. An official statement by the First Presidency was also given concerning violation of the Sabbath. (Lesson 43, Relief Society Magazine, September 1962.) "Inasmuch As Ye Do These Things With Thanksgiving" If we follow the commandment concerning the Sabbath day and are faithful in keeping the other commandments, our harvest will be rich. But what is expected of the member as he obeys God's will? Gratitude, yes, as we learned from verse 7 of Section 59. Then what? As a member follows the commandments in keeping the Sabbath day holy, joy is received, and rich blessings are promised. (SeeD & C 59:15-19.) Keeping the commandments brings the favor of heaven, In the foregoing verses there is stated the purpose for which the things of the earth — food, clothing, and shelter — are provided, to strengthen one physically and spiritually. Implicit in these verses is the same thought expressed in an earlier revelation. All Jaws and commandments thought of as temporal are spiritual. (Ibid., 29:34-35.) The important fact is that the bounties of the earth are for all men 769 770 (Ibid., 49:19), but not in excess. An equitable distribution of the products of the earth is the ideal. Those who receive more of these materials are not only to use judgment in their use, but also to see that advantage is not taken of their fellow men. And it pleaseth God that he hath given all these things unto man; for unto this end were they made to be used, with judgment, not to excess, neither by extortion (Ibid., 59:20). Moderation and honesty are to guide man's use of God's creations provided for man's sojourn on the earth. Riches are to be used for the benefit of man. (Ibid., 49:20; Jacob 2:18-19.) President David O. McKay has emphasized that life should not be centered on wealth. (Gospel Ideals, page 393.) President Heber J. Grant has pointed out that riches in themselves may be blessings if used in the way the Lord intended. (Gospel Standards, page 108. ) Man's Offenses God's wrath is kindled against those who disregard his commandments when they know his will. His wrath or anger will be demonstrated at his coming in power to the world. (D & C 1:9-:10.) The wicked will feel his wrath because they have brought his displeasure upon themselves due to violation of law. (Ibid., 124:48.) The demands of justice will be met by all those who remain unrepentant. (3 Nephi 28:34-35.) When the Lord stated the temporal blessings received by the faithful who obey the Sabbath, he expressed a truth which emphasizes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 the necessity of man's full acceptance of God's sovereignty and _ his dependence upon the Creator. It is: And in nothing doth man offend God, or against none is his wrath kindled, save those who confess not his hand in all things, and obey not his commandments (D & C 59:21). Is man to acknowledge the earth and the things of the earth for his benefit as coming from the Father in heaven? President Joseph F. Smith taught that man _ should acknowledge all truth from God. (Gospel Doctrine, oth edition, pp. 5-6.) For one who has felt the divine goodness of God, as did King Benjamin the Nephite, of the Book of Mormon, the answer must be yes. He labored to serve his subjects, for which they expressed gratitude. Using this as an opportunity to show wherein the Nephites were to thank their heavenly King, he said that if men should serve God with all their hearts, they would still be unprofitable servants. (Mosiah 2:20-21.) To acknowledge the Lord as the Creator who has given man life and provided the bounties of the earth for his benefit does not seem to be for many a part of present-day belief and practice. We should as Latter-day Saints learn a lesson from the Nephites. When the bounteous blessings of the earth are received, we are to be stewards over them, realizing that they are given to us by the Lord. A lesson that we should learn is that pride was the downfall of the Nephite nation. (Ibid., 38:39.) Obey His Commandments The Nephites were given specific LESSON DEPARTMENT promises that if they did keep the commandments they would prosper in the land. (I Nephi 4:14; 2 Nephi 1:20; 3 Nephi 5:22.) This same promise is given to the saints of the latter days. (2 Nephi 10:19; D& C 10:49-51.) Although one acknowledges the hand of the Lord in the blessings of life, he is still not completely acceptable to God unless he keeps his commandments. The keeping of the commandments is based upon faith in the Lord Jesus as the Savior and Redeemer. The strength of one's motivation to keep the commandments is determined, in large measure, by his attitude toward the Savior and the Father. Are we dependent upon them for life, for the opportunity to use earth's resources as stewards? Do we genuinely believe that we should give thanks to the Lord for these blessings? Is there a direct relationship between one's keeping the commandments and one's temporal and spiritual welfare? According to the prophets, as shown above, those who do not show their gratitude by keeping the commandments offend God and against them his wrath is kindled. (D & C 59:21.) The time will come when all men will confess that God is sovereign, and they will acknowledge him as the Giver of life with its opportunities for proving oneself a true disciple. A Great Truth One of the outstanding truths given in sacred literature concludes Section 59. That all believers might know the pathway to successful living, the Lord revealed: But learn that he who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his reward, 771 even peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come. I, the Lord, have spoken it, and the Spirit beareth record. Amen (D & C 5923-24). This truth expresses the most important promise the Father can give to any of his children. 'The greatest measure of salvation attainable is eternal life. When one thinks of rewards as blessings from the Father, one should remember that the Lord favors those who keep his commandments. (I Nephi 17:35.) Specifying "Works of Righteousness" What are the works of righteousness required of one to receive the rewards mentioned in the text quoted above (D & C 59:23)? One might summarize the answer by saying, "Keep the commandments!" But we don't always gain our objective by such a general statement. When the prophets by inspiration tell the people that they should keep the commandments, it is assumed that the saints are acquainted with the commandments. Not all of us are sufficient readers of the scriptures and the works of the living prophets to have specific knowledge of the Lord's will. It seems necessary, therefore, that we speak with some detail about the works of righteousness. Perhaps this restatement may serve as a review for many, and to others it may bring a greater understanding. For all it should be an opportunity for taking inventory of one's own status before God. Appropriate to this thought is the admonition that the member of the Church should 772 RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE_ocTopep 1962 learn his duty in all diligence. Missionary Work — pR; (Ibid., 107:99. ) What other T€sponsibilit; Without °onsidering the followto a member of the Ch ing Suggestions of Works of righta4Cceptance of Chr Cousness ag Complete or of their im. Swers this question j Portance in the order in which they Purposes of the Chu are given, let ys Consider some Sigslonary Program stan nificant items. Most. The dividual] member the "€SPOnsibility a | Seeking Perfection sOusness, to teach ne Of the first Steps toward _ this © Not performed Tighteousness_; the sight of the Of our fello men is y Ord is to accept baptism in his (D&C gg 1-82.) ingdom ( 15; oo NE the formal] Missionar 31:5-10,) aving take this step, Which one may be calle or the member of the urch ber. Re Ting names of non Would be to continually haye in ber friend 0 Stake mind the o J€ctive of life; that jg AUSslOnaries well as £0dliness. (Moronj ane) line 'onary is another Way. By most SuCCessfy] method of acthe spel in the auxiliary rOmplishing this 80al is to love the tions of the Church, one Lord with all one's heart, Might, an °PPortunity to Perform m mind, and strength. (D&C 59:5.) aly service. If t e teacher, however, Develop a love for Christ' "that is to make a convert his attitude "worketh by faith" Such love will Must be that of the missionary, engender the same emotion toward Elder Mark F. Petersen has pointed;: doctrine May be found in the officia] Cousness js to help Perfect the lives Sources of the Church, and from such Of the members, Jy the process Of sources we should obtain, it, Conversion is 509 important to the Whole future life of an individual] that al] LESSON DEPARTMENT Labor for the Dead The responsibility of the Church to provide the facilities for the members to discharge their own responsibility to their kindred dead, is a work of righteousness. 'This activity is one of the most direct ways to participate in the salvation of others. One may be a "savior" of the living, but he may also become the "savior" of countless dead. This work of righteousness includes the genealogical research as well as temple service, where possible. Service to Others Every principle of the gospel lived, every Church activity engaged In, serves as an example for others. This kina of service cannot be overemphasized, for "when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God" (Mosiah 2:17). One provides for continued works of righteousness through the Church organization by contributions of material means in the form of tithing, fast offerings, ward or branch budget, building fund, and other assessments. In a practical sense, if there is a work of righteousness that contributes to the service of others, it is the giving of one's own self in terms of such contributions. Participation in worthy Church projects for the advancement of others, such as Welfare projects by the Priesthood members and the Relief Society members stands high among the works of righteousness. This is the organizational way that a member may, in part, retain a reMission of his sins from day to day — by imparting of his substance to the needy. (Mosiah 4:26-27.) 773 Obey Leadership With the Church as the divine institution through which the foregoing purposes for man may be realized, it is evident that full confidence is to be shown in the counsel given by those who preside over us. Continuous revelation is received that the member may reach perfection by obedience to the Lord's will through his servants. There is salvation in no other way. Everyday Religion The works of righteousness are to be shown forth on all days and not only on the Sabbath. (D & C 59:11.) In the words of President Joseph F. Smith, we learn:.. For I want to tell you that the religion of Christ is not a Sunday religion; it is not a momentary religion; it is a religion that never ends; and it requires duties of its devotees on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and all of the days of the week just as sincerely, just as strongly, as it does on the Sabbath day (Gospel Doctrine, gth edition, page 394). Rewards of Righteousness The first reward of righteousness given in our text (D & C 59:23) is peace in this world. Certainly this peace does not mean that war will end before the second coming of Christ. (Ibid., 1:35; 87:6; 97:22- 23.) Peace as a reward to the righteous may be enjoyed always regardless of the turmoil, strife, and tribulations in the world. It is a peace of mind, a sense of security, a settled conviction, a joy to the soul, which comes only through the Holy Ghost because works of righteousness have and are being performed. (Smrru, JoserH F.: 714 Gospel Doctrine, 9th edition, pp. 126-127; Lesson 38, Relief Society Magazine, December 1961.) Isaiah expressed it as a "quietness and assurance forever" (Isaiah 32:17). The second reward of righteousness and the greatest gift to be conferred by the Father upon his children is eternal life. (D & C 14:7.) The quality of living forever is possessed by the eternal spirit of man, but to live forever as a soul, that is, with the spirit and body united, through the resurrection, is known as immortality. (Ibid 88:14- 16.) Immortality is received by all of the earth's inhabitants, but eternal life is reserved for those who become like God. (Ibid., 29:43; Moses 1:39.) Eternal life or exaltation is to live in God's presence, to become like him, with the powers of spirit procreation. (Ibid., 132:15-17, 19-22.) What greater blessings may one have than the assurance of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 well-being in this life and eternal life in the world to come? The text for this lesson comes from the revelation on the Sabbath day. Rewards for Sabbath observance are numerous, but these blessings come not because of Sabbathkeeping alone but also by keeping the other commandments. 'Thus, the Lord declared that his people are to acknowledge his hand in all things and to keep the commandments, and the rewards will be peace of mind in this world and eternal life in the world to come. Questions for Discussion 1. Is acknowledging the hand of the Lord in all things sufficient to bring forth his blessings? 2. Discuss: One must love Jesus Christ with all his heart to win exaltation. 3. How may one give of himself in being of service to others? 4. Discuss: What are some rewards of keeping the commandments of God? Interlude Thelma ]. Lund When melody of robin's song Is lilted with gladness overlong Enjoyed, and leaves glide without sound Like scarlet tanagers to the ground, The hours of autumn's golden run Glow like amber polished with sun. With grain and apples ripe and binned Against the deepening drifts of wind, The mind no longer thirsts for more Than timo to meditate its store. | VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 44 — "Thou Shalt Not Idle Away Thy Time" (D & C 60:13). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, January 8, 1963 Objective: To emphasize the importance of utilizing our time wisely and to the best possible advantage. LL of us differ considerably in the nature and in the amount of our physical possessions and in our abilities and talents. Yet, one precious possession in which we are all equal is the amount of time we have each day. Regardless of who Or where we are, each of us each day has twenty-four hours of time — no more nor no less. What we do each day with this package of time determines the nature and accomplishments of our lives. Benjamin Franklin once asked, "Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for that is the stuff life is made of." One of the most important lessons we can learn is to live each day as fully as possible without worrisome concern about what happened yesterday and what may happen tomorrow. Actually, we have only one day of life and that is today. Yesterday has been lived and tomorrow may come, but today is here and now! 'This significant thought is appropriately expressed mm the well-known hymn of Evan Stephens "Today, While the Sun Shines." (See L. D. S. Hymns, page 215.) Today, while the sun shines, work with a will; Today, all your duties with patience fulfill, This does not mean, of course, that we should not learn from our experiences of the past nor that we should fail to plan for the future. It is wisdom both to learn and to plan. But how much we benefit from our experiences and how well we plan for tomorrow depend upon what we do today. Today is the fruit of yesterday and the key to tomorrow. Anna Brown Lindsay wisely said: "The most reckless spendthrift in the world is the one who squanders time. Money lost may be regained, houses and lands sold may be bought or built again. But what power can restore the moment that has passed, the day whose sun has set, the year that has been numbered with the ages gone?... We are spending time well when we are paying it out to God, to buy the things he means our lives to own, whether he is putting before us a duty to be done, a friend to be won, a small service to be rendered, a child to be consoled, or a house to be set in order. There is time TIS means us to do €ach day nd What great energy for 800d would O it gloriously yet, there js no be Teleased! Moment given US to throw ay" € should not lose time IN worINDSAY, ANNA Brown The Com. Y, discontent, and self-seeking In Pact Treasury of Inspiration, PP. Useless Tegret, in idle and harmfy] If you could kil] time Without jn. Juring eternity," _ Take time to read __ It is the foundahe great Book of Mormon Prophet Amulek had a Clear underTake time to be friendly _ is the Standing of the Importance of effectoad to happiness. Tive utilization of our time in this 4 id. "th: Take time to Worship — It j. The high. Life aS part of eternity, He said, "this way to a better 1. TO meet God; yea, behold the day Take time to laugh —_ 7 IS music tg of this life Is the day for men to the soul 4; 7 Take time to love ang be loved _ It of life. | | j, S! Ven us to Prepare for is the end of cy iv eternity. (Alma 3432-33), If each ( OBELL, ALBER?, Jr.: Story Classics, of us would Tesolve each day to PP. 121-122.) Waiting Gladys Hesser Burnham WORK MEETING (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 4 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized (Part IV) Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, January 1963 Objective: To show that decision-making is the heart of good management. Socio-drama will be the feature in this lesson. It is a dramatization which' gives the actors a chance to put themselves in the place of those facing a problem and allows them to feel, to behave, and to talk as they would were the problem their own. The audience has the advantage of seeing how different people act in various situations, of hearing what they would say, of reacting to the feelings expressed by the actors. Spontaneity and sincerity are the keynote. Actors are volunteers who are willing to try out how they would react in a given situation. Action and dialogue are unrehearsed. No lines are memonzed. Each person plays her role, she says what she feels, and she acts as she feels the character would act under the circumstances. Neither scenery nor costumes are used. The leader describes the setting and the actors take the audience with them in imagination by pantomime and dialogue. The family problem to be acted out is making a decision about | whether Susan (the teenage daughter) should have money to buy a party dress and go on a date. After the cast of Relief Society sisters speaking as a father, mother, an eighteen-year-old son, a fifteen-yearold daughter, and a twelve-year-old son, has volunteered, the leader spends a few minutes with them to agree on the approach and solution to the problem. She then describes the setting to the audience and the play is on with each Relief Society deciding the outcome of the discussion. (In the interest of time, selection of participants and direction by class leader could be just prior to discussion period. (These participants should all be Relief Society sisters. ) A Latter-day Saint family is well organized to make decisions. 'The father, holding the Priesthood, the mother, whose responsibility is homemaking, and the children old enough to express ideas and opinions, form a decision-making team. Relatives or others living in the home may assist in making choices if requested to do so. Since decision-making is the heart of management, it is essential that great skill be developed in making wise choices. Training for decision-making begins in the cradle when a rattle is favored over a doll. As soon as the child knows the difference between 777 778 a penny and a nickel, he should be allowed to have a few pennies and nickels with which to make some choices. In the beginning, he will prefer an ice-cream cone today, rather than a toy at the end of the week. His span of interest is very short. By the time he is a scout, he should be able to look ahead in order to save money to buy his scout uniform instead of squandering his money on ice-cream cones. At an early age, he should be able to plan for some savings for his mission, instead of spending it all on clothing. And, later on, he will look forward to the training he needs for his lifetime work and grasp every opportunity to further that goal. He will not suffer from the impulse to buy any and everything he sees, but will be looking ahead to the time when he will be an owner of a home and the head of a household. In the same way, decisions are made about the use of time, the use of energy, and other resources. During the training period, there is a culling out of undesirable choices, and decisions become easier to make. Family members become more mature as they look into the future and make decisions today that will make a stronger tomorTOW. Training in decision-making pays off when small decisions can be made wisely by individual family members, and only major ones need be brought up for consideration by the family team. It is necessary to have an easy atmosphere for making decisions. 'They might be made around a table, where the facts of the case are brought out. There is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 some pondering and weighing of alternate choices, and the best way is finally decided upon. Or there may be a regular time for the making of decisions, such as the family hour. Whatever the system, every family member should have an opportunity to bring up a problem for consideration, and there should be a full and frank examination of all the facts in the case. 'There should be a weighing of the merits of various choices and consideration given to the personal feelings of family members, A compromise might be the answer rather than a yes or no, but once the decision has been made, there is an obligation by members of the family to support that decision and carry it through. Decision-making is done with minds, not with hands; it is based largely on values that are held important and upon worthwhile goals. The experience of helping to make decisions develops faith, courage, and understanding — and most of all, the ability to think and act. These are the qualities which translate dead knowledge into living wisdom. 'They are what make our guesses turn out right. Questions for Discussion 1. If a person who has never been trained in decision-making, marries, what are some of the mistakes she is likely to make? 2. A young husband has a hobby of taking pictures. He spends _considerable moncy for equipment without discussing it with his wife, and she feels the money could be better spent for the family. How can this problem be solved? 3. Review the essentials for good home management and report progress made in developing the attributes and __ skills needed. LITERATURE e America's Literature The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 36 — Oliver Wendell Holmes, Amiable Amateur Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 463-471) For Third Meeting, January 1963 Objective: To enrich our understanding and enjoyment of Holmes' wit and poetry by acknowledging the issues of his time which he represented. Holmes the Man Oliver Wendell Holmes was born near Harvard Yard in Cambridge in 1809, just 100 years after Dr. Samuel Johnson, his neo-classical ideal whom he revered so highly that he reread his works each year. His father, Abiel Holmes, was pastor of the First Church in Cambridge for thirty-seven years, and a prominent historian of Puritan New England. Although his father's rigidity and coldness contributed in large measure to Oliver's later repudiation of religious creed and the Calvinistic definition of man as a depraved animal, he never lost his belief in a benevolent Deity. His mother was a smiling, cheerful soul whose outlook was far removed, indeed, from that of her older husband. In 1840, Oliver married Amelia Lee Jackson, a woman with a fine mind and of unusual charm. After graduating from Harvard in his twentieth year he studied for the law, but to him, it was so dry and boring that for relief he wrote the poem "Old Ironsides" which aroused sufficient public indignation to save the American Revolutionary War frigate The Constitution from being destroyed. He studied medicine in Paris for two years just as vital medical discoveries were being made, and returned home after extensive touring in Europe to become the "whip which drove back the objectors and _allowed the modern scientific concept of medicine to gain entrance." Most abhorrent to the young doctor was the old idea that God caused sickness in corruptible men as punishment for their sins — sin itself being regarded as an inescapable mortal frailty resulting from Eve's yielding to temptation. The more Holmes studied science the more he found God's benevolent handiwork in men and nature. For him science was "piecemeal revelation" of God's truth. "There is no conflict between science and religion; science represents the thought of God discovered by man." For Holmes, God and nature could never be separated. When a wound healed "God's presence and power and knowledge are there healing it." Educated, intelligent, cultured Te 780 through travel and a proud and dominant family tradition, he was well aware of the great transitions his age must face. As a most beloved teacher at Harvard Medical School for thirty-five years, he exalted his faith in the scientific method and in the reality of that which is knowable through the senses, almost to the level of a religion. But as poet he played, dashing off witty puns in conversation and formal speeches, both rhymed and in prose, to amuse himself and his many warm friends. And, if in his Boston, the "statehouse is the hub of the solar system," then Boston's great public halls and the homes of his friends were the revolving planets which carried him sparkling through the brilliant social whirl which he loved and esteemed so highly. Each vear from 1851 to 1889 he carefully wrote verses for the annual reunion of the Harvard class of '29 and he won several prizes for his publication of medical papers. He also wrote three "medicated" novels: Elsie Venner, The Guardian Angel, and A Mortal Antipathy, none of them distinguished. 'They were written to popularize his psychological and environmental theories. But as for his verse, he spoke truly when he wrote: I'm a florist in verse, and what would people say If I came to a banquet without my bouquet? The immediate nation-wide popularity of his "Autocrat of the Breakfast Table," first appearing as articles in the new Atlantic Monthly, intensified Holmes' local popuRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 A aes Picture OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES larity as toastmaster and conversationalist. Socially and culturally he was dominated by Dr. Johnson's neoclassical values: gentlemanliness, order, balance, wit, quality, and breeding. Strongly resembling Cooper, he felt himself merely exercising his democratic rights of choice when he said, "I go politically for equality... And socially for the quaiity." While he felt it might be all right to "admire a selfmade man whittled into shape with his own jackknife, other things being equal, I prefer a man of family." By "family" he meant "those who had pluck and audacious self-esteem, with good grounds for it." And "good grounds" were produced by the environment familiar to Boston's wealthy class: high society, distinguished ancestry, family portraits, a library, silver, and a tine residence. He loved these rewards of financial and social success. In summary, his Boston, LESSON DEPARTMENT with art, music, literature, education, good talk, and comfortable traditions, he loved; the new Boston, with immigrant Italians and Irish laborers, he could never understand. Professor Holmes Dr. Holmes gave the name anesthesia to the loss of consciousness induced by drugs, as used for the first time by Dr. Morton in 1846 at the Boston General Hospital. Holmes is also generally credited with proving, in his medical writings on puerperal or childbed fever, that the disease is contagious, and is transmitted by doctors and facilities im unsanitary hospitals throughout the world. His true love in medicine, however, was the teaching of human anatomy for more than thirty-five years to Harvard medical students. Possibly the best-loved teacher Harvard ever had, Dr. Holes began lecturing at the last hour of the day to three hundred weary, semi-asphyxiated students! Fven in the late afternoon, his entrance into the classroom was greeted with much applause. His lectures were illuminated by vivid description, apt comparisons, and anecdotes to illustrate the salient points of his lectures. His poetic imagination created a brilliant glow that enlivened the factual material which he presented. Yet he was precise and authentic in all his statements, exemplifying a complete mastery of imagery as well as acCuracy in describing minute details. All the virtues claimed _ for Holmes by his former students are exemplified in his method of ex- 781 plaining the constituents of the body: clear, organized, vibrant with words which enhance rather than blur his main purpose. Following are the opening lines of a lecture on anatomy: Take one of these boiled eggs, which has been ravished from a_ brilliant possible future, and instead of sacrificing it to a common appetite, devote it to the nobler hunger for knowledge ("Pages From an Old Volume of Life,'"' Holme's Works, Vol. III, page 187). Holmes' Writings Save for his early crusading burst of indignation "Old Ironsides," Holmes wrote solely in a gentle satiric vein for the pleasure it gave to himself and others. So successful was he that his amiable contribution to our culture will never be forgotten. But great literature grows only out of sustained moral earnestness, the noble quality so richly abundant in the New England tradition as in his son Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., one of the greatest jurists and liberals the United States has produced. In his own life, with insignificant exceptions, Holmes reserved his moral intensity for his professional scientific pursuits. Here lay what he felt to be his true challenge; here therefore he placed the full weight of his mature mind. In writing The Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table followed by The Professor at the Breakfast-Table and The Poet at the BreakfastTable, Holmes used the plan of rambling monologue touching on any topic that came to his mind. This literary form was admirably adapted to his temperament and powers. By combining the tech- 782 niques of prose-fiction, essay, drama, poetry, and light verse, he was able to sketch character, present his favorite ideas, tell stories, satirize stupidity, and praise Boston, at the same time remaining warm and kind. It is in this series of writings that we find some of his best-known humorous and serious poetry. Both as "autocrat'' and as poet, Holmes wrote for the large family party which was Boston society — he named them the Brahmins, or untouchables, and was proud to be included in his own definition. Passionately he loved them; cleverly he entertained them, using most frequently in his verse the neoclassical tool of satire. First he satirizes all reformers and idealists, particularly the Millerites who had long predicted that the millennium would be ushered in during 1875. In the poem "LatterDay Warnings" he depicts mortal foibles still to be overcome. (See text, page 46s.) LATTER-DAY WARNINGS When legislators keep the law, When banks dispense with bolts and locks, When berries — whortle, rasp, and straw— Grow bigger downwards through the box... When one that hath a horse on sale Shall bring his merit to the proof, Without a lie for every nail That holds the iron on the hoof, — When in the usual place for rips Our gloves are stitched with special care, And guarded well the whalebone tips Where first umbrellas need repair.... Till then let Cumming blaze away, And Miller's saints blow up the globe; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 But when you see that blessed day, Then order your ascension robe! The "One-Hoss-Shay," which satirizes the rotting away of the oldtime Calvinism which Holmes spent his life opposing, is so filled with delight-in-words and boyish pranks that it is difficult to believe that he is at all serious. (See text, pp. 468- 469. ) Holmes is aware of fair play, for he satirizes himself, too, or at least his vast enjoyment of what we now call "creature comforts." His "Contentment" (text, page 470) lists his minimum essentials: a plain brownstone mansion, a three-course dinner rather than ten, topped with vanilla-ice. As for titles, he can squeeze by with two simple ones: Governor and Ambassador. Books? Fifty, bound in red morocco, while a span of easy-gaited horses, rather than fast, showy pacers, will fill his need.... Care not much for gold or land; — Give me a mortgage here and there, — Some good bank-stock, — some note of hand, Or trifling railroad share; — I only ask that Fortune send A little more than I shall spend.... Jewels are baubles; 'tis a sin To care for such unfruitful things; — One good-sized diamond in a pin, — Some, not so large, in rings, — A ruby and a pearl, or so, Will do for me; — I laugh at show.... Among other well-remembered poems written by Holmes are "Dorothy QO," "The Organ Blower," "The Last Leaf," and, for sheer amusement, "Aunt Tabitha," "The Height of the Ridiculous," and "The Stethoscope Song." But it is in "The Living Temple" which he LESSON DEPARTMENT wrote as vigorous protest against Puritanical attitude toward the body as a corrupt vessel, as well as in "The Chambered Nautilus" that Holmes most nearly approaches greatness. THE LIVING TEMPLE* Not in the world of light alone, Where God has built his blazing throne, Nor yet alone in earth below, With belted seas that come and go, And endless isles of sunlit green, Is all thy Maker's glory seen: Look in upon the wondrous frame, — Eternal wisdom still the same! The smooth, soft air with pulse-like waves Flows murmuring through its hidden caves, Whose streams of brightening purple rush Fired with a new and livelier blush, While all their burden of decay The ebbing current steals away, And red with Nature's flame they start From the warm fountains of the heart. No rest that throbbing slave may ask, Forever quivering o'er his task, While far and wide a crimson jet Leaps forth to fill the woven net Which in unnumbered crossing tides The flood of burning life divides, Then, kindling each decaying part, Creeps back to find the throbbing heart.... See how yon beam of seeming white Is braided out of seven-hued light, Yet in those lucid globes no ray By any chance shall break astray. Hark how the rolling surge of sound, Arches and spirals circling round, Wakes the hushed spirit through thine ear With music it is heaven to hear. Then mark the cloven sphere that holds All thought in its mysterious folds; That feels sensation's faintest thrill, And flashes forth the sovereign will; Think on the stormy world that dwells Locked. In its dim and clustering cells! The lightning gleams of power it sheds Along its hollow glassy threads! 783 O Father! Grant thy love divine To make these mystic temples thine! When wasting age and wearying strife Have sapped the leaning walls of life, When darkness gathers over all, And the last tottering pillars fall, Take the poor dust thy mercy warms, And mold it into heavenly forms- — The Poetical Works of Oliver Wendell Holmes, (Vol. I, pp. 252-254). (*Note this word picture of his aesthetic interpretation of the human body, as each verse elucidates a part of it, Le.: verse 1, the body whole; verse 2, lungs and circulation; verse 3, heart; verse 4, eyes and ears; verse 5, brain.) Similar to "The Living Temple," "The Chambered Nautilus" concludes in spiritual hope and nobleness. (See text, pp. 466-467.) THE CHAMBERED NAUTILUS This is the ship of pearl, which, poets feign, Sails the unshadowed main, — The venturous bark that flings On the sweet summer wind its purpled wings In gulfs enchanted, where the siren sings, And coral reefs lie bare, Where the cold sea-maids rise to sun their streaming hair. Its webs of living gauze no more unfurl; Wrecked is the ship of pearl! And every chambered cell, Where its dim dreaming life was wont to dwell, As the frail tenant shaped his growing shell, Before thee lies revealed, — Its irised ceiling rent, its sunless crypt unsealed! Year after year beheld the silent toil That spread his lustrous coil; Still, as the spiral grew, He left the past year's dwelling for the new, Stole with soft step its shining archway through, Built up its idle door, 784 Stretched in his last-found home, and knew the old no more. Thanks for the heavenly message brought by thee, Child of the wandering sea, Cast from her lap, forlorn! From thy dead lips a clearer note is born Than ever Triton blew from wreathed horn! While on mine ear it rings, Through the deep caves of thought I hear a voice that sings: — Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll! Leave thy low-vaulted past! Let each new temple, nobler than the last, Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast, Till thou at length art free, Leaving thine outgrown shell by life's unresting seal A versatile, alert, man-about-town Bostonian, Oliver Wendell Holmes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 exhibits narrowness and prejudices which amply prove his humanity and mortality. Like Lowell, Holmes, for every reason was destined for greatness, yet he avoided it successfully. But nothing conceals his zest for learning, quality, culture, and literary excellence, whether it be to embody his observations on his contemporary world, to chide the local mutual admiration societies for taking themselves too seriously, or to share his faiths and fears in his city's future. He lived richly and well. For his wit, sparkle, and wisdom we are again his debtors. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Discuss Holmes' basic beliefs, both in science and religion. 2. Has this lesson increased your appreciation for Holmes as a man; as a writer; as a teacher; as a man of versatile abilities? If so, why? SOCIAL SCIENCE ¢ The Foundation of Church Government Divine Law and Church Government Lesson 3 — Divine Law and Human Welfare (Continued) Elder Ariel S. Ballit For Fourth Meeting, January 1963 Objective: To establish the importance of system and order in Church government. N the preceding lesson, it was noted that divine law provides the direction by which man can develop his full talents, realize the purpose of his creation, and, at the same time, receive the fulness of joy in living. This combination can only be accomplished by man's LESSON DEPARTMENT exercise of his free agency. Choice, not force, is the important principle. President McKay says that, "Next to the bestowal of life itself, the right to direct that life is God's greatest gift to man" (Improvement Era, February 1962, page 86). In the present lesson consideration is given to system and order in the design of the Lord as it refers to human welfare. God is exacting in his dealings with man. "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated" (D & C 130:20-21). God deals in truths that are unfailing. 'This is evident in the order of the universe and the regularity of the physical laws governing the earth and life upon it. "Mine House Is a House of Order" "Behold, mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion. Will I accept of an offering, saith the Lord, that is not made in my name? Or will I receive at your hands that which I have not appointed? And will I appoint unto you, saith the Lord, except it be by law..?" (D & C 132:8-11). Possibly the most obvious evidence to us of order in the Lord's house is found in the operation of physical law. President Brigham Young said, "... The Priesthood of the Son of God... Is the law by which the worlds are, were, and will continue for ever and ever" (Widtsoe: Discourses of Brigham Young, page 130). With this law in action, 785 we can observe the regularity with which the sun rises and sets, due, of course, to the earth turning on its axis. The earth also moves in orbit, with other planets of the solar system, about the sun, at the same time the whole solar system moves as a unit through space but always in orderly relationship to the countless other systems. Order in Our World A more intimate look at the world we live on reveals the same consistent operation of law resulting in regularity and order. We are aware of the change of seasons. This makes us aware of the growth of plants, noting how growth varies with the warmth of the sun, the presence of plant food, light, and moisture. 'The seeds responding to the forces of nature sprout and grow true to their kind and variety. The same regularity exists in the animal kingdom. This regularity has gone on since the creation of the earth and will continue in orderly fashion according to the law of God. The physical world about us fulfills its purpose through the operation of divine law. In the beginning, God said, "... Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping things, and beasts of the earth after their kind, and it was so" (Moses 2:24). The faithful function of the law in the physical world is evidence of the supreme wisdom of the Creator. Order in the Lives of People The same great knowledge and wisdom has provided the direction and regulation by which man can attain the full purpose of his crea- 786 tion. But man, being the spiritual child of God and having an intelligence that is co-eternal with God, was blessed with the privilege of choice. In the great plan, through inspiration and revelation, man was provided with direction and opportunity for full development, but he must discover for himself the value of truth and its bearing upon his progress and eventual exaltation. The physical world was set by law to accomplish its purpose, but man was given his free agency (the responsibility of choice) with the power of reflective thinking and the ability to make decisions, the effectiveness of which determines whether or not he is successful in achieving the full purpose of his creation. Emphasis Upon Human Relations When the original family partook of the fruit and became mortal, they also became subject to the influences of good and evil. Lucifer was the director of the forces of evil, and Jesus Chnist, the Savior of mankind, the essence of righteousness and the source of light and truth to all of the human family. Although Adam and Eve were driven from the garden, the Lord still communicated with them, instructing them in the divine law, giving them the direction that would eventually bestow upon them all the blessings of heaven. In the fifth chapter of Moses, we are informed that the Lord instructed Adam in the way of life and salvation. "And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters" (Moses 5:12). But Satan deceived the children of Adam sayRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 & ing "... Believe it not; and they believed it not, and they loved Satan more than God. And men began from that time forth to be carnal, sensual, and devilish" (Moses 5:13). These are the sins of the flesh. They find expression in the gratification of the physical appetites. 'The law of progress is directly related to overcoming the flesh, exercising judgment and control over desire. It is disciplining the body and the mind so that the impulses of nghteousness can be received. The Lord, through the Holy Ghost, called all the children of Adam to repentance assuring them of salvation if they would hearken, '"... And as many as believed not and repented not, should be damned (their progress stopped) (See Smith, Joseph Fielding: Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. 2, page 227); and the words went forth out of the mouth of God in a firm decree; wherefore they must be fulfilled" (Moses 5:15). But Cain was rebellious, and hearkened not to divine law saying: "Who is the Lord that I should know him?" (Moses 5:16). Even in his offering unto the Lord, Cain was moved upon by the power of evil. Therefore, his offering was not acceptable. In spite of the warning Cain received, he rejected the Lord and entered into secret covenants with Satan. Cain gloried in his wickedness, and he exercised his free agency in the murder of his brother Abel. 'This act was not a momentary impulse, but was the product of a series of actions based on selfishness, jealousy, and carnal desire. Abel's death was a climax to a falling away or an apostasy. For LESSON DEPARTMENT: there were many of the children of Adam who followed after Cain. Here we can see that interaction of people, respecting the rights of each individual, is a major concern of the plan of life and salvation. If we love God, we will keep his commandments. 'The first and greatest commandment is to love God, and the second is to love our fellow men. The constant flow of divine communication to man from the beginning to the present has emphasized the importance of the behavior of men and their relationship one with another. The Example of Israel The plea of the prophets from Adam to Noah to Moses and on down to the present day has been to love one another, overcome selfishness and greed, and to be conBemned about the welfare of fellow "men. When Moses led the children of Israel out of Egypt, he found their greatest bondage was the bondage of evil. After they reached the wilderness, it took forty years of constant training to modify their behavior sufficient for the Lord to get them back to the land of their forefathers. 'The book of Exodus is a vivid account of the efforts of the Lord, through Moses, to teach Israel the basic principles of righteousness "expressed in human behavior. The Ten Commandments sumMarize the teachings referred to above, placing the emphasis upon love of God and love of fellow men. In the first four of the ten, attention is focused upon the place of God in our everyday activity. The fifth commandment stresses 787 the importance of family relationships. It points out the mutual responsibility of love and respect between parents and children and the resultant blessings. The last five of the commandments present direction and regulation of the appetites and desires of the individual in relationship to the other members of society. 'Thou shalt not kill, commit adultery, steal, bear false witness, or covet. 'These are personal problems growing out of human association when Satan dominates the minds of men. (See Exodus, Chapter 20.) When Jesus came upon the earth he expanded the importance of human relationships in his Sermon on the Mount (Matt. 5), where he summarized all his teachings in terms of ideal social interaction. In fact, the gospel of Jesus Christ or the divine plan of life and salvation is a blueprint for ideal living. It is motivated by love and is the only plan by which perfection in human association can be attained. Divine Law and Organization 1. An explanation of government and law. The descendants of Adam have spread over the face of the earth. In the process, they have separated themselves, through choice, in varying degrees from the inspiration, revelation, and direction of the divine will. Being endowed with intelligence and the power of reflec: tive thinking, man has recognized the necessity of regulating his own activities in relation to others. In the most primitive societies, some form of government has existed. Government is simply the exercise y= for SINGING MOTHERS ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS | EVENTIDE—Madsen_............---- 20 i...... GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED ] STRENGTH—Spafford, and | AS ANGELS IN HEAVEN— | Schreiner.......30 i...... JESU, JOY OF MAN'S | DESIRING—Bach....................-- 25 i...... LET NOT YOUR SONG END— | Cain: 25 _ LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT | FOR JOY—Stephens..............-..20 i..... LORD IS MY SHEPHERD— J Smart....20 _= LORD'S PRAYER—Gates........ 20 De. LORD'S PRAYER—Malotte _.... 25 y MY SOUL IS ATHIRST FOR | GOD—Madsen...........-..----------25 = STILL, STILL WITH THEE— | Madsen.22 ie UNTO THEE | LIFT MINE | EYES—Beethoven...................- 22 __ VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— | Scott 25 | Music Sent on Approval | Use this advertisement as your | order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South } Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated! Above. \ (1 On Approval [J Charge ( CO Money Enclosed Name Address ' f] City and State 7. Daynes Micke | | mn ns, | salt Lake City 11, Utah Ov 100th Ufo (862-1962 mre rem mee ew es ee i RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 of authority in regulating the action of something. In organized society, this regulation is established by law, and law simply means the rules or mode of conduct insisted upon by the agreement of the people to whom the law is applied. Violations are punished by the controlling authority. At various times in history, the controlling authority has become a tyrannical force, appropriated to one man, or a small group of men, who have developed a powerful empire through military force. Force is Satan's base. Just as regularly as nations rise on the basis of force they decay and fall, the power shifting to another center where a superior concentration of force has been developed. This type of government does not have as its motive the welfare of mankind. A Lasting Kingdom 'The restoration of the Church of Jesus Christ was the establishment of the kingdom of God upon the earth. The terms Church and kingdom in this sense are used synonymously. A church to some may mean only a building, a place of worship. In a larger sense, church refers to the structure, the organization, the program and the membership. The Church as we use the term includes all of these but also a much more essential element than is included in this explanation. This element is divine authority. 'The Church of Jesus Christ or the kingdom of God has been established through divine law, and is motivated by the divine attribute of love. It is not political in nature, being a perfect theocracy, and having for its purpose "to bring to pass the im- | | | y: | LESSON DEPARTMENT mortality and eternal life of man," and in the process to bring him joy in this life through advancement, achievement, and progression. Characteristics of the Kingdom How will we identify the kingdom? What will be its distinguishing characteristics? In the first place the kingdom of God will be the place for Jesus Christ to come to as God the King and will be an everlasting kingdom. The laws of righteousness will be its code. The enmity of man and beast, in fact the enmity of all flesh shall end (UD & C 101:26). In this kingdom, wickedness will be overcome and the pattern of prayer given in Matthew 6:9-13, "Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven" will be realized. A Living Example of the Kingdom We are given a glimpse of what the kingdom of God will be like in teviewing 4 Nephi in The Book of Mormon. Here the principles of the gospel, the teachings of the Savior, actually directed the lives of the people. Living under the direction of divine law, they were able to overcome their social ills and direct their energies toward the advancement and progress of their society. (See 4 Nephi, verses 2-3, 5, 12-17.) This condition continued for two hundred years until of their own choosing they let pride and riches turn their hearts from the things of God. Selfishness and greed blinded their eyes to the value of the pattern of life taught by the Savior to their forefathers. E BEAUTIFUL ROSE PARADE TOUR IN DECEMBER HAWAIIAN TOUR IN NOVEMBER WORLD'S FAIR TOURS IN OCTOBER MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City 9, Utah e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first. And finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles... Oes) 150 to 300 miles —....02. 4 300 to 600 miles 600 to 1000 miles 1000 to 1400 miles 1400 to 1800 miles c Over 1800 miles —............... W.........87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah 790 Divine Heritage From the discussion of the last two lessons and the references used, we are aware (1) that the divine laws are designed for the benefit and welfare of mankind and (2) that system and order are essential to the development of the kingdom of God. It has also been pointed out that the major concern of God the Eternal Father is the progress and development of his children. 'To this end he has dedicated the wisdom of heaven expressed through revelation and inspiration to the human family, producing for mankind the plan of life and salvation. The Lord of Creation has thus provided the proper direction to man's life, making possible the full realization and expression of his possibilities. ROSE PARADE TOUR Eight fun filled days, including San Diego; Tijuana, Mexico; Catalina Istand; Los Angeles; Las Vegas. Grandstand seats at Rose Parade Leaving December 26, 1962 MEXICAN TOUR Leaving end of January, 1963 Mexico City; Cholula, Pueblo, Taxco, Ruins Cuernavaca, Acapulco, Archaeological Ruins Ask about Mardigras Tour in February ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 Our heritage, then, is the interest, wisdom, and love of our Eternal Father made evident in the divine law that sets forth the way to effective living with our fellow men and to exaltation in his kingdom, made possible by the atonement of Christ. REFERENCES D & C 101, 130, 131. Moses, Chapters 2, 5, 7:18. The Book of Mormon, 4 Nephi. TaLMaGE, JAMEs A.: Articles of Faith, Pp. 363-368.; Wiptsor, Joun A.: Discourses of Brigham Young, page 130. Exodus 20. Matthew 5s. McKay, Davin O.: The Improvement Era, February 1962, page 86. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What was the great purpose of the creation of the earth? 2. How important is obedience to law to successful government? 3. What is the significance of choice in achieving the full purpose of man's creation? 4. To what extent does man's treatment of his fellow men reflect his love of God? 5. What are the social implications of the Ten Commandments? Of the Sermon on the Mount? Dusk Carolyn Despain The sun Fell into the hills The moon Touched the trees, And the house Knew cat eyes. Grandmother's Quilts Zara Sabin Grandmother's quilts are a joy to behold No two alike it would seem — Sunshine and Shadow and Sutter's Gold Bow Tie and a Maiden's Dream. Seating herself in her wicker chair, She would rock for a moment or two Then she would say with a martyr-like air, "T must find me something to do." Soon you would hear her hunting around Humming a lively lilt — You would know that when a pattern was found Grandmother would start a quilt. Crazy Quilt, Nine Patch, Bethlehem Star, A Double Wedding Ring, Log Cabin, Flower Garden, Peace and War, The pointed Crown of a King — Bordered or plain or appliqued, I can see her fit and scheme — Such were the quilts that Grandmother made — No two alike, it would seem. Have You Heard About Basic-H? A revolutionary, unique and completely new cleaning product. NOT A SOAP — NOT A DETERGENT. AS GENTLE AS LOTION TO YOUR HANDS. THE IDEAL CLEANER FOR ALL PURPOSES. TRY IT ONCE AND YOU WILL NEVER GO BACK TO OTHER CLEANERS. Send $2.00 for one quart BASIC-H CONCENTRATE, WHICH MAKES 53 GALLONS OF THIS FINE CLEANER. Postpaid anywhere in the United States. Address... MADSEN DISTRIBUTORS Post Office Box 2224, Salt Lake City 10, Utah 791 792 Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Three Mrs. Lizzie Devt MERRILL Henniker, New Hampshire Ninety-seven Mrs. ANN CRAWFORD JENSEN Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. Netuie A. Copp LAMBERT Panorama City, California Ninety-five Mrs. Mary Gositinc WADE Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. SaraH Francis HENDON Warren, Arkansas Mrs. LucreTiA PHELPS POMEROY Mesa, Arizona Ninety-four Mrs. RosaLieE WILLIAMS BEARDALL Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Fruint House Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Apa BissELL HARRISON Springville, Utah Mrs. Mary JANE SOMMERS ROSE Seattle, Washington RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 The Art of by Daryl V. Hoole 235 Second edition just off the press First edition sald within two months "THE ART OF HOMEMAKING promises to decidedly change the outlook of womankind towards her obligation within the home. After reading it through, | begin each day's routine with a feeling of delight and anticipation. Mrs. Hoole should be considered 'the Dr. Spock of homemaking arts'." The price as quoted in the September advertisement was a mistake. $2.95 is the correct price. Now available at your local book stores or by ordering copies direct from Deseret Book Company Salt Lake City, Utah or Extension Publications Brigham Young University Provo, Utah Ninety-Two Mrs. MAHALA SMITH PaARRISH Ammon, Idaho Ninety-one Mrs. Mary ExvizaABetH MATHER NOBLE Smithfield, Utah Mrs. Martua ANN LINDSAY San Francisco, California Ninety Mrs. Hatriz Pack Howarp Logan, Utah Mrs. ANNIE Hupson WEBB Salt Lake City, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY SUGGESTED READING FOR 1962-63 COURSES OF STUDY AT DESERET BOOK Literature Textbook: 1. AMERICA'S LITERATURE by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes All of America's foremost authors from Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson to Emily Dickinson, Mark Twain, Carl Sandburg, and Ernest Hemingway are well-represented in this choice compilation of. Pt cS es a oe 2a oe: ee oe —— 5 aaa; American literature. $9.75 merica § | Postage $.25 Theology: LITE RATURE | 2. DOCTRINE & COVENANTS, Library Edition An ideal edition for those wishing to do consider- ' | able underscoring and entering of notes during this ) i specific course of study. $1.50 | =S —__ PLUS all of the following paperback editions: EE eT 4 THE PORTABLE THOREAU $1.65 6. MOBY DICK, Herman Melville BMMiaer oF THE BREAKFAST See ee |. Signe ition 15 | TABLE, Oliver Wendell Holmes - $.95 igi li — 15 ostage. 7. LEAVES OF GRASS, Walt Whitman 95 §. THE PORTABLE HERMAN MELVILLE lal | $1.65 8. THE PORTABLE WHITMAN $1.65 | Postage.15 Postage.15 Deseret Book Company 44 E. South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed please find.... Check money order....| have an account, please charge. Amount en- | | closed. For encircled | (numbered) books) 12345678 | | Deseret i 54 East South Tempte Sale Lake City Utah City.. Zone........ State... Residents of Utah include 3% sales tax | Is your life insurance Beneficial? Dentists—as well as doctors, lawyers, and other professional men and women — you might well ask yourselves this question: just how much life insurance should you have? The answer will depend, of course, on a careful study of your assets... And your responsibilities. Your assets would include your Social Security, your home, your present life insurance, your savings, and your investments. These are often worth Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah a substantial sum... But are they worth enough to meet your growing responsibilities... And your plans for the future? Sound financial planning for your family's future must include consideration of all of your assets and your responsibilities. Your Beneficial Life insurance representative, backed by the "Planned Futures" department in our home office will help you study these assets and responsibilities and help you decide on the best program for your needs and income. Call him soon. Write for more information on "Planned Futures." BENEFICIAL LIFE Srunanee Gi) Company a VOL 49 fio n ™ Ayame St > Baotet ebciaty oe. Oo < «, y el | wae a Lucille R. Perry Penury has descended on our hill. Now that the gold coin of slender trees has paid Our summer debts, frail wisps of scorched leaves fill The dry creek's rocky bowl, and they are laid Between the new wind's whisper and brown grass, To murmur discontent when wild things pass. Bright as the proud cock preened, the former wood, With foliage fluffed to catch the rays of light; Brown as his little hen, now, thickets brood Where winds have stripped them naked in the night, Raising their forked limbs to supplicate each cloud For the white ease of winter's restful shroud. The Cover { Japanese Relief Society Sisters at Chinzanso Park, North Tokyo, Japan Color transparency by Gary J. Horton, submitted by Frances P. Andrus, Former President, Northern Far East Mission Relief Society Frontispiece | First Snow in Provo Canyon, Utah Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout | Dick Scopes Cover | Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press TOMY Gar anu Ser We are all delighted with the new color and pictures coming out in our Relief Society Magazine. The August insert "Jerusalem, City of Peace," by Christine H. Robinson, together with the lovely photographs by Dr. O. Preston Robinson, will prove invaluable. The editorial "In the Family There Is Strength" is beautifully worded and so true — how brief are the days with our families. —Mabel Jones Gabbott Bountiful, Utah I must tell you how I love our Relief Society Magazine. I have been a member of the Church for two years, and a member of Relief Society for the same length of time. I have so much enjoyed the article "Jesus and the Land He Loved," by Christine H. Robinsin, in the July issue of the Magazine, and also the beautiful photographs by Dr. O. Preston Robinson. —Margaret Lockwood Montagu Bay Tasmania, Australia The pictures and article "Jerusalem, City of Peace" (by Dr. O. Preston Robinson and Christine H. Robinson, August 1962) are truly beautiful. The Relief Society Magazine supplies the spiritual uplift that I stand very much in need of from time to time. —RMrs. Selma Bodtcher North Hollywood, California The poem sequence "Portrait of Freedom," by Alberta Huish Christensen, in the September issue of The Relief Society Magazine is a tremendous accomplishment — to me, a real work of art. I am so grateful for the way it was set up and illustrated. 'The page layouts are so lovely and appropriate. Every month the Magazine is beautiful from cover to cover. —Evada Bitler Idaho Falls, Idaho Ps: I must comment on our wonderful Relief Society Magazine. Oh, how lovely the July issue was. The flood story (by Frances C. Yost, of Bancroft, Idaho) made me cry. I can well imagine the joy in those sisters' hearts. Thank the Lord for our sisters in the gospel. I love every one of them. —Mrs. Olive Moore Melbourne, Australia My family is just like that of Vilate McAllister ('""My Family Likes All Kinds of Iruit — Just So They Are Peaches," August 1962). I always thoroughly enjoy my Relief Society Magazine, from the articles, recipes, and sewing tips, right down through the lessons and poems. Several times in the past few years my sons have used the Magazine for a_ specific poem they needed for school. —Mary L. Allred Saratoga, Wyoming Please convey my thanks to Mabel Jones Gabbott for her wonderful poem "Before the Word Goes Forth" (June 1962). I have reread it with deep pleasure many times. Its mingled beauty and wisdom are poetry at its best. —Ina Hobson E] Cajon, California I have so much enjoyed reading my July copy of The Relief Society Magazine. I have spent many lovely hours reading our Magazine. The lessons for October are most spiritual and inspirational. My daughter was interested in the recipes ("Quick Recipes for Busy Days," by Janet W. Breeze), and we tried out the Super Burgers. They were delicious. The Magazine is one of the best books published, there is so much of strength and wisdom in its pages. —Lucille Walker Tracy, Alabama THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1962 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spafford General Manager SPECIAL FEATURES "Search the Scriptures; for in Them Ye Think Ye Have Eternal Life'........... Belle S. Spafford 796 Relief Society — Builder of Testimonies Marianne C. Sharp 802 "Union of Feeling":.. Louise W. Madsen 804 Fawn Hansen Sharp Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society -....0........ Irene C. Lloyd 806 Report and Official Instructions. - Belle S. Spafford 807 FICTION The Little Blue Berg ounces eseessesenesssseceeessneeeaceseecancecousncecsecaneesossesececectgenueceesseneneecnaeeeeersceeneceHelen C. Warr 816 Out of the Wilderness — Chapter 5 oo.... N. Ceeecececeeececeseececeeeeeecceeeeeeeeeeeees Shirley Thulin 834 GENERAL FEATUHES From Near and Far ooo... Cecsesesscesenseceececneceseeseenseeseceseseecacenessesucsececetansaencaaecusecsesenaecaeeteesaesoeaeuenecoseeteesseseseeeerseeeenes794 Sixty Years Ago on... Cccccceeeccecceccceceeceeeeeeeceseeceeseeeeeeseeseeaees = a enennensaceretaee-1 ee 822 Woman's Sphere ooo...... Ce ce eeceeeeeneeeeeneeneeeeeceeeeeees ae. Ramona W. Cannon 823 Editorial: Relief Society Gives Thanks for New Members...000.0...2---.-----0----Louise W. Madsen 824 In Memoriam — Fern Tanner Lee Amy Whipple Evans.....000000.00....... Re:... 826 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities.......... -Hulda Parker 839 Birthday Congratulations 872 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Try, Try Again i. Caroline Eyring Miner 814 Menu for Thanksgiving Dinner. Mary J. Wilson 828 Cut and Paste Christmas Cards Janet W. Breeze 832 Elizabeth Welker Collects Samples of Antique and Modern Lace 846 LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY Theology — Talents and Testimonies Roy W. Doxey 847 Visiting Teacher Messages — 'Pray Always That You Enter Not Into Temptation" Christine H. Robinson 852 Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (Part I) wescVirginia F. Cutler 854 Literature — The Literary Lincoln Briant S. Jacobs 856 Social Science — Divine Law and Priesthood Ariel S. Ballif 863 POETRY The Mendicant Hour — Frontispiece Lucille R. Perry 793 In Time of Harvest, by Evelyn H. Hughes. 801; In Summer's Wake, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 814; Two Loves, by Lael W. Hill, 815; First Snow, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 827; Chrysanthemums, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 827; Remembering Sorrow, by Blanche Kendall McKey, 827; Awareness, by ae la ia 862; Snow Flowering, by Gilean Douglas, 870; Winter Sunset, by Vesta. Fairbairn,: Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. Tne Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. As second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for. Unsolicited manuscripts. 795 "Search the Scriptures; for in Them Ye Think Ye Have Eternal Life" President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1962] of this conference, as well as in most meetings of the Church, frequent reference is made to the word of the Lord to his children as recorded in the sacred scriptures. 'This teaching is one of the foremost functions of the Church. The Church has four volumes of scripture referred to as the "standard works of the Church": (1) The Bible, containing the Old and New Testaments, translated out of the original tongues. (2) The Book of Mormon, which is an abridgment of the record of peoples formerly living on the American Continent. This book, according to the preface, is "to show the remnant of the House of Israel what great things the Lord hath done for their fathers... And also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God." This volume of scripture has a place beside the Bible as a spiritual guide to mankind. The prophet Ezekiel made a significant prophecy relative to these two volumes being one in the hands of the Lord for his children in the latter days, as follows: 796 [of this contre the sessions The word of the Lord came again unto me, saying, Moreover, thou son of man, take thee one stick, and write upon it, For Judah, and for the children of Israel his companions: then take another stick, and write upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel his companions: And join them one to another into one stick; and they shall become one in thine hand (Ezekiel 37:15-17). (3) A third volume is_ the Doctrine and Covenants, which contains revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, with some additions by his successors in the Presidency of the Church. (4) The fourth volume is the Pearl of Great Price, which contains visions of Moses, as revealed to Joseph Smith the Prophet, and the translation of some ancient records — the writings of Abraham while he was in Egypt — which came into the hands of the Prophet. These are not the only scriptures, however. All scriptures are not found within the volumes of the standard works. We believe in continuous revelation and that those teachings which come from our prophets today: "SEARCH THE SCRIPTURES; FOR IN THEM YE THINK YE HAVE ETERNAL LIFE"... When moved upon by the Holy Ghost shall be scripture, shall be the will of the Lord, shall be the mind of the Lord, shall be the word of the Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord, and the power of God unto salvation (D & C 68:4). Wonder how often we, as individuals, are given to a contemplation of the importance and meaning in our lives of these sacred writings. How often do we ponder on what our lives would be, if these volumes were sealed against us. 'The loss would be incalculable. Conversely, I wonder how often we are given to count the great blessings which flow to us through having them readily available to us for our individual reading and study. The Lord made clear to Nephi what it meant to possess the sacred record of the Jews which was in the hands of Laban. When the Lord directed that Lehi and his family should possess this record and Laman sought to obtain it from Laban, Laban grew angry and thrust Laman out of his presence. Then, by commandment of the Lord, Nephi sought to obtain the record. In order for him to accomplish his purpose the Lord delivered Laban into the hands of Nephi, but it became necessary that Nephi should kill Laban or fail in his purpose. Never at any time had Nephi shed the blood of a man, and he shrank from " doing. Then the Spirit said unto lm:... It is better that one man should perish than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief (I Nephi 4:13). Then Nephi remembered the word of the Lord spoken to him in the wilderness, saying: 797... Inasmuch as thy seed shall keep my commandments, they shall prosper in the land of promise. Yea, and I also thought that they could not keep the commandments of the Lord according to the law of Moses, save they should have the law. And I also knew that the law was engraven upon the plates of brass (I Nephi 4:14-16). Therefore, Nephi obeyed the voice of the Spirit, and the record was obtained for his people. NDIVIDUALS have not always been fortunate in having copies of the scriptures in their possession for their individual use. At one time the people at large had to depend upon the teachings that came to them from their scribes and priests. Today, we are abundantly blessed in that everyone who will do so may possess these valuable volumes which contain the will of God for his children, the divine plan of life and salvation, the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is the power of God unto salvation. We may open them in our own homes and read the teachings and commandments of the Lord, ponder upon them, and apply them to our own lives and circumstances. President Joseph Fielding Smith in a General Relief Society Conference said that there should not be a Latter-day Saint home in all the world where there would not be found a Bible, a Book of Mormon, a copy of the Doctrine and Covenants, and of the Pearl of Great Price. This would apply, of course, where these latter volumes are translated into the native tongues. These 798 books should be conveniently at hand, inviting their use, and where family members may come to view them as a part of the make-up of the home. And it is mandatory upon us and to our eternal advantage, that we shall study them — search them diligently. The Doctrine counsels us: and Covenants. Yea, seck ve out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D & C 88:118). The best books are certainly those which contain the words of God; books that build faith in God — his holy scriptures. The Prophet Joseph Smith admomnished the people: Search the scriptures — search the revelations which we publish, and ask your Heavenly Father, in the name of His Son Jesus Christ, to manifest the truth unto you, and if you do it with an eye single to His glory nothing doubting, He will answer you by the power of His Holy Spirit. You will then know for yourselves and not for another. You will not then be dependent on man for the knowledge of God; nor will there be any room for speculation (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 11-12). This admonition is for every individual. Each one must search for himself. Upon parents rests also an added responsibility — that of guiding and directing children in their search; of implanting in the hearts of their children a love and a reverence for the word of God as set forth in the scriptures. It is their duty to train children in the use of the scriptures, for the Lord has made clear that it is the duty of parents to see that children are reared in light and in truth. How RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 better can this be done than through familiarizing them with the word of the Lord as contained in the scriptures? While the Church, with the Priesthood quorums and the auxiliaries, plays a vital supporting role in teaching the gospel, as set forth in the scriptures, the primary responsibility for this rests with parents. OTHERS are particularly favored in meeting this responsibility, since they are with the children in the home for more hours of the day than is the father. Brigham Young is recorded as saying:. Education commences with the mother, and the child.... It depends im a great degree upon the mother, as to what children receive, in early age, of principle of every description, pertaining to all that can be learned by the human family.... The character of a person is formed through life, to a greater or less degree, by the teachings of the mother. The traits of early impression that she gives the child, will be characteristic points in his character through every avenue of his mortal existence (Journal of Discourses I, pp. 66-67). The scriptures themselves bear testimony of the truthfulness of the influence of the mother in these matters. Paul, writing to his dearly beloved Timothy, speaks of 'Timothy's childhood training as follows: When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that in thee also (II Timothy 1:5). Paul further wrote: But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them; "SEARCH THE SCRIPTURES; FOR IN THEM YE THINK YE HAVE ETERNAL LIFE" And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ (IT 'limothy 3:14-15). I know of one young mother whose familiarity with and love for the scriptures came to her largely after her marriage to a returned missionary. So meaningful did they become in her own life that she has conscientiously devoted herself to helping her children to know and appreciate the scriptures. 'Today her ten-year-old girl and eight-yearold boy have their own copies of the standard works. At first, as very little ones, they were provided with illustrated stories taken from the Bible and Book of Mormon. Mother read these to the children. Later, the children, as they learned to read, would read the stories back to Mother. 'Then, as they read from their storybook, Mother would read the same story, in whole or in part, as the children were able to comprehend, from the scripture itself, explaining to the children the difference between the book from which she was reading and the storybook from which they read. Always she emphasized the greater value of the scripture, as such, implanting in the children a special regard for it. Later, as the children became ready, they would read to Mother a familiar story from the scripture itself. It was then that they were given their own volumes. When a simple verse had special meaning for the children, Mother would take time to help them memorize it. These she had the children mark in their own volumes. On occasions when the children are given opportunity to present a 799 talk in Sunday School or other Church gatherings, they make their selection of subject from their own books, with Mother's interested help and guidance. The selection is usually a principle of the gospel, such as prayer, Sabbath observance, or the Word of Wisdom, rather than a story. A regular practice in the home is for the father to inquire at dinner on Sunday, "What was your Sunday School lesson about?" Then, after dinner, the father makes a practice of helping the children find something about it in their books. Mother teaches Primary. The children and their scriptures are brought actively into her lesson preparation. Thus, acquaintance with the scripture has been handled in a way that has brought happy companionship with mother and father, as well as light and truth into the lives of the children, along with an acquaintance with these great books of divine wisdom and law. In addition, the hours spent together with the word of the Lord are bound to develop a close family unity, which, in itself, will bring rich rewards. N this day of intensified missionary effort, Latter-day Saint mothers, imbued with a testimony of the gospel, strive earnestly to prepare their sons and daughters to be worthy and ready to receive a call to missionary service. Is not a knowledge of the scriptures, training in how to use them effectively, a very vital part of this preparation? The scriptures are, without doubt, the great proselyting tools of the missionary. Fortunate indeed is the 800 young man or woman who goes into the mission field knowing his tools and how to use them. It enables him to speak with power and authority to the convincing of his hearers. The Book of Mormon points this out with reference to the missionary labors of the sons of Mosiah, who, along with Alma the younger, persecuted the Church and then were miraculously converted, as was Paul. Following their conversion the sons of Mosiah filled a mission to the Lamanites. One day as Alma was journeying in the Land of Gideon southward he met with the sons of Mosiah, and he rejoiced to see his brethren and, says the scripture:. What added more to his joy, they were still his brethren im the Lord; yea, and they had waxed strong in the knowledge of the truth; for they were men of a sound understanding and they had searched the scriptures diligently, that they might know the word of God. But this is not all; they had given themselves to much prayer, and _ fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, and when they taught, thev taught with power and authority of God.... By the power of their words many were brought before the altar of God, to call on his name and confess their sins before him (Alma 17:2-4). The vast content of the scriptures cannot be mastered in a moment or a day. It is a lifetime labor. I recall several years ago when Relief Society sisters were studying The Book of Mormon, it was expected that every sister would read the book in its entirety As a special feature of the Relief Society General Conference and to encourage the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 sisters in their efforts, a member of the Twelve was invited to speak to them on the subject of The Book of Mormon. Last minute circumstances, however, made it impossible for him to attend the Conference and meet the assignment. It became necessary for us to obtain another speaker on very short notice — in fact, the morning of the day on which the address was scheduled. The service of Elder Matthew Cowley was enlisted. Elder Cowley delivered a masterful address, in which he bore this impressive testimony: I would like to bear my testimony to you about the book which you are studying in Relief Society, the Book of Mormon. I know nothing about archaeology. I have not studied the maps which apparently relate to the Book of Mormon, the travels of the Lehites, the Lamanites, and so forth. I know very little about the outside evidences of the Book of Mormon, but I have a testimony of the divinity of this book, and that testimony has come to me from within the two covers of the book itself ('"Testimony Through Reading The Book of Mormon," The Relief Society Magazine, January 1953, pp. 7-8). Following the session of the conference, in grateful appreciation, I said to Brother Cowley, "I marvel that you could give such a magnificent and convincing address, with so little time in which to prepare." To this Brother Cowley responded by saying, "What do you mean by little time in which to prepare? I had plenty of time. I have had a lifetime. My preparation for that address began when I was a little boy at my mother's knee." The Lord has said: He that seeketh me early shall find me, and shall not be forsaken (D & C 88:83). In Second Timothy, 3:16-17, we read: All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for teproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness: That the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto all good works. May the Lord bless us to love and appreciate these sacred writings and to follow their admonitions. May he help us as mothers to train our children to do likewise I sincerely pray. Evelyn H. Hughes Time is the essence near the season's end, When, row on row, the weighted apples bend Earthward their sun-flecked treasure. Quick! Now is the time of harvest. We must pick Each russet and ruby, green and golden gem, Basket on overflowing basket heaped with them. Hurry! The day is waning toward the night — The harvest hours vanish with the light. A keening wind across the barren fields Startles the drowsy orchard. Nature yields No time; the darkness brings the frost. Gather the apples in, or all is lost. "SEARCH THE SCRIPTURES; FOR IN THEM YE THINK YE HAVE ETERNAL LIFE" 801 Relief Society - Builder of Testimonies Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1962] ELIEF Society offers women a unique opportunity to gain a testimony of the gospel and the means of strengthening that testimony daily. As the Church spreads over the earth at the greatly accelerated rate of the past few years, Relief Society organizations offer to women, Church members, converts, investigators of different nations and peoples, the blessings of Relief Society. It can be a proselyting medium. It offers women a unique opportunity to build testimonies of the gospel because it is unique. It is the organization on the earth given by our Heavenly Father for the perfecting of his daughters. The Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired to organize it, and it has been directed by the Priesthood of God through its 120 years With the instruction of President McKay that every Church member should be a missionary, every Relief Society member should arouse herself to the wonder of Relief Society and bend her earnest efforts to bring into this testimony-building, divine Society the women of her own land. Relief Society members might take to themselves the words of Paul to the Romans: For I long to see you.... That I might have some fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles. I am debtor both to the Greeks, and to the Barbarians; both to 802 the wise, and to the unwise.... For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth... (Romans 1:11, 13-14, 16). In this day the Lord has said, "And let your preaching be the warning voice, every man to his neighbor, in mildness and in meekness" (D & C 38:41). Cannot Relief Society members in mildness and in meekness bring Relief Society's divine, testimony-building Society to the attention of neighbors? For we, also, are indebted to the wise and to the unwise, to those living today comparable to the Greeks and Barbarians of Paul's day who were non-Romans. Relief Society is unique among women's groups. Relief Society is not a Church study club, although the members faithfully study the standard works of the Church; it is not a homemakers club, although every member is trained in better homemaking; it is not a literary club, although members gain deep understanding from great writings; it is not a social service club, although it studies and sponsors the giving of service; it is not a moneymaking club, although substantial monetary support is given to Church programs. It is an inspired organization with the highest eternal goals. A year ago, speaking at the Relief RELIEF SOCIETY—BUILDER OF TESTIMONIES Society conference, President Brown said: When we speak of other organizations and auxiliaries, we often speak of their programs and their activities, but whenever we speak of Relief Society, the word work is mentioned. We say Relief Society work, or the work of Relief Society (Relief Society Magazine, December 1961, page 811). And what is this work of which President Brown spoke? 'The grand key-words which the Prophet Joseph gave to Relief Society in 1842 to act upon were the words, "Said Jesus, 'Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.'" At a later Relief Society meeting, the Prophet Joseph urged, "If the sisters loved the Lord, let them feed the sheep," and the "Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls" (D. H. C. V, pp. 24-25). In meekness and mildness, we should redouble our efforts to reach our sisters and the strangers within our gates and help them to partake of the blessings and opportunities of Relief Society. The power of Relief Society is the sum of the individual members' testimonies — humble, burning testimonies which burn away disharmony, bickering, or ill-feelings and engender a spirit of unity and the building up of each other. These testimonies are gained not alone by study of the scriptures, discussions among the sisters and testimony bearing, but by doing the work Jesus did. You recall the words of James, "Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works: shew me thy faith without thy works, and I 803 will shew thee my faith by my works" (James 2:18). Relief Society offers the opportunity for every woman to demonstrate her faith by her works. To build a testimony founded upon rock, we must learn to love our neighbor. As individuals most sisters are kind and obliging to a neighbor whom they know in trouble. But the good Samaritan did not know the man lying wounded, except that he belonged to a race which despised the Samaritan's race. So with the growth of love of neighbor in Relief Society. Directed by one in authority, a sister serves those whom she is directed to serve, wherever and in the way she is directed. Through this unselfish, dedicated service, the souls of Relief Society members are expanded, and works complement faith, and additional blessings return to a _ mother through the influence her example has on her children. They, likewise, are the blessed recipients of the increasing strength of the testimony of their mother. As Relief Society members, we are the seekers of the celestial kingdom. We know that Relief Society holds before us the means and encouragement for reaching that kingdom. We strive to increase the light and knowledge we have. We know that faith without works is dead and that to save ourselves we must save others. A testimony of the gospel is our most precious possession. It can be gained in Relief Society, and we must share the glorious Relief Society with others — that each member may do so in this coming year, I pray. "Union of Feeling" Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1962] ST before he entered the Garden of Gethsemane on the night of his betrayal, the Lord "lifted up his eyes to heaven" and prayed to the Father. President David O. McKay speaks of this prayer as "the greatest, most impressive player ever uttered in this world." His prayer was for those who had believed on him and for "them also which shall believe on" him. A sublime message contained therein is this verse: "That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us." This is a most beautiful expression of the principle of unity. It is this principle of unity, this spirit of being "one," which has been instrumental in enabling the Church to progress and to accomplish the purposes for which it was established. One of the statements of the Prophet Joseph Smith to Relief Society which has great and continuing significance is "By union of feeling we obtain power with God." This is an expression of the principle of unity which shows how it works to 804 fulfill purposes. The Prophet urged the sisters to obtain power from on high by being "one" in spirit and determination to do the work he would have them do. The fact that they have done so is attested by the growth and accomplishment of Relief Society throughout the world. Separation by miles of land and oceans of water does not change nor diminish the feeling for, nor necessity of "oneness." A quarter of a million women unified in feeling and purpose, seeking power from our Heavenly Father in righteousness, can exert a tremendous influence for good wherever they may be. What is this power we may obtain? Is it not to do what is good, to do what the Lord requires of us, to do justly and to walk humbly? Is it not the privilege to serve we seek, the moving force of compassion we feel? Is it not the power of strength and the blessing of knowledge we cherish? Is it not the power of unselfish thought and action, selflessness, the ability to rise above faultfinding and petty mind- "UNION OF FEELING" edness we desire? We are again reminded that these aspects of power are derived through "union of feeling." This kind of unity cannot be maintained successfully with less than the best from everyone. Dissatisfaction with mediocrity enhances the ability of the whole organization to use this heaven-given power to its fullest extent. The vision and aim must be high and the integrity of purpose and dependability of cach member must be heightened. Those to whom power is given must-assume the responsibilities that go with it. The greatest responsibility is wise leadership. 'To guide, persuade, and direct aright, to fortify in righteousness, to educate and to give impetus to courageous action, are facets of leadership for which women in Relief Society are trained. The strength of an organization of women dedicating itself to good, fitting itself for what there is to do, and thoroughly believing that its work is basically and spiritually ght, is the strength required by the Lord for the work. AUL in his epistle to the Romans, speaks of the "mutual faith both of you and me," and beseeches his brethren to "strive together" in all that must be done. He warns them to avoid "divisions and offences contrary to the doctrine." A number of the sisters he singled out for special commendation. 805 I commend unto you Phebe our sister, which is a servant of the church which is at Cenchrea: That ye receive her in the Lord, as becometh saints, and that ye assist her in whatsoever business she hath need of you: for she hath been a succourer of many, and of myself also. Greet Priscilla and Aquila my helpers in Christ Jesus: Who have for my life laid down their own necks: unto whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles.... Greet Mary, who bestowed much labour onus.... Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labour in the Lord. Salute the beloved Persis, which laboured much in the Lord (Romans 16:1-4, 6, 12). This kind of commendation can also be given to many individual women in this dispensation. Great numbers of sisters holding office in the Society could be described in Paul's words as having "laboured much in the Lord." But it is the Society as a whole, as an auxiliary of the Church, receiving power from God by "union of feeling," which best serves to do the work which the Lord would have done by an organization of his daughters. Beautiful are the bonds of sisterhood! Uplifting are the ties of friendship. Glorious is the work of thousands of sisters unified in righteous purpose. Humbling is the realization that it is the Lord's work we are to do. May he bless us with the desire to approach him in "union of feeling,' and be one as Christ prayed his followers would be, I pray. Fawn Hansen Sharp Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Irene C. Lloyd Member, Gencral Board of Relief Society 8 FAWN HANSEN SHARP AWN Hansen Sharp was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, September 9, 1962. She has accepted this call in the same spirit as she has accepted every other assignment, with a will to serve to the best of her ability. Sister Sharp is a daughter of Peter Alvin and Lucy Blain Hansen. Her grandparents were pioneers of Spring City, Sanpete County, Utah, and helped on the construction work of the Manti Temple. Her father left to serve on a mission when Sister Sharp was only one month old. Her parents, both deceased, were devout Church workers, and taught their children to live and understand the principles of the gospel. Sister Sharp attended the Latterday Saints College, later the University of Utah, and taught five years in the schools of Box Elder County. 806 She married J. Vernon Sharp in 1930 in the Salt Lake 'Temple, and to this union came four lovely daughters, two who have passed away, one an infant, Judy Lynn, and one in young womanhood, Darlene Sharp Topham. The other daughters are married, Shirley to Lee Pitchforth, and Susan to John Hutchinson, Both girls are actively engaged in Church service, one serving as a Re lief Society president, and the other as a literature class leader. 'There are four grandchildren. Sister Sharp recently returned from serving a three-year mission with her husband President Sharp. He was president first over the original Andes Mission, now divided into the Chilean and Andes Mission. She helped to organize thirty Relief Societies and directed the translation of Relief Society manuals. She served as Relief Society president of Holladay Third and Fifth Wards, and has been active in some Church capacity since she was in the ninth grade. "Charity Never Faileth" applies well to Sister Sharp, for the extra mile has never been too long nor too hard for her, if it meant bringing comfort to those in need or in sorrow. Sister Sharp has always been ready to render service to her neighbor. Love of her Church, her family, and her strong testimony of the gospel will give strength to all who came in contact with her in her new calling. Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1962] regular feature of the Officers Meeting of the Annual Relief Society Conference is the presentation of a brief report of the status of the Society as shown in the Annual Report, together with a few instructions and recommendations of the General Board designed to help the Society function more uniformly and successfully. These reports show highly gratifying accomplishments on the part of both stake and mission Relief Societies. General Board We are pleased to introduce to you four new General Board members appointed since the last General Conference: Sister Irene C. Lloyd, former president of the Holladay Stake Relief Society; Sister Hazel S. Cannon, former counselor in the Federal Heights Ward Relief Society; Sister Hazel S. Love, formerly Relief Society president of the Northern California Mission; and Sister Fawn H. Sharp, former Relief Society president of the Andes Mission. All four sisters are devoted Latter-day Saints, experienced in Relief Society work, and have a sincere desire to be helpful to you through their service as General Board members. Organizations and Reorganizations The growth in number of organizations is encouraging. At the close of 1961 there were 345 stake organizations. 'I'wenty-six new stake organizations were created during the year. There were four stakes located in Great Britain; five on the European Continent; six in the South Seas; two in Old Mexico; seven in Canada; and the remainder in the United States. This is evidence of the growing strength of the Church in faraway places and in foreign lands. Ward and branch organizations in the stakes, according to our Annual Report, were increased by 261, making a total of 3,142. There were sixty-four missions at the end of the year, an increase of nine. During 1961 there were fifty-six reorganizations in the stakes and 807 808 nineteen in the missions. We are grateful for the services of the retired officers. To the sisters who are succeeding them we extend a warm welcome into the Relief Society family of officers. Missions Rapid growth is characterizing the work in the missions. Membership is increasing; many new branch and district organizations are being formed. A Relief Society mission president writes: Our district organizations function very well. Full Relief Society boards of twelve members are set up with regular leadership meetings being held with all recommended departments being conducted. Some of the sisters travel as far as 100 miles to attend the leadership meetings. Through these meetings general improvement is noted in the work of the Society. Although distances between homes of members is a problem in most missions, visiting teaching is being extended. Singing Mothers choruses, with special concerts being held, are reported by a number of Relief Society mission presidents. Unusual success is also attending Magazine promotion work. In some instances the sisters labor under unusual difficulties and strains. In one of the missions where the political situation presents unusual problems, the president informs us that "maintaining family solidarity is a problem, but the sisters express great appreciation for the lessons as a help in this matter." We recognize the wonderful leadership being given to Relief Society in the missions by the mission Relief RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 Society presidents and thank them for their service. Membership The Society's membership program for the past two years has been characterized by intensive effort. The entire active membership seems to have united as one in response to the membership building and fellowshipping call that came to them from the Brethren. Stake and ward presidents have demonstrated resourcefulness and dynamic leadership. As a result, for 1961, the membership was increased by 16,899, making a total membership of 231, iG: Heart-warming stories have reached the General Board of your fellowshipping activities. 'Time permits me to relate only one which is typical. A sister writes: I am what the Relief Society sisters call a re-activated Relief Society member. In truth I am a re-activated Latter-day Saint because of Relief Society. I was born to Latter-day Saint parents but was not baptized until I was twelve years old. For a while I attended Church with my girl friends. Then we moved to a new community and I quit going to Church. Later, after I married, a visiting teacher induced me to enroll in Relief Society. I went for a time or two and then dropped out. This seemed of little consequence to me or anyone else for that matter. A year ago I was invited to a special Relief Society party. It was delightful. I don't know when I have spent a happier or more interesting afternoon. The women were lovely and very cordial. They urged me to pick up my Relief Society membership. I did not respond immediately but they kept after me. Because they seemed so sincere in wanting me, in what I thought at the time was a moment of weakness, I did enroll. It wasn't a moment of weakness, Sister Spafford, it was a moment of great blessing. The sisters REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS immediately took me in as one of them. They demonstrated that I was needed. They made me a visiting teacher with a sweet-spirited companion. Then after awhile they had me organize a ward Singing Mothers chorus which I love. They have given me other important things to do. There is so much to do in Relief Society that is worthwhile. I am learning a great deal about the gospel, about which I knew very little, and I am oh, so very happy. I guess other wards have good Relief Societies and lovely women, but I cannot believe there is any ward quite like mine or any women quite so good and kind. Now I feel as if I want every woman I know to join Relief Society and I want you to know how I feel. Average Attendance Just as your membership and fellowshipping accomplishments are heartening, so also is the average attendance record. Attendance increased from 36.91 per cent of the total enrollment to 38.44 per cent. This represents an increase in number of women present at the regular weekly meetings of 9,820. Wellorganized nurseries, with carefully planned activities, are proving a boon to attendance. Two-Session Ward Relief Societies Some wards are holding two-session Relief Societies—daytime and evening sessions—to accommodate working mothers. Sisters, we are pleased to advise you that a plan has been worked out by the Brethren for two-session Relief Societies. A copy of this is available at General Board headquarters upon request of Stake Relief Society presidents for wards which may wish to enter into such an arrangement. The holding of evening Relief Societies on a stake basis is not authorized. Relative to this we have been 809 instructed by our advisors from the Council of Twelve as follows: If evening Relief Societies are felt necessary to meet the needs of working women, they should be conducted on a ward basis according to the approved plan. There would be no objection, however, in bringing together occasionally the sisters attending evening Relief Society sessions for a stake function, but the conduct of regular Relief Society meetings by the stake board for Relief Society members is disapproved. If wards are unable to hold evening sessions weekly, it is permissible to conduct them on a monthly or bi-monthly basis. Such lesson courses as would meet the interests and needs of the greatest number of sisters attending would be selected by the ward Relief Society presidency in consultation with the stake Relief Society presidency from the approved lesson courses for the current year. The General Board has had a few requests from Latter-day Saint proprietors of homes for the aging for Relief Societies to be conducted in the homes for the benefit of Latter-day Saint resident sisters. The regulations set up by the Brethren for the conduct of meetings in such homes are available upon request at the General Board office. Such meetings should not be undertaken without stake Relief Society presidents obtaining a copy of these regulations which they would make available to the stake president. Visiting Teaching It is with gratitude that we report to you today that last year 100,059 visiting teachers made a total of 810 3,943,596 (approximately 4,000,000 ) visits to the homes—an increase of 204,854 over 1960. 'The good accomplished by this program is unmeasurable. To call at a home, uninvited, as an emissary of Relief Society, imposes upon visiting teachers the responsibility of conducting the visit in a spirit of humility, sisterhood, and service, and according to standards set by the Society. In turn, this imposes upon ward presidents a very definite responsibility properly to direct the visiting teachers. 'The ten-minute period allowed presidents in the visiting teacher meeting should be devoted to helping the teachers effectively perform their duties, and not to extraneous matters. We suggest that stake presidents call this to the attention of their respective ward presidents and that definite guidance be given them in the use of this time through the leadership meeting. Educational Program The educational program, we believe, is a powerful force in influencing the beliefs, attitudes, viewpoints, and conduct of Relief Society members. The approximate 20,000 class leaders devote countless hours to the preparation of their respective lessons, and classwork, generally speaking, is excellent. 'The theology course on the Doctrine and Covenants, and the visiting teacher messages, "Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants," also the literature course on American Literature, for 1962 and 1963, are a continuation of those of last year. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 A new social science course entitled, "Divine Law and Church Government" will be introduced. The objective of this course is "to understand the law of God as it operates through his Priesthood for the exaltation of his children." This course, we believe, will be highly challenging to class leaders and extremely valuable to the sisters in helping them better to understand and appreciate Church government. Relief Society Materials in Spanish We are happy to announce that at the request of the General Board there has been translated into Spanish some Relief Society lesson helps and administrative materials. A kit suitable for use in wards and branches is now available for soc at the General Board office. It contains the 1962 convention helps for theology, social science, visiting teacher messages, music, and work meeting, and some basic instructions on visiting teaching and on the preparation and presentation of lessons. Also translated into Spanish for the use of stakes and districts, and available singly at 10c each, or in a second packet for $1, are other convention and conference materials on membership, visiting teaching, presidential and secretarial instructions, and music helps. A list of these materials may be obtained from the General Board office. Lesson manuals containing the Relief Society lessons for 1962-63 in Spanish are obtainable for 75° from the Missionary Department, 47 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. Payment for manuals must accompany the order. REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS Magazine The steadily increasing Magazine circulation is a tribute both to the worth of the Magazine content and to the Magazine representatives who render such outstanding service. The circulation at the close of 1961 was 183,236—an increase of 12,234 over the previous year. There were 303 stakes and twenty-four missions on the honor roll. We hope you feel as do we that the addition of color to the inside pages adds to the attractiveness and general enjoyment of the publication. Work Meeting We are pleased with the work meeting activities being planned and conducted by the wards. 'There seems to have been a broadened view of what is helpful to the sisters in their daily homemaking. A large volume of articles was produced as follows: Sewed articles Non-sewed articles 5359853 225,161 This represents a total of 761,014 or an increase of 105,221 articles over the previous year. The work meeting discussions for 1962-63 are designed to show how the Latter-day Saint home may set an example in homemaking. These discussions will undoubtedly suggest to alert work meeting leaders additional homemaking programs for the work meeting. We caution you against creating an additional department in the leadership meeting, by authorizing the work meeting discussion leaders to meet separately from the regular work meeting department to consid- 811 er the brief discussions ""The Latterday Saint Home." This procedure is contrary to the regulations of the General Board. Bazaars held during the past year reflected high standards of workmanship, good judgment as to useful and saleable articles, as well as fair pricing; they showed evidence of having drawn upon the creative ability and skills of the sisters. Relative to bazaars, we have had called to our attention by presidents of foreign missions requests that have been received by sisters of their respective missions from Relief Societies in the United States for items to be sold at so-called International Relief Society Bazaars. In return, the United States Relief Societies offer to send to the foreign Relief Society items made by the sisters here. This has caused considerable trouble in the foreign missions and is contrary to a regulation of the General Board issued in 1950 as follows: "Funds or articles to be sold at bazaars should not be solicited from sisters living outside the geographic boundaries of the ward holding the bazaar." We trust you will keep this regulation in mind. Compassionate Services and Church Welfare Compassionate services and Church welfare activities held their rightful place of importance during 1961. There were 357,334 visits to the sick and homebound or an increase Of 34,780. There were 30,211 eight-hour days bedside nursing care given the sick, or an increase of 661 days. 'There were over 400,000 hours devoted to other types of compassionate service—a magnificent in- 812 crease of 126,087 hours in this area of service. Ward Relief Society presidents made 93,625 family visits under the direction of their respective bishops —an increase over 1961 of 8,154 visits. There were 54,422 Relief Society members who assisted on welfare projects, while the sisters of the Church contributed 789,807 hours time to these projects. In recording the number of family visits, all visits to the home, whether initial or follow-up visits, were included. A new edition of the ward and stake record books will go into use in January 1963. In addition to calling for the number of home visits, the new editions of the record books call for the number of other contacts made to families in need by ward Relief Society presidents under the direction of their respective bishops. This will include telephone conversations, contacts with the family at Church or other places —in fact, any contacts other than home visits at which time information is received pertaining to the needs of the family. Also, in recording the number of hours contributed to Church welfare projects, credit is being extended to include time contributed by a sister in order to make it possible for another sister to accept an assignment. For example, Sister A might have a bedfast mother in her home so could not accept an assignment to go to the cannery, unless someone was available to stay with the mother. Sister B might be physically unable to work at the cannery but could sit with Sister A's mother, thus allowing Sister A to accept the asRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 signment. If such an arrangement is made by the Relief Society work director counselor under the direction of the bishop, the time spent by both sisters would be counted and both would receive work receipts. Presidents, please call these matters to the attention of your ward presidents. Revised Record Books and Visiting Teacher Report Books In addition to the new editions of the ward and stake record books to which I have just referred, a new edition of the visiting teacher report book will also go into effect in January 1963. Both the record book and the visiting teacher report book have a few revisions over those presently in use which will be explained in detail in the Secretary-Treasurers Department tomorrw. We suggest that stake presidents discuss these revisions with their respective secretarytreasurers so that stake presidents may be fully acquainted with them and in a position to explain them, in turn, to the respective ward presidents at a forthcoming leadership meeting. One important revision will allow for a record to be kept for the number of non-Latter-day Saint women who are members of Relief Society; also, the number of visiting teacher visits made to non-L. DS. Families. We hope presidents will be especially aware of this. Singing Mothers While there are 2,599 Singing Mothers choruses, we feel concerned at the decline in a single year of 453 choruses, with 8,440 fewer women participating. This calls for special attention from stake Relief Society REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS presidents. Too many ward presidents seem to have felt that with the discontinuance of the special Fast Sunday evening programs, there is not sufficient opportunity for a ward chorus to sing to justify having one. This is not so. Opening and closing socials, Anniversary Day programs, Christmas functions, programs held in connection with bazaars, lesson work, funerals—these and other occasions might utilize a chorus. Some ward bishops use Singing Mothers occasionally for sacrament meeting at times when the ward choir is not available. Presidents, we urge you to encourage ward Relief Society Singing Mothers choruses. Finances Generally speaking, Relief Societies adequately finance themselves to meet the general operating expenses, with a possible exception of a few newly created stakes, particularly those in foreign countries. We again suggest to these new stakes the careful reading of the section on "Funds" in the Handbook. Feel free, also, to discuss this matter with the General Board representatives who visit with you in your Relief Society conventions. Conclusion Sisters, in your efforts to forward the program of Relief Society and to bring more women actively into the organization, you are engaged in highly profitable endeavors. Relief Society is a wonderful organization, with tremendous power for good. As an aid to the Priesthood in advancing the work of the Church, it makes 813 a worthy contribution to the building of our Father's kingdom on earth. As an organization for women, it touches every facet of their lives. It has the power to make of its members sweet-spirited, thoughtful, kind women; to make them competent and poised women; cultured and refined women. It influences their manners, their speech, and their tastes. It develops within them a sense of appropriateness or fitness in what they do and say— even in how they dress. Occasionally you may note a woman coming to Relief Society inappropriately dressed or whose general appearance does not bespeak the dignity which we associate with Relief Society. We also note that it is not long, however, until the formality and dignity of the meetings, the example of officers and the general teachings of the Society develop within her an awareness of what is appropriate and right. Yes, Relief Society is a power in helping women to be their best selves—lovely, lovable, useful women whose lives are purposeful and exemplary; women who are about their Father's business. All of this carries over into their homes and bears fruit in the character of their homes and in the lives of their children. To be called to a position of leadership in an organization which plays so important a role in the work of the Church and which so vitally influences women to serve as an example to Latter-day Saint women, is a responsibility of consequence as well as a sacred trust. May the Lord inspire and guide you in your callings, I sincerely pray. Eva Willes Wangsgaard I stand above exotic tropic bloom Begonias yield within their sun-flecked shade, The hose relinquishing a silver plume Of liquid life to burnish leafy jade. While all about petunias climb and spread High up the fence and over moistened roots. Bright garlanded in apples overhead, The Hopa crabtree molds its crimson fruit. Yet something indefinable repeats A thin familiar warning, "Autumn's near." And deep within me smoldering protests beat A sharp denial to the waning year. Each mellow moment caught in summer's wake Tempers my joy with its peculiar ache. Try, Try Again Caroline Eyring Miner ** PERSEVERANCE is more prevailing than violence; and many things which cannot be overcome when they are together, yield themselves up when taken little by little," so philosophized Plutarch. This puts me in mind of the dozen sticks which could not be broken when held together, but one by one they were overcome. My mother used to say it more simply in the old adage: "If at first you don't succeed, try, try again," or "Practice makes perfect." President Grant said substantially the same thing in the words: "That which we persist in doing soon becomes easy to do, not that the nature of the thing has changed, but that our power to do has increased." When living the whole gospel, one cannot be deflected from his faith, but only as he falls away, commandment by commandment, precept by precept. Perfection is made trifle by trifle, but in itself is not a trifling thing. My mother told me of the painstaking remaking of her seams when sewing as a child. She learned to be one of the finest quilters in the whole valley. 814 Don Knight = PE eee TORREY PINES PARK, SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA Lael W. Hill These mountain ways are tall and proud; I run to them, I shout aloud, I love them with a love oh fierce As thrust of stone — my cliffs that pierce Thunder and night and needled snow!... It is with gentler joy I go To lift warm, water-rippled sands And pour them back from sun-held hands, To lean upon the salt-soft air In wind-bowed attitudes of prayer: I meet the everlasting seas Quietly, upon my knees. 66 URRY, Mama, they will go H without me." Margaret had been too excited about the Christmas shopping trip to touch her breakfast. Now she could not wait to put on her galoshes or fasten the scarf about her neck. Her mother held up one of the red, knitted mittens, and Margaret pushed her hand into it, then repeated the movement with the other hand. "Oh! My money!" she exclaimed. "Here it is, dear." Mrs. Haskell smiled at her young daughter. "I have tied it in the corner of your handkerchief." 816 Blue Bag Helen C. Warr "Thank you, Mama." Margaret took the knotted corner and clasped it tightly in her mittened hand. She kissed her mother hurriedly and ran out the back door, as the sleigh drew up and stopped in the yard. Today was the big day. She and Ross were doing their Christmas shopping alone this year. Always before Mama had gone with her and made suggestions as to what she should buy for Papa and for Ross. But today she and Ross were riding into town with Papa and would go into Mr. Kruger's store and decide all by themselves. Mama had said LITTLE BLUE BAG maybe they should put their money together and buy just one gift for each person instead of two, but Ross always wanted to buy different things. She had thought and thought about it and could not decide what she should do. Papa helped her up into the sleigh and tucked her in between himself and Ross. Ross was only four years older than she, but he always tried to act like Papa. Sometimes he called her a little girl. Papa did, too, but it was all mght when he did it, for his voice sounded so much nicer when he said it. "Well, so my little girl is going Christmas shopping?" She knew Papa would be looking at her in that way he always looked when he called her his little girl. His eyes would twinkle, the corners of his mouth would turn up, and, if she looked at him, he would wink ever so slightly with his left eye. She looked up at him now, and he winked with his left eye and said, "Have you decided what you will buy for Mama?" "She will want to buy some silly thing like... Like perfume... Most likely, or..." Ross hesitated. "Could we, Ross?" Margaret asked. She had not thought of perfume, but Mama might like that. She had not known about perfume until just lately when she was helping Mama clean out the bureau drawers. She had seen the little bottle with the rubber bulb, in the top drawer, and had asked what it was. Mama had squeezed the bulb and said, "It's perfume, dear." Margaret had thought the fragrance was heavenly, and had said so. Now she remem- 817 bered the smell of the perfume and it was just like Mama always smelled. "See, what did I tell you!" said Ross. "But couldn't we, Ross?" Margaret asked again. "Maybe you had better let me buy the perfume." Papa laughed and patted her hand. T was a nice day for going Christmas shopping, thought Margaret. Yesterday's snow had settled and was packed down under the feet of the horses and runners of the sleighs that had passed over the road before them. Everything sparkled with the sun shining on the snow, and the frost was dropping from the trees and bushes along the roadway. 'The air was crisp and sharp. 'The bells on the harness jingled, and the horses sent out jcts of steam from their nostrils as they trotted along. The crunch of snow under their feet made a pleasant sound. She wished Mama could have come along for the ride, but she had said: "My goodness! I have so many things to do. We will make the cookies when you come back. We need raisins and coconut from Mr. Kruger's store." Margaret thought all of the nice things were coming in one day. Mama alwavs let her cut the cookies and choose the different shaped cutters. Sometimes she let her put on the raisins to make the eyes and buttons on the gingerbread men. Then she could select the nicest looking ones to hang on the Christmas tree. Christmas was going to be such fun. When the sleigh drew up in front of Mr. Kruger's store, Ross jumped 818 out and tied the horses to the hitching post. Mr. Haskell helped Margaret from the sleigh, and they walked into the warm and pleasant smelling interior of the general store. The change from the frosty air outside and the warmth inside made Margaret's face tingle. The glare of the sun on the early morning snow made the store seem dark by comparison. "Morning, Haskell." Mr. Kruger's bellowing voice sounded from somewhere in the rear. He emerged from behind a pile of sacked sugar, wiping his hands on his apron. "Good morning, Mr. Hello, Ross and Margaret." Miss Callie Bronson spoke from behind the counter, where she was moving the piles of overalls to make room for the new Christmas merchandise. "What can I do for you?" she asked. Miss Callie was a little woman who seldom smiled, but Margaret thought she was quite pretty. "Good morning, Miss Callie, Mr. Kruger." Papa was saying. "Ross and Margaret are here to do their Christmas shopping. If you will fill this list for my wife, they can look around while I go over to the feed store and the post office." Margaret did not hear what else her father was saying, for she had begun moving about the store. Now that her eyes had become accustomed to the light inside there were so many things to see. Ross had long since gone over to the far side in the tools and hardware. She could not see why he always went over there when there were so many Haskell. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 other things to see in Mr. Kruger's store. She stood looking at the neckties hanging from the rack on the counter. She thought the yellow one, with the small brown emblem, would be nice for Papa. She hoped that Ross would not want to buy another hammer for him. She walked about looking at all of the new and unusual things. HERE were toys, dolls, and bicycles, tree ornaments, and the Christmas cards, a cardboard Santa Claus with cotton whiskers, pointing down to a huge barrel of Christmas candies, more kinds of nuts than she had ever seen before, and the largest oranges. Mr. Kruger's store never looked more inviting or more crowded with things. Once again she wished Mama were here to help her decide what to buy, but she would have to do it herself. So she moved about to see what she could buy for Mama. The handkerchiefs were pretty, and she liked the gloves, especially the green ones. But they would likely cost too much money. On top of a show case was a flowered box, with small drawers like her mother's bureau. She reached up to pull out one of the drawers to see what was inside, when Miss Callie spoke. "You must not touch things, Margaret, if you want to see something I will show you." Margaret had forgotten all about Miss Callie, who was still busy back of the counter. She walked over, opening the three little drawers, showing the writing paper inside. "Thank you," said Margaret. "The price is seventy-five cents. LITTLE BLUE BAG Do you like that?" asked Miss Calhie: "Oh! Yes!" Margaret spoke excitedly, "but I don't know if Ross will like it." Miss Callie moved back to her work. Once again Margaret looked about at the things in the show cases. 'There were several necklaces and such pretty scarves. Then she saw the little blue bag. It was as blue as the ice on the pond where she and Ross went skating. About three inches high, with a blue cord for a drawstring, with real tassels. She stooped down to see it from the underneath side of the glass shelf in the showcase. The bottom was a small oval mirror, about the size of a dollar. She was trying to read the price on it, when Miss Callie spoke again. "Margaret, please do not lean against the showcase. You will smudge the glass." Margaret stood up quickly. She had not been able to see the price. How she would love to have the little blue bag. She did not know just why, for she had no idea what she could do with it. It was hardly large enough to hold anything, she would have trouble even putting in her handkerchief. She wondered if she would have enough money to buy it for herself and still buy the other presents. Then she remembered the harmonica for Ross. He and Papa played together, and Ross had broken his harmonica and Margaret had planned to buy another one for him. She knew where the harmonicas were, for Mr. Kruger always kept them in the same place. She walked over and picked up the one 819 she wanted. Taking it to Miss Callie, she asked, "Would you please wrap this for me, so Ross won't see ies | Miss Callie dropped the harmonica into a paper bag, just as Ross came up. "Hey, Marg, I've found the keenest thing for Mom. It's a new kind of a can opener. And there's a swell set of small wrenches for...." "No! I won't buy that for Mama!" Margaret's voice trembled and the tears came. "I just won't buy that for Mama." "Gee! Marg! Don't cry!" Ross looked up, embarrassed, at Miss Callie. She patted Margaret on the shoulder comfortingly. "Margaret has picked out what she would like for your mother." As Miss Callie spoke, she walked down the aisle, picking up the flowered box of stationery. "That! Girl's have the craziest notions!" Ross shrugged. "But if you're going to cry about it, guess you can have your way. But we'll have to buy the wrenches for Dad." Margaret, still clutching the money in the corner of her handkerchief, wiped her nose. 'They counted out their money, and Miss Callie began wrapping the gifts selected. ONCE again Margaret walked back to the showcase and looked longingly at the little blue bag. Once again she squatted down to see the mirror in the bottom. She pressed her nose up against the glass. Then, remembering what Miss Callie had said, she stood up quickly. Her nose made a smudge, so she tried to rub it off with her 820 mittened hand. It did not matter now how much it cost, for she had spent her money on the Christmas gifts. She was still looking at the bag when her father came back into the store. "Got the groceries about ready, Haskell," Mr. Kruger called out. "No hurry, Kruger," came the cheery response, "got to get a tree." Ross had been looking at the Christmas trees. Now he moved them in turn, as his father surveyed each from a distance. "What do you think of that one, Margaret?" "That's nice, Papa. It's so big and smells so good." Mr. Haskell paid for the groceries, carried out one of the boxes, Mr. Kruger the other. In the sleigh were sacks of feed and a huge box from the mail-order house. Margaret remembered helping her mother select things from the catalogue, but she did not think it would take such a large box to hold them. Mr. Haskell put in the groceries and Margaret's packages and covered everything with the tarpaulin. Ross anchored the Christmas tree on top. Margaret was silent on the trip home. She was ashamed that she had wanted to spend some of her Christmas money on herself. She did not listen to what Papa and Ross were saying, for she was thinking about the gifts she had bought and about the little blue bag. A spicy aroma assailed them as they opened the kitchen door at home. Mrs. Haskell lifted out a crisp doughnut from the black iron kettle and placed it on the cooling rack. Ross said, "Gee! Mom!" and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 helped himself to the sugared doughnuts in the half-filled earthen crock. The cookie dough was rolled out on the floured board waiting for the cookie cutters. "How was the shopping trip?" asked Mrs. Haskell. "Great." Ross had his mouth full of doughnut. "But Marg has the nuttiest...." "Just fine, Mama." Margaret spoke at the same time, "but Ross never likes what I...." They both laughed. The parents, understandingly, smiled at each other. Later on, when the last cookie was in the oven, and the earthen crock was filled with doughnuts, Mrs. Haskell brought up the shopping trip again. "Did you see anything in Mr. Kruger's store that you would like for yourself?" she asked Margaret. "There was a...." Margaret hesitated. She had almost mentioned the little blue bag. But she did not want Mama to know how selfish she had been in wanting to spend part of her money on_ herself. '... $0 many things for you, that I couldn't decide. Lots of things cost too much money. I hope you will like this...." Margaret stopped just in time. Mrs. Haskell, embracing her daughter, laughed. "I'm sure that I will." HE next two days passed quickly. Margaret hurried through her homework so that she could string the popcorn and the cranberries to trim the Christmas tree. She made colored paper chains to add to the decorations. The metal candle holders held tiny colored candles, LITTLE BLUE BAG but they could only be lighted on Christmas Eve, and then only for a short period at a time under Papa's supervision. Margaret had wrapped the gifts in pretty paper her mother had given her, and had placed them under the tree while the candles were burning. Mrs. Haskell added a few gaily wrapped packages of her own. She always made a new dress for Margaret at Christmas time and shirts and knitted sox or gloves for her menfolk. Margaret thought how pretty everything looked in the flickering candlelight. "That's the finest looking tree we've ever had. My two girls have done themselves proud." Mr. Haskell put a shovelful of coal in the pot-bellied stove, then sat down in his easy chair. Margaret sat on a footstool at his feet, her back to the stove, staring dreamily at the Christmas tree. The preparation for Christmas had been as much fun as Christmas would be. "Play something, Papa," Margaret asked. Mr. Haskell picked up his harmonica and tapped it in the palm of his hand. He played up and down the scale and into a chorus of "My Darling Nellie Gray." Ross repeated the same routine with his own harmonica, but the broken reed prevented his playing. Margaret was so glad that she had remembered to buy a new harmonica for him, and could hardly refrain from telling him so. "Time for bed, sleepy head." Mrs. Haskell rose from her chair, stroked Margaret's long brown hair and kissed her forehead. "Morning will come early tomorrow." 821 Morning did come early. It was hardly daylight when Margaret awoke. She slipped her flannel robe over her nightgown, put on her slippers, and went down the stairs. Mr. Haskell had stirred up the embers in the stove and it was red hot. "Merry Christmas, Papa." "Merry Christmas, Margaret. How is my little girl this fine morning?" His eyes twinkled, the corners of his mouth turned up, and he winked at her ever so slightly with his left eye. "Oh! Papa!" Margaret exclaimed, as she looked at the Christmas tree, "Tt's just beautiful." She had picked up the doll as her mother came down the stairs. Margaret had thought she was almost too big for a doll, but she was glad to have this one, for she really enjoyed playing with dolls occasionally. This was her best and likely her last doll. "Oh! Mama! It's beautiful," Margaret repeated. "This is the best Christmas of all." "I'm so glad," her mother smiled, "T think so, too." Ross came bounding down the stairs, two or three steps at a time, his "Merry Christmas" and "When y do we eat?" almost in unison. Margaret stood enthralled by the things under the tree. Then she saw the little blue bag. It hung on the tip end of one of the branches, about half way up on the tree. 'This time she did not have to stoop down to see the mirror in the bottom. 'This time she did not need to look for the price tag. For the card on the bottom read From Ross. Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, November 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMmEN or ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF Aut Nations" INTERESTING LETTERS FROM NAUVOO — to Mrs. Emma S. Woodruff: Dear Mother: This has been a most interesting day for Asahel and myself. The day has been sunny and beautiful. The chrysanthemums, some few roses and many other beautiful flowers arc still untouched by the frost, lending their assistance in making the landscape almost perfect. We visited a great number of the former homes of the Saints, including father's, Uncle Smoot's and the lot where your house stood, President Joseph Smith's, President Young's, President 'Taylor's, President Snow's, Heber C. Kimball's and many others. We also visited the Temple block, where you used to take grandfather's dinner to him when he was at work on the Temple. We walked through the lane south of where you used to live, and fancied we could see you tripping light-heartedly along the same lane.... — Affectionately Your Son, Abraham O. Woodruff THANKSGIVING Great Father kind, we thank Thee for light of sun, The privilege to dwell upon this earth, For everything which Thou for us hast done Since through Thy mercy we were given birth. Ah, how can we our gratitude e'er show, For all Thy many blessings here below.... — Ellis R. Shipp GOVERNOR PROCLAIMS THANKSGIVING:.... At no time in our history have the material, educational and social comforts of life been so abundantly and universally bestowed as during the year now drawing to its close; nor has the promise and potency of the future seemed so fraught with every earthly blessing. I therefore recommend that the people of this State in their places of worship and at their homes, observe with reverent joy, and with uplifted hearts and with the wide extended hands of good fellowship this Thanksgiving day.... — Heber M. Wells — By the Governor RELIEF SOCIETY MEETING IN THE FOURTEENTH WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH: Sister Phebe Y. Beatie addressed the sisters in behalf of Sister Emma Empey concerning the class of nurses that would commence the first of November, spoke of the benefit to be derived from being a nurse, the good they could do, and what a help they would be to the Bishops... In being able to know where to go for help in case of sickness; she urged the sisters to take an interest in the class.... — Amelia Wadrop, Sec. 822 THE DOWAGER MARCHIONESS of Reading was the keynote speaker at an All-Woman's Conference at the University of Utah, September 7-8, the theme of which was "The Changing Role of Women in Our Changing Society." Lady Reading is a member of the House of Lords and also chairman of the Women's Volunteer Service of Britain, an effective civil defense and social welfare organization. As one of the world's foremost advocates of volunteer service, the courage of her conviction carried to her large audience at the Conference, as she told them, "The ultimate strength of a nation lies in the character of the men and women who are that nation, and voluntary service is an integral part of that character.... Peace will not be won, nor posterity saved, by the genius of the few, but by the devotion and faithfulness of the very, very many." M RS. ROBERTA WOHLSTETTER is the author of Pearl Harbor: Warning and Decision (Stanford University Press). It has been called by Samuel Eliot Morrison "the best book by far" on Pearl Harbor. Mrs. Wobhlstetter completed five years of intensive research on her subject. =2Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon EVERAL American women air pilots — especially noted trophy winners Miss Jerry Cobb and Jacqueline Cochran, and also Mrs. Philip Hart, mother of eight children, are very eager to be permitted to prepare for entering the field of space flying. Jerry Cobb, from Bethany, Oklahoma, was the first woman to complete the full battery of physical tests by which the seven Mercury astronauts were selected. She also completed the psychological tests. OMEN scientists working on the ground on space problems in the United States, are Helen P. Mann, analyzing missile tracking systems; Jean Keown, doing research on developing space food from algae; Doris M. Willis, a grandmother and a world-famed automatic controls expert; Marcia M. Neugebauer, who worked on an experiment for interplanetary probe; Sheila Wimdall, aeronautical engineer, working on a Massachusetts Institute of Technology design project. MB:: ELEANOR P. SHEPPARD, a fifty-four year old grandmother, is the first woman mayor in the 180-year history of Richmond, Virginia. Her official title is "Madam Mayor." 823 NOVEMBER 1962 RELIEF Society has great cause for rejoicing! At this time of year when hearts and minds are giyen to thanksgiving and a recounting of blessings, Relief Society counts its many blessings in the form of approximately twenty thousand new members, New members come into the Organization bringing gifts, gifts of €ager interest and Contagious enthusiasm. They bring new vigor and a willingness to Participate. Added strength is given the organization in spirit as well as numbers by the new members who thirst to be a vital Part of a living, growing, serving society, New members must be made to feel pride in the great traditions of Relief Society and to Tecognize the value of keeping traditions alive. Pioneer women kept their culture and refinement in spite of the hardships of frontier life. They did not bow to expediency, live only for the moment, or let privation dictate a lowering of standards. Beauty lived with them and was made part of their environment by ingenious use of whatever was available. Their 824 talents were not allowed to be buried by adversity. This Proud tradition has been a moving force throughout the years of the existence of Relief Society, Should the new members ask the meaning of Relief Society and what its values are, the answer would, of necessity, be long. It cannot be stated in one sentence. Like a jewel, it has many facets, all contributing to its beauty and value; facets which diffuse their light and radiance and bring joy to the beholder. The true meaning of Relief Society lies in the fact that it is a divinely instituted society, established for women by an inspired Prophet of God, through which they may serve and learn to live abundantly. It is apparent in the reasons for its organization and the purposes and goals of its Programs, procedures, and activities, The true meaning lies in the position Relief Society holds and its influence upon the women of the Church, as well as those not of the Church, who have found affiliation beneficial and desirable. Leadership and ability to magnify those who are J. Madsen Charlotte A. Larse G. Layton Edith P. Backman.' B. Stoddard Winniefred 5. ~. Peterson Manwaring M. Young Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Elisworth called to positions in the society are facets of its greatness. 'The fact that this organization of the mothers of the Church stands side by side with the Priesthood of the Church, a helpmate to the Priesthood in the sacred responsibility of furthering the work of the Lord, is evidence of its worth. The true meaning of Relief Society is a measure of its refining influence upon the women, their spiritual aura, gracious dignity, and poise; making of them cultured women, discriminating, discerning women, selfless and loving, friendly women. Its numerous activities fulfill the needs of women for spiritual enlightenment and education. Devotion to the principles of the gospel, dedication to keeping the commandments of the Father, love and willingness to give of themselves, characterize members of Relief Society. The true meaning of Relief Society is exemplified in the homes, in well-taught children, in honored husbands, in homes whose spiritual environments are beautiful. Latterday Saint homes receiving its teachAfton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell rd, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Kienitz ings and the enlarged vision it gives of righteous living are happier. The true meaning of Relief Society lies in work — splendid work — wholehearted, purposeful, dedicated work. It is shown in the joy it shares, the cherishing, tender watchcare it gives, and the spirit of compassion that fills the hearts of its members. The true meaning of Relief Society and its ultimate aim are seen in the knowledge it imparts and the testimonies it strengthens of the divinity of the Savior and the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The true meaning of Relief Society is sisterhood, world-wide as well as next-door-neighbor _ sisterhood, which reaches out to embrace those whom its extended arms may enfold. This wonderful group of new members is received with heartfelt thanksgiving. In praise and gratitude to our Heavenly Father we welcome them to the organization of his choice daughters. —L. W. M. 825 In Memoriam—Fern Tanner Lee November 14, 1896 — September 24, 1962 T' was with saddened hearts that Relief Society sisters throughout the world learned of the passing of Fern Tanner Lee, wife of Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve. She died on Monday, September 24, 1962, in Salt Lake City, after being in ill health for the past few months. Heartfelt tributes were paid to her at her funeral, and the profuse and lovely pastel-colored flowers and beautiful and moving musical selections typified the love of Sister Lee for all things beautiful. President McKay praised her lovely, noble character, her tenderness and yet her strength to meet the trials of life; President Moyle pointed out how Sister Lee had inspired her husband all the way in their married life and that they two would always be seen as one. Bishop Richard S. Tanner, a nephew of Sister Lee, gave glimpses of her family life and the outstanding Church services of her forebears. Luacine Clark Fox paid tribute to her for her devotion and loyalty as a wife, her inspiring teachings as the mother of two daughters and grandmother of ten, and her valued services to the women of the Church, both young and older. Relief Society members throughout most of the world have had the privilege of meeting with Sister Lee and will recall her graciousness, refinement, and quiet helpfulness as she accompanied Elder Lee on his important Church assignments when, sometimes, her own health was not robust. Everywhere she exemplified wifely devotion, cheerfulness, and a forgetfulness of self. The General Presidency of Relief Society will miss her counsel and assistance in matters on which she has rendered service to Relief Society. Prayers of faith and comfort in behalf of Elder Lee and his family will be offered by Relief Society members everywhere at the passing of his dearly beloved wife, Fern. In Memoriam—Amy Whipple Evans December 15, 1871 — September 6, 1962 MY Whipple Evans, a former member of the General Board of Relief Society, died September 6, 1962, in Denver, Colorado. A woman of outstanding spiritual and intellectual gifts, she served Relief Society as a General Board member for eighteen years (1921-1939). She was for a number of years supervisor of the social service department of Relief Society. In appreciation for her service in this field of social work, a fellowship in her honor was established at the University of Utah. Talented and beautiful, she was a woman who offered her time and energy for the upbuilding of Church and community, and to the instruction and inspiration of the women of Zion. 826 First Snow Dorothy J]. Roberts No snow lies like this first snow on the land. Each twig and dry stalk clings tenaciously To crystal blossoms falling everywhere; White fingers gesture from the pinion tree. No ledge is left unlined with luminance; No form remains forgotten or undraped. Each pole is turbaned with an ermine crown, Each leafless weed magnificently shaped. The first snow lettered on the land, Virginal, a symphony in white.. Winter wears the face of innocence And purity has clothed the world tonight. Remembering Sorrow Blanche Kendall McKey I had a crushing sorrow once— When I was very young; And life has never spoken since In quite so gay a tongue. I've laughed at many a passing wound— A half a score or so— But in the shadowed realm of tears My soul bows low. And yet on this Thanksgiving Eve, In counting how I'm blest, I think the wisdom born of sorrow Outshines all the rest! Chrysanthemums Evelyn Fjeldsted The brightness of the flower world, Is waning in the autumn chill. A postlude wondertime returns, To gardens now so calm and still. Brave, earthly flower stars unnoticed, Until blossom colors flare their call, To keep a rendezvous with time, Where garden leaves begin to fall. Other flower scenes have all been shown. A wild perfume drifts through the air. And, like the prairie sage, it seems, So cool, so wonderful and rare. And this is fall chrysanthemums; Pastels released when autumn comes. 827 Grapefruit F Oomato A Turkey w dmons spic Salad ith Rice Dressin Mus rooms Courtesy eneral Oods Corporation THANKSGIVING DINNER 829 — Grapefruit Edmons —— 3 large grapefruit (or 2 cans ) % ¢. Water 1 pkg. Frozen Taspberries 4 C. Sugar Peel and divide Stapefruit into membraneless sections, Arrange in a shallow bowl. Ix taspberrics, water, and Sugar. Cook slowly for five minutes, then force through sieve ( using a Spoon) over Stapefruit and mix well. Let stand Overnight in refrigerator, hen using canned Stapefruit, reduce sugar to % cup, or sweeten to taste. Serves eight to ten, 5% c. Tomato Juice juice of 2 lemons 3 medium-sized onions, quartered 3_bay leaves 3 Stalks celery salt, red Pepper, and Tabasco sauce, 3 tbsp. Vinegar as desired 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 5 tbsp. Gelatin dissolved in 1 ¢. Cold water Put all ingredients except gelatin and water "nto heat. Wer come to a boil. Then take off fire and add gelatin which has been dissolved im 1 cup cold water. Strain and put into molds. After this has cooled to lukewarm, drop into each mold 2 or small cream cheese balls, which have been made by mixing the following ingredients: 2 3-0z. Pkgs. Cream cheese 2 tbsp. Mayonnaise 1 tsp. Grated onion 2 tsp. Chili sauce 2 tsp. Pickle relish Tabasco sauce to taste Mold into small balls. Let salads set in tefrigerator for at least six hours. Unmold and serve on lettuce leaf with ¥, tsp. Mayonnaise decorated with small sprig of Parsley and carrot curl, Wash turkey inside and out and dry thoroughly. Mix 7 cup shortening with, tbsp. Salt. Rub turkey thoroughly inside and out. Cover with a double thickness of cloth Which has been dampened with Water, or dipped in melted butter, or combination. Bake at 300° for six hours, before adding stuffing. Baste several times while cooking, — Rice Stuffing a 2 ¢. Rice 3% c. Water or chicken stock, or bouillon 2 tbsp. Melted butter or 6 celery Stalks, chopped other shortening almonds or Pinon nuts, as. Desired 1 large onion, chopped salt, pepper, Sage, to taste our before serving, then, with a spoon, fill the cavities with dressing and replace in the oven for at least an hour of cooking, 830 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 Gravy With Mushrooms 2 cans mushroom soup butter or other shortening, as desired 1 can mushrooms Pour liquid from can of mushrooms into mushroom soup. Saute mushrooms in butter. Add to soup. After turkey is removed from pan, pour off fat. Pour soup and mushrooms into drippings. Stir well. Cabbage Slaw 1 large cabbage head, shredded 1 tbsp. Salt 2 carrots 1 tbsp. Celery seed 1 onion, finely chopped %" c. Oil % c. Vinegar 1% ¢. Sugar Mix ingredients for dressing and bring to a boil, stirring constantly. Pour hot mixture over cabbage. Cover with plate to weight down. When cold, put in jars and refrigerate. This may be made a few days before Thanksgiving. Pour off excess liquid before serving. Retain liquid and add later to unused slaw before refrigerating again. Stuffed Zucchini 6 medium-sized zucchini squash 3 tbsp. Minced parsley water as needed for cooking squash, salted % tsp. Pepper 3 c. Soft bread crumbs 3 eggs, beaten % c. Grated Parmesan cheese 2 tbsp. Melted butter 1 small onion, chopped 4 c. Diced celery Wash and cut ends off zucchini squash. Cook 5 minutes in % inch boiling salted water. Then halve the squash lengthwise. Remove pulp with spoon and combine with bread crumbs, % c. Grated cheese, onion, parsley, pepper, eggs, melted butter, and celery. Brush the squash shells with melted butter. Season with additional salt and pepper if desired, and fill with above mixture. Sprinkle with remaining % c. Cheese and bake in moderate oven (350°) for 30 minutes. Serves 12. Bran Bread 1 c. Shortening 2 c. Lukewarm water 1 c. Sugar for dissolving yeast 2 c. All-bran 3 pkgs. Yeast 2% tsp. Salt 4 eggs, well beaten 2 c. Boiling water enough white flour for kneading Combine shortening, sugar, all-bran, and salt. Add boiling water and stir until shortening is melted. Cool. Add yeast to the 2 cups of lukewarm water. Add beaten eggs and yeast mixture. Combine the two mixtures and add enough white flour so dough can be kneaded. Let rise. When doubled in bulk, divide dough and place some of the loaves in small loaf pans, if different sized loaves are desired. Let rise and bake in 350° oven 30 to 50 minutes, according to size of loaves. When cool, wrap in aluminum foil and freeze the loaves for later use. The day the bread is served, thaw, butter well, wrap in foil, and place in oven about 10 or 15 minutes before serving. Makes eight small loaves and three large ones. Courtesy American Institute of Baking Hot Water Pie Crust % c. Boiling water 1% tsp. Salt 1 c. Shortening 1 level tsp. Baking powder 2 rounded c. Flour In 1 pt. Measuring cup put % c. Boiling water. Add shortening, putting in 1 tbsp. At a time until water and shortening measure 1% cups. Beat while melting. Add dry ingredients. Put into refrigerator to get very cold before rolling out for baking. Pumpkin Pie Filling 1% c. Mashed pumpkin 1 tsp. Ginger 1 c. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Cinnamon 2 eggs, slightly beaten 1 tsp. Melted butter 1 c. Evaporated milk 1 c. Half and half b 2 tsp. Salt (milk and cream mixed) Mix well and pour into unbaked pie shell. Bake in 450° oven for 10 minutes, then lower heat to 350° to finish baking until set. Makes 2 small pies. Frozen Pumpkin Pie To Make Ahead of Time " Vb. Marshmallows "4 tsp. Ginger 1 can mashed pumpkin (3% c.) " tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Cinnamon 1 c. Whipping cream Heat and stir marshmallows, pumpkin, cinnamon, ginger, and salt, until mixed and melted. Cool 1 hour. Whip cream and stir into pumpkin gradually. Pour into baked pie shells and freeze uncovered. Wrap and store. Thaw for 4o minutes at room temperature, then unwrap and serve. 'These pies may be made days ahead of time. Cut and Paste Christmas Cards" Janet W. Breeze Here's a family-type Yuletide activity that stands up and says, "Start me early!" Making your own greeting cards can be fun as well as satisfying, in the rapidly growing commercialized world in which we live — and it is easy, too! Choose one of the following or try them all. One word of caution before you run for the scissors and glue. Be sure to purchase or decide on the size envelopes you intend to use FIRST — or you may end up making those as well. Colored construction paper will be your basic material, along with colored India ink for writing the inscription of your choosing. Just remember that a light-colored ink shows up better on dark blue or red paper. Other materials in addition to scissors and glue, are listed separately with each of the individual card designs. 832 MATERIALS 1. Red paper for card and letter cutouts; white paper for background cutouts, on which letters are glued; green rickrack; and small green, silver, or gold gummed stars. MATERIALS 2. Dark blue, red, or green paper for card; gummed loose-leaf paper reinforcements to form tree; a strip of white paper for the trunk; and colored ink (preferably same color as card) for writing "Merry Christmas" on trunk. MATERIALS 3. Colored paper for card; large gold or silver gummed star plus matching metallic ribbon or paper strip for trunk; pinking shears; and contrasting colored paper for tree, which is glued to card by two side edges only. MATERIALS 4. Green construction paper for card; two lines old sheet music; silver or gold metallic paper for bell and knocker; and red ribbon or paper tape pinched to shape for bow. MATERIALS 5. Light blue paper, with window cut out for card; dark blue paper for reindeer cut-out silhouettes (traced from an old card); white poster paint (applied to wet paper) for ground snow and splattered over inside reindeer scene for falling snow; red or silver glitter for outside window border. 833 Out of the Wilderness CHAPTER 5 Shirley Thulin Synopsis: Marian Morgan, a widow and mother of six children, has come to Montana to supervise assessment work on the mining property owned by the family. In the mountain wilderness, Marian and her family meet Jake Hadley, the owner of an adjacent mine, whom they distrust, and whose offers of friendship they fear. And awakened Marian. She dressed quietly and went outside. She had come to enjoy the short morning walk to the well, things were so special then. 'The leaves on the trees and the shrubs were bright green and shiny, still damp with dew. 'The air was refreshing, with just a hint of the night still in it. Marian had begun to feel as though this hour were hers alone, and each day on the way to fill her bucket, she walked along the small stream and watched the merry little nipples dance and bubble. 'Today she knelt on the bank of the stream and cupped her hands to fill them with water. The coolness of it made her shiver as she splashed handful after handful on her face. This ought to be good for my complexion, she smiled to _ herself. Though she knew there were elements in it that made it unsafe for drinking, it felt good on her face. 834 in early sun filled the room The stream ran from the mine on down to the creek. Marian looked deep within the water and wondered if long ago, men with stubby beards and eager hearts had panned for gold here. She looked at the flowers that bloomed along the stream and up the side of the mountain, as though they were friends. She liked to imagine they had been planted for her enjoyment alone. Now and then, a shrill call from one bird and the scolding reply from others made her smile. It was as though one bird thought it his duty to awaken the entire bird kingdom and wasn't too well thanked for his efforts. On the little hill where the well was, Marian stopped and looked at the land around her. It is beautiful here, she thought, and peaceful. She looked at the rugged slopes of the mountains that suddenly jutted out here and there from within the dense tree covering. And everywhere varied shades of green carpeted the ground. 'The steep mountaintops reigned above, reaching their heads into an intense blue sky, where white clouds floated like puffs of whipped cream. Now the sun was turning the yel- OUT OF THE WILDERNESS lows to orange and the blues to purple. Another day had begun. Marian let the bucket deep down within the shadowy depths of the well, and then drank of the clear cold water, before starting back to the cabin. "Mother," Jim met her as she came near, "I was going to go for water." "That's all right, I enjoy doing it." "Let's give Spotty some in his can, before we take it inside." "Spotty? Is that the name you finally decided on?" Jim laughed. "The kids all wanted me to name him Bambi, but I held out for something different. See his spots?" Jim closed the door of the pen behind him and went over to the little deer. "Hi, little fellow. Look, Mom, he acts glad to see me. He looks as though he would like to wag his tail." "If he were a dog, and if he had a big enough tail," Marian laughed. "Tll have to gather some more fresh brush. He sure eats a lot. I wish we had some hay." "Maybe we can get Dick to bring him some. We'll ask him when he comes Saturday." "Do baby deer eat hay?" Tommy asked, coming towards them. "Sometimes they will, but mostly they eat leaves and soft twigs." "Jim, Spotty looks lonesome. Let's go find him a playmate," Tommy suggested. "Let's find him two playmates," said Jill, joining them. "No more deer." Marian picked Jill up. "One is going to keep us busy." "Til be his playmate then," Jill said. "I'll play with him." Jim came out of the pen and closed it. "I'll have to fix that door 835 better. The wire hinges aren't too sturdy, and neither is the latch." ORNING comes early in the mountains, and it was still an early hour when Jim filled his pockets with roofing tacks and climbed up the ladder with the first roll of tarpaper. "What can I do to help?" Marian asked him. "Just stand by to hand me things," he told her. "And be ready to catch me if I start falling." He laughed. "Jim! That's not funny." Marian looked at the steep slope of the cabin roof. "You hang on tight and be real careful." "What's Jim up there for?" 'Tommy wanted to know. "He's going to fix the roof, dear. Now you go in and eat your breakfast." "All right. Milk for me." "For me, too," said Jill. "Tl be right back Jim. I'd better help Sue get the children settled." Marian gave the oatmeal a vigorour stir and filled the pitcher with the milk she had mixed from the white powder the night before. She was filling the bowls when she heard it. A rumble, and a scraping noise on the roof, then a yell from Jim. Marian closed her eyes, and without realizing it, waited for the sickening thud. When it didn't come, she ran outside and saw that he had caught himself when he got to the chimney. "Jim, are you all right?" "T think so. My wrist feels funny, though." Jim rubbed his arm, then sat still for a moment. Come and pour the "We'd better get someone to do it, Jim, don't you think...." But Marian didn't finish the sentence. Jim scrambled back up to the top and began to unroll the tarpaper with such a definite purpose, she knew she had to let him do it himself or find out that he couldn't. "Mom, can you send one of the twins up? I could use someone to help me unroll this. It's heavy." Marion thought for a moment. To have to worry about one of the children behaving like a human fly was all she could stand. "Ill come up," she said. She was used to climbing ladders. She had always helped David clean the wallpaper in their home, but she soon found out that climbing on the top of roofs was something else. She cautiously edged herself up onto the roof, and then could go no farther. She was so frightened, that she just sat there. "Come on, Mom. Crawl on up, it isn't bad once you're up here." "T... I can't, Jim. It's too high." "Well, then go back down and get Jed," he told her, but she couldn't do that either. The cabin seemed to be spinning one way and the ground the other. She couldn't make her feet reach out to find the ladder and she couldn't look down. The children were all watching her now, and Jim was calling directions to her. "Just turn over on your stomach and start to crawl, Mother." GHE didn't move. "Mom, come back down," Sue urged. "You look funny," Jill told her. "Just a minute, Tl come and help you." Jim made his way down the roof and passed her onto the ladder. He took hold of her and helped her put her feet on the top rung. Now she was able to make her way down, one step at a time, until she finally felt the earth beneath her feet. Her knees were weak, and her head in a whirl. "Please, Mother, don't try anything like that again," Sue scolded. "You scared us," Jim added. "Let me go up," Ted said, and was halfwav up before she could find her voice to protest. Jed went up, too. "Mommy," Jill said, and started to brush Marian's clothing with both her little hands, "you're all dirty." "You better stay down here with us," Tommy said, and Marian was only too glad to do just that. She watched the three boys work with the tarpaper to get it started right, and had to admit to herself they were efficient. Soon the tap: ping of Jim's hammer made her feel confident and she relaxed. She climbed the ladder again and again, handing them more tacks, and when their work brought them near the edge of the roof, she could reach from the ladder and help. The morning wore on, and when noon approached, she went inside to prepare some lunch. "We have done nearly half of it," Jim said, coming in to wash. "That's wonderful, son. I am so proud of you." While Jim was eating, Marian noticed that he was using only his left hand, his right one rested in his lap. 836 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 OUT OF THE WILDERNESS "My wrist bent the wrong way when I slipped," he explained. "It's all right, though." "Are you sure?" "Now, stop worrying, I'm fine." After lunch the boys went back up the ladder, and Marian helped Sue with the dishes, then laid fill on the bed and tucked her in. "Keep an eye on Tommy, and listen for Jill to wake," Marian told Sue, and though her weary body felt more like joming Jill in her nap than climbing ladders, she knew she couldn't stay away from the project. After the pulling, hammering, smoothing and fitting, the tarpaper was all in place, and the day was nearly over. Marian wished for her tile tub and gallons of hot water, but knew that was a luxury she would have to do without. She would heat the two buckets of water and pour them in the round tin tub, as she had heard her grandmother describe, and they would all have an old-fashioned scrubbing. "Tm going to remember these tired muscles every time it rains." Jim smiled. "T will be very thankful for your good, hard work every time we listen to the rain on the roof," Marian told him. NCE inside, Marian noticed how quiet everything was. "Where are the children?" she asked of no one in particular. She went out and around to the back of the cabin, but could see no one. "Sue," she called, and then she saw Tommy and Sue on a little hill, They both turned when they heard her. "Come here." Marian's voice was full of apprehension, for she could not see Jill with them. When they 837 came closer, Marian asked where the baby was. "Tsn't she still asleep?" asked Sue. "We went for a walk," Tommy said. Marian dashed into the house. Jill was not in the bed. 'The blanket was in a little heap, and Marian knew she had wandered outside. "She's gone. Oh, Jim, she's been gone for some time, she doesn't usually sleep very long." They began to look, calling her name over and over, peering into the shed, and behind the trees. Then the search widened. Jim and Jed climbed a tree so they could see over larger areas, but there was no sign of the little girl. Dread and deep despair gripped Marian's heart. In the wilderness, how far could a three-year-old stray? Or, then again, she could be but a few feet away, and she couldn't be seen, the trees were so thick and the underbrush so dense. Jim ran to the well, and Marian was close behind him. They decided it was too high and steep for her to have climbed up the boards and fallen in, though they weren't sure... Couldn't be really sure. Jim touched his mother's arm. "Don't worry, Mother, we'll find hem His concern for her started the tears, and the hot sting of them punctuated her helplessness. 'They went back to the cabin. "Mom, Jim... Spotty's gone, too!" Sue ran to meet them. "His pen is wide open and he's gone." "Jill must have gone in to play with him," Jim said, "and left the door open." "And when he went out, she followed," Marian guessed. 838 Marian told the twins, Sue and Tommy, to stay near the cabin. "We don't want anyone else to get lost," she told them. She stood, trying to decide which way to go. "Let's follow along the stream," Jim suggested. "All right." Marian took one step before something made her turn and look at Sue. There was hurt in Sue's face, and her eyes evaded Marian's. "Sue, oh, Sue, dear...." "Tt's all my fault. If I had stayed by the cabin.... If I'd have watched the door." "Please, dear, don't blame yourself.... We all should have watched." "But, Mother, if we don't find her... Oh, Mother." "Sue, we will find her... We've got to. Now, take care of the boys until we get back." Marian hoped her words would convey the confidence she did not feel. She turned and caught up with Jim. HEY followed one path after another, calling Jill. They went up one ridge after another where they could look over the land, but all they could see was treetops. 'They couldn't see the ground. New fear came over Marian as she realized there would not be much more daylight. Maybe a couple of hours, she thought, if that much. And the terror, the hopeless thought of her baby somewhere all alone in the forest in the night, made her temples throb and her body feel limp all over. If only David were here, she thought. He would know nght RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 where to look. Or if only she had listened to Charles and not come! She felt so alone, the words of Charles Neering, her friend at home, kept coming back to her, "You need? Someone.... Suddenly all her hatred for the mountains came surging back into her breast. Every tree, every blade of grass was her enemy. Her eyes were full of hot tears, and she was stumbling along trying to keep up with Jim. "Jill! Oh, Jill, where are you?" she called over and over. Then with a depressing weariness, she slumped to sit on a huge rock. "Jim, we can't find her alone. It's going to be dark soon. What can we do?" im was silent, and Marian knew his words could not come out past the worry in him. "How far is it to the Silver Bear?" "Just over that hill. 'The road goes right past our mine. Shall I go for help?" "Yes, Jim. We'll need the men. They know the land. Go quickly, Jim." As he started up the path that lead to the road, Marian knew she could not stay behind. "Wait, Jim," she called, "wait." She ran to catch up with him, and then her words of a minute before came back to her. We can't find her alone. "Jim," she said aloud, "we are going for help in the wrong direction." Jim looked at his mother and knew what she meant. The two of them knelt in prayer. There, high in the mountains, Marian asked for help in finding her baby. (To be continued) Material fo "Notes F m the Re] Front row, Supervisor; Jessie lelson, Visitin Sister R this year, we Issue of the M: lef Society Seated, R, > Margaret Jeppson ichards rep Handbook of Instructions. Agazine for ulations Soveming the submittal of January 1958 > Page 47, and > Effie Ww. Adams, President. » First Counselor; Gwen S. Unthank, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 841 St. George East Stake (Utah) Relief Society Social Honors Visiting Teachers January 1962 Seated at the second table, left to right: Roma C. Esplin, President, St. George East Stake Relief Society; Alta V. McConkie, First Counselor; Elsie B. Cox, Second Counselor; Elva H. Terry, Secretary. Sister Esplin reports: "The latter part of January, the members of the St. George East Stake Relief Society honored our visiting teachers at a luncheon and program. The tables were beautifully decorated with bouquets of flowers, and at each place setting, as a favor, was a little artificial flower made in Relief Society colors. More than 225 visiting teachers, with their executive officers, attended. We were happy to have our Priesthood advisor and two of our bishops join with us. Our oldest active teacher present was eighty-six, and the youngest teacher, from the College Ward, just eighteen." American River Stake (California) Relief Society Presents Historical Display During "Open House" Week at the Stake House, October 1961 Lois S. Fife, President, American River Stake Relief Society, reports a unique display which provided much interest for visitors at the stake house: "Each organization in the stake was asked to provide a display during the week of open house at our new stake house last October. Part of our display depicted the organization of Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith. We made twenty-one dolls depicting the eighteen women and three men who were present on this occasion. Leola Hacken, Work Director Counselor, made the heads and the hands for the dolls, and the other sisters helped with the bodies and the clothing. During the month of March, the birthday month of Relief Society, the scene was also on display in the stake house, where all members of the stake could see it. We also set it up for our convention, at which time we were the hostess stake. We enjoyed making this display, and it has created a great deal of interest each time we have set it up." Brazilian South Mission Relief Society Conference Curitiba, Brazil, March 15-16, 1962 Sara Paulsen, President, Brazilian South Mission Relief Society, reports: "A twoday Relief Society convention was held in the Mission Home in Curitiba. We had in attendance sixty leaders, representing all parts of the mission. 'Success depends on you — magnify your calling,' the theme of the conference, was presented by members of various branches as they gave lessons, talks, demonstrations, and other material. From reports we have received, we feel that this conference was a success, as the leaders went back to their branches with more enthusiasm and realizing better the importance of the great Relief Society work. "The picture is of the pageant given in commemoration of the 120th anniversary of the organization of Relief Society. The pageant was held in our new chapel and was presented under the theme 'Relief Society magnified in my life.' " NOTES FROM THE FIELD = 843 Front row, seated, left to mght: Duella Victor; Phyllis Wiscombe; Norma Reeder; Karen Wright; Lucy Coppin; Grace Petersen. Back row, standing, left to right: Fay Lofthouse; Jennie M. Nielsen; L&Lia Grover; Eugenie Larkin, Magazine representative; Karen Halling; Pat Woodyatte; Betty Fish. May N. Balls, President, Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: '""We are sure that the activity represented by this picture will be the highlight of our stake for the year 1962. The report of our being among the top ten stakes on the Magazine Honor Roll for 1961 makes us feel honored as being the only Utah stake on this list. We would like to pay honor to our stake leader, Eugenie Larkin, who was the inspiration behind this achievement." Front row, seated, left to right, beginning second from the left: district officers: Helen O. Frazier, chorister; Lucy Dettor, work meeting leader; Valenna Robins, theOlogy class leader; Mamie Murray, visiting teacher message leader; President Richard Stoddard, Memphis District; Floy L. Stoddard, Secretary-Treasurer; Jo Ann Sayles, Education Counselor; Virgie M. Shuman, District Relief Society President; Cleo Ann Thomas, Work Director Counselor; Patricia Isbell, literature class leader; Betty Carlson, Magazine representative; Rosa Pollard, organist. Marie C. Richards, President, Gulf States Mission Relief Society, reports that this was the first visiting teacher convention to be held in the Gulf States Mission. "District Priesthood leaders were in attendance, and President Richard Stoddard stated that it was the best program ever held in the Memphis District. Sister Virgie M. Shuman was formerly the president of the Atlanta, Georgia, Stake Relief Society, and her accomplishments here in the mission are most outstanding in every phase of the program. She is the first district Relief Society president to organize a complete district Relief Society Board. "At this convention skits were presented, depicting the educational departments of Relief Society. Eighty representatives from eight Relief Societies traveled distances up to 200 miles to be present on this occasion. Service citations were presented to the visiting teachers, making an impressive highlight in this convention." Front row, seated, left to right: Norma Allred, Work Director Counselor; Aleine M. Young, member, General Board of Relief Society; Hazel G. Kitch, President, Chicago Stake Relief Society; Edith S. Elliott, member, General Board of Relief Society; Gwendolyn Swinyard, Education Counselor. Standing, left to right: Marion Monson, organist; Veldron Matheson, theology class leader; Bernice Lindsey, chorister,; Naomi Graves, Secretary-Treasurer; Afton Smith, social science class leader; Marlene Jones, literature class leader; Verle Fitzsimmons, Magazine representative. Alta Connors, work meeting leader, was absent because of illness when the picture was taken. Sister Kitch reports: 'The convention was a great success. The inspiration and help received from Sister Young and Sister Elliott of the General Board will be of lasting worth to us. The Chicago Stake has fifteen wards, ten in Illinois, four in Wisconsin, and one in Indiana. Many of the sisters traveled distances of seventy-five to eighty miles one way to attend the convention. They expressed their sincere appreciation for the help they received. We are grateful for their wonderful spirit and devotion to Relief Society." 844 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 South Cottonwood Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference, May 1962 Standing in the front row, second from the right is Luella W. Finlinson, President, South Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, and next to her is chorister Maxine S. Pattison. Organist Beth L. Hendricks is seated at the console of the organ. Sister Finlinson reports: "The newly organized (December 7, 1961) South Cottonwood Stake honored the Relief Society Singing Mothers by asking them to present the music for both sessions of the May quarterly conference. Due to illness and vacations, only fifty-three of the sixty women from the six wards who had practiced in preparation, were able to sing for that occasion, plus Sisters Gloria Law and Vivian Howe, who assisted at the organ and violin. Counselors Momo T. Ushio and Pearalee F. DeShazer arranged for baby sitters during the practices. From thirty to fifty children were taken care of each time." Washington, D. C. Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference, May 20, 1962 Seated, front row, center left (in dark dress), Ellen N. Barnes, chorister; seated, front row, center right (in dark dress), Nedra C. Eames, organist. Seated between Sister Barnes and Sister Eames, Marcia C. Steele, President, Washington, D. C. Stake Relief Society. Sister Steele reports: ""The Singing Mothers traditionally present the music for one of the Sunday sessions of stake conference, the last two being held in historic Constitution Hall, with over 3,000 people in attendance. "On March 17, 1962, over 100 women, from thirteen wards, presented an outstanding concert in commemoration of the 120th anniversary of the organization of Relief Society. They have been asked to repeat this concert for the missionaries of the Eastern Atlantic States Mission and their contacts." Eastern Atlantic States Mission, Johnstown (Pennsylvania) Branch Relief Society Officers at Display Table During Attendance Drive April 1962 Left to right: Irene Lilly, Second Counselor; Alice Mihalcik, President; Frances Marsh, Secretary-Treasurer; Milta Aston, First Counselor of West Pennsylvania District; Emma Grace Hare, President of West Pennsylvania District. Thelma Hill, President, Eastern Atlantic States Mission Relief Society, reports that the sisters very much enjoyed this unique and well-planned attendance drive. Articles made by the Relief Society members during the year were displayed, including pillows, bags, aprons, afghans, pillowslips, and other articles, all of fine workmanship. The sisters also made the corsages which they are wearing in the picture. A covered dish supper was served. ELIZABETH WELKER COLLECTS SAMPLES OF ANTIQUE AND MODERN LACE FiUZA8ETH Welker, Salt Lake City, Utah, has collected samples of lace representing fourteen different countries and many eras of history. Included are examples of Swedish hardanger, which Sister Welker made when she was fifteen years old; filet lace, in which the design is made on a foundation of net; point Venise lace, made entirely with needle and thread, and still considered the loveliest of all lace; rosepoint, used largely in making trousseaus, and the heavier gros point. Also in this beautiful collection are samples of the rare French insertion, and the less expensive bobbin lace. Sister Welker lives in Emigration Ward in Park Stake, and the ward Relief Society has been privileged many times to exhibit this unusual collection and to explain to visitors the samples of historic lace, as well as types of lace still being handmade today, such as tatting, crocheting, and netting. Sister Welker has been a Relief Society member for more than fifty years, and a class leader for thirty years. From 1934 to 1937, she was president of the Relief Society of the German-Austrian Mission, and from 1951 to 1956 she was president of the Emigration Ward Relief Society. 846 LESSON DEPARTMENT THEOLOGY e The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 45 — Talents and Testimonies Elder Roy W. Doxey \ (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 60 and 62) For First Meeting, February 1963 Objective: To understand that talents are to be used in the Lord's service in testifying of his power. Introduction HE time came for the Prophet Joseph Smith and some of the brethren to leave Jackson County, Missouri. They had been there for only two months, but the foundations of Zion had been laid by dedication of the land as a gathering place for the saints, and, also, as a site for the temple. Other instructions were given concerning the people and their settling in the promised land. Instructions About Travel Several elders approached the Prophet to learn what the Lord desired of them. These elders were instructed to return to their homes in the East. (D & C 60:5.) Joseph Smith, Sidney Rigdon, Oliver Cowdery, and the others were to go to St. Louis by water, whence the brethren named were to journey to Cincinnati. The rest were to go "two by two, and preach the word, not in haste, among the congregations of the wicked" (Ibid., 60:8). "Congregations of the Wicked" Section 60 mentions "congregations of the wicked" twice. (Ibid., 60:8,13). 'The definition of the expression was given a few days later. While on the bank of the Missouri River en route to St. Louis, the Prophet and his party were met by some elders on their way to Jackson County. In the revelation dated August 13, 1831, these elders were told to declare the gospel to the inhabitants of the earth, or in other words, to the congregations of the wicked. (Ibid., 62:5.) "Congregations" in these revelations are not necessarily church gatherings only, but they may be. By definition of "wicked," the student of the mod- 847 ern revelations understands that they are the (1) morally corrupt and (2) those who have not accepted the fulness of the gospel. (Ibid., 35:12; 84:49-53.) | Consequently, "congregations of the wicked" are those who have not accepted the true gospel. But these people are to have an opportunity to receive the gospel either in this life or in the spirit world. (I Peter 3:18-20; 4:6; D & C 128:5.) "I Am Not Well Pleased" With the elders who had come to Missouri, the Lord was pleased, but those who lacked courage and diligence to open their mouths did not receive the same commendation. (D & C 60:1-2.) These elders had failed to exercise their talents in behalf of the Church. 'Talents are natural endowments or gifts. These talents constitute our ability to make contributions to the welfare of our fellow men, through music, poetry, drama, and other arts, in mechanics, and in the professions. Some people have talent or aptitude in leadership, organization, in speech, and in getting along with people. Since talents or gifts are natural endowments, then every person possesses them. It is also true that some people are gifted to a greater degree than others. Source of Talents Latter-day Saints are blessed with a far better understanding of themselves, their origin, and the answers to many perplexing situations in life than are those who do not believe in the gospel. Accepting the truth that we lived as intelligent beings in a pre-earth life and that we developed ourselves during those eternities, it follows that we had our "natural" endowments in that life. This point of view is interestingly developed in correspondence between Elder Orson F. Whitney of the Council of the Twelve and President Joseph F. Smith. In the words of Elder Whitney, we learn: Spirit Memories. —Writing one day upon the subject of spirit memories, and the influence exerted upon the affairs of this life by the awakened recollections of a former experience, I found myself indulging in the following reflections: Why are we drawn toward certain persons, and they toward us, independently of any known previous acquaintance? Is it a fact, or only a fancy, that we and they were mutually acquainted and mutually attracted in some earlier period of our eternal existence?... More than once, after meeting someone whom I had never met before on earth, I have wondered why his or her face seemed so familiar, Many times, upon hearing a noble sentiment expressed, though unable to recall having heard it until then, I have been thrilled by it, and felt as if I had always known it. The same is true of music, some strains of which are lke echoes from afar, sounds falling from celestial heights, notes struck from the vibrant harps of eternity. I do not assert preacquaintance in all such cases, but as one thought suggests another, these queries arise in the mind. The Shepherd's Voice-—When _ it comes to the Gospel, I feel more positive. Why did the Savior say: "My sheep know my voice?" Can a sheep know the voice of its shepherd, if it has never heard that voice before? They who love Truth, and to whom it appeals most powerfully, were they not its best friends in a previous state of existence? I think so. I believe that we knew the Gospel before we came here, and it is this knowledge, this acquaintance, that gives to it a familiar sound. 848 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 ; LESSON DEPARTMENT Very much in the same vein, I once wrote to President Joseph F. Smith — he at the time in Utah, and I on a mission in Europe. Here is his reply: President Smith's View I heartily endorse your sentiments respecting congeniality of spirits. Our knowledge of persons and things before we came here, combined with the divinity awakened within our souls through obedience to the gospel, powerfully affects, in my opinion, all our likes and dislikes, and guides our preferences in the course of this life, provided we give careful heed to the admonitions of the Spirit. All those salient truths which come home so forcibly to the head and heart seem but the awakening of the memories of the spirit. Can we know anything here that we did not know before we came? Are not the means of knowledge in the first estate equal to those of this? I think that the spirit, before and after this probation, possesses greater facilities, aye, manifold greater, for the acquisition of knowledge, than while manacled and shut up in the prison-house of mortality. I believe that our Savior possessed a foreknowledge of all the vicissitudes through which he would have to pass in the mortal tabernacle.... If Christ knew beforehand, so did we. But in coming here, we forgot all, that our agency might be free indeed, to choose good or evil, that we might merit the reward of our own choice and conduct. But by the power of the Spirit, in the redemption of Christ, through obedience, we often catch a spark from the awakened memories of the immortal soul, which lights up our whole being as with the glory of our former home (Saturday Night Thoughts, pp. 294-296. See also, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 12-14). Among other things from the foregoing, we understand that talents were a part of ourselves in premortality, that character-traits were formed there, that abilities, such as to believe in or accept truth, are brought to this life. The great truth, 849 allowing for environmental factors here, is that we are very much the Same as we were in the pre-existence. Improve Each Moment Each stage of our eternal existence — pre-existence, earth life, and the spirit world — is an opportunity stage to develop talents. We are here, but we are now body and spirit. The talents we bring with us must also become a part of the whole person. Our knowledge of the pre-earth life is presently gone, but the influence of that life is felt. Nevertheless, we are to take what we have and grow and develop. It is the use we make of our natural endowments that will determine whether we shall eventually be called a wise or slothful servant. Although each person is what he was in pre-existence and, thus, different from others, all have talents to use in the Lord's work. It doesn't matter what we may think of our abilities; we have ability which should be used. Parable of the Talents The Savior gave two parables that emphasize the need to develop one's talents. The parable of the Entrusted Talent tells of the man who gave talents (goods) to his servants. 'To one he gave five talents, to another two, and to the last, only one. The doubling of their talents by the first two brought forth the same commendation.... Well done, good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy Lord (Matt. 25:23). 850 These two servants had used their talents wisely, though they were different. But the servant who received one talent had buried it in the ground, fearful that it might be lost. The reply of the master was. Thou wicked and slothful servant..." (Ibid., verse 26; Talmage, James E..: Jesus the Christ, pp. 580- 584). Latter-day Saints may think of talents as blessings, since we have an opportunity to develop them in the Church, which provides the means for us to increase all good gifts. When we fail to take the Opportunities to assist in the furthering of the Lord's work, we are slothful servants. 'The Prophet Joseph Smith said:.. Blessings offered, but rejected, are no longer blessings, but become like the talent hid in the earth by the wicked and slothful servant; the proffered good returns to the giver; the blessing is bestowed on those who will receive and occupy; for unto him that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundantly, but unto him that hath not or will not teceive, shall be taken away that which he hath, or might have had (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 257). The Gifts of the Holy Ghost Every Latter-day Saint has the privilege of receiving one or more gifts of the Holy Ghost. (D & C 46:11-12; Lesson 32, Relief Society Magazine, February 1961.) He does not know his latent talents nor the gifts of the Spirit; consequently, he must earnestly seek after the best gifts, remembering the purposes for which they are given, that he may not be deceived. If he does this, he will exert his best efforts to advance his own salvation and that of his fellow men. (D & C 46:7-10.) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 In the case of the elders with whom the Lord was displeased because they feared man and therefore would not use their talent to preach and testify (Ibid., 60:1-2), he said: And it shall come to pass, if they are not more faithful unto me, it shall be taken away, even that which they have (Ibid., verse 3). One can believe that if these elders had courageously taught the gospel, the Lord would have sustained them as he told Joseph Smith he would uphold him against the adversary. (Ibid., 3:7-8.) He who does not develop his talents and gifts is declared by the Lord to be an idler. 'Those who were to come to Zion in 1831 were told that they should not idle away their time, nor bury their talent. (Ibid., 60:13.) The Lord Rules All scripture proclaims the truth that God is sovereign in this world. The revealed fact that God is allknowing and all-powerful, that he knows the destiny of individuals and nations, makes him supreme. It is this assurance that gives to the believer the faith to put his full trust in the ultimate victory of truth. The Lord rules among the armies of the earth, and the day will come when all men shall know of his power. (D & C 60:4.) In 1831, this truth served to bolster the courage of those who were weak in not testifying to the truth; but this is not its only purpose, for one realizes that God shapes the destinies of man and nations. God has promised peace and prosperity to those who serve him diligently, but wrath LESSON DEPARTMENT and indignation upon those people who transgress his laws. (Ibid., 59:23; 39:16-18. ) The power of the Lord will be known when his fury is unleashed upon the unrepentant. (D&C 29:17-20; 88:88-92.) When the last great conflict is ended at the close of the millennium, the Lord's power will be fully demonstrated. (Ibid., 43:22-30; 88:111-116.) At the time Chnist declares his work finished, his jewels, the people of God, will have been gathered together for time and eternity. (Ibid., 60:4; 88:106.) Shake Dust Off Feet The testimony of the Spirit is powerful. Its consequences are always expressed with power. A testimony rejected leads eventually, unless repented of, to loss of great blessings. For the first time in the Doctrine and Covenants we learn about an ancient practice of testimony and its attendant power. The law is given in Section 60:15 as Shaking the dust off one's feet against those who do not accept the missionary. ''his ceremony is to be performed in secret. The washing of the feet is a testimony against the person in the day of judgment. (Ibid., 60:15; 1:8-10.) Thus the missionary has power to seal up the rebellious until the time of wrath. This was true in the Old Testament period as well as in the time of Jesus and the apostles. (Nehemiah 5:13; Matt. 10:14; Luke 10:10-11; Acts 13:51; 18:6.) The testimony of warning is a part of the plan in this dispensation. (D&C 84:87-95; 75: 20-21; 99:4.) When should this ceremony be performed? The answer must be 851 given at the time and according to the circumstances. The missionary is to be guided by love and patience in all things. It would seem that the elder would follow the counsel given to Hyrum Smith, that he should be directed by the Spirit in all things. (D & C 11:12.) In the final analysis, the gospel is one of love, but there may be conditions such as persecution or violence toward the elder, that would give rise to the use of the ceremony, if directed by the Spirit. Section 62—Testimony It was from Section 62 that we learned the meaning of "congregations of the wicked." The Lord reminds his people that his knowledge includes an understanding of man's weaknesses and also that he knows the way that man may be rescued from falling into temptation. (D & C 62:1.) Concerning the few elders on their way to Zion in 1831, he would have them know that they were blessed in bearing their testimonies to the world. But wherein were they blessed? Nevertheless, ye are blessed, for the testimony which ye have borne is recorded in heaven for the angels to look upon; and they rejoice over you, and your sins are forgiven you (Ibid., verse 3). This passage points up the importance of being in the service of one's fellow men. In this dispensation the Lord has emphasized the need for missionary work, a service of love for fellow man. (Ibid., 15:6.) When a person speaks by the power of the Holy Ghost, that Spirit testifies to the truth spoken. (2 Nephi 33:1.) When such testimonies are uttered they are recorded 852 in the heavens. Why should angels rejoice in this? Holy beings are concerned with the salvation of men. This testimony is a means to an end — the salvation of the testator and the convincing of others of God's truth. Service to God and Man When one is using his talents for the salvation of men, he is serving God and advancing his own salvation. (Mosiah 2:17.) The Lord admonishes his saints to develop their talents and use the gifts he has bestowed upon them by his Spirit. Viewed from the perspective of man's eternal nature, there is no more important work in life than to work for one's salvation and that of his fellow beings. 'The greatest influence that the Latter-day RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 Saint can exert upon others is to be a living testimony of God's truth as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. In concluding this revelation the Lord reminds his servants that,... I, the Lord, promise the faithful and cannot lie.... Behold, the kingdom is yours. And behold, and lo, I am with the faithful always. Even so. Amen (D & C 62:6, 9). Questions for Discussion 1. Why does the Lord refer to the inhabitants of the world as wicked? 2. Of what value is it to you to know that God is sovereign in this world? 3. What is the purpose of bearing testimony of the Gospel? 4. In view of the purpose of earth life, what do you believe is the principal purpose of talents? VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 45 — "Pray Always That You Enter Not Into Temptation" (D & C 61:39). Christine H. Robinson For First Week, February 1963 Objective: To show that prayer is the shield the Lord provides to help us overcome temptation. NE of the greatest blessings which can come to us from our Father in heaven is the power to_discern and—overcome temptation. In his struggle to capture men's souls, Satan has no more. Powerful tool than that of temptaeave eee. Tion. He knows that no man ever becomes extremely wicked all at once. Sin, and the ultimate de. Struction that accompanies it, isu gradual and, often, a relatively unobvious process. President McKay has wisely said: LESSON DEPARTMENT "Temptation often comes in the same quiet way. Perhaps yielding to it may not be known by anyone save the individual and his God, but if he does yield to it, he becomes to that extent. Weakened and _spot- _ ted with the evil of the world" (CR, October 1958, page 92). Recognizing this, our Father in heaven has provided us with a shield against this subtle, but powerful, force of temptation. He has counseled us to "Pray always that you enter not into temptation." In the Book of Mormon, Alma admonishes "call on his holy name, and watch and pray continually, that ye may not be tempted above that which ye can bear' (Alma mna:20). 1" Regardless of the nature of our faith or the strength of our testimonies, we are always subject to the pitfalls of temptation. 'This is why we have been counseled to so live as always to have around us the _ protective influence of the Lord's spirit. 'This is what President J Reuben Clark, Jr., meant when he Said, "Build around yourselves an impregnable fortress of righteousaa and depart not from your Commencement Address, 1949). -An Arab legend recounts that when Gabriel was depriving Lucifer of the weapons he needed to conquer men's souls, the wiley tempter || persuaded Gabriel to allow him to | keep one device — the weapon of discouragement. He knew that with ————- citadel" (Brigham Young University! 853 this weapon he could entice men into even grievous sins. Recently, a young mother was beset with many troubles which seemed to move in upon her from all directions. When she sought counsel on how to bear these burdens, she was advised, "If you have trouble and Lucifer tempts you, pray to your Father in heaven and the dark clouds will disappear and you will go on your way rejoicing." She was advised to pray constantly in her heart and to live for twentyfour hours as if Jesus were right beside her. This she did, and learned that when she approached each temptation and problem with the conviction that the Savior was by her side, her fears and discouragements vanished. She found she was able to control her temper, which so often before had controlled her. She was kinder and more understanding than she had been before. This was the effect of the Lord's spirit and the fulfillment of the promise which the Lord gives to all of us that the presence of his spirit will help us to avoid temptation. This thought is beautifully expressed in the well-known hymn I need thee every hour, stay thou near by;; Temptations lose their power when thou art nigh. (L. D. S. Hymns, page 79). Prayer, then, is the real shield against temptation. Each of us should follow our Lord's counsel, "Pray always that you enter not into temptation" (D & C 61:39). WORK MEETING (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 5 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (Part 1) Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, February 1963 Objective: To show that a clean, well-cared for home enhances its beauty and uplifts the soul. Well-cared-for home improves with age, with the sheen of polished wood, the sparkle of glistening brass, copper, and_ silver. The lived-in, comfortable feeling one finds in a home that has been loved and tended cannot be found to the same degree in a home newly built. Many people take great pride in their well-kept older houses. In the Orient there is, likewise, a feeling of reverence for the old, well-cared-for homes. Homes of grandparents in Indonesia often have a lowered roofline that requires one to stoop before entering, thus forcing one to make a bow to the household. In Thailand and neighboring countries, people take off their shoes before entering a home. The beautifully polished teak floors that are kept in perfect condition by hand rubbing with a coconut husk are appreciated more fully when one walks on them reverently with bare feet than when shoes are worn, which may scratch or mar the surface. Japanese households have a well outside for wash- 854 ing the hands before entering a home. Shoes are removed in the entry and slippers put on before going into the house proper. These customs enhance the feeling of appreciation for a well-cared-for home and give encouragement to the homemaker to keep it sparkling clean and beautiful. Someone said one day, "How do you get that beautiful hand-rubbed look to your table?" 'There is only one answer to that, by hand-rubbing. Have you felt the joy that comes from hand-polishing a piece of furniture made of some beautiful wood, such as walnut, mahogany, maple, birch, cherry, oak, or teak? If not, perhaps you would like that pleasure. First, cleanse a small section of the wood with a damp cloth wrung from mild suds, wipe with a cloth wrung as dry as possible from clear warm water, and rub dry with a dry cloth. Make a ponce by putting a ball of cotton in a soft cloth; dip the ponce in a mixture of 2/3 boiled linseed oil and 1/3 turpentine. (The boiled linseed oil comes that way from the LESSON DEPARTMENT shop; do not put it near a flame.) Rub the ponce over the wood, and with the palms of the hands, polish with the grain. The warmth from your body will bring out a soft glow to the wood. Finish the rubbing with a soft cloth. This oil treatment can be repeated at weekly intervals, minus the wash, for several weeks, to bring a beautiful finish to the wood. Have you heard of the clean windows of the Norwegians? No matter what else is done, a Norwegian homemaker sees to it that her windows are clean. What a good feeling one has on going into a home with freshly cleaned windows. It is a prelude to something even better inside. And it is difficult to "beat the Dutch" when it comes to clean houses. 'Their doorsteps are scrubbed daily, and their houses are kept in spotless condition. It is not suggested that you be a perfectionist, no one wants to live with one; but it is suggested that you know of the beauty that lifts your soul when you live in a clean, well-cared-for house. 'The beauty of everything is enhanced when it is clean. This applies to an individual, to the family, and to the home and possessions. There is nothing comparable to the beauty of a woman who has clean thoughts, clean actions, a clean life, who wears clean clothing, and lives in a clean house. One of our great Latter-day Saint values is 855 to bring beauty to everything we touch; to bring beauty into the lives of family members; and to provide a beautiful setting for their lives. Beauty in the home is not measured by the amount of money that has been spent, but by the thoughtful and loving care that is given to what one has. For our next month's discussion, let's have some "tell" * shows (demonstrations) and give some ideas about how to clean and care for our homes and furnishings. (An excellent reference to read ahead of time is How to Clean Everything, by Moore, published by Simon and Schuster in 1952.) Make these assignments: 1. A tell show on cleaning floors 2. A tell show on cleaning upholstered furniture 3. A tell show on cleaning metals. Questions for Discussion 1. How can the ideas about managing time be applied to cleaning? 2. Is it better to have an annual and semi-annual housecleaning time or to work on the big jobs all through the year with the regular cleaning? Discuss advantages and disadvantages of both methods. 3. What are some of the cleaning jobs that you feel must be done daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly? *Tell show: A tell show is a demonstration. First you tell, then you show, then suggest that members of the class practice the methods at home. Check up later to see if the method has been tried out in the homes and with what success. LITERATURE e America's Literature The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 37 — The Literary Lincoln Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York) For Third Meeting, February 1963 Objective: To establish a closer interrelationship between Lincoln's character and his writings, that we may more fully appreciate the genius of both. O every American, Abraham Lincoln seems as familiar as the five-dollar bills in our purses and pockets and as near as the fourcent stamps our tongues have moistened. Each February we publicly recirculate the worn, yet beloved stories of his walking miles to return borrowed books, of dropping behind his fellow travelers to pull a pig out of the mire, and restore fuzzy, peeping birds to their nest, of saving sleeping sentries from execution, of saving the Union and freeing the slaves. If our modem educators' routine memory exercise is ever ignored, it is only to permit our youths to memorize the Gettysburg Address, which is well worth memorizing. We give his name to schools and cars, logs and insurance, while from year to year the Lincoln stories grow of their own momentum. But often they are akin to the legends we absorbed at the same time we came to "know" Abraham Lincoln; our childhood image of Lincoln dominates our adult years as well, often with their familiar stories, serving, 856 actually, to prevent our adult rediscovery of him. How temptingly easy it is to coast along on our familiar generalizations about him, inevitably true since "we have known them all our lives." Yet few ventures into the American past yield greater insight into our mature selves than does a serious attempt to know Lincoln the man, Lincoln the symbol, Lincoln the man of the people who, in the words of Gamaliel Bradford, "still smiles and remains impenetrable." Actually, instead of thus generalizing we might be discovering for ourselves the mystery and charm of Lincoln, one of America's truly great men. In scarcely a hundred years, more has been written about him than about any other figure in world history except Jesus of Nazareth and Napoleon. But before we begin our pioneering quest for the "new" Lincoln we should pause to define our goals. Is it to know Lincoln as history or Lincoln as biography? Our goal is to know the man; our paths to this goal: history and his own words. LESSON DEPARTMENT The Young Lincoln By virtue of the time and place in which his youth was spent, Lincoln excelled in the first three of the four popular recreations: stump-speaking, wrestling, storytelling, and horse-racing. 'These were social graces which, early mastered, he loved and used throughout his life as social tools, and as relaxation from the unbearable strains of the Civil War years. In later years he did not wrestle, though he always enjoyed exhibiting his extraordinary physical strength. He sometimes told stories merely to entertain, but often either to deflect a point being pressed to his disadvantage, or to sharpen one to his advantage. It was in his lifelong zeal to express his thoughts in the best manner possible that Lincoln revealed himself as the conscious literary artist that he was. And it was through mastering his speaking and writing skills that he achieved power over men, preliminary eminence, and eventually greatness. It was his scrupulous concern to get his words on the page just right that is not to be accounted for, and that reveals his genius. His stepmother recalled how he labored to improve his style: When he came across a passage that struck him, he would write it down on boards if he had no paper, and keep it there till he did get paper, then he would rewrite it, look at it, repeat it (Barzun, Jaques: "Lincoln the Literary Genius," Saturday Evening Post, February 14, 1959, page 63). (Reprinted by special permission of The Saturday Evening Post, © 1959, the Curtis Publishing Company). William H. Herndon, his law 857 ABRAHAM LINCOLN From an Official Presidential Portrait partner for almost twenty years, likewise told how obsessed Lincoln was to find the nght word to express his exact thought, how impatient he often became upon finding in others' writing "abstractions, glittering generalities, indefiniteness, mistiness of idea or expression." Because, occasionally, in his informal moments Lincoln told stories so spontaneously and delightfully in his regional "twang," he sometimes offended cultured, educated people. Until the 1920's his biographers either maintained that he never achieved a literary style of any distinction, or that suddenly his great style was achieved during the war years. The passing of time has worked to our advantage, first by freeing us from nineteenth-century standards of literary and oratorical fashion, so that we may judge his words on 858 their intrinsic merits; second, scholarship has revealed how carefully Lincoln worked over his written words, that they might present his entire self and intent clearly and powerfully. Invaluable is the firsthand account of Major Eckert, Superintendent of the Military Telegraph, who told how Lincoln came to his quiet office to work without interruption on the first draft of the Emancipation Proclamation: He would look out of the window awhile and then put his pen to paper, but he did not write much at once. He would study between times and when he had made up his mind he would put down a line or two, and then sit quiet for a few minutes. After a time, he would resume his writing.... When he came to the office on the following day he asked for the papers, and I unlocked the desk for him. This he did nearly every day for several weeks. Some days he would not write more than a line or two, and once I observed that he put question marks on the margin. He would read over each day all the matter he had previously written and _ revise it, studying carefully each sentence. Such testimony proves how meticulous a stylist Lincoln was, and how well he knew and practiced the basic principle of composition, "Hard writing makes easy reading." Time also permits us to realize the truth of what we already know; that the style is always the man, and that as the man grew and deepened and broadened, so did his writing style. As early as 1832, when he was only twenty-one years of age, he wrote well-ordered thoughts, both clear and moving, which early reveal his inborn ability to move people by so completely feeling each word that the reader cannot escape becoming Lincoln, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 at least in part, and thus hearing him sympathetically: Fellow-citizens, I shall conclude. Considering the great degree of modesty which should always attend youth, it is probable I have already been more _presuming than becomes me. However, upon the subjects of which I have treated, I have spoken as I thought. I may be wrong in regard to any or all of them; but holding it a sound maxim, that it is better to be only sometimes right, than at all times wrong, so soon as I discover my opinions to be erroneous, I shall be ready to renounce them. After explaining that his greatest ambition is to make himself worthy of his fellow-men's esteem, and explaining that he is young, unknown, and humble, with "no wealthy or popular relations" to recommend him, he skillfully places his fate in the hands of the voters who, if they choose to elect him, will confer upon him a favor he will "labor unremittingly to compensate." He wrote But if the good people in their wisdom shall see fit to keep me in the background, I have been too familiar with disappointments to be very much chagrined. Your friend and fellow-citizen, A. Lincoln. New Salem, March g, 1832. Lincoln's Greatness The facets of Lincoln's greatness are many: humor, kindness, patience, ability to judge men and events, strong will, high dedication to honesty, fairness, equality, and the basic principles of morality, democracy, and religion. Our concer, however, is to prove his greatness through his written words, which are a most enduring and important legacy to the future. If we grant that like begets like, LESSON DEPARTMENT | A Perry Picture 859 LINCOLN'S HOME, SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS and that great prose is produced only by a great mind-imaginationsoul, it then follows that the flawless style which he perfected is but further product and proof of his greatness. Although as a lad he read Shakespeare, Bunyan, Burns, Defoe, and the Bible by firelight, and though during his first year as Congressman he read much, hoping to improve the coherence and directness of his style of writing, his mature Style is entirely his own, just as it is without precedent in American literature. And the dominant characteristics of his style — precision, brevity, rhythm, poetic eloquence — are the very identity of the man himself, and best represent him. Examples of each best prove the point. Precision I would save the Union. I would Save it the shortest way under the Constitution. The sooner the national authority can be restored, the nearer the Union will be '"'the Union as it was." If there be those who would not save the Union unless they could at the same time save slavery, I do not agree with them. If there be those who would not save the Union unless they could at the same time destroy slavery, I do not agree with them.... I shall do less whenever I shall believe what I am doing hurts the cause, and I shall do more whenever I shall believe doing more will help the cause.. I have here stated my purpose according to my view of official duty; and I intend no modification of my oft-expressed personal wish that all men everywhere could be free. Yours, A. Lincoln. —(Excerpt from Lincoln's reply to Horace Greely ) Brevity 1. Speech at flag-raising ceremony before the Treasury Building: The part assigned to me is to raise the flag, which if there be no fault in the machinery, I will do, and when up, it will be for the people to keep it up. 2. To General Grant, who had _telegraphed, "If the thing is pressed, I think that Lee will surrender," Lincoln replied, "Let the thing be pressed." 3. Written in June 1858, when requested to supply the story of his life for the Dictionary of Congress: Born, February 12, 1809, in Hardin County, Kentucky. Education, defective. Profession, a lawyer. Have been a captain of volunteers in Black Hawk War. Postmaster at a very small office. Four times a member of the Illinois legislature, and was a member of the lower house of Congress. Yours etc. A. Lincoln. Balance and Rhythm 1. (Delivered February 11, 1861 to his friends in Springfield who stood in a light rain as he addressed them from the rear platform of his special train which was to bear him to Washington and the Presidency). My friends — No one, not in my situation, can appreciate my feeling of sadness at this parting. To this place, and the kindness of these people, I owe everything. Here I have lived a quarter of a century, and have passed from a young to an old man. Here my children have been born, and one is buried. I now leave, not knowing when, or whether ever, I may return, with a task before me greater than that which rested upon Washington. Without the assistance of that Divine Being who ever attended him, I cannot succeed. With that assistance I cannot fail. Trusting in Him, who can go with me, and remain with you and be everywhere for good, let us confidently hope that all will yet be well. To His care commending you, as I hope in your prayers you will commend me, I bid you an affectionate farewell. Poetic Eloquence I am loath to close. We are not encmies, but friends. We must not be enemies. Though passion may have strained, it must not break our bonds of affection. The mystic chords of memory, stretching from every battle-field and patriot grave to every living heart and hearthstone all over this broad land, will yet swell the chorus of the Union when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature (First Inaugural, final paragraph). Equally grand in its simplicity, then climaxed in a similar poetic passage, are the final lines of his Second Inaugural, delivered March 4, 1865, just forty days before his martyrdom: Fondly do we hope — fervently do we pray — that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away. Yet if God wills that it continue until all the wealth piled by the bondsman's two hundred and fifty years of unrequited toil shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword, as was said three thousand years ago, so still must it be said, "The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether.' With malice toward none; with charity for all; with firmness in the nght, as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in; to bind up the nation's wounds; to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan — to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves, and with all nations. Despite the dark events of the Civil War, a vast commemorative service at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, had been planned for October, but when the orator of the day, SenatorGovernor-President of Harvard University Edward Everett, announced he could not be prepared by such a date, the event was post- 860 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 LESSON DEPARTMENT poned to November 19, 1863. President Lincoln was invited to be present and, after the main oration, to formally "set apart these grounds to their sacred use by a few appropriate remarks." Before leaving Washington the day previous, he filled a sheet of paper with memoranda, then read it to his bodyguard, commenting it was not at all satisfactory, but that he had been too busy to give it more time. He arrived in the tiny village of Gettysburg the preceding evening. The next morning after a parade the governors and cabinet members took their places on the platform, then listened to the bands play until noon, for Mr. Everett, the orator of the day, had not yet arrived. Finally he came, and for one hour and fifty-seven minutes he addressed the crowd, estimated as high as 50,000. After a glee club sang an ode, Lincoln put on his steel-bowed glasses, and holding his two sheets of paper in one hand, arose to read from them in his "high-pitched, clear-carrying voice, the brief speech which has become so famous." Fourscore and seven years ago, our fathers brought forth upon this continent a new nation, conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation — or any nation, so conceived and so dedicated — can long endure. We are met on a great battle-field of that war. We are met to dedicate a portion of it as the final resting place of those who have given their lives that the nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this. 861 But in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our power to add or to detract. The world will very little note nor long remember what we say here; but it can never forget what they did here. It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here, to the unfinished work that they have thus far so nobly carried on. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us; that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they here gave the last full measure of devotion, that we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain; that the nation shall, under God, have a new birth of freedom, and that government of the people, by the people, and for the people, shall not perish from the earth. After the perfunctory applause had ceased, the President said to his bodyguard, "Lamon, that speech won't scour. It is a flat failure and the people are disappointed." Re actions in the next day's newspapers varied. Many were critical of the President's remarks, but the Chicago Tribune reported that "the dedicatory remarks of President Lincoln will live among the annals of man," and Edward Everett wrote Lincoln, "I should be glad if I could flatter myself that I came as near to the central idea of the occasion in two hours as you did in two minutes." To which Lincoln replied, "In our respective parts yesterday, you could not have been excused to make a short address, nor I a long one. I am pleased to know that, in your judgment, the little I did say was not entirely a failure." Again, in judging this event, the passing years have given us every advantage. As the times were new, so had Lincoln thought anew. Compared to the usual and _ traditional oratorical tones, Lincoln's words werc terse and flat. Only in time did it become evident that out of his mind and heart had come a new pattern and tone of communicating which was to shape a new age, new not only in America's history but in man's as well. Lincoln loved all men, great poetry, drama, attending operas and plays, and telling good stories. The steady stream of writing about him which has only grown larger since his death now lets us also know him as timid, often melancholy and sad when he drew entirely within himself, always aloof in some degree from even his nearest intimates. He was dominated by religious ideals and longings which were the core of restless ambition and the great strength of his character. The more we study his writings, the more these qualities become evident therein, and the more fully we recognize in his carefully chosen words and rhythmic sentences the cohesive force which bound every phase of his life mto a unity. Lincoln's writings thus _reveal the close relationship between the integrity of his character and his literary genius. Thoughts for Discussion 1. If Lincoln is generally accepted as symbolizing the American common man, how docs such acceptance make him easier or more difficult to know? 2. What proof exists within Lincoln's own writings to show that he developed his final style over a lifetime, just as he himself came to his fullest stature and wisdom during the war years? 3. If Lincoln is seen as a complex genius and artist, which phase of his character might be fairly represented by his need for humor? By his exacting care and concern with his written words? Do you find any relationship whatsoever between these two word usages? ~ Della Adams Leitner May I, aware of beauty, ever be Imbued with wonder at the starlit sky; Marvel to view the patterns in the wings Of bluebird or of velvet butterfly. And may my eyes though dimmed with years behold The loveliness around me manifold, Envisioning with spirit's senses keen The deep realities of the unseen. A fadeless joy is hers who ever knows The beauty and the fragrance of the rose. 862 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Foundation of Church Government Lesson 4 — Divine Law and Priesthood Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, February 1963 Objective: To show the place and the importance of Priesthood in carrying out divine law. FROM our discussion in previous lessons, we may conclude that divine law emanates from God and has to do with every phase of man's relationship with the Father including all that pertains to life and salvation. Everything good comes from God. Every revelation is an expression of the divine will and is issued for the benefit and welfare of man. Our objective in this lesson, as stated above, is to show the place and the importance of Priesthood in carrying out divine law. Priesthood — Divine Authority Priesthood is the authority of God through which his purposes are accomplished. Priesthood is divine Jaw in action. It is the dynamics of and the actual power supporting divine law. Priesthood is the government_of | whether on the earth or in the heavens, for it is by that power, agency, or principle that all things are governed on the earth and in the heavens, and by that power that all things are upheld and sustained. It governs all things — it directs all things — it sustains all things — and has to do with all things that God and truth are associated with. It is the power of God delegated to intelligence in the heavens and to men on the earth (TayLor, JOHN: Millennial Star, Vol. 9, page 321). From the above quotation, we can assume that God is the directing force of all that is good and true. He is concerned about every person who comes into this world. They are his children. He is particularly interested in those who accept his teachings and justify their affiliation with his organization by their actions. Because of man's free agency, God cannot be on the earth to direct things in person so he... Has delegated to man the necessary authority to carry out the provisions of the Plan. Priesthood is the name given this authority.... Without authority from God there can be no Priesthood (Wi nTsoE, Joun A.: Rational Theology, page 99). Divine law is the revealed mind and will of God relative to his children and their behavior. The Priesthood is the authority to carry out that law. It is also the channel through which God will continue to reveal his purposes to the children of men. President Brigham Young said the Priesthood of the Son of God "fs the law by which the worlds are, 863 864 were, and will continue forever and ever. It is that system which brings worlds into existence and peoples them..." (Wiptsoe, Joun A.: Discourses of Brigham Young, page 130). Understanding the Term Priesthood Priesthood may be explained under the following headings: 1. Power; 2. A commission or delegated authority; and 3. A personal blessing. First, Priesthood is a powerful force by which worlds were and are created and by which the unnumbered systems of planets operate in order. This same power is available to assist, guide, and direct man in his activities so that he may achieve the full purpose of his creation. But, unlike the other creations of God which operate within the rigid limitations of the law, man may accept or reject the truths, the divine laws within the power of the Priesthood. This is God's recognition of the sacred right of choice. Second, Priesthood is a commission. 'To the person upon whom the Pnesthood is bestowed the right is given to act for God upon the earth. Third, the Priesthood is a blessing to the person receiving it, and through his faithful discharge of his duties it becomes a blessing to all people with whom he comes in contact. (See D & C 84:33-34.) Relationship of Divine Law and Priesthood 1. Revelation, the source of divine law The discussions in our lessons have already pointed out that divine law is the expressed mind and will RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 of God presented to man through revelation. Divine law provides the guideposts for the most effective and satisfying way of life for mankind. Priesthood is the authorized directing force that puts the law into action. For example, the divine law indicates that "marriage is ordained of God unto man" (D & C 49:15). The fulfillment of this divine law can be realized only through the operation of the Priesthood. The President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as Prophet, Seer, and Revelator holds all the keys of the Priesthood, which means "that every act performed under this authority shall be done at the proper time and place, in the proper way, and after the proper order" (Wiuprtsok, JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, 1929 ed., page 200). The keys or directing power of the Priesthood are held by only one person at a time on earth. A portion of this directing power can be delegated to others and, in fact, is given to the various Priesthood holders when they are called to office in the organizations of the Church. Through this delegated authority all ordinances essential to exaltation are carried out. 'The law describes the organization and the Priesthood makes it function. 2. Man's laws versus divine law In the Library of Congress there are many, many volumes of manmade laws. 'They either authorize or restrain the activities of people. The official actions of the legal agents of political government are set forth in these volumes. Thus the freedom of the citizen is defined in the law. He who would be free must know the law and conduct LESSON DEPARTMENT himself within the framework of the law. Divine law does not limit or restrain man but opens the way for unlimited advancement. The ability, desire, and willingness to put forth effort to know and understand the mind and will of God determine the Priesthood holder's capacity to act in the authority of the Priesthood conferred on him. Genealogy of the Priesthood "Now this same Priesthood, which was in the beginning, shall be in the end of the world also" (Moses 6:7). The Prophet Joseph Smith tells us "There has been a chain of authority and power from Adam down to the present time" (Smith, Joseph Fielding: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 191). We are often reminded that Satan works overtime in the development and presentation of evil to draw the souls of men away from the kingdom of God. But we should also be aware of the fact that the powers of righteousness have been working unceasingly from the beginning of time to teach, train, direct, and persuade the souls of men unto righteousness. The Priesthood of God was the dynamic force in the creation, and the Priesthood has been conferred upon man, beginning with Adam, that all men might have the benefit of this power in assisting them to harmonize their lives with their Eternal Father and in fighting the influence of evil. The Priesthood is the power Satan fears. He recognizes the source of this power and must respect and submit to its command. It is reasonable to expect that God would make available to man (his spiritual offspring) every assistance 865 possible in man's rise to perfection. The Priesthood is that assistance. It is Our purpose to present in outline form the lineage of the Priesthood, suggesting its continued presence and availability for the benefit of mankind. We will review it in the following order: from Adam to Noah; Noah to Abraham; Abraham to Moses; Moses to Jesus Christ; and from Jesus Christ to Joseph Smith. There are certain places where direct lineage cannot be shown. We should also be aware of the fact that there were definitely periods of time when the Church or organized government of the Lord was not in operation on the earth. But, through specially authorized prophets, the light of truth was kept before mankind. 1. Adam to Noah For this division the lineage is clearly stated in both old and new scriptures. In the Doctrine and Covenants, we read, The order of this priesthood was confirmed to be handed down from father to son, and rightly belongs to the literal descendants of the chosen seed, to whom the promises were made. This order was instituted in the days of Adam, and came down by lineage in the following manner (D & C 107:40-41). Briefly stated, Seth was ordained by Adam at the age of sixty-nine, Enos was one hundred and thirtyfour years old when he was ordained by Adam, Cainan was eighty-seven, Mahalaleel was four hundred and ninety-six, Jared was two hundred, Enoch was twenty-five, and Methuselah was one hundred, when ordained under the hands of Adam. Lamech, at the age of thirty-two, was ordained by Seth. Noah was only ten years old when Methuselah ordained him. 42-52.) 2. Noah to Abraham The sons of Noah included Shem, Ham, and Japheth. The Priesthood lineage is shown through the descendants of Shem. The record found in Genesis 11:10-27 lists eight direct descendants of Shem to Terah, the father of Abraham. This record is not specific as to the ordination of each of the eight referred to, but in the book of Abraham in the Pearl of Great Price, Abraham states that the Priesthood came down from the fathers. (See Abraham 1:2-3.) In the fourteenth verse of the 84th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, we are informed that "Abraham received the priesthood from Melchizedek, who received _ it through the lineage of his fathers, even till Noah." (See D & C 107: 3. Abraham to Moses The Bible records the transfer of the blessings given to Abraham on his descendants through his son Isaac to Jacob and then to Joseph (see Genesis 12:2-3; 26:4; 28:14; 49: 25-26), but does not make specific mention of Priesthood or Priesthood functions and powers. However, in the book of Abraham in the Pearl of Great Price we learn that the great blessings promised to Abraham and his posterity concerned the Priesthood. The Lord said to Abraham, "And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee above measure, and make thy name great among all nations, and thou shalt be a blessing unto thy seed after thee, that in their hands they shall bear this ministry and Priesthood unto all nations" (Abraham 2:9). 'The blessings passed to Ephraim and Manasseh, sons of Joseph (Genesis 24:36; 25:11, 27; 32:24-20; 58:1-4). By direct revelation we are informed that the Priesthood lineage is given through Esaias. (see D & C 84:6-14.) "Esaias also lived in the davs of Abraham, and was blessed of him" (verse 13). In the twelfth verse we read "and Esaias received it [the Priesthood] under the hand of God." The recorded lineage is from Esaias to Gad, to Jeremy, to Elihu, to Caleb, to Jethro who bestowed the Priesthood upon his son-in-law, Moses. 4. Moses to Jesus Christ "Now this Moses plainly taught to the children of Israel in the wilderness, and sought diligently to sanctify his people that they might behold the face of God" (D & C 84:23). But they hardened their hearts... Therefore, he took Moses out of their midst, and the Holy Priesthood also; And the lesser priesthood continued, which priesthood holdeth the key of the ministering of angels and the preparatory gospel; Which gospel is the gospel of repentance and of baptism, and the remission of sins, and the law of carnal commandments... (D & C 84:24-27). The lesser or Aaronic Priesthood continued to guide God's chosen people until the coming of the Savior. However, at various times special servants (prophets such as Samuel, Elijah, Isaiah, and others) were called by the Lord and given great power and authority in calling 866 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 LESSON DEPARTMENT the people to repentance, blessing the righteous ef the earth, and in rebuking the power of evil from controlling the hearts and minds of the people. With the Aaronic Priesthood performing the religious government of Israel, John the Baptist announced Jesus Christ the Son of God at whose baptism the Holy Ghost descended upon him and the voice of the Eternal Father identified him as his Son. This was the return of the Melchizedek Priesthood. Christ again set up his Church on earth. In John 15:16 Christ says, "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you.' He set up the necessary Organization and ordained them according to their callings. It should be pointed out that The Book of Mormon records that the Priesthood was given to the prophets of the Western Hemisphere. The writing of Alma, a great prophet, indicates the influence of the power of God. The records of the Jaredites (the book of Ether) and particularly the book of 3 Nephi indicate the presence of the Priesthood. In 3 Nephi, Christ chose twelve disciples, ordained them, and instructed them how to teach and organize his people. 5. From Jesus Christ to Joseph Smith An apostasy from the Church, with resultant loss of the Priesthood, took place on both the Eastern and Western Hemispheres. President Joseph F. Smith writes, The Melchizedek Priesthood which Christ restored to the earth, remained among men between three and four hundred years afterwards. When in consequence of transgressions, apostasy from the true order of the Priesthood and Church 867 of Christ, the innovation of priestcraft and paganism, the true order of God was lost, the Holy Priesthood was taken from the earth, and the Church of Christ ceased to be among men, so far as we have any knowledge by revelation or from the history and records of the past (Gospel Doctrine, page 191). Thus, from approximately 450 A. D. To 1829 the Priesthood (the authority to act officially in the name of God) was not upon the earth. Modern Evidence of the Priesthood Joseph Smith's vision of the Father and the Son set the stage for the organization of the Church. Before this could take place the power of the Priesthood must be restored. The restoration is a very strong evidence of order in the Lord's house. First let us recall the vision of the Father and the Son. When they appeared, the Father identified the Son by saying "This is My Beloved Son." Jesus Christ is the God of this earth; therefore, it was his assignment to answer Joseph's questions and explain the future action for the Prophet. God the Father gave approval to Christ's program when he said, "Hear Him." A further lesson of order came in the fact that Joseph was not commissioned or ordained at this meeting with the Father and the Son. This was left to the men who had the authority placed in their hands by their position in the organization Christ had set up while he was on the earth. So, John the Baptist came and conferred the Aaronic Priesthood upon Joseph and Oliver, with the authority to function in the temporal ordinances. Later, Peter, James, and John, the leadership of Christ's Church established 7 | | | I I! I I I | I I I I!! SACRED THREE PART CHORUSES FOR LADIES VOICES FORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD, | GO—Madsen.............20 a GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Schreiner.............30 ——— HOW LOVELY ARE THY DWELLINGS—Liddle _...............25 _—"* JESU, JOY OF MAN'S DESIRING—Bach._............00.......25 an LET NOT YOUR SONG END—Cain ooo 25 i... LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens.............. 20 = LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS—Armbruster.............25 ae... LORD IS MY LIGHT—Allitsen...20 ele LORD WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen.....20 | MY HEART EVER FAITHFUL— wlBach ooo eect DS a STILL, STILL WITH THEE— Madsen ooo... Eee.22.. VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— Tl: |.25 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY \ 15 E. Ist South 1 i Salt Lake City 11, Utah OO Charge ( (] Money Enclosed Address................-+- I | Please send the music indicated r | I I | { ' \ i ' \ ' (1 On Approval 1 ' i ' ' \! Salt Lake City 11, Utah Own 100th Year 862-1962 | |! 15 E. Ist south | | | | as a part of his earthly mission, came and ordained Joseph and Oliver elders, and conferred upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood with all the rights, keys, powers, and authority pertaining to this office. Other resurrected beings who held certain essential keys came and conferred the necessary authority upon Joseph and Oliver. Under the authority of the Priesthood the Church of Jesus Christ or kingdom of God, has been restored. All the ordinances necessary to the salvation and exaltation of man are available to those who have faith in God. The pattern of action followed by Adam, Noah, Moses, and the Savior, of calling the world to repentance, is the continual responsibility of the Priesthood holder of today. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What does the word Priesthood mean to you? 2. In what way is divine law related to Priesthood? 3. What is the difference between Priesthood as power and as a_ personal blessing? 4. Does the scripture indicate that the Priesthood has always been available for the enlightenment of man? REFERENCES D & C 27, 84, 107 The Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi Book of Alma Book of Ether SMITH, JosEPH F.: Gospel Doctrine Pearl of Great Price: Book of Moses Book of Abraham Genesis 10, 11, 17, 24, 25, 27, 32, 48 868 above. Name onan eeee cece ee ceseeaceteneceesecneentesees RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 i; ROSE PARADE TOUR IN. DECEMBER HAWAIIAN TOUR IN NOVEMBER ASK ABOUT OUR MEXICO and SOUTHERN TOURS MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City 9, Utah Plastic Christmas Wreath CRAFT ITEMS Plastic — Ribbon Christmas Decor. Chenille — Yarn Styrofoam — Glass Artificial Flowers Leaves — Copper Jewelry Findings Candles — Felt Crystal Marbles Hat Frames — Net Bic. E BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from 150 to 300 miles r 600 to 1000 miles ww. I 1000 to 1400 miles 1400 to 1800 miles.... Over 1800 miles........ Leave them at our conveniently 'located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah K. D. NOVELTY DISTRIBUTORS Provo — 247 W. Allie Street FREE CATALOGS AVAILABLE AT OUR SALT LAKE CITY ADDRESS. CARNIVAL & PARTY GOODS Crepe Paper — Cutouts Fish Pond Items — Plates Cups — Table Coverings Balloons — Wigs — Hats Float Materials — Tickets New Years Supplies Trophies — Pennants Tissue Balls, Bells, etc. Fund Raising Ideas Santa Suits — Etc. Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles...... 300 to 600 miles.... Rate.« ~«@ GOLD MEDALLION A wonderful new way to live UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. OO Buy now from your dealer 4 ROSE PARADE TOUR Eight fun filled days, including San Diego; Tijuana, Mexico; Catalina Island; Los Angeles; Las Vegas. Grandstand seats at Rose Parade leaving December 26, 1962. Also another eight-day Rose Parade Tour via Reno and San Francisco leaving December 26. MEXICAN TOUR Leaving middle of March, 1963. Mexico City; Cholula, Pueblo, Taxco, Cuernavaca, Acapulco, Archaeological Ruins. ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 Snow Flowering Gilean Douglas How can we speak of May who have seen this blooming Of argent bough, this virginal blossoming: When, from the dark indifference of November, The evergreens have brought triumphant spring? United States. Address... Have You Heard About Basic-H? A revolutionary, unique and completely new cleaning product. NOT A SOAP — NOT A DETERGENT. AS GENTLE AS LOTION TO YOUR HANDS. THE IDEAL CLEANER FOR ALL PURPOSES. TRY IT ONCE AND YOU WILL NEVER GO BACK TO OTHER CLEANERS. Send $2.00 for one quart BASIC-H CONCENTRATE, WHICH MAKES 53 GALLONS OF THIS FINE CLEANER. Postpaid anywhere in the MADSEN DISTRIBUTORS Post Office Box 2224, Salt Lake City 10, Utah 870 "JOSEPH SMITH AND OUR DESTINY" Beimeen the Covers of this Book is the story back of the story of Joseph Smith — The Latter-day Prophet. The man who came at the right time — in the right place — with the right message! Here is the factual basis for all of his unique claims you have been awaiting and need to know. (1962 edition.) For Over One Hundred Years Ld S ad ym. A) = id 3 wy = WE HAVE BEEN TELLING' THE WORLD THAT JOSEPH SMITH WAS A PROPHET. TODAY THE WORLD IS GIVING US POSITIVE PROOF FOR THIS TESTIMONY. THE IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFT ORDER YOUR COPY NOW! (You'll Be Glad You Did) _™ (Detach and Mail) ORDER FOR "JOSEPH SMITH and OUR DESTINY" EARL W. HARMER, PUBLISHER CEE |. Copies to me. PRICE $2.50 POSTPAID 77 Yale Avenue ccc eccccccccancccencencaneseececs Salt Lake City 5, Utah (] Please send C. O. D. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah "good _ Sihniinies WILL STRIVE © to dwell | with it" SHAKESPEARE There's a whole family of U and | Sugar in bags and handy one-pound cartons (Brown, Fine Granulated, Superfine Dessert, and Powdered) for all these Thanksgiving treats. There's nothing quite like U and | - home produced - the best you can buy! UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY Lessons for March VOL. 49 NO. 12 DECEMBER 1962 When Day Is Done Alice Morrey Bailey What do they think of, the shepherds on the hill, At the twilight hour when the wind is still, When the shadows lengthen in bronze and gold And the sheep go to water, then turn to the fold? The old one welcomes the long day's end And the dreamer thinks of the night as friend. What do they think as the sun's last hue Turns the hills deep purple and the sky deep blue? The old one numbers his lambs from the spring, And how many fleeces the shearing will bring, How many lambs for the Paschal Feast, How much for the best ones, how much for the least; How many lambs at the highest price, All perfect and white for the sacrifice. What do they think when the day is spent And the earth is wrapped in the firmament? The dreamer studies the galaxy And ponders of time and infinity. He strives for the truths on the tip of his mind And feels that his memory left them behind. There is something within that is more than man Which yearns for expression beyond his span. He thinks of the shepherds of Bethlehem And the message the angels sang to them. What do they think when the night breathes deep, With the sheep bedded down and the lambs asleep? The Cover: "La Madonnina" From a Painting by Roberto Ferruzzi Frontispiece: "Abiding in the Fields" Photograph by H. Armstrong Roberts Art Layout: Dick Scopes Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press TOM Thank you for the July and August issues of The Relief Society Magazine with their fine articles on Henry David Thoreau. I have not only read them with a great deal of interest and delight, but I shall make notice of them in the next issue of the Thoreau Bulletin and then place them in my permanent Thoreau files (Literature Lessons 33 and 34 by Briant S. Jacobs). —Walter Harding Secretary The Thoreau Society Geneseo, New York The article ""A Permanent Home," by Norma Dee Ryan, in the October issue of the Magazine expresses my thoughts exactly. All my life I have worked for security, but there is no security anymore, except in the Church. The Church is a great shield and protector in these troubled times. We who belong to it are lucky and blessed. —EFlizabeth C. McCrimmon Seal Beach, California Before coming on my mission to Japan, I was always anxious to read the fiction stories m the Magazine. Since coming on my mission I have learned to appreciate the priceless value of all the articles, as well as the stories. 'The Magazine is such a help in strengthening our testimonies, better enabling us to encourage Relief Society work here. I am looking forward to the time when I will be able to use the homemaking suggestions in my own home. —Carol A. Smith Tokyo, Japan Thank you for publishing many new writers in the Magazine. In the past issues I have noticed many names that I did not recognize. Naturally, I like the work of the writers who appear over and over, but I also know the thrill of having something accepted for the first time. —Clara Laster Tulsa, Oklahoma 874 ner well May I say a few words of praise for the poem series "Portrait of Freedom," by Alberta Huish Christensen, in the September issue of the Magazine — beautifully, powerfully done, such a fine look of "Americaward." —Shirley Howard Cedar City, Utah I wish to express appreciation for the Magazine. The stories and lessons are so helpful and thought provoking. In New Zealand, the social science lessons have had an added meaning, as we remember President and Sister Ariel S. Ballif, and the things they taught us while presiding in New Zealand. —Mrs. Muriel Kehoe Maromaku, New Zealand The September issue of the Magazine was so beautiful I just had to tell you. I think it is the most artistic of any so far. —Dorothy Clapp Robinson Boise, Idaho I would like to compliment you on The Relief Society Magazine. It is tremendous. I obtained a copy from one of my fellow missionaries, and was glancing through it to see if there was anything good to read. The stories are really interesting. They give me a greater understanding of the problems of running a home and what my mother had to go through. It is wonderful that the women of the Church have such a high class Magazine to read. —Elder Ned E. Sweat Coleraine, Ireland The Relief Society Magazine is a welcome part of my mail. I especially enjoyed the serial "Sow the Field With Roses," by Margery S. Stewart (concluded in June 1962). It had all the sparkle and adventure to make it a memorable story. —Barbara Wahlquist Provo, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE DECEMBER 1962 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spafford General Manager SPECIAL FEATURES Parental Responsibility o.......... CctccccececceseseessssasseseetenssecceseeesceeneeeetseceteeeeseeecaseteeesuneeseseeeesDavid O. McKay 876 Nathan Eldon Tanner Appointed to the Council of the Twelve 882 Bernard P. Brockbank Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve 885 The Relief Society Annual General Conference........ Hulda Parker 887 The Breath of Life — National Tuberculosis Association James E. Perkins 903 FICTION Christmas With Auntie 'Helen H. Trutton 890 One Little Christmas Gift Sylvia Probst Young 898 Out of the Wilderness — Chapter 6 Shirley Thulin 921 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far. 874 Sixty Years Ago 904 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 905 Editorials: The 132d Semi-Annual Conference........... 906 Christmas in the Home Vesta P. Crawford 908 Birthday Congratulations 952 FEATURES FOR THE HOME A Christmas Eve Family Party Lorraine Hyde Clawson 909 Handiwork for Christmas Adele Williams Worsley 912 Easy Christmas Cookies; Myrtle E. Henderson 918 Cora E. Cook — Specialist in Household Handicraft 920 LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY Theology — The Waters and the Land Roy W. Doxey 926 Visiting Teacher Messages — ''He Who Has Repented of His Sins'' Christine H. Robinson 931 eeVirginia F. Cutler 933 Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (Part II) Literature — Herman Melville Briant S. Jacobs 935 Social Science — Application of the Law in the Dispensations of Man................ Ariel S. Ballif 942 POETRY When Day Is Done — Frontispiece Alice Morrey Bailey 874 What Is Christmas, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 881; The Pheasant, by Gladys Hesser Burnham, 884; The Street You'd Love to Live On, by Helen F. Parker, 896; Words After Snow, by Ida Elaine James, 897; Whistling Carols, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 903; Room With the Red Woodbox, by Maude Rubin, 917; The Fog, by Linnie F. Robinson, 917; Seagulls, by Ida Isaacson, 920; Where Are the Nine? By Hazel Loomis, 925; Plea, by Betty G. Spencer, 948; Thoughts, by Catherine B. Bowles, 952. Ge Parental Responsibility President David O. McKay [Address Delivered by President David O. McKay at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1962] ors, members of the Relief Society General Board, representatives from Relief Societies throughout the world, sisters and brethren, while listening to the excellent addresses delivered by Sister Larsen and the three members of the Presidency of Relief Society, I have been deeply impressed with the thought that this is one of the most significant gatherings in all the world. In the first place, in this hs, n Spafford and Counsel- 876 audience filling this historic Tabernacle to overflowing, is gathered one of the largest assemblies of women in the world. In the second place, you are honored by being presided over by three of the greatest women in the world, and I choose my words advisedly. Next, the motive of this gathering is the noblest, because you have in your hearts the desire, the purpose of teaching your children, teenagers, and adults, the gospel of Jesus PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Christ, the greatest message in all the world. And today you have met together for the first time since the Supreme Court of the United States has re-emphasized or has passed on the rule of re-emphasizing your divine obligation to teach the word of the Lord to your children. Since you last held a conference of this kind, the Supreme Court of the United States has made it unpatriotic for public schools to teach your children to pray. So, I think we are meeting on a most important occasion. What I said about the greatness of this audience I apply to the membership of the Relief Society in all the world. What I said about your Presidency I have also said to others outside the confines of the Church organization itself. And now in what I am going to say, I desire the inspiration of the Lord to re-emphasize the responsibility of this body of Relief Society members to save souls as one of the obligations placed upon you by the Prophet Joseph himself. I should like to make a plea to you this afternoon to teach your children and others out of the books of the Church, the way to life and salvation — a plea for more parental responsibility. As a preface to the message I feel impressed to emphasize, I shall make brief reference to some facts and educational trends in early United States history. In 1850, the character and culture of the American people commanded the respect of the entire world. European parents sent their sons and daughters to our institutions that they might imbibe this faith-inspiring atmosphere. The Sabbath was 877 nationally recognized and observed. The churches were well attended. Divorces were rare. Today, according to the latest figures available, lawlessness is on the increase, the cost of crime at all levels in the United States is $22 billion, over $4 billion more than is spent for education. It represents a cost of $128 last year for every person in the United States. The crime rate has increased thirty-four per cent in the past five years, while the population has increased seven per cent. In other words, the rate of growth of crime outstrips the rate of growth of the population by nearly five to one. Sisters, what has happened to change this Christian concord of 1850 into this criminal chaos of 1962? NE hundred years ago, Americans were still being reared in public schools which included religious instruction. The great New England Primer, which for more than a hundred and fifty years had been the textbook of the American schools, was just passing into discard. Eighty-seven per cent of the contents of this remarkable book, which had built the sturdy character of fathers, grandfathers, and great-grandfathers was the Bible. But from that time on, the Book of books ceased to be an important factor in public instruction. The lawmakers in Washington were intent, and commendably so, to make effective the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which says: "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or pro- 878 hibiting the free exercise thereof," to which we all subscribe. Ostensibly to make more restrictive this amendment, last June, the Supreme Court of the United States, by a vote of six to one, made unconstitutional the repeating of the following brief prayer written and recommended by the board of regents for use in the New York public schools. And this is their prayer: Almighty God, we acknowledge our dependence upon Thee, and we beg Thy blessings upon us, our parents, our teachers, and our country. By making that unconstitutional, the Supreme Court of the United States severs the connecting cord between the public schools of the United States and the source of divine intelligence, the Creator himself, "in whom we live and move and have our being." Mr. Justice Black points out in his personal note added to the decision of the Supreme Court that "It is neither sacrilegious nor antireligious to say that each separate government in this country should stay out of the business of writing or sanctioning official prayers and leave the purely religious function to the people themselves, and to those the people choose to look for religious guidance. To me, the ruling is surprising, when we realize that the noblest purpose of the public schools as a function of government should be to teach loyalty and obedience to the laws of the country. Our country's greatest asset is its manhood, upon which depends not only the survival of the individual freedom vouchsafed by the ConstiRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 tution and Bill of Rights, and all other ideals for which the founders of the Republic fought and died, but the survival of the best that we cherish in present-day civilization. NLY through proper education can these fundamental principles become fixed and guiding influences in the lives of human beings. Our educational system will radiate such principles only to the extent that we employ in our elementary schools, high schools, colleges, and universities men and women who are not only eminent in their chosen professions, but loyal to the Constitution of our land; influential as leaders, noble in character. The most potent influence in training youth to cherish life, to have increased respect for human kind, to keep their word of honor, to love justice, is the life and personality of the teacher. He who reputedly was the wisest American (Emerson) said: "Character is higher than intellect; a noble soul will be fit to live as well as to think." By law, the public schools of the United States must be non-denominational. They can have no part in securing acceptance of any one of the numerous systems of belief regarding God and the relation of mankind thereto. Now let us remember and emphasize that restriction applies to the atheist as well as to the believer in God. Last June that ruling called attention to my feeling, which I wish to emphasize today — attention to the responsibility of revitalizing religion in the Church and in the home, making prayer much more PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY important than it has been in the lives of our children. To members of the Church such admonition is but a reemphasis of the word of the Lord as given in the divine commandments to parents who have children in Zion, "or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized" (D & C 68:25-26). The real tragedy in America is not that we have permitted the Bible to slip out of our public schools, but that we have so openly neglected to teach it in either the home or the Church. Never before was there such need of revitalizing the teaching of faith and repentance on the part of parents. Never before in the history of our country was the state in greater need of young men and young women who cherish the higher life in preference to the sordid, the selfish, and the obscene. ECORDS indicate that four serious crimes were committed each minute in the United States last year, and many of them by young boys and girls. It is true, of course, that not a few of these delinquents come from broken homes in which children have been denied proper training. May I tell you a story. Once I had great pleasure in training a wellbred colt. He had a good disposi- 879 tion, was clean, had a well-rounded eye, was well proportioned, and, all in all, was a choice equine possession. Under the saddle he was as willing, responsive, and co-operative as a horse could be. He and my dog "Scotty" were real companions. But "Dandy" resented restraint. He was ill-contented when tied, and would nibble at the tie rope until he was free. He would not run away, just take the bridle off his head and stand free. Thinking other horses felt the same, he would proceed to untie their ropes. He resented being confined in the pasture, and if he could find a place in the fence where there was only smooth wire, he would paw the wire carefully with his feet until he could step over to freedom. More than once my neighbors were kind enough to put him back in pasture. He learned even to push open the gate. Though his depredations were provoking and sometimes expensive, I admired his intelligence and ingenuity. But his curiosity and desire to explore the neighborhood led him and me into trouble. Once, on the highway, he was hit by an automobile, resulting in a demolished machine, injury to the horse, and _ slight, though not serious, injury to the driver. Recovering from that incident, and still impelled with a feeling of wanderlust, "Dandy" inspected the fence surrounding the pasture. He even found the gates wired. So, for awhile, we thought we had him secure. One day, however, somebody left the gate unwired. Detecting this, "Dandy" unlatched it, took "Nig," 880 his companion, with him, and _together they visited the neighbor's field. They went to an old house used for storage. "Dandy's" curiosity prompted him to push open the door. Just as he had surmised, there was a sack of grain. What a find! Yes, and what a tragedy! The grain was poison bait for rodents! In a few minutes "Dandy" and "Nig" were in spasmodic pain, and shortly both were dead. OW like "Dandy" are many of our youth! They are not bad; they do not even intend to do wrong, but they are impulsive, full of life, full of curiosity, eager to do something. 'They, too, are restive under restraint, but if they are kept busy, guided carefully and rightly, they prove to be responsive and capable; but if left to wander unguided, they all too frequently find themselves in the environment of temptation and too often are entangled in the snares of evil. Parents should be sufficiently companionable with their boys and girls as to merit their children's confidence. They should be companions with them. When parents shirk this duty, perhaps teachers can succeed where parents fail. 'Teach the boys that it is chastity during youth that gives vigor, strength, and virility of manhood. Teach the girls that chastity is the crown of beautiful womanhood. When young men and young women learn that, and join hands in holy matrimony, with a love that entwines their hearts, it is the memory of a virtuous life that contributes to the happiness of the home — not the memory of philandering or the suspicion of one or RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 the other's having been unfaithful in youth, instead, a memory that they came together as God would have them, prepared to go through life as parents worthy of pure children. It is chastity, not prostitution that contributes to the perpetuity and virility of the race. "Train up a child in the way he should go" is a worthy admonition to parents and teachers for all time! One day he [Jean Valjean] saw some country people very busy pulling up nettles. He looked at the heap of plants, uprooted, and already wilted, and_ said: "This is dead; but it would be well if we knew how to put it to some use. When the nettle is young, the leaves make excellent greens; when it grows old it has filaments and fibres like hemp and_ flax. Cloth made from the nettle is worth as much as that made from hemp. Chopped up, the nettle is good for poultry; pounded, it is good for horned cattle. The seed of the nettle mixed with the fodder of animals gives a lustre to their skin; the root, mixed with salt, produces a beautiful yellow dye. It makes, however, excellent hay, as it can be cut twice in a season. And what does the nettle need? Very little soil, no care. No culture, except that the seeds fall as fast as they ripen, and it Is difficult to gather them; that is all. If we would take a little pains, the nettle would be useful; we neglect it, and it becomes harmful. Then we kill it. How much men are like the nettle!" After a short silence, he added: '"'My friends, remember this, that there are no bad herbs, and no bad men; there are only bad cultivators." quote this from Les Miserables to impress us all with the responsibility of guiding children and youth. Our Sunday School and other auxiliary organizations offer excellent opportunities as aids, but not as sub- PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY stitutes. The responsibility of parents is to see that their boys and girls are put in the environment of these meetings and take advantage of their aid in guiding the young from babyhood to adulthood. I have quoted this to you before, but I think it is appropriate this afternoon. He stood at the crossroads all alone The sunlight in his face; He had no thought for the world unknown, He was set for a manly race. But the roads stretched east and the roads stretched west, And the lad knew not which road was best. So he chose the road that led him down, And he lost the race and the victor's crown. He was caught at last in an angry snare; Because no one stood at the crossroads there To show him the better road. 881 Another day at the selfsame place, A boy with high hopes stood; He, too, was set for a manly race, He was seeking the things that were good; But one was there who the road did know And that one showed him which way to go. So he turned from the road that would lead him down, And he won the race and the victor's crown. He walks today the highway fair Because one stood at the crossroads there To show him the better road. God inspire parents and all teachers, and leaders of quorums and auxiliary organizations, all organizations in the Church, to stand at the "crossroads," and lead youth onward and upward along the way of truth and integrity into the presence of God, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. What Is Christmas? Mabel Jones Gabbott Is it the star atop the tree; Is it the gift box — ribbon-bright? Is it the song the angels sang To humble shepherds that star-filled night? Is it the Wise Men from the east; Is it their frankincense and myrrh? Is it the gladness in Mary's face; Or in Joseph's protecting her? Is it a child's expectancy; Is it the gay wreath at the door? Is it the love that Jesus taught? Oh, yes. All this and more.... Nathan Eldon Tanner Appointed to the Council of the Twelve ELDER NATHAN ELDON TANNER LDER Nathan Eldon Tanner was sustained as an apostle and member of the Council of the Twelve of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at the Saturday afternoon session of the 132d Semi-Annual Conference, October 6, 1962. This appointment fills the vacancy in the Council occasioned by the death, in May 1962, of Elder George Q. Morris. Elder Tanner brings to his new and sacred calling humility and a sense of purpose, as well as com- 882 petency and inspiration that mark him as an outstanding servant of the Church. Two years ago he was called to be an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, and for the past eighteen months he has pre sided over all the missions of Western Europe, with headquarters near London, England. "Few men are chosen for high office in the Church who have a richer heritage and more varied background of training and experience than Nathan Eldon Tanner" — so wrote President Hugh B. Brown for The Relief Society Magazine, when Elder Tanner was appointed an Assistant to the Twelve. He is of the sixth generation of Latter-day Saints on both sides of his family inheritance. His greatgrandfather John Tanner was an associate of the Prophet Joseph Smith in Zion's Camp and in Nawvoo, Illinois. His great-grandfather on his mother's side of the family, James S. Brown, was a_ soldier in the Mormon Battalion and a noble and honored pioneer. Elder Tanner was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, May 9, 1898, and three years later went to Canada with his parents, Nathan W. And Sarah Edna Brown Tanner. In 1919 he was graduated from the Alberta Normal ELDER AND SISTER NATHAN ELDON TANNER AND FAMILY Seated in front: Sara Isabelle Merrill Tanner; Elder Nathan Eldon Tanner. Back row, standing, left to right: Mrs. W. S. Jensen (Isabelle); Mrs. C. R. Walker (Ruth); Mrs. H. S. Rhodes (Zola); Mrs. G. L. Spackman (Beth); Mrs. L. Williams (Helen). School. Later in the same year, he married Sara Isabelle Merrill of Hill Spring, Alberta, in the temple at Cardston. 'They are the parents of five lovely daughters: Ruth (Mrs. C. R. Walker); Isabelle (Mrs. W. S. Jensen); Zola (Mrs. H. S. Rhodes); Beth (Mrs. G. L. Spackman); and Helen (Mrs. L. Williams). 'There are twenty-three living grandchildren and two deceased. Elder 'T'anner's distinguished career in the field of education began with his appointment as a teacher in Hill Spring, where he added to his small teaching income by operating a store and doing farm chores. Later, he became principal of the Cardston Public School. He was elected to the Alberta Legislature in 1935. After serving as speaker in the legislature, he became a member of the provincial cabinet as Minister of Lands and Mines. In this capacity he was influential in determining the provincial policy for regulating and encouraging oil and gas production in Alberta. He was appointed chairman of the Alberta Research Council in 1942, and became provincial Boy Scout Commissioner in 1946. He has been president of the Merrill Petroleums Ltd., a director of the Toronto Dominion Bank, and many other business organizations. In 1956 Elder Tanner was awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from the Brigham Young 883 884 University. At the time of his call to be an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, he was serving as a member of the Board of Governors of the University of Alberta. LDER Tanner's Church activity began in his early years, and after serving as an officer in various auxiliaries, he became bishop of the Cardston First Ward in 1932, where he had previously served as a counselor. He also served as a member of the High Council of Alberta Stake. In 1938, after moving to Edmonton, he became president of that branch, where he was instrumental in building the first chapel in Edmonton, and the seminary building at the University of Alberta. At the organization of Calgary Stake in 1953, he became president and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 served in that position until the time of his call to be an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve in 1940. During his presidency the commodious and impressive Calgary Stake Center was built. In accepting his call as a member of the Council of the Twelve, Elder Tanner fervently expressed his testimony of the gospel: I want to bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that if every member of the Church would accept the call of our prophet today and live the gospel and keep the commandments of our Heavenly Father and become missionaries in very deed, we could contribute more to the cause of peace than all the power that might be gathered together by all the governments and all the men in uniform. May we prove worthy of our membership in the Church and Kingdom of God is my prayer. The Pheasant Gladys Hesser Burnham When gold and bronze and red of fall Have burnished ditchbank's tattered edge, And ragged goldenrod stands tall Along the marsh, among the sedge, The multicolored pheasant hides, All wary of the season's chill. Protective plumage now derides The innate caution of his will. He hesitates and cocks an eye, Crouches, sprints across the loam, Clucks at his maneuver, sly, Triumphant in his hidden home. Bernard P. Brockbank Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve N October 6, 1962, at the 132d Semi-Annual Conference of the Church, Elder Bernard P. Brockbank was sustained as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve to fill the vacancy occasioned by the appointment of Elder Nathan Eldon Tanner to membership in the Council of the Twelve. Elder Brockbank has been a devoted and successful mission president for two years, serving first as president of the North British Mission, and later as president of the Scottish Mission. He recently conducted the session at which the new Glasgow Stake was formed by President McKay and Elder Nathan Eldon Tanner, in the native land of the paternal ancestors of President McKay. Elder Brockbank was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, May 24, 1909, the son of Taylor P. Brockbank and Sarah LeCheminant Brockbank. He graduated from Granite High School and attended the University of Utah and George Washington University, majoring in business studies. He has been a prominent business man, builder, and contractor in Salt Lake City and has contributed much to Civic improvement and community activities. Before his appointment as President of Holladay Stake in May 19509, he had served as a counselor in two Guttenberg, Ltd. Manchester, England ELDER BERNARD P. BROCKBANK bishoprics, as bishop of the Winder Ward, and as a high councilman in both the Big Cottonwood and Holladay Stakes. He filled a mission to Great Britain in 1929-30, during which he was president of the Leeds District. Elder Brockbank was married to Nada Rich of Logan, Utah, November 11, 1935, in Washington, D. C. The marriage was later solemnized in the Logan Temple. They are the parents of six children: Loren Rich, 885 ELDER AND SISTER BERNARD P. BROCKBANK AND FAMILY Center: Nada Rich Brockbank and Elder Bernard P. Brockbank. Standing, left to right: Von R.; Roger R.; Diane; and Bruce. This picture was taken in 1960 at the time Elder Brockbank was called to preside over the North British Mission. Two other sons, Loren Rich, and Bernard Park, Jr., are not in the picture. Bernard Park, Jr., Diane, Bruce, Von, and Roger. In concluding the address which he gave upon the acceptance of his new calling, Elder Brockbank spoke of his gratitude for the opportunity 386 to serve the Church and to be a witness to the restoration of the gospel: I pray for the ability and inspiration to serve the Lord and my fellow men. I am thankful for the atonement of our Savior Jesus Christ and for the principle of repentance.... The Relief Society Annu al General Conference 1962 Hulda Parker General Secretary-Treasurer historic Tabernacle on Square in i ceived inspiration, enthusiasm f through the sessions 0 Society Annual General Conference held on Wednesday and Thursday, strongly felt through the presence of leaders from such faraway places as Samoa, Australia, England, the European Continent, and South Africa, and when, for the first time in a Relief Society translating facilities and special inmessages of the conference to German and Spanish-speaking sisters in attendance from newly created stakes in Germany, Switzerland, and Mexico. A total of 2,997 stake and mission officers from 344 stakes and 16 missions attended the opening session, the Officers Meeting, on W ednesday morning. All sessions of the conference were President Belle S. Spafford with her counselors, Mart Madsen and the thirty-three other members of the General Board in attendance. Stirring and inspirational messages were given In the opening session by President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark FE. Petersen, the Relief Socicty advisors from the Council of The Twelve. Each stressed the need for mothers in the Church to teach and set proper ee amples of modesty in dress and pur in thought. President Smith i f the living in this wicked world and to deplore the tendency to imitate the kind of virtue the Lord speaks of, they could change this situation," and thus protect the virtue of their with a shield of In her Report and Official Instructions President Spafford told of the 887 888 outstanding increase of 17,000 Relief Society members during 1961, and the magnitude of the services and accomplishments of Relief Societies throughout the world as revealed in the annual reports. She also gave pertinent instruction relative to various phases of the work, stated new policies related to record keeping, and cited examples of the blessings and development that come through service and affiliation with Relief Society. The music for the opening session was provided by a_ well-trained chorus of Singing Mothers from the South Sanpete Stake under the direction of Bly M. Beal, with Elder Alexander Schreiner at the organ. HE Wednesday afternoon meeting was a general session for Relief Society members and the general public. All in attendance were deeply touched and inspired through the presence in that session of our beloved Prophet, President David O. McKay, who was the principal speaker. He appealed for greater parental guidance and training in the homes, in having prayer and instilling faith in the hearts of children, and in the development of strong characters. He declared that "Never before was there such need of revitalizing the teaching of faith and repentance on the part of parents. Never before in the history of our country was the state in greater need of young men and young women who cherish the higher life in preference to the sordid, the selfish, and the obscene." President Spafford and her counselors and Sister Charlotte A. Larsen of the General Board also RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 spoke in this session. President Spafford urged mothers to train and fortify their children for rich, ser viceable lives by teaching them to study the standard works of the Church. She said parents should "train children in the use of the scriptures, for the Lord has made clear that it is the duty of parents to see that children are reared in light and in truth." Counselor Sharp told of the greatest funetion of Relief Society through its entire program to build testimony in the lives of its members. Counselor Madsen emphasized the tremendous influence for good that can be exerted by women of the Church when they are unified in feeling and purpose, seeking power from our Heavenly Father in righteousness. Sister Larsen stressed the importance of keeping all of the Lord's commandments and the blessings that are realized through doing so. Under the baton of Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen, with Elder Alexander Schreiner at the organ, a chorus of 450 Singing Mothers inspired those in attendance through the music it provided in the general session. 'The participants in the chorus were from the American Falls, Bannock, East Pocatello, Idaho, North Pocatello, Pocatello, Portneuf, West Pocatello, Blaine, Burley, Cassia, Gooding, Minidoka, Raft River and Twin Falls Stakes. Wednesday evening approximately 3,000 Relief Society stake and mission leaders were warmly greeted by members-of the General Board at a beautiful reception in the Relief Society Building. The second day of the conference Courtesy the Deseret News THE OPENING SESSION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE, 1962 President Belle S. Spafford stands at the pulpit addressing the audience. Dent Spafford's right, First Counselor Marianne C. Louise W. Madsen. Seated at PresiSharp, and at her left, Second Counselor Seated at the right: Elder Mark E. Petersen of The Council of The Twelve, and President Joseph Fielding Smith, President of The Council of The Twelve, advisors to Relief Society; Sister Jessie Evans Smith. Members of the General Board of Relief Society are seated in front, and the Singing Mothers are seen in the background, with their conductor, Florence J. Madsen, of the General Board of Relief Society, seated at the right. Was devoted to impressive presentations in the Tabernacle featuring the various courses of study for the 1962- 63 season, and to specific instructions for stake and mission officers in separate departmental sessions. The presentation "An Eye Single to My Glory" introduced the theology course, the sixth year of the study of The Doctrine and Covenants. A glimpse into some of the writings of the authors to be studied in the fifth year of the course on American literature was given in the dramatization "Stairway of Surprise," and a new social science course on "Divine Law and Church Government" was featured in the presentation "For God So Loved the World." The presentation "Toward Ideal Womanhood" based on the life of Mary Fielding Smith emphasized an application of eternal principles contained in the visiting teaching messages for the new season. Elder Frank W. Asper was at the console at both sessions in the Tabernacle on Thursday. Elder Marion G. Romney of The Council of The Twelve addressed the 1:30 P. M. Session on 'Thursday telling of the function of Relief Society to administer to the spiritual and physical needs of people and of the great service that has been given by the sisters in "supplying clothing, preserving of foodstuffs, nursing the sick, and all that relates to the care of the poor." Separate departmental _ sessions were held in the afternoon for presidencies, secretary-treasurers, work meeting leaders, choristers and organists, Magazine representatives, and theology, literature, and social science class leaders. 889 Christmas with "Auntie Helen H. Trutton RIVING alone the fifty miles from my apartment in Council City to Uncle Ben's and Aunt Sarah's farm in Willow County, gave me time to reminisce about the happy holidays I had spent with them in former years. Five, to be exact, and every one filled with the spirit of true Christmas meaning. This one would be just as glorious as all the rest. It had to be, because it would be my last one with them before Gary returned from his Church mission in Scotland, and I wanted to carry a lasting memory of an old-fashioned Christmas, free of expensive gifts, debts, and worldly frivolities that seemed so prevalent in the world. I wanted their way to be a pattern for Gary and me and our future family. Auntie's invitation to spend the holidays with them lay beside me on 890 the car seat, but every time I thought about it, my enthusiasm took a sudden nosedive. Usually, she wrote pages of bubbling, exciting plans and news, even though she would be seeing me in a few days, but this year, the sparkle just wasn't in her words. Maybe she was busier than usual, or tired, but, again, she might not be well, or perhaps Uncle Ben was sick? There was nothing to do but wait. I tried to relax a little in my driving, traffic was very light, and I visualized Auntie at about this moment. Likely, she was hurrying about the kitchen, dressed in a crisp cotton frock with an immaculate gay apron tied around her slightly chubby waist, taking care of last minute details. When she would spot my car coming up the driveway, she would rush out the kitchen CHRISTMAS WITH AUNTIE. Door, still clutching whatever object she was working with at the moment, whether it be rolling pin, bread pan, or maybe a cookie cutter. "Camille, darling, I thought you'd never get here," she would greet me with open arms. "We should see you more often." 'Then she would look down at her usually doughy hands and apologize. "I should be finished with all this, but I had a few last minute chores." I laughed aloud. Aunt Sarah purposely left the cookie and bread making until late afternoon so the delicious aroma of fresh baking filled the room and encouraged appetites, or so I suspected. Fruit cakes and plum puddings had been prepared several weeks ago and stacked away in the basement until tonight when Uncle would bring them upstairs, and after supper, they would be delivered to neighbors in Willow County. There would be a cake and a knit shawl for Widow Marsh, as everyone called her; the Kennedy family — they had six children and he wasn't always able to find steady work — so they would find special little gifts in their box, like gay red mittens and warm socks, soft rag dolls and stuffed animals, plus the small gifts I had brought for them, and, of course, several loaves of fresh, light bread. The elderly Brother Barnes would get a basket of Auntie's goodies, a warm knit scarf, and an invitation to spend Christmas with us; the Wilsons, Carsons, and others I couldn't remember would receive a gift cake or a pudding. Naturally, Miss Emily Green, Aunt Sarah's best friend, would spend Christmas with us. She always did. 891 UDDENLY big snowflakes came swirling down from the gray skies, spreading a fresh blanket of white over the countryside as I came near the farm. If only Gary could spend Christmas with us, I breathed, as I drank in the beauty and peacefulness of the picturesque setting. But that wasn't possible, for he would not finish his mission until August, and was accepting a position in the East immediately. We would be married in the temple upon his return and leave for Philadelphia within the week. Glancing down at Auntie's note again, I repeated aloud her exact words: "We're looking forward to your visit as usual." Surely, she would have said something if she or Uncle were ill. I had been imagining things, been too overanxious with this being my last Christmas with them. Or was I? Her note had included only a few other sentences. 'Telephone lines had been down in Willow County, I couldn't call. As I came around the last bend in the road, I caught sight of their neat white farmhouse nestled against the foothills, looking like a frosty painting on a Christmas card. A large glittering tree, decorated with brightly sequined lights, twinkled out its cheery welcome through the front window, and old Britt, the family dog, lazily got up from the porch and trotted out to meet me. Other than that, the place remained as quiet as a tomb after I stopped the car. Quickly gathering an armload of packages from the back seat, I passed loyal old Britt without even a pat as I hurried up the steps and knocked. There was a shuffling sound in- 892 side and the door opened. Auntie looked at me in astonishment. "Why I can't believe you could drive up without my seeing you. I must have really been preoccupied. Come in, Camille darling," and she hugged me closely to her as my packages tumbled to the floor. "Aunt Sarah, are you all ight?" I asked when she gave me a chance to speak. "Of course, dear." "And Uncle Ben?" » "Same as ever." He came forward, kissing me on the cheek. "Sarah and I were just talking about how we're going to miss you next year." He picked up my packages from the floor and loaded my arms again. "We're mighty happy for you, though." "He's a lucky one." Auntie squeezed my hand. "Here, let me help you with those packages. I hope you haven't spent money on us." "Not much. Most of them I made. You taught me that," I said as we walked into the living room and placed the gifts under the tree. And then I noticed Emily Green was missing. A HERE'S Emily?" W Aunt Sarah turned away, but not before I saw the hurt look in her eyes. "She isn't spending Christmas with us this year." "Why?" I asked, astonished. "Is she ill?" "No. Well, she's just not spending Christmas with us, that's all. Now, if you'll excuse me, dear, I'll finish up in the kitchen," and she hurried out of the room. "Why?" I repeated, turning to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 Uncle Ben. "Emily is always here. She doesn't have any near relatives." "T know, but things are different this. Year," he said, looking to make sure Aunt Sarah was out of hearing before he sat down beside me. "You see, they had a misunderstanding. Emily likely wouldn't come even if Sarah asked her." "They've been friends since they were children. Besides, it just isn't like Auntie to hold a grudge." "Sarah is miserable," Uncle Ben sighed. "Do you mind telling me about it?" He ran his hand through his thick gray hair before speaking. "It's 1- diculous. Last fall, just before the county fair," he hesitated a moment, "Emily raises dahlias, you know." "Yes, I know." "She had a rare beauty. Sarah went up to see it a few days before the fair, and, well, Britt tagged along. That's not unusual," he looked quickly at me. "He often does." "Go on." "T don't know what got into that dog. He saw a mole digging, of all places, right by that prize dahlia, and before Sarah or Emily could do anything, he dug the plant up, trying to get the blame rodent. Emily was furious." "T suppose she would be disappointed, but she must have known it wasn't Auntie's fault." "She should have. Sarah apologized and offered to pay for it. She even offered to give Emily her best dahlia." Uncle shook his head sadly. "Sarah didn't even enter her dahlias in the fair out of respect for Emily's bad luck." "If Auntie apologized, even offered CHRISTMAS WITH AUNTIE restitution, what more could she have done?" "IT don't know, Camille. Sarah thinks it's up to Emily to speak up "T see." "T hoped Sarah would try again, but she has not." "T'm sorry, Uncle Ben." UNTIE came back into the room and sat down opposite us. "Is Gary still happy on his mission?" she asked. "Yes, very," I answered, wondering if she had heard our conversation and come in to change the subject. "He's a wonderful missionary." "Tm sure of that," she smiled. Then, leaning back in her chair, she looked mutely out the window for several minutes before speaking again. "It's getting late. I'll fix something to eat." "Let me help you." I followed her to the kitchen. "Do we go the usual places tonight?" "Mostly. The Simpsons had a bit of bad luck this year, so we'll include them." She handed me a pitcher of milk. "And there's a new family moved into our community." "Oh! Aunt Sarah," I asked, after a silence, "couldn't I talk to Emily?" She glanced up quickly. "Ben told you?" "Yes." "No, dear. It wouldn't help," she said, opening the refrigerator and reaching for the eggs. "It's up to Emily now." "T could try." "Emily doesn't want my friendship. Would you like to set the table?" "Of course." 893 In a few minutes, we sat down to a platter of scrambled eggs, warm bread, raspberry jam, a pitcher of milk, and cookies. After Uncle blessed the food, Aunt Sarah smiled across the table at me. "You've been like a daughter to us. We'll be lost without you." "Tl miss you both, too. With Dad and Mother gone, I'd have been terribly lonely these past five years." I stopped speaking, overcome with emotion, and for some time, we ate in silence. We were going to miss each other, but that was only a small fragment of our lack of enthusiasm tonight. Nor was it entirely that Emily wasn't with us, either. We missed her very much, of course, but something else was missing, something intangible. It was peace in our hearts! "Maybe some Christmas you two can spend the holidays with Gary and me," I broke the long silence. Aunt Sarah shook her head. "We'd love to, but Philadelphia is a long way from here." "We may not always live in the East," I remarked. "Gary is going to work for his Uncle Thad for awhile at least. We aren't buying a home until we're sure we want to live back there!" "Good idea," Uncle agreed, shoving his chair away from the table. "And speaking of good ideas, I'd better get the things from the basement." "Everything else is ready," Auntie called after her husband as he started down the steps. ITHIN a short time, the car was loaded and we were on our way. These, I thought, are the things I'm going to miss, living in 894 a strange city — driving along a country lane, watching the earth silently take on its beautiful fresh white armor as the snowflakes fall earthward, greeting old and dear friends, like the Kennedys, Emily, Sister Marsh, and others, riding through the countryside in a car filled with the spicy fragrance of new-made cookies and bread. Most of all, though, I would miss the two wonderful people sitting next to me. Only, Emily should be here with us, too, like old times. We were passing her house now. It seemed that Uncle Ben slowed down a little, but Auntie only glanced momentarily in that direction, and then looked the other way. Our first stop was at Sister Marsh's home. She greeted us with a cheery, "Merry Christmas." Taking Auntie by the hand, she said, "You shouldn't do things for me, Sarah. You do so much for everyone." '"How's that rheumatism?" Auntie inquired. "Oh, it's better, or I'm learning to live with it. I was just straightening up Roy's room." '"He's making it home for Christmas?" "Be here in the morning," she smiled. "The army will have to get along without my son for a couple of weeks. He has a furlough." "That's good news," Auntie replied, loosening her coat. "I'd just better give you a hand straightening up that room." Half an hour later, we left Sister Marsh and drove to the Kennedys. It was my favorite stop. Just watching six excited, happy faces converging upon us, and listening to their RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 gay chatter was reward enough for anyone. Mrs. Kennedy met us at the door, looking tired and worn. "You're all so kind to drop by. Come in, the children have a little gift for you." Each year the children presented us with these special gifts — drawings they had made at school. Auntie prized their offerings very highly, not for the skill, usually quite lacking, but that they were gifts from the children's hearts. "Daddy has a steady job coming up the first of January," Mary, the eight-year-old told us. "Next Christmas we'll give you a better gift." AUNTIE slipped her arm around the little girl. "That's great news about your Daddy's job, but we love these presents. I've saved every one." Mary danced around the room. "Really?" "Right," Auntie answered, and then turning to Mrs. Kennedy, she said. "You look tired. Are you all finished with the day's work?" "IT just have to bathe Delores, then I'm finished. The children go to bed early." Without looking, I knew what Aunt Sarah was doing. She was taking off her coat again. "Well, now you just sit right in that chair and rest a bit. Ill give Delores her bath,' she said, shooing Mrs. Kennedy to a chair. "You look exhausted." Mrs. Kennedy protested, but Auntie insisted. Just where she got such bubbling energy after the busy day she had spent at home was a puzzle to me. But that was Auntie, always willing to help someone, CHRISTMAS WITH AUNTIE | only, why wasn't she trying to be friends with Emily? FTER leaving the grateful Kennedys, we stopped at Brother Barnes'. He was delighted to spend Christmas Day with us. Next we went to the Carsons, Simpsons, and the new people named Sanders. Then the Wilsons, an elderly couple, and, finally, we were on our way home. We passed the Kennedys again and it was in darkness, and once again, we came to Emily's. From the road, I could see a small light flickering through the window. Uncle Ben started past just as Aunt Sarah called, "Stop, Ben, a moment." Uncle Ben brought the car to a stop and waited. No one said anything for several seconds. Finally Auntie spoke. "I can't have peace in my heart and be at odds with anyone." She looked at Uncle Ben and then off into the distance. "It is the birthday of Jesus. He was the Prince of Peace. Ill ask Emily to spend Christmas with us." Uncle slipped his arm around her waist and smiled down proudly at her. "TI have the best wife in the world." "T always thought I was the lucky one." She patted his arm. "I won't be long, Ben.. Want to come along, Camille?" We walked quickly up to the door and Aunt Sarah knocked. No one answered, so she knocked again a little louder. Then we saw Emily coming to the door. "Hello, Emily," Auntie greeted her. "Hello," she answered. "Emily," Aunt Sarah smiled at 895 her. "I want us to be friends again. We want you to spend Christmas with us. Please forgive me for being so stubborn in not asking you earlier. I wanted to." Emily looked away a moment, then her eyes filled with tears. "Your heart is so big, Sarah. I'm the one who should be apologizing to you. I've been too stubborn to admit I was wrong." She was crying softly now, and Auntie put her arm around her and repeated, "You will spend Christmas with us?" "If you want me, Sarah. Come in," she stood aside for us to enter, and for the first time, noticed me standing back of Auntie. "It's good to see you, Camille." To say the least, we were a happy foursome on our way home. Emily and Auntie chatted continuously, with Uncle Ben and me joining in every opportunity we found 'an opening. 'That wasn't often. Soon we were back at the farm in the living room, taking off our wraps and settling in our usual places, just as we had the past five years. Uncle Ben strolled over to the fireplace and poked at the fire before picking up the Bible from the table and sitting down in his usual favorite chair. As always, he was going to read the first Christmas from the second chapter of Luke. Leaning back contentedly in my chair, I watched the flickering blue and yellow flames dart crazily from log to log in the fire as I silently mused, if you toss one pebble in a pond, the waves spread and reach out. Peace was like that, too. If only people of all nations could feel the deep need to have peace in their hearts for all mankind, if they 896 were willing to go the second mile, as Auntie was tonight, they would be following the teaching of the one whose birthday we were commemorating. Reaching out, I took Auntie and Emily's hands in mine. "You know, this is the best Christmas ever." "It sure is," Emily smiled through tears. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 Uncle Ben's firm, strong voice could be heard over the crackling of the fire as he began to read: "And it came to pass in those days...." When he came to the fourteenth verse, he looked tenderly over at Auntie. "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." The Street You'd Love to Live On Helen F. Parker Along the street the trees are bare; Their deliquescent tips investigate the frosty air. A stone wall and the hedges, snow encrusted, Surround the houses, Tall Cape Cods, 'Skywards, Upthrusted. Knee deep in snow rose bushes stand and stare. Their leaves, dead, brown, and dry, Hang waiting in the quiet air. I am the stranger here — Newly moved into this place. I stare At all the stark beauty exposed to what my eyes might meet, And ponder — Can spring possibly add to the wonder of my street? Opposite Page: Winter in Yosemite National Park, California Photograph by Don Knight Insistently the neste' Secnee Scents fragrance = as the br = Moving through branches, pulseless yet, hays the winter's chill and empty slope} wise Ws "wil Sear Laffity from this een h ge sweet interval when children sing | 'Beneath. The dogwood's luminous, ivory flower; iien™ faith, shall come. ¥6 warm. Awakening, ll the stone of, winter's blight and doom ° Away at last fron-spuing ¢ S Deleeeneted tomb. One Little Christmas Gitt Sylvia Probst Young HEN I came out of Miss Mandy's house two days before Christmas, the winter sun was fast disappearing behind the low western hills, and the sky was like a great, rainbow-painted bowl overhead — a special kind of sky that made the world look golden and glowing. Happy as my heart, I thought, as I held the cardboard box more closely, and hurried along the snow-covered road. Mother would be so pleased with a dozen fresh eggs from Miss Mandy's hens. Tomorrow we could make Christmas cookies and a pound cake and still have eggs to fry for breakfast on Christmas morning. But more important than the eggs in the box were the two nickels slipped inside of my glove. I cupped my fingers to feel them. What I could buy with two shining nickels! In the window of Van Wagoner's Mercantile were all sorts of toys. Night after night on our way home from school, Susie and I had stood with our noses pressed against the cold pane, gazing at the wonderful things there — harmonicas — storybooks — jackknives — and dolls — beautiful little dolls with rubber bodies and movable arms and legs. Ten cents would buy one of those dolls, and I had that much money! I had earned it and the eggs by doing Miss Mandy's dusting, and scrubbing her kitchen floor every Saturday morning since she had broken her leg. 898 Of course, I was sorry that Miss Mandy had slipped on her front steps and had to be an invalid, but I was real glad that she had asked me to do her work, for if she hadn't I wouldn't have had a chance to earn anything. Mama didn't have dimes to pay with, and almost nobody in Hillsburg had a hired girl, especially not a nine-year-old. No wonder I felt lucky! The kitchen was warm and bright, and Mama, who was stirring a pot of soup at the stove, turned a smiling face to me as I entered. Mama's smile was the thing you remembered most about her, for she was a smiling kind of person. I thought she was beautiful, with her thick, shining hair that looked like warm honey, and her eyes bright as Christmas lights. "Hello, Polly," she greeted me. "How's Miss Mandy? Fine, I hope. And what do you have in the box, dear?" "Miss Mandy's feeling much better, today." I set the box down carefully on the table. "These are eggs," I said, "a dozen of Miss Mandy's fresh eggs." Mama beamed. "How wonderful, Polly. With our own hens on strike as they are, Miss Mandy couldn't have given you anything better." "But, Mama, that isn't all she gave me." I pulled off my glove and held up the coins for her to see. Little Tim and Susie, who had ONE LITTLE CHRISTMAS GIFT been playing with Mama's button box on the floor, came to look at my wealth, too. "Bless Miss Mandy's heart," Mama exclaimed, "now you can buy one of those little dolls in Van Wagoner's window." I was glad to hear Mama say that because I knew that Santa Claus was awful poor, and Mama had said she was afraid that he couldn't bring new dolls for Susie and me. Susie, who always liked to play with kittens and stick horses better than dolls, didn't mind at all, but to me dolls were very special. Samantha, the one doll I had, was forgotten in a summer rain and the paint on her face was almost. All washed away. She really wasn't very beautiful now. So the prospects of having even a little new doll seemed wonderful, especially since Mama had suggested it. She turned from the stove and her eyes were shining. "Put the eggs in the pantry, honey," she said, "and tomorrow morning we'll borrow Aunt Mary's cookie cutters and make cookies and a pound cake, too." HEN Papa came in with a bucket of white, foaming milk, the table was set with bowls of steaming onion soup and warm biscuits. "Well, isn't this a happy family," he observed. Papa was so thin, and I thought his eyes looked as deep as the forest. But it was wonderful to have him up and about again, it seemed he had been sick for so long. While Mama was straining the milk, I told Papa about Miss Mandy 899 and the eggs and my dime. He was real interested and pleased. "Now you can buy that little doll you've talked about," he said. "That's just what Mama said," I replied happily. Papa smiled. "Your Mama and I usually think alike." When Johnny came in from feeding the calves and our supper was over, Papa put a big log on the fire in the front room. There, by the dancing, warm light, we sat while he read the Christmas story from the old family Bible. We all loved to hear that wonderful story, even Susie and little 'Tim, for the way Papa read it made you feel you were on the plains of Judea hearing the angels sing. We talked about Bethlehem and the Christ Child, and why he had come to earth. "The happiest people in the world are those who would rather give than get," Papa concluded, "for they are following the example of the Lord." Papa and Mama believed in giving. I remembered more than once when we had gone without to give to someone who they thought was in greater need than we. "When you give what you want for yourself, that's when giving is really giving," Papa had often explained. Now the log on the fire was almost burned away. 'Timmy lay asleep, curled up like a kitten on the big bear rug. Little fingers of frost were creeping around the windowpanes. "Tt's going to be a cold night," Papa observed, as he bent down to 900 get Timmy. "Time for bed, children, tomorrow's a big day." We went up the stairs thinking of the morrow. To us the day before Christmas, with corn popping, cookie making, and going up the hill for a tree, was almost as good as Christmas day. EXT morning the windows were silver sheets of ice, and when Papa came in from milking, his moustache looked as if it had been dipped in white frosting. "T hate to think of you hauling the milk in this weather," Mama told him, and before he left she found a square of calico in her rag bag and tied it around his face. "T don't want you breathing that cold air or you'll be in bed again." "What Papa needs is a scarf to cover his face on mornings like this," she sighed, as we watched him going toward the barn to harness the horses. Turning to our own work, we cleared the breakfast dishes away in record time, and then our kitchen became a hive of activity as we prepared for Christmas Day. By noon the windows were all thawed out, Johnny brought the hand sleigh from the shed, and I went with him up the hill to get our Christmas tree. When we came back, Mama brought out a half dollar she had been carefully saving. "Polly," she said, "you can go to Van Wagoner's and get some peanuts — two pounds, and the rest in hardtack candy." My feet fairly flew along the glistening white road. I was thinking of the precious little doll that I wanted so much. The two nickels RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 were safe with the fifty cents in Mama's brown handbag that she had let me carry. There weren't many toys left in Van Wagoner's window now, and for a moment my heart sank, but then I saw it — one little doll still standing there. Mr. Van Wagoner was a round, jolly man with twinkling eyes. I thought he looked like Santa Claus' brother. He smiled at me when I came into the store, but he was busy showing outing flannel to Mrs. Christy, so I just wandered around looking at things. There was everything you could think of in that store from barn lanterns to penny candy. Usually I liked to look at the fancy trinkets in the showcases, but today I had eyes for a doll only. Then I saw it — a red bandana handkerchief in the window, right beside my precious doll, funny, I hadn't noticed it before. For some reason I thought of Papa then with the white frost covering his moustache. Papa had been sick with pneumonia for a long time. It had only been the last two weeks that he had been out on his milk route again, and it worried Mama so much to have him out in this zero weather. "T should buy him a scarf of some kind to cover his face,"' she had said anxiously. Right then I had an idea — that bandana handkerchief would make a fine face scarf. I tried to turn my attention back to the doll, but thoughts of Papa and the handkerchief persisted. Papa — just thinking about him made my heart warm. Mr. Van Wagoner came to wait on me then. While he weighed out the candy and peanuts ONE LITTLE CHRISTMAS GIFT I was thinking of the first Christmas, and about giving gifts. Mama had always said that only the people who sacrificed to give really knew the meaning of giving. "Can I get anything else for you, Polly?" Mr. Van Wagoner asked, as he turned from the scales and held out a piece of peanut brittle to me. "The red bandana in the window — how much is it Mr. Van Wagoner?" "Oh, that?" He took out a box from under the counter. "A lot of them in here," he said, lifting the lid, "and they're just ten cents each. Bet you're thinking of a present for your Papa." I nodded. "My Papa," I told him, "needs something to cover his face on a cold morning. He hasn't a scarf. And I have ten cents that I earned myself." "Well now, isn't that nice?" Mr. Van Wagoner approved. "Not every man gets a present from his daughfer." "T think I'd like to buy one," I heard myself saying. Mr. Van Wagoner beamed. "T''ll wrap it up. Let's see...." He disappeared into the back room for a minute, and returned with a small piece of green tissue paper and a length of red twine. "Tm going to make your Papa's present look really festive," he said. With wide eyes I watched him, and when he handed it to me I thought that I had never seen a package that looked so beautiful. Thanking Mr. Van Wagoner, I turned and went out of the store, but I didn't trust my eyes to look at the window where the little doll was still standing. 901 Mama didn't mention the doll when I got home, she was so busy I guess that she forgot, and I was glad because I wanted Papa's present to be a surprise to everyone. Johnny had made a stand for the tree, and he had brought it into the house. "Let's decorate it now," cried. So Mama let us start with the apples and popcorn strings. When we had finished decorating it, our Christmas tree was an unforgettable sight, with ropes of popcorn and rose berries, apples, bright red, and cookies cut in all sorts of shapes. Mama put the candles on and promised that we could light them for a few minutes before we went to bed. When supper dishes were done we gathered around the organ and, while Mama played, we sang "Silent Night," and "Away in a Manger," and all the other carols we knew. Susie HEN it was time to light the Christmas tree, and we watched in breathless wonder as one tiny light after another flickered into view. When the last candle was lighted Papa blew out the lamp, and the wonderful Christmas tree stood glowing in the darkened room. All too soon it was time for bed. I watched for a chance, and when no one was looking, I laid Papa's present under the tree. Then I went to bed with my wonderful secret making me feel warm and happy inside. In the early Christmas dawn we trouped downstairs to see what Santa Claus had left. My old doll, Samantha, and Susie's Mary Jane were sitting proudly under the tree all dressed up in new clothes. The 902 clothes almost made the dolls look new, too. There was a harmonica for Johnny, and some _ building blocks for little Tim. And, wonder of wonders, somehow Santa had managed to leave a pearl necklace for Susie and a blue bracelet for me. Papa and Mama stood by smiling at our exclamations of delight. But when everything else had been examined, one little gift was still under the tree. "Papa," I said, "you forgot one present, there under the tree." "Well, so I did," he exclaimed, stooping down to pick it up. "T wonder whom this is for?" "It's for you," I said quickly, remembering that I had forgotten to write his name on it. With starry eyes I watched as he untied the red string. The whole family was watching, too. And Mama looked at me and gave me such a wonderful, sweet kind of smile that I knew I would never forget it. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 As Papa held up the red bandana, his voice got kind of chokey. "Polly," he said, "it's the nicest Christmas gift I've ever had in my whole life." "It will make a perfect scarf for your face on these cold mornings," Mama told him, and she tied it around his face to show us. My heart was singing, I hadn't known until then just how wonderful it was to be a giver. I was proud and happy, happier than I had ever been on any Christmas before. I think I knew a little how the Judean hill folks felt when they brought presents to the manger on that first Christmas morning. Later, when I was helping Mama clear up the breakfast dishes, she looked at me with glowing eyes. "Polly," she said wisely, "you have made your Papa and me so happy and proud, and this is the Christmas you will remember the longest, for today you have learned what Christmas really means." New Serial to Begin in January new serial "Keep My Own," by Kit Linford, will begin in the January 1963 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The story narrates the adjustments and sacrifices by which a young bride, Irene Spencer, strives to integrate herself into her husband's family. Her ideal is a pattern of love and unity, which requires a mature devotion and the giving up of many treasures. The Breath of Life James E. Perkins, M. D., Managing Director National Tuberculosis Association T has been said, "It is a woman's world" and also "The hand that rocks the cradle shapes the earth." These two eloquently phrased thoughts are oft repeated and hence must hold the important element of truth. It is then to the women, the guardians of the family health, we would like to bring our short message. Along with our battle against TB, we should remember two more letters — "RD." RD stands for Respiratory Diseases. RD has for so long complicated and cost us many battles with Tuberculosis. Anything that damages lungs or hinders breathing must be of concern to your local TB Associations across the country. How many mothers have been awakened in the still, dark hours of the night to hear the gasping struggle to breathe and cry of a child suffering from Asthma? Bronchitis, Pneumonia, Emphysema, Influenza, Pleurisy, and even the Common Cold can be helped by the expanded research program financed by Christmas Seals. Won't you add Christmas Seals to all your holiday mail? Join us in our quest to save lives and ease human suffering. Support your local Tuberculosis Association by keeping and using the 1962 Christmas Seals. Whistling Carols Evelyn Fjeldsted Up and down the street he went each night Bicycle spinning on his route, Whistling carols loud and clear "Joy to the world" and "Peace on Earth." And as he whistled stars came out, And blinked approvai of his joy, For David's music long ago Could not have brought more peace and cheer Than David in our little town, Whistling on his paper route. 903 mixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, December 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or Aut Nations" CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS: It is but a small thing to give of one's substance, but how great comparatively to receive the compensation of the soul that comes through reaction to the giver. The joy one feels but does not quite comprehend, which invariably comes afterwards to those whose hearts are attuned to harmony and love for all mankind.... The Christmas spirit is one of forgiveness, it partakes of the charity that forgives seventy times seven, delighting in doing good to suffering humanity.... — Editorial CHRISTMAS CAROL The wise men journey from afar, And follow close His guiding star; It stands o'er Bethlehem tonight, Imposing, wondrous, is the sight. O, hear the angels sing again, "On earth dawns peace, good will to men." He lowly in the manger's laid, No room for him can else be made.. — Lydia D. Alder TESTIMONIAL TO SISTER M. I. HORNE: The anniversary of Sister M. I. Horne's eighty-fourth birthday was celebrated by the officers and members of the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake.... President Angus M. Cannon addressed the sisters: I am very glad to be honored and privileged to meet with Sister Horne and the rest of the sisters.... I have been acquainted with her for fifty-eight years.... I thought while sitting here of the experience this woman has obtained in gaining a testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith and in associating with the wives and brethren of some of the twelve apostles.... She was acquainted with the Prophet Joseph, and with his brother Hyrum, and with his sisters and with his other brothers.... When I have thought of a happy home and of the dignity of a woman, a woman of gentle and queenly dignity, I have thought of Joseph Horne, Sister Horne, their children, and the government of their family.... |©— News Note RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN WOODRUFF STAKE: Sister Stevenson and Sister Badger, visitors from Salt Lake City, were on the stand... Sister Stevenson said the Relief Society work is a self-denying work... Spoke of the love and unity that should be in the family circle, teach our daughters how to be good wives and our sons to seek a wife by inspiration; said the duties of a Relief Society teacher were very sacred and they were the backbone of Relief Society.... Let us not forget the dead or neglect the wonderful work for them.... We are to be judged out of the books, and I believe one of these is the Relief Society books. We don't want to be at ease in Zion, we want to set an example that our lives will be acceptable to the Lord.... — Katie H. Eppich, Stake Sec. NOTES AND NEWS: Mts. Kipling, the mother of Rudyard Kipling, has just published, with her daughter, Mrs. Fleming, a little book of poems entitled "Hand in Hand." 904 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ARY BRAN is an independent impresario, who in Europe and America has presented the public such artists as Anna Pavlova, Vasalav Nyinsky, Yvette Guilbert, Jose Greco, the Stainislavsky Moscow Art Theatre, the Vienna Boys Choir. She has settled in Los Angeles, and has received some of the highest decorations for artistic achievement given in France, Italy, and America. UTH MEHRTENS, one of America's most distinguished newspaper women, is Bureau Chief of the New England area for Time Magazine. She brings to her responsible position a limitless curiosity and an agile mind. A Boston colleague describes Miss Mehrtens as one who "grasps any kind of news situation in a minute." She works quickly, and efficiently supervises her staff of reporters who were responsible for three cover stories in Time for 1961. HE death rate among married men and women is lower than among unmarried adults. Girls born in Sweden have the longest life expectancy of any women in the world —seventy-five years. RS. CHESTER WILLIAMS of Kanarraville, Utah, is chief of the volunteers fire department, composed entirely of women. Her group has been called "The Girls Who Go to Blazes." Numbering twenty-two women, including grandmothers and young mothers, the women assumed a responsibility necessitated by the men of the town being at work in other towns or on adjacent ranches. OMEN represent only seven per cent of the 166, coo persons listed in the United States National Register of Scientific and Technical Personnel. Most of these women work in the fields of biology and psychology. In medicine, women tend to go into pediatrics, obstetrics, gynecology, anesthesiology, general practice, laboratory diagnosis, and laboratory research. RS. ERWIN SMOGOR, of South Bend, Indiana, won first prize in Pillsbury's fourteenth grand national bakeoff. The prize was $25,000, the product, an apple pie with caramel and whipped cream cheese topping. 905 EDITORIAL DECEMBER 1962 The 132d Semi-Annual Church Conference HE 132d Semi-Annual Conference of the Church was held in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, October 5th, 6th, and 7th, 1962. Under autumn skies, and in a valley golden with harvest, the saints from many lands assembled to hear words of testimony, inspiration, and direction from the General Authorities, all of whom were present for the conference sessions. President David O. McKay, Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, now in his ninetieth year, presided at and conducted all the general sessions and the Priesthood meeting. There was much rejoicing among the saints to know that the words of this conference were the most widely disseminated in all the history of the Church. Reception was excellent in Europe, Africa, the Islands of the Sea, and other far-off lands, as well as in all parts of the United States. The potential viewing audience on Sunday was estimated at seventy-seven million. Of much interest was the appointment of Elder Nathan Eldon Tanner, former Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, as a member of the Council of the Twelve. The saints assembled also participated in sus- 906 taining Elder Bernard P. Brockbank, President of the Scottish Mission, as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. President George Carlos Smith, Jr., of the Central States Mission was named Superintendent of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, to succeed Joseph T. Bentley. Marvin J. Ashton and Carl W. Buchner were sustained as counselors to President Smith. OREMOST among the many outstanding features of the conference was the opening address of President David O. McKay. Keynoting his address on the theme of obedience to the gospel in the life of the individual, President McKay declared: I believe that governments, institutions, and organizations exist primarily for the purpose of securing to the individual his tights, his happiness, and proper development of his character. When organizations fail to accomplish this purpose, their usefulness ends.... In all ages of the world men have been prone to ignore the personality of others, to disregard men's tights by closing against them the opportunity to develop. The worth of man ls a good measuring rod by which we may judge the rightfulness or the wrongfulness of a policy or principle, whether in government, in business, or in social activities. Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth Theories and ideologies exploited during the last half century present challenges more critical and dangerous than mankind has ever before faced.... Force and compulsion will never establish the ideal society. This can come only by a transformation within the individual soul. RESIDENT Henry D. Moyle declared that obedience to the gospel must be our ensign in order to establish peace within ourselves and make ourselves secure in the household of God. Our work, therefore, is to promulgate knowledge of God that all who listen may come to know God and thereby put themselves in the way of immortality and eternal life.... Our work is cut out for us once we accept membership in his Church and kingdom and obey the commandments of God. We become conscious of the reality and the actual existence of God — the Holy Ghost becomes our comforter and our guide.... We must know Christ to become part of his household and prepare for the day of judgment, which will start at his house.... N eternal quest is necessary to the attainment of a knowledge of God, President Hugh B. Brown Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp ary V. Cameron declared, in explaining the attributes of this knowledge and the way it may be obtained. As God is our father and the source of all truth, as we are all primarily interested in attaining eternal life, and as it is eternal life to know him, surely an open-minded and courageous study of him and his divine plan with respect to our salvation will be the most interesting and permanently rewarding of all ventures into the vast realms which invite man's questing spirit.... The restored gospel of Jesus Christ which we proclaim, when understood and accepted, will unite all men in a common cause, and then only will all new scientific discoveries be utilized for the benefit of mankind and then we shall have peace. A knowledge of truth will help men to be free.... In his fervent and _solicitous closing address, President McKay thanked all those who had participated in the conference and extended his blessing to the saints in all lands, and to all people everywhere. God bless you that you may realize the blessings that are yours through the revelation and restoration in this day and age of the world of the Priesthood of God, which gives you authority to represent him... In this day of the gospel as given through Christ the Lord as the plan of salvation to all mankind. 907 Christmas in the Home okie holidays are of long-lasting significance in the family pattern. Marked by family love and unity, they also set the pattern throughout the generations of those who have shared in the joy of the home, and who have carried its ideals in a design for affection and unity in the many new homes that are the branches of the family tree. Some small remembrance given in love, some gift requiring forethought and sacrifice, some handmade memento, may carry a long-continued aura of affection. 'There are many now grown old, and others at various stations along the lifetime progression, who recall a picture of father standing in the open door carrying in his arms the needle-boughed Christmas tree. And there are those who will not forget the blessed occasion of the exchange of gifts, with mother seated in the midst of the little ones. It is from the home that there must come the true and everlasting meaning of Christmas. It is there that children learn the difference between the symbol and the substance, the tinsel and the testament. The Wise Men, the shepherds, the star, the evergreen trees, the various customs in many lands — they are not Christmas — but they are symbols of Christmas. Such long-established and beloved symbols may help to impart the everlasting significance of the Christmas star and the birth of the Savior and this a small child can understand. Some children, even those who have not yet been to school, will listen to a few lines from the New Testament, wherein Luke speaks of the shepherds "abiding in the fields" and their journey to the manger. The children must be told that through the long centuries the people had looked for the coming of a King through the royal lineage of David — a King who would bring a message of salvation "from everlasting to everlasting." The children, seeing a star at the top of the Christmas tree, can be told of the new star that lighted the darkness of Bethlehem and shone above the place where the young Child lay. 'They may not understand the unlimited vastness of space and the innumerable suns and planets of the universe, but they can hear the story of a new light that came to illuminate the pathway for all children and for all people everywhere in every land, and through all the generations. And the Wise Men, journeying by the light of the star, coming from a far land, in search of a promised King — let the children hear for themselves the words of the Bible: "Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise men from the east...." How quickly the Christmas Eve comes — how soon the Christmas Day departs — how soon the family is grown and the members scattered... How soon earth life is done. Let us cherish each moment with the children that the story of the first Christmas may become the reality of reverence and rejoicing. —V. P. C. 908 Lorraine Hyde Clawson Color Transparency by Hal Rumel % ee iD iaales "Tt =: E have established a tradition in the family of having Christmas Eve dinner together in one of our homes. It is one of the few times during the year when all of us, my mother, brother, sisters, and children gather together, and we all look forward to it with keen anticipation. To me, it is the highlight of the Christmas season. It was our turn last year to have the party at my home, and what 910 fun it was to plan! From the first moment of their arrival, with everyone attired in his holiday best, the little ones scrubbed and combed, and wearing excited expressions, to the climax of the evening, when remembrances from Santa Claus were passed around, it was a truly happy occasion. The soft candlelight, the smell of pine, the warmth of the glowing fire and the gaily lighted Christmas tree combined to cast a magic spell. And the aroma of roasting turkey and freshly baked goodies added the finishing touch. The fireplace is the focal point in our living room, and the decoration I chose to hang on the wall last year dictated the color scheme for our table decorations. An old, worn violin was wired to large sprays of deep green pine. Attached to this were clusters of artificial fruits. Tables were set up in this room for the teenagers, and the tables were covered in cloths made from inexpensive drip-dry cotton in the bright colors of the fruits and greens. Centering each table were wicker sleds, sprayed with gold paint, trimmed with leftover bits of felt and velvet. Gold braid and paper decorations were glued on, and tiny bunches of fruit attached to both sides. These were filled with wrapped, homemade caramels. For place card holders, I sprayed pine cones gold, and tucked a tiny bunch of fruit in each one. In our television room, we set up a larger table for the younger children in the family. This was bright and gay, and especially interesting to them. Vivid red was used for the cloth, here, again in the cotton material. At each place was a candy cane with Santa Claus heads for the boys' places, and little girls' heads marking the girls' places. In the center of the table was a white candolier with white candles. Hanging from the branches of the candolier, in amusing positions, were wired pixie dolls, dressed in red, green, and white felt. At the base were fresh greens and white styrofoam balls. The dolls in their various positions caused a great deal of merriment for those little children. The grownups' table was in the dining room, and here, again, a bright color scheme was used. This table was more formal, but very festive by candlelight. I used a Bristol blue linen cloth which I trimmed in lime green fringe. The linen napkins were alternating blue and green. Tall blue tapers were used in the silver candelabra and glass hurricanes. Clusters of balls in assorted sizes, in blue, green, and silver completed the centerpiece. These were decorations that anyone could put together; but it was the use of many bright colors which were, nevertheless, complimentary to each other, against the simple beige background of my home, that made them warm and appealing. The candy filled sleds were given to each family as favors, and the children took home gaily wrapped trinkets from Santa Claus. No Christmas party would be complete without the singing of carols. And from the harmonies of the older members to the precious voices of the little ones, it was a heart-warming experience. We all had a prayer of thanksgiving in our hearts for our bounteous blessings, and I believe each one went to bed that night feeling that the real spirit of Christmas — gratitude for our Savior and love, one for another — was truly felt by all. 911 ARLY in the new year, Mother begins to plan and work on her decorations and gifts for the Christmas season. Her Christmas wreaths are beautiful to behold, especially the ones which utilize the materials nature provides. If you wish to make a wreath of nuts and pine cones like the one pictured here, these are the things you will need: A styrofoam circle, which can be purchased at your florist or display house, or a substitute circle made of chicken wire stuffed with moss. Green plastic ribbon to wrap the circle or green or brown paint to spray it. Handiwork for Christmas Any hard-shelled nuts, such as walnuts, pecans, hazelnuts, Brazil nuts, acorns, horse chestnuts. Large and small hard pine cones. An electric drill set in a vise, with a small finishing nail inserted instead of the drill. Stiff wire cut in 2! Inch pieces. A jigsaw to cut through the pine cones. Florist pins that look like this or stiff wire formed a= in the same shape. A commercial glue. Three yards of 24% or 3% inch moss green velvet ribbon. After your materials are assembled, either wrap the circle wreath with green plastic ribbon, or spray paint it to conceal the white color. Next, holding a nut firmly in one 912 hand, use the drill to bore a hole through the shell. Dip end of 2% inch piece of wire into the glue and insert the same end into hole in nut. Set aside to dry. If you are adept with a jigsaw, cut pine cones into two-inch sections. Otherwise, ask your husband or butcher to do this, as there is no place on the wreath for a sawed-off thumb. Using the drill again, bore hole in back of pine cone, insert wire dipped in glue, and dry. Only the roses, or tops of the pine cones, were used in the pictured wreath, but the other sections may be used. Now you are ready to form your wreath. Using your imagination, Adele Williams Worsley Designs and Arrangements by Florence C. Williams push the nuts and pine cones into the styrofoam circle, placing them as close together as possible in order to conceal the basic circle. When you have covered the front of the wreath completely, stick a heavy wire into the back for hanging. To preserve your wreath for many years, spray it with clear plastic, which also gives it a lovely sheen. Make four or five loops of green velvet ribbon, tie it, and insert it into the wreath with a florist pin. It is now ready to hang on your front door, above your mantle, or it can be used as a centerpiece for your Christmas table. Mother happened to have three handsome brass bells which she placed in the center of her wreath before hanging on the door knocker. Color Transparency by Hal Rumel Christmas Wreaths The other wreaths pictured here were made in the same manner. However, in both these wreaths, various kinds of artificial fruit were used, as well as soft pine cones (both natural and sprayed gold), and colored Christmas balls. Around the edges of one, fresh holly was stuck into the wreath with florist pins. The other one is finTransparencies by Arthur Gritfin Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. Ished with Euonymus leaves, Why not try pine or cedar? As you walk in the fields and canyons nearby, open your eyes to the things around you, such as dried seed pods and weeds, and you can make your Wreath an original creation to enjoy for many years. TARTING with the bag nestled in the pine branch directly below the candles this bag would make a lovely gift to be used for evening wear. Shop for an inexpensive cloth clutch bag, or if you have one of which you have grown tired, reline and recover it yourself. The one pictured here is black silk. In her ribbon box, Mother found quarter-inch velvet ribbon in shades of purple, green, and fuchsia, and one-inch black brocade ribbon embroidered with small field flowers. Using pins, and starting about 1% Baskets and Bags inches in from the side of the purse, she applied five rows of the varicolored velvet ribbon, tucking the ends under the band at the top, and going completely around the bag. Next, she glued the velvet ribbon in place. The brocade ribbon came next, then three more rows of the velvet ribbon, a repeat of brocade, another set of velvet, one more row of brocade, and last, the five rows of velvet ribbon. If there is not a band at the top of the bag to hide the edges, a piece of fine round braid may be glued on to cover the ends of the ribbons. Rummage through your ribbon box and dis- 914 cover the many attractive combinations you can assemble. The next bag (hanging below the candles), with the brightly colored flowers embroidered with a satin stitch and buttonhole stitch, is truly a work of art. Mother bought an ordinary tapestry bag for $5 and began working on it several months ago. She would pick it up in the evening while watching television, or carry it toa party. While sitting and chatting, she would take out her needle and embroider a flower or even a leaf. What an heirloom this will be. The first basket on the rim of the sofa (at the left) has been fun to use at Christmas, for her grandchildren know "Nanny" has a surprise for them when she goes to visit with iton her arm. It is a roomy, wicker basket with two jolly stuffed holiday figures sewed on, plus a row of gay red braid to trim the bottom. For a gardening friend, the next basket (center) makes an appealing gift. Made of shiny reed, it is filled with seed pods of the Oriental poppy. To make this, cut a piece of florists' oasis, or any other porous material to fit the shape of the basket. Leaving various length stems on the dried pods, push them into the oasis until the desired arrangement is achieved. A bright yellow bird perched atop the handle adds a note of spring. The circus basket (at the right) Color Transparency by Hal Rumel would be fun for someone planning a resort vacation. Spray a basket white, cut out circus animals of brightly colored felt, and glue them to the purse. Each animal could be decorated with discarded pieces of jewelry. To complete the illusion, add strips of gold braid to resemble the bars of a cage. The three small bags resting on the back of the sofa are made in the same manner as the first bag described. They were bought for $1 each in the basement of a department store. The red and white bags at the ends are especially treasured by the young girls in our family, for the figured Tyrolean braids decorating, the bags look well with both school clothes and afternoon ski outfits. The braid and ribbon on these three bags cover the entire purse. Plastic bags could not be used as the glue will not hold. One of the two burlap bags is lined with red, the other with orange broadcloth, with zippers inserted into the lining of each for a money purse. Mother trimmed the inside of the handles and finished the top of the lining with two-inch Swiss braid. The strips of burlap are sewed together with a zigzag stitch. To decorate the bag at the left Mother embroidered large pompons of colored yarn. The other burlap bag (at the right) has just returned from a jaunt to Europe, where it must have felt right at home, as it 916 is covered with peasants made of yam, giving it an old-world look. Speaking of evening, what could be lovelier for your own daughter than her first party bag done in strips of baby blue velvet and soft blue and gold brocade ribbon, such as the one in the picture (on sofa at left). And now, why not a Christmas shopping bag for you? The large black felt one in the center will put you in a holiday mood, with its Christmas carolers and tree cut out of felt and appliqued with glue. Mother made the large red sewing basket (on sofa at right) for me several years ago, and I must say it always seems to be full. Find a durable basket, spray it bright red, and line it with red and white checked gingham with an attractive edging of scalloped blue felt inserted. Shape the lining to the sewing basket and sew it on by hand. A _ heart-shaped gingham pocket, trimmed in the same scalloped felt, is attached to the lining. Red felt geraniums, with green leaves, are cut with pinking shears, and sewed to the handle and rim of the basket. A 114 yard long tube of green felt is tied in a bow on the handle. From the ends protrude a bright red darning egg and pin cushion. Glued to the edge of the basket is a tiny farmer sitting in his wagon, looking to see if his clothes have been mended. HRISTMAS will be more festive in our house this year because of the pine cone and nut tree which Mother made for us. We will place it on a Chinese red lacquered compote which is centered in a wreath also made of nuts and pine cones, and use it on a low round table in the living room. Around the tree will be branches of freshly cut pine which have been fireproofed so we can tuck bright red candles here and there. What a warm and fragtant spot to gather for our stories and music on Christmas Eve. Gala Holiday Tree If you have studied the directions for making the nut wreath, it will be easy to make a tree for your home. From your florist or display house, obtain a styrofoam cone. These cones come in various sizes, and should be sprayed either green or brown, or wrapped with green plastic ribbon. If necessary, you can make a cone of chicken wire and moss, being careful to keep a true cone shape. Prepare the nuts and pine cones in the same manner as for a wreath, and push them into the styrofoam cone, beginning at the bottom. It is more attractive to use a full row of pine roses to start the tree. Next, place the nuts on the tree in groups of three, adding pine cones here and there, until you reach the top. To finish, place a pine cone rose on the top. Color Transparency by Hal Rumel When making any of her Christmas decorations, Mother accomplishes much more by drilling, gluing, or assembling whenever she has ten or fifteen minutes to spare, rather than trying to finish the product at one sitting. The tree can be an exciting family project and one that boys as well as girls will enjoy. 917 Easy Christmas Cookies Myrtle E. Henderson Sugar Cookies (Key recipe) Mix thoroughly: % c. Soft shortening (part butter) Sift together and stir in: 1 Cc. Sugar 2% c. Sifted flour 2 eggs 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Flavoring (I like % tsp. Lemon 1 tsp. Salt and % tsp. Vanilla) This will make a soft dough. Chill at least 1 hr. Roll out % inch thick. Cut into desired shapes. Sprinkle with sugar if desired. Place on ungreased baking sheet and bake about 6 minutes at 400°. Chocolate Pinwheels Follow key recipe. Divide the dough into two equal parts. Into 1 part blend 2 squares unsweetened chocolate melted. Chill all the dough. Roll out white dough to % inch thick. Roll out the chocolate dough to the same size and lay on top of the white dough. Roll the double layer of dough gently to about % inch thick. Cut the edges straight. Beginning at the wide side, roll up tightly to a roll about 2 inches in diameter and 12 inches long. Chill. Cut in slices 4% inch thick. Bake 6 to 8 minutes at Surprise Sugar Cookies Use key recipe. Divide dough into two equal parts. Roll out one part and sprinkle liberally with candied fruit mix. Cover with the rest of the dough rolled to the same size (about 9" x 12"). Roll double layer gently and cut into desired shapes. Bake 6 to 8 minutes at 400°. Cinnamon-Pecan Bars Use key recipe. Mix into the dough 1 c. Finely chopped nuts. Roll out % inch thick. Cut into oblongs 1%" x 3". Sprinkle with a mixture of 2 tbsp. Sugar and 2 tsp. Cinnamon. Press % of pecan nut into each bar. Bake 5 or 6 minutes at 400°. Filled Sugar Cookies Use key recipe. After cutting out cookies put 1 tsp. Raisin filling on % of the cookies and cover them with the other half. Press down firmly with a fork. Filling for Sugar Cookies: 1 c. Ground raisins % c. Water 4 tbsp. Sugar 1 tbsp. Flour Mix raisins and sugar well, bring to a boil and thicken with flour mixed with water. Sugar Plum Cookies 3% c. Flour % c. Commercial sour cream 1 tsp. Salt 2 eggs, well beaten 1 c. Shortening (part butter) 1 tbsp. Flavoring 1 pkg. Active dry yeast 1 Cc. Sugar % c. Warm water (not hot) Mix flour, sugar, and salt and cut in the shortening. Dissolve the yeast in water. Stir into flour mixture with sour cream, eggs, and flavoring. Mux well. If you desire to make canes of red and white, and wreaths of green, divide the dough into two equal parts, then divide one part again into equal parts. Into % of the dough put about 1 tsp. Red food coloring, and into the other half put 1% tsp. Green food coloring. Cover all the dough with a damp cloth and chill 2 hours. Heat oven to 375°. Roll red piece of dough on sugared board to oblong shape. (Keep the rest chilled.) Sprinkle with sugar. Fold the two ends to the center, then sprinkle with sugar and roll again to about % inch thick. Now take % the white dough and repeat the process. Cut both the red and white dough into strips 4" x %". Place the white strips on top of the red and twist the ends in opposite directions and shape into canes. Put on ungreased baking sheet and bake 10 to 12 minutes. Repeat with the green dough and form into wreaths. Decorate with pieces of maraschino 'cherries. The rest of the white dough may be made into hearts, twisters, bells, or stars and decorated with pieces of candied fruit mix or cake candies. GRANDMOTHER'S CHRISTMAS COOKIES % c¢. Shortening 1 tsp. Vanilla % c. Brown sugar 2 c. Flour % c. Granulated sugar "2 tsp. Salt 1 egg 2 tsp. Baking powder Cream shortening and sugar. Add egg and beat well. Add vanilla. Add sifted dry ingredients and shape into roll. Place in waxed paper and chill in refrigerator overnight. Roll the dough out as for a cinnamon roll. Make a sauce of butter, sugar, chopped fruit mix, and chopped Brazil nuts in amounts to suit taste. Spread on the dough and roll up like a cinnamon roll. Slice % inch thick. Bake at 425° for 10 minutes. 919 County, Utah, is SP€cialist jn householg craftsmanship are an Inspiration to all the needle and know her. Her "USS and quilts are beautiful, as Well as useful. Fo, hristmas 1961, Mrs. Cook &4ve each of her thirty-three 8tandchildren a handmade article, Fro, these lovely and thoughtful] gifts, she will always be "emembered jn the homes of her Posterity, Many friends and neighbors of Sister Cook have been made happy With handiwork. Gifts." Mrs Cook jis Partially Paralyzed, byt her handicap has been overshadowed by the Courage and enthusiasm Mrs, Cook displays for her many hobbies, and for al] her lifetime blessings, ——_i) Seagulls Ida Isaacson What a Pavilion of air Where 8ray gulls rise and soar at will, 920 Out of the Wilderness CuHaPTerR 6 Shirley Thulin Synopsis: Marian Morgan, a widow and mother of six children, has come to Montana to supervise assessment work on the mining property owned by the family. They encounter many difficulties, and they mistrust Jake Hadley, the owner of a neighboring mine, who has made protestations of friendship. While Marian and the older boys are repairing the roof on the cabin, three-year-old Jill wanders away and becomes lost in the wilderness. ARIAN and Jim hurried along M toward the road that led to the Silver Bear mine to get help. Jim's long, anxious strides made it difficult for Marian to keep up with him as they picked their way over roots and rocks. Daylight was slipping away, and Jill was out there somewhere in the wilderness alone, frightened.... "Jim, there's not much time left, is there?" Marian was talking more to herself than to him. "Hurry, Mother, just hurry." His words were so sharp that Marian knew something other than worry was mixed with them. "Jim, wait." As he turned, she could see there was something besides fright in his eyes, and there were lines of pain around his mouth. "Jim, what is it?" "Nothing, let's just hurry." "Oh, Jim, your wrist!" Marian saw that he was holding his right arm with his left hand. "Let me see it, son." "We haven't time. Every minute counts. "But...." more. He strode out ahead of her and thereby dismissed further conversation. They were almost running now, but running where? Marian knew that Jill could be clear over the opposite mountain by now. But even as she thought this, something compelled her feet to move quickly in the direction of the mine. They hurried along in silence. Then Marian turned around to see where the sun was. It was setting on a ridge between two towering peaks, reluctant to go behind the mountain. It seemed to know how much its light meant to them. "Jim, will the men at the Silver Bear have something to light our way? 'Torches, maybe, or...?" "They have carbide lamps. 'They use them for light in the mines." "Oh, yes, I remember the carbide lamps...." "I didn't think to bring ours. They're back in the shed. Come on, Mother, please hurry." They were coming to a clearing She could say no 921 922 now, and even after so many years, Marian recognized the woodenframed hole in the face of the mountain. It was their mine, the "Silver Star." "Jim...."' Marian's feet were heavy, her body weary. She leaned against a tree and put her hand up to her pounding chest. "What's the matter?" he came back to her, a mixture of anxiety and annoyance in his face. "Tm... Tm out of breath. I'll have to rest a minute... Just a minute." Jim wiped his forehead with the back of his left arm, and Marian saw the swelling in his right wrist as he let go of it. She didn't say anything. She knew they must find Jill. 'There was no time for swollen wrists, or for being tired. She straightened up and tried to make her feet take her where she knew they must. Jim looked at the lowering sun, and then at the path that now began its steep climb over the hill to the other mine. "Mother, I think you had better go back to the cabin.... I can go faster by myself." "No, Jim. I can't." "Then wait here. I'll go for the men and when we come back, you'll be rested." "No! I've got to go with you." "Mother, please. We are losing too much time." There was a new note in his voice. It was a note that hung somewhere between tolerance and anger. Marian knew he was right. She knew she must not slow him down, but how could she stay here alone? How could she just sit here on a rock and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 do nothing toward finding Jill? Finally her words came. Slowly she told him she would stay, but as he started to run up the path, she called him, called his name as though she were grabbing a floating log in the sea of bewilderment that swirled around her. Even as her words formed his name, she was sorry — ashamed. He stopped and turned. She lifted her hand and waved him on. He smiled briefly and waved in silent acknowledgment of what he must have known she felt, then went swiftly on his way, up the trail and out of sight in the underbrush. FroR a long time Marian watched the place where he had vanished from her view. 'Too heartsick to think, too weary to move, she leaned there against the tree. Then realization began to take hold of her. She should have told Jim she would go back to the cabin. At least she could do something worthwhile there, get something for the other children to eat and comfort them. Here she could do nothing. It was too late to go now. She had said she would wait here. Why did she always make such poor choices, she wondered? Why did she seem to be so short-sighted? She looked around her. The last flickers of sunlight struck the mine entrance at an odd angle, and lighted part of the way inside. The rail was rusty from idleness, and partly coyered with dirt. The old brown boards that outlined the mouth of the mine looked rotted as though a push would send them crashing to the ground. Marian's gaze was about to move on, when something caught her OUT OF THE WILDERNESS eye. Something peculiar about the ground where the dampness had settled just outside the mine. "Tt can't be!" she said aloud. Running to the spot which now revealed itself as truly the little girl's footprints in the wet earth, she knelt down. There were many prints in all directions, and she was sure they were made by Jill. For a moment her thoughts came and went in almost hysterical unrealities. Then fear gripped her anew. Jill's in the mine, she told herself. And though she had been terrified when she first knew her baby was somewhere in the woods, she was even more so now. The mine, to Marian, held even worse danger than the trees and underbrush. From her honeymoon days she remembered the mine. David had coaxed so hard to get her to put on a pair of his coveralls and the heavy helmet with the light attached. "We won't go in very far," he had told her. "Just let me tell you about the work I'm doing, and show you the streaks of ore." Marian only gave in to him to avoid making his fine brow wrinkle in disappointment.... "Only because I love you very much," she had told him. OW, as she knelt in the warm dirt, near the damp place, she recalled how, after a few feet of flat ground with the rail and wooden ties running along, there was a sudden drop. David had led the way down a rickety old board ladder, to still another few feet of flat ground and then more ladders and everywhere old wood holding up the dirt ceilings and dirt walls, and water 923 mixed with green moss trickling down and running along, and blackness beyond the small circle of their lamps. "Jill! Oh, Jaill, can you hear Mommy?" Marian screamed into the mine, not being able to control her voice now, or the sobbing of it. She took a few steps into the entrance and called over and over, but never the slightest sound came in return, only the odor of musty wood to annoy her nose, and the ominous silence of the darkness within gave answer. Marian stepped back outside to do her thinking. She knew she had to make a plan... Something, anything, but what? How long is Jim going to be? She wondered. I can't just stand here and wait. Jill must be lying in there hurt.... I've got to go in and find her, she thought, but it's so dark... The carbide lights. Jim said they were back in the shed. Quickly Marian started towards the cabin to get a lamp. She had gone but a few feet, not even out of the clearing, when she heard the voices, men's voices, heavy and loud echoing against the mountains. She couldn't believe they had come so soon. "Jim, oh, Jim...." She ran up the path, and then, as the men came within her view, she _ stopped, stopped and stared in disbelief. It couldn't be... But it was.... Jim was carrying Jill piggyback, and she was laughing and Jim was grinning. "Mom, look. Jill... Safe and sound." "Butishe's... Shelsy..." "She wandered into our camp a little while ago," Jake explained. "She must have followed the road " 924 from our cabin," said Jim. "I met them on the way. They were bringing her home." "Oh, Jill!' Marian took her from Jim and hugged her closely. "I found her footprints.... I thought she was in the mine." And when they got back to the mine, Marian showed them the tiny prints on the ground. "She had gone in, all right," one of the men said. "Tt was dark in there," Jill said. "There are so many prints that you couldn't see she came back out," Jake said. "Oh, Jim, let's get back to the cabin fast. The other children will be so anxious." "Let me carry her back," Jake offered. "We can, thanks, anyway. And thanks to all of you for bringing her back...." "That's all right, I'm glad she followed that road," Jake said. "When kids get lost in these mountains they are hard to find. Dangerous place for kids." _ Marian studied Jake. Was he trying to make polite conversation, or to frighten her? The look in his eyes confused her. "Mommy, Spotty ran away," Jill said. "Oh, he did, did he?" said Marian. She hugged the little girl very close and said a silent thank you. "Poor little Spotty," said Jim. "T hope he'll be able to take care of himself." Then Jim looked in the direction of the departing men, and Marian knew he was wishing there was something he could do about their killing the deer. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 T was so good to get back to the cabin that for a moment Marian felt a warm glow all about her. She felt as though she had come home. Why, ves, she told herself, surprised, the cabin really feels like home. It must be because we are all together, she thought. Jill couldn't understand all the hugs and kisses, and she mildly protested. "Tm hungry," she finally announced, and that reminded the others that they were, too. "We were so worried that we forgot we hadn't eaten," Sue said. "Tell us how you found her, Jim," Jed coaxed. "We thought you wouldn't find her," 'Tommy said. And while the children talked excitedly, Jim made a fire and Marian opened fruit and heated leftovers and cut thick slices of her homemade bread. After the little ones were tucked into bed, Marian heated some water and helped Jim soak his painfully swollen wrist. "Jim." She didn't want to say the words that she felt must be said. "Jim, we'll have to go home now. You can't do anything with your wrist like this." "No." 'There was a finality to his voice that made Marian raise hers a little. "But we have to! You can't work now, and there ate so many things that need to be done... And I'm frightened, Jim. If Jill or one of the little boys should wander away, we wouldn't find them next time. We have to go back with Dick when he comes Saturday. 'That gives us two OUT OF THE WILDERNESS days to get all the clothes ready and packed." She finished wrapping his arm, then looked at him, sitting there, his head slightly forward, his chin firm. "Tll never let you sell out to Jake," he said. "We don't have to. Maybe somebody else...." "No, Mother. That mine should be mine." "Let's not decide now." Marian went into her bedroom, with the unspoken words still hanging between them. For a long time she lay there in the darkness. She knew she had hurt Jim by giving up the fight, but she knew it was the only thing they could do. "Tf only I had listened to Charles in the first place," she said to herself, "af only...." "Mom." Jim's voice came to her 925 from the darkness of her doorway. "You awake?" "Yes, Jim." "Tm not going home. If I have to do it all alone with my one hand, I'm not going home." Marian felt the determination in his voice there in the night. She also felt the disappointment and the hurt. "Let's talk about it in the morning, son," she said. But the morning was long in coming. The night was full of a number of little nightmares that blended into one frightening one. She woke up time and time again and went over to make sure Jill was still there. She heard time and time again the hurt in Jim's voice, and felt the distasteful bitterness that was within her. Just before the light came into her window, she had made up her mind what she had to do. (To be continued) Where Are the Nine? Hazel Loomis Ten lepers crying from afar — Have mercy, Lord. Have mercy, Lord! The Master answered with a word... With a word, And they were cleansed that day. Ten lepers exultant, leaped and ran... Leaped and ran! One turned back — only one, And he a loathed Samaritan Who, falling at the Master's feet, A well — an everflowing spring Of thankful worshiping. One leper — cleansed — prostrate at the Master's feet, Waited for his Lord to speak The sorrowing impassioned line: You are but one, where are the nine? THEOLOGY e¢ The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 46 — The Waters and The Land Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 61) For First Meeting, March 1963 Objective: To learn that although one of the signs of the last days is destruction on " waters, yet t the Lord warns and-pretects-the-farthfut———— A pc round S erimnted out in the last lesson, the Prophet Joseph Smith and a party of elders left Independence landing for St. Louis by canoe. In the Prophet's own words, we read:.. In company with ten Elders, I left Independence landing for Kirtland. At McIlwaine's Bend, Brother Phelps, in open vision by daylight, saw the destroyer in his most horrible power, ride upon the face of the waters; others heard the noise, but saw not the vision. The next morning after prayer, I received the following: (D. H. C. 1:202-203; D&C, Section 61) ik or: ¢ bs f _ AA 926 5, ENCES. B- 99 W. W-Phelps. This-is suggested in the opening verses of Section 61, where the Lord"declares that their sins ateforgiven. At continues to Anown the' reason Aor this maké /kn blessing, as follows: =" for I, the Lord forgive sins, and am merciful unto those/who confess their sins~with humble hearts (D & C 61:2). I Bear Record By "'Tettimaa # These elders were permitted to travel upon the waters that they might bear record of their experiSome of the elders traveling by water needed to preach to the Viecopie on both sides of the river party were eas eet beca gp were es an in unbelief. ( wers—on--the=waters—were his servants is Section 50, verses 10 __knewnto~these brethren. They through 24. (Lesson 35, Relief Socould also be thankful that the ciety Magazine, September. = Lord was all-powerful for the bene- —Why did the Lord give this reve- - 2 fitof the faithful. (Ibid., 61:5-6.) — lation; was it for these few elders ae example - of pro>, only? It is apparent from the foltion to the faithful is that of/ lowing verses that the counsel conelaman's two thousand sons. (Al cerning the waters was for all saints ei. Ma 53:10-23; 56:41-57.) True faith & God will bring preservation to_a eople. (Alma 44:4.) President Wilford Woodruff, who was appointed by President Brigham Young to gather saints living. In New England and Canada, said:.. I did as he told me. It took me two years to gather up everybody, and I brought up the rear with a company. When I got into Pittsburg with this company it was dusk, and I saw a steamer just preparing to go out. I walked nght up to the captain and asked him if he was ready to go out. He said he was. "How many passengers have you?" ""I'wo hundred and fifty." "Can you take another hundred?" "I can." "Then," said I, "I would like to go aboard with you." The words were hardly out of my mouth when the Holy Ghost said to me, "Don't you nor your company go aboard that steamer." That was enough; I had learned the voice of the Spirit. I turned and told the captain that I had made up my mind not to go at present. That steamer started out. It was a dark night, and before the steamer had gone far she took fire, and all on board was lost. Should probably have shared the same fate, had it not been for that monitor within me (The Deseret Weekly, Vol. 53, No. 21, Nov. 7, 1896, Nelson, P & Pub. Spk. 436-44; cf. Discourses of Wilford W, ue grace 295) ov se Orrrceal! | ~ fF e he Lord Reasons ord said? He would reason ese eldets as he/ had done men in days of gld (D & C 61413). LA (A modefn revelation showing in the latter days: Behold, I, the Lord, in the beginning blessed the waters; but in the last days, by the mouth of my servant John, I cursed the waters. Wherefore, the days will come that no flesh shall be safe upon the waters. And it shall be said in days to come that none is able to go up to the land of Zion upon the waters, but he that is upright in heart (D & C 61:14-16). In the beginning the Lord saw that his creations were good. (Gen. 1:10.) The waters were blessed for the use of man. But in the last days the waters are cursed. It was John the Revelator who saw the judgments of God poured out upon the world in the last _days...\mong-the vials—of—wrath; ~the~second~angel poured his 'vial upon the sea and every living soul died*in the sea, With the release of the contents of the vial upon the rivers cartied_by the next angél, they became blood. (Rev-16:3-4.) ks-a-part of the Plan cor conceived in the heavens before the world was formed, men were to learn from the prophets that judgments or calamities would visit the earth if the laws of God were not observed. Amos announced the truth that the Lord would do nothing but what he would reveal it to his prophets first. (Amos 3:7.) The Lord's object is to save and not to destroy or curse. LESSON DEPARTMENT theexistence-ofSatan; the destroyer. 927 forth the reasoning of the Lord with 928 As pointed out in Proverbs, the Lord's object is to bless, even in chastisement. (Proverbs 3:11-12.) Waters Cursed Attention_is called to verse 5 of Section-61 in which the brethren in Joseph Smith's party were informed - that many destructions_ would occur on 'the /Missouri. Vand' Mississippi Rivers, It is virtually impossible to give Specific, data regarding the destruction gf these twofivers and their tribataries" since-the timethat Ahis revelation was gwen. That the O49 ~ number of, lives Aost' has beer great and the property damage enormous is known. During his lifetime, the Prophet, Joseph Smith mentioned great 'losses din liyeS.. And" property damage. (D & C(Gommentary, pp. 362-363.) _Destructions-Upon-_the-Waters———— Not only were the waters of the Missouri and Mississippi cursed in the last days, but also other waters. (D & C 61:4-5.) It states that the days would come 'when no flesh would be safe upon the waters except the upright in heart. (Ibid., verses 15-16.) One need only think of the great sea disasters caused by striking iceburgs, collisions, burnings, tossing on rocks or other objects during peace times, to bring forcefully to one's mind destructions upon the waters. 'The tremendous property damage and loss of life during the last two World Wars are staggering. (D & C Commentary, page 365.) ttl - A Contrast and the Lord's Assurance In the last days the waters -are cursed. Nevertheless, there would RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 be traffic on the waters. The elders for whom Section 61 was given specifically, were to travel by water, after a little while, or by land. Other brethren were, however, to be warned about the issourl and Mississippi ore And new ene give unto you a commandment that what I say unto one I say unto all, that ycu shall forewarn your brethren concerning these waters, that they come not in journeying upon them, lest their faith fail and they are caught in snares; I, the Lord, have decreed, and the destroyer rideth upon the face thereof, and I revoke not the decree (D & C 61:18-19). The Lord, however, gave assurances to his saints that they would not perish by the waters, although the day would come that only the upright in heart would c mi to Zion ey waters as ~ We Nevertheless, all flesh is in mine hand, and he that is faithful among you shall not perish by the waters... Wherefore, the days will come that no flesh shall be safe upon the waters. And it shall be said in days to come that none is able to go up to the land of Zion upon the waters, but he that is upright in heart (Ibid., 61:6, 15-16). Emigration to Zion in Earlier Days To come to Zion was the desire of the saints almost as soon as the gospel was preached in Great Britain, the first European mission to be opened. 'This movement of the members to assist in the building of settlements and temples in selected areas of the Western United States was encouraged by providing funds for the converts from the Emigration Fund. pp tr. Uncommercial" i ing is Charles Dickens: LESSON DEPARTMENT The success of this emigration movement under the direction of the General Authorities of the Church is history. The pioneer period was ended with the coming of the railroad to Utah in 1869. In this same year the emigrant voyages by sailing vessels ceased, as the steamship took the place of the slower vessel. It would take from five to six weeks by sailing vessel mcirsnnns from Europe. ) An interesting, notable description on one of these { \packet" ships was given by the ted English author Charles Dickens, whe went on board the Mormon emigrant ship to testify against the saints but came off the ship praising the character of them. In the folBehold me on my way to an Emigrant Ship, on a hot morning early in June.... I go aboard my Emigrant ship But nobody is in an ill-temper, nobody is the worse for drink, nobody swears an oath or uses a coarse word, nobody appears depressed. Nobody_is weeping, and down upon the deck in every corner where it is possible to find a few square feet to kneel, crouch, or lie in, people in every unsuitable attitude for writing, are writing letters. Now, I have been in emigrant ships beforé this day in June. And these people are so strikingly different_from all other people in like circumstances whom I have ever seen, that I wonder aloud, "What would a stranger suppose these emigrants to be!" The vigilant bright face of the weatherbrowned captain of the Amazon is at my shoulder, and he says, "What, indeed! The most of these came aboard 'yesterday evening. They came_from various parts of England in small parties _that_had-never seen_one_ another Bete ~ Yet they had not been a couple of hours on_ board, when they establish Is e 'their own police, 929 made their own r s, and set their own watches at all the hatchways. Before nine o'clock, the ship was as orderly and as iS quiet as a man-of-war!... "A stranger would be puzzled to guess the right name of these_people, Mr. UnCamere says the captain. "Indeed he would." "If you hadn't known, could you ever have supposed —?" "How could I!' I should have said they _werein_ their. Degree the pick and flower of England." "So should I," says the captain. "How many are they?" "Fight hundred in round-numbers."... EIGHT HUNDRED MORMONS. Ene te I afterwards learned that a Dispatch was sent home_by the captain before he struck "out into the wide_Atlantic, highly extolling the behavior of these Emigrants, and the perfect order and propriety of all their social arrangements. But I went on board their ship to bear testimony against. Them if they deserved it, as T fully believed they would; to my great astonishment they did not deserve it; and my predispositions and tendencies must not_affect. Me_as.. An honest witness. I went_oyer.. The Amazon's side, feeling it impossible to. Deny that, so far, some remarkable_influence.. Had. Produced a temarkable result, which better known inflsences have... Often... Missed _ (DicKENs, i a The Uncommercial Traveller, 200-211). 200-211 Cafery? YorvPLG Teste, maternal grandparents were among the more than 800 saints described by Charles Dickens on the vessel "Amazon" that left London, England, on June 4, 1863. It is traditional in the family that the ship was saved from destruction by heavy storms through the prayers of the ship's passengers. Among the many accounts of this kind, the following one concerning Harrison Burgess, a_missionary—to. England in 1850, indicates fulfilment of the Lord'spromise. That they who traveled to Zion in the 930 last days would not perish by the water: We sailed along quitc__ comfortably until the twenty-sixth of the" month (January, 1850) when a terrible storm arose. About two o'clock in the afternoon the sea_began to swell and show its power, and the vessel lay first on one side and then on the other. Water came in upon us on both sides of our ship. We lost our sails and_yard-arms, and the chains in the ngging on the ship broke. In the evening, when evervthing looked most dismal, our president called "together his counselors and all joined in prayer to theEord to cause the winds to cease. Scarcely had the brethren ceased_ their supplications when~there-was_a calm, so sudden in fact that the captain and the officers of the ship were greatly surprised, and they came and inquired of us how it was> that-we_felt so happy and gay amid the great danger through which we had just. Passed... They could not realize that the Lord removed all fear from the hearts of his faithful Saints when they were endeavoring to do their duty (Labors in the inevard, Twelfth Book of the FaithPromoting Series, Pp. 72-73). When the time comes for the saints to gather to Zion, the Lord's, power will be manifest._in. Their behalf. Land Blessed In the beginning the land was cursed (Gen. 3:17), but in the last days it is blessed for the use of the saints. (D & C 61:17.) Theco plete fulfillment of this. Reserved for the millennium' when the earth will be renewed and receive its condition -of terrestrialization and become as a _ beautiful garden, Elder George-A. Smith made€® this observation concerning the way the Lord blessed the land of Utah for his saints: 'route to Zion. Ly Awa A in wer i RELIEF scree hae nec 1962 that no mortal upon earth ever would Se covet it; but, as Colonel Fremont reported, that at the mouth of the Bear River, in the early_part of August, his thermometer stood at 29 degrees Fahrenheit, three degrees below the freézing-pomt, which would kill grain, fruit, or vegetables, our enemies said, "You Mormons may go there and welcome," chuckling to each other over what scemed to them our annihilation.... The newspapers recorded the joy, and gratification felt at the-wtter end of "Mormonism."... Notwithstanding, however, the m any drawbacks and difficulties encountered in the shape of drought, crickets, grasshoppers, and the cold, sterile climate, the Spirit of the Lord was hovering over the Great Basin. Andthe climate. Became peteere TAGE wal genial and "soft. >. & Commentary, rs page 369). 4 oung Cer) /)\w= Bkce, ane air & —) Prophetic. Utferance is Verses 24 through 29 of Section give instructions concerning the / Jcourse the saints were to travel en In the main they were to journey by land and not by these waters, the Missouri and ' Mississippi Rivers. By the spirit of ' revelation they were to be led as the \ children of Israel were led anciently \by Moses. 'page ye) | Section 61 Conctutied The Lord counseled his servants in their traveling to Cincinnati, Ohio, and beginning in Cincinnati, to be diligent in testimony. (See D & C 61:30-35.) In concluding the revelation, encouragement is given to these brethren by reminding them that they are little children who should be cheerful, for </ the Lord is with them. He has not, P °5: re 4s Finally, there comes this admonition, applicable to all saints. We-ame to this' laxd [Utah] because Ff Gird up your loins and be watchful it was so desert, deso e and God-forsaken Atal and be sober, looking forth for the comforsaken them. (Ibid., verses aie h ' Wy ~"Gird up your loins... LESSON DEPARTMENT ing of the Son of Man, for he cometh in an hour you think not. Pray always that you enter not into temptation, that you may abide the day of his coming, whether in life or in death. Even so, Amen (Ibid., verses 38-39). " is a common statement among Latterday Saints. It means "Be Prepared." For what? The coming of the Lord. What should be one means of preparation? Praying that one will 931 have the strength and courage to resist temptation. If so, the saints will surely abide the day of Jesus' coming, whether in death or in life. Questions for Discussion 1. What scriptural basis is there for the fact that the waters are cursed in the last days? Z. How may the land be blessed in the last days? 3. How does the scripture "Gird up your loins" apply to you? F ' mie —- » & tek, a ne Lhuske, ~» eo » ad ° Fd > x7 Leghtnr Lk CK er) we / Caen Ss ae —S— " \ VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 46 — "He Who Has Repented of His Sins, the Same Is Forgiven, and |, the Lord, Remember Them No More" (D & C 58:42). Christine H. Robinson For First Week, March 1963 Objective: To show how greatly we are blessed through the divine principle of repentance.. _ NE of the most gracious and generous promises that comes to us from our Father in heaven is the divine blessing of repentance coupled with forgiveness. It is a Det wonderfully encouraging and stimulating conviction to know that if we sincerely and genuinely repent of our faults, errors, and sins they will be forgiven by the great and final Judge, our Father in heaven, and "shall be as white as snow" (Isa. 1:18). Truly, this is a marvelous blessing which comes to us from the goodness of God. As the apostle Paul said, "the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance" (Romans 2:4). If it were not for this "goodness," all of us would remain forever in our sins and we would be unable to move forward toward more useful, purposeful, and effective lives. What is the meaning of true repentance? How does it lay the foundation for progress and for 932 more satisfying and useful lives? The process of repentance has been said to consist of the application of the four "R's." These are, recognition, remorse, resolve, and restitution. Certainly, the first step in true repentance consists in a genuine recognition of our faults. After recognizing our mistakes, the next step follows naturally, we must be sorry and regret them. Then comes a genuine desire and resolve to eliminate them and, finally, to make full and complete restitution. President Joseph F. Smith expressed this thought beautifully when he said:. True repentance is not only sorrow for sins, and humble penitence and contrition before God, but it involves the necessity of turning away from them, a discontinuance of all evil practices and deeds, a thorough reformation of life, a vital change from evil to good, from vice to virtue, from darkness to light. Not only so, but to make restitution, so far as is possible, for all the wrongs we have done, to pay our debts, and restore to God and man their rights — that which is due to them from us. This is true repentance, and the exercise of the will and all the powers of body and mind is demanded, to complete this glorious work of repentance; then God will accept it (Journal of Discourses. Vol. 19, page 190). According to an ancient account, a man in a far eastern country was caught stealing. As a part of his punishment a large "S" was branded on his forehead. Applying the great gift of repentance, this man overcame his sin and lived a life of virtue and service in his community. Some years later a stranger asked one of his friends the meaning of the "S" that had been burned into this man's forehead. The friend replied, "I don't really RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 know, but judging by his life, I'm sure it must stand for 'Saint.' " Every day we live there is room for repentance. Every one of us needs constantly to be cleansed by this purifying principle, for we read, "... There is not a just man upon earth, that doeth good, and sinneth not" (Eccl. 7:20). The apostle John re-emphasized this truth when he said, "If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us" (1 John 1:8). Probably one of the greatest difficulties we encounter in repenting lies in the rationalization of our socalled "little sins." Most of us have consciences that are sufficiently sharp to bring us remorse when we make big mistakes. Our "little" sins, however, such as jealousy, malice, gossip, and similar weaknesses are easy to rationalize, cover up, and forget. If we truly are going to repent, we should follow the admonition of the ancient apostles when they said to lay aside "all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all evil speakings" (I Peter 2:1) and "Put on therefore. Kindness, humbleness of mind, mecekness, longsuffering; forbearing one another, and forgiving one another" (Col. 3:12-13). Repentance has a purifying power because associated with it and as a fundamental part of it, is the glorious principle of forgiveness. As the Lord has promised in The Doctrine and Covenants, "he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more" (D & C 58:42). Milton has said that forgiveness and repentance are "the golden keys that open the palace of eternity." WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 6 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (Part II) Dr. Virginia F, Cutler For Second Meeting, March 1963 Objective: To show, that a clean, well-cared-for home enhances_its. Beauty. And-uplifts the soul. OME of the best home managers today say that they have completely given up the annual and semi-annual housecleaning and that they are now organizing their time so that they get the cleaning done as they go along, and there is never the great disruption of the household by having the entire place torn apart all at one time. Some extra jobs are worked into each week's schedule, such as washing down the bathroom walls, cleaning out the bookcases, straightening the dresser drawers, or washing some of the woodwork. In this way, the home is always in good condition, and there is no serious disruption of family activity. Two pieces of equipment that are a boon to the modern homemaker in keeping her home and its occupants clean are a vacuum cleaner and a washing machine. The vacuum picks up dirt, does the dusting, and gets the dirt out of the house instead of scattering it around, and the washing machine saves much time and energy in keeping clothes and household linens clean. Check the consumer reports in your library before making purchases of these two pieces of equipment and make sure that what you buy is best suited for your purposes. Then if you want the investment to pay off, study the instruction manuals and _ follow them exactly. Give tender, loving care to these two good servants, and they will give many years of service. Today is our day for three tell shows. Each person assigned to a show may use material from what follows and add anything else that her reading and experience dictate. Each must limit her show to five minutes. Tell Show — How to Clean Floors Since ninety-three per cent of the dirt in your home collects on the floor, regular daily, weekly, and monthly care is important to keep your home in good condition. 933 934 Daily: Sweep linoleum and tile carefully. Wipe up spots. Use roller-broom on rugs and carpets or, if there is much traffic, use vacuum cleaner. Clean spots. Weekly oi when necessary: Damp mop linoleum or tile using light suds or clear water. Vacuum rugs and carpets. Monthly or oftener: Use self-polishing wax on linoleum and tile after damp mop. Annually: Use absorbent rug cleaning powder on rugs, and vacuum, or hire a professional rug cleaner. 'Tips on using vacuum: count to six slowly as you push vacuum slowly forward and count to six slowly as you bring vacuum back. The machine will do the best work if given time to draw in dirt. Clean vacuum brushes after each use. Tell Show — How to Clean Upholstered Furniture Daily: Remove spots. Sugar spots can be removed with clear water. Grease spots can be removed with a commercial cleaner. (Test anything you do on an inconspicuous place before doing complete job.) In cleaning spots, work from outside of spot toward center. Weekly: Use vacuum upholstery attachment or brush and dust thoroughly. If cushions are made of down, do not vacuum, but fluff up and air in the sun. Turn reversible cushions. Annually: Dry scrub. Put 4% cup of pure white soap flakes and I tablespoon of ammonia into 2 cups of boiling water and let cool. Then beat vigorously with rotary egg beater until the bowl is filled with suds. With a soft brush, use some suds and work over an eight-inch square of fabric. With a soft cloth wrung lightly out of clean warm water, wipe off suds and if the fabric has a pile, smooth fabric in the direction of the pile. Continue until all the fabric has been cleaned. Try to prevent the fabric from absorbing much moisture. Dry for twenty-four hours before using. There are good commercial cleaners on the market, if you do not wish to make your own. Tell Show — How to Clean Metals Metals are the magic elements that give sparkle to a home. If they are not clean and bright, they should be hidden from sight, for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 there isn't anything which so quickly gives the status of the managerial ability of a homemaker as the condition of her metals. Daily: Wash pots and pans in sudsy water and keep aluminum bright by using a stainless steel wool soap pad. Clean copper with hot vinegar and salt. Wipe enamel surfaces of range and refrigerator; wipe and shine chromium. Weekly: Remove tarnish from tips of silver forks and spoons by dipping them into an old aluminum pan which contains 2 cups of boiling water, % teaspoon salt, and % teaspoon soda. Commercial polish takes more time, but it is recommended for more thorough all-over polishing. Use a treated silver polishing cloth to shine ornamental pieces. Polish brass by using commercial polish; let dry, tub with a soft cloth, and finish with a chamois. Lacquered brass needs only a dusting and occasional washing. Clean all parts of your range. Ammonia in the water helps. Put aluminum foil under electric burners to catch the drip and replace as needed. Ways to Make Cleaning Easy 1. Get your daily exercise as you make the best use of your body. Use your leg muscles instead of back muscles when bending and when lifting objects. Imagine that you have a third leg to sit on as you bend your knees; keep your back straight. 2. Save energy for time with your family. It takes six times as much energy to go upstairs as it takes to walk the same distance on the level; plan your trips up and down; have duplicate cleaning materials where needed. It takes three times as much energy to stand as to sit; try ironing sitting down and do as many jobs as possible while seated. 3. Use the best tools and cleaning agents for the job. Try long handled mops and brushes for floors, walls, and bathtubs; cellulose spong- | LESSON DEPARTMENT es for wipe-up jobs; carts on wheels for moving equipment and supplies; vacuum attachments for brushing walls and dusting furniture and draperies; commercial products, such as disposable dusting paper, self-polishing wax, and _ cleaning agents that require no rinsing. 4. Plan your cleaning jobs and arrange a work schedule. Spread out the hardest jobs to avoid peaks of overwork. 5. Prevent dirt from collecting. Keep walks and porches clean. Have storage space near entrance for boots and rubbers. Close off rooms not in use. 935 6. Learn something new every day about your profession as a homemaker, and be ready to change your methods if you find a better way. New acquisitions that enhance and enlarge your understanding of the world and its peoples will have deeper meaning, if you know how to care for them and if you make them a meaningful part of your family life. Questions for Discussion 1. Give some pointers about cleaning windows, murrors, and glass dishes and stem ware, 2. Relate some historical event in connection with family china, silver, or furnishings. LITERATURE e America's Literature The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 38 — Herman Melville (1819-1891) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 512-537) For Third Meeting, March 1963 Objective: To become acquainted with Melville as man and as American that we mav better understand the close relationship between his life and his writings. ERMAN Melville, born in 1819 in New York City, was reared there and in Albany, New York. His mother was Maria Gansevoort — New York City Dutch, saturated with centuries of tradition, regal and stern in money and pride. She was proud of her patriot ancestors. Her parents were conscientious members of the Dutch Reformed Church. She inherited their picty and was strict in her religious observances all her life. This religious orthodoxy left an impres- 936 sion upon young Herman though he later turned away from it. Herman worshipped his father, Allan Melville, who loved travel and was a merchant in elegant imports and fineries. During a business depression he became bankrupt before Herman was in his teens. Bravely he tried to provide for his family but he died from overwork and worry in 1832 leaving his responsibilities to his widow and eight children. 'The shock of being the beholden poor relatives in complete contrast to their former security stunned young Herman who was forced to leave school for office jobs, boarding about as a_ rural schoolteacher and finally, at eighteen, shipping as a cabin boy aboard a merchant vessel bound for Liverpool in 1837. This incident, sometimes thought of as an escape from hardship, was more romantic than real. Actually his mood was understood, and his departure planned by his widowed mother and his envious but helpful brothers who went down to New York to make the necessary arrangements. The cowardice and inhumanity of the wealthy cabin passengers aboard the vessel outraged his sense of fairness and human brotherhood. On his arrival in Liverpool, still resentful and confused at the disturbing change in his fortunes, he attempted to guide himself through the city by the map his father had used thirty years earlier, but learned after wandering through "the black spot on the river Mersey" with its abject poverty and degraded misery that "the thing that had guided the father could not guide the son." Thus young MelRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 HERMAN MELVILLE From a Painting by Goff Dowding Reproduced by Permission of Wheelwright Lithographing Company ville, in his untried innocence, fell from the security of family pride into a violent awareness of the evils of his time which became an even stronger reality, one of the great themes of American literature. Following his return home he taught school at intervals in New York. This he disliked; it did not prove congenial with the things he really wanted to do. Pioneer of the Exotic Mystic Pacific The spirit of westerning, which has been the germinal force of our American greatness and character, applied to western waters as well as to western lands. The Sandwich (now the Hawaiian) Islands. Were discovered by Captain Cook in 1778 during the American Revolu- SS LESSON DEPARTMENT ion; in 1788 the first British settlement, a penal colony, was established where Sydney, Australia, now stands. Some sixty years later Melville discovered the vast Pacific for literature when, on January 3, 1841, he shipped at New Bedford, Massachusetts, aboard the whaling ship Acushnet for the South Seas. He was twenty-three, one of 18,000 Americans seeking whales. On 735 American vessels out of goo whalers then afloat on the oceans of the world. Whaling was one of the vigorous young Nation's major industries, adventurous, lonely, rough, dangerous, but immensely profitable to the crews and ship-owners whose vessels returned, every barrel filled with precious spermaceti oil from which the best candles were made. But crew mortality was high. Composed of "the bottom-dogs of all nations and races, one-half were green hands such as Melville, and more than two-thirds deserted every voyage." If the vast west, stretching endlessly to the Pacific was huge, the Pacific which bordered these unspoiled, empty, wealthy lands was ten times more so. Optimism, expansion, desire for space, free lands and oceans, dominated young Melville as they did his countrymen. The pioneering credo known as Manifest Destiny surged strong in the impassioned young writer: God has predestinated, mankind expects, great things from our race; and _ great things we feel in our souls. The rest of the nations must soon be in our rear. We are the pioneers of the world; the advance-guard, sent on through the wilderness of untried things, to break a new path in the New World that is ours. In our youth is our strength; in our inexperience, our wisdom. At a period when 937 other nations have but lisped, our deep voice is heard afar.... And let us always remember that with ourselves, almost for the first time in the history of earth, national selfishness is unbounded _philanthropy; for we cannot do a good to America but we give alms to the world. The Acushnet was better than most ships, but when its luck changed for the worse Melville began to find conditions intolerable. Accordingly, he and one of his shipmates, "Toby" Green, deserted in a harbor of the Marquesas Islands on July 9, 1842. They sought refuge among the natives who were reputed to be ferocious cannibals. Although they held Herman a prisoner after "Toby" escaped, they were friendly and free from the economic worries of civilization. On August 9, an Australian whaler rescued him. Conditions on the new ship turned out to be even worse than on the Acushnet. When it put in at the harbor of 'Tahiti, Melville again escaped to a neighboring island. After two weeks' wandering about the island, he was picked up by a Nantucket whaler and taken to the Hawaiian Islands, May 2, 1843. Weary and homesick, he enlisted in the United States Navy for a voyage home on the frigate, United States. The voyage lasted for fourteen months. While it gave him a strong distaste for the floggings so often used in maintaining naval discipline, the ship provided him with a number of interesting companions with whom he corresponded and whom he never forgot. The crew arrived in Boston and was discharged on October 14, 1844. Early Novels In retrospect, Melville dated the beginning of his life from 1844, his 938 twenty-fifth year, when his seven years of intermittent sea-voyaging ended. Early in 1846 Typee, his first novel telling of his four-month stay among the friendly, happy cannibals of the Marquesas Islands in the South Pacific, made him famous over night. This was followed in 1847 by Omoo. The simple charms of Polynesian life detailed in Typee and Omoo created for Melville a wide audience. But Melville could not escape from seeing that the white man's entry into the great oceania brought to the hitherto peaceful islanders ruthless and violent pillaging, smallpox and_ social diseases, conflicts and frustrations within the natives' social, cultural, and religious lives, and he did not permit his readers to escape seeing these results. Mardi, published in March 1849, is also based on his South Pacific experiences but in it Melville changes his style to allegory and satire. Redburn, based on his voyage to Liverpool and published in September 1849, opposes the evils of the Liverpool slums and expresses concern over the horrible conditions in the immigrant's black hole below deck compared with the selfish comforts of the cabin passengers. In White Jacket, published in 1850, he voices his hatred of military medicine and surgical practices, constant severe floggings, and tyrannical military authoritarianism which he witnessed as a common seaman while aboard the United States. As long as such abuses were allowed to exist Melville felt our Declaration of Independence with its guarantees of "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness" was a mockery. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 These early novels brought him popularity, fame, and money, but no lasting self-esteem. In his own scornful phrase he feared being remembered only as "The author of Typee and Piddledee"; instead, he yearned to write so "true" a novel that it would not make money. Moby-Dick, published in 1851, fulfilled that dream — perhaps all too abundantly. Other novels written and published after Moby-Dick are: Pierre (1852), a study of good and evil; Israel Potter (1855; Piazza Tales (1856), which include "Benito Cereno," perhaps Melville's best short story; The Confidence Man (1857); Billy Budd (1924), a seafaring novel published after Melville's death and considered second to his masterpiece Moby-Dick. The Domesticated Author In 1844 Melville's distinguished family was delighted to have the bronzed young sailor safely home, and even more delighted with the exciting tales which he reeled off to them with animation and power. But after only two years at home, with the successes of Typee and Omoo now behind him, he had to borrow money to rent a large house in New York City in preparation for his marriage, August 4, 1847, to Elizabeth Shaw, daughter of Chief Justice Lemuel Shaw of Boston, perhaps the closest friend Herman Melville had ever had. But from the beginning of his married life Melville's family circle included his mother, his four unmarried sisters, and his brother and his bride, all for whom Melville felt full love and responsibility. Realizing how large his "family" was, it is not LESSON DEPARTMENT surprising to find Herman applying for a government position. Soon his first of four children was born. He went to England to insure best possible publishing arrangements for his books, then removed his family to "Arrowhead," a large farm just outside Pittsfield, Massachusetts, not far from Hawthorne, who became his confidant and _ literary stimulant. It was here that he wrote Moby-Dick and _ lived for thirteen years. Following the sarcastic and hostile reception accorded Moby-Dick, Melville's health beban to fail. In 1857 he sailed for the Holy Land and Europe, returning five months later restored in health and spirits. Unsuccessful in his attempts to gain consulships, Melville tried lecturing, but by 1860 he felt he was a failure in this as in all else. In 1863 he moved once more to New York City where he worked as a customs inspector for almost twenty years, and where he lived in retirement until his death in 1891. Melville's Poetry During the last thirty-five years of his life Melville wrote little except poetry. His earliest printed poetry as we know it appeared in his third novel Mardi. Although we have no evidence of earlier poetic writing, we may _ reasonably assume that he had written verses before the ones printed in Mardi. Melville's wife wrote her mother in 1859: "Herman has taken to writing poetry. You need not tell anyone, for you know how such things get around." Whatever meaning she intended to convey by this remark, it is fact that Mrs. Melville assumed the responsibility of 939 seeing through the press the volume he had prepared. Melville wished to have his poems published but feared the reaction of his readers. "The publication of a first volume... Though a matter of no moment to the world... Is still of some concern to the author," he wrote. Indeed, it was of such sensitive concern to Melville that he evaded the task of finding a publisher by taking passage for San Francisco on his brother's ship, the Meteor. Mrs. Melville, however, sought the help and opinion of Evart Duyckinck, the well-known editor of the Literaty World. His efforts were unsuccessful in securing a publisher, although he spoke favorably of the poems. 'This caused Mrs. Melville to write Mr. Duyckinck that she did not consider rejection by the publishers a true test of the merits of the writing. "I think infinitely more of your opinion of it, and feel some confidence in its worth, since it has been such a profound secret between Herman and myself for so long that I rejoice to have my own prejudice in its favor confirmed by someone in whose appreciation we can feel confidence." 'The loyalty and faith expressed in this letter are but one evidence of the devotion and encouragement which Elizabeth Shaw Melville gave to her husband during their lifetime together. The poems never appeared as planned. If he was sadly disappointed by the failure of his book to find a publisher, he tried to conceal it in the half jocular way in which he wrote his brother 'Tom, May 25, 1862, that a trunkmaker had taken the whole lot of it off his hands at ten cents a pound. He suggested if Tom were not "such a 940 devil of a ways off" he would send him a trunk lined with the stanzas as a presentation copy. He frequently referred to his poems in this depreciatory manner. When the Civil War began in 1861, Melville volunteered his services but he was rejected, even while his cousins of similar age were accepted and advanced in their military careers. However, the war moved him to affirmative action such as he had not known since Moby-Dick. In 1866 he published Battle Pieces, a collection of his poems prefaced by his fervent plea for a reconstruction policy of "doing as we would be done by," and of allowing no consideration to "tempt us to pervert the national victory into oppression for the vanquished." 'The pity and terror and irony of war he caught in such memorable examples as are found in our text, "The Portent" (page 536), "Misgivings" (page 536), "Shiloh" (page 537), and "The House-Top" (page 537). — Clarel, A Poem and Pilgrimage in the Holy Land, was written shortly after he took up his duties as Customs Inspector for the Port of New York (1865). It was inspired by his own trip to the Holy Land and was written under extreme difficulties, with nerve-shattering labor. Only with the selfless devotion of Elizabeth to sustain his spirits was he able to give it shape. It remained unpublished until 1876 when, through the generosity of his Uncle Peter Gansevoort, it was given to the public. It was completely ignored by his readers. A_ long, two-volume poem, it hopelessly bewilders the casual reader. It begins as a story of Clarel, a theological RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 student, who becomes engaged to a young Jewess, Ruth. Following her father's death, he is forbidden by Jewish custom to see her so he leaves on a pilgrimage to the Dead Sea and Bethlehem. From here the story fades away into a description of places and a record of conversations on science, faith, and problems of the modern age. When the story finally reappears with the sudden discovery of Ruth's death, the emotion it might have aroused in us is lost for we have forgotten her. And yet, students of Melville seem to ponder over this work longer than any other, for it is the key to his thought in his later years. Here "he has it out with himself," coming at last to a fixed place where "he can stand for the rest of his days." We are rewarded, however, when we come to the Epilogue which concludes on a triumphant note: Then keep thy heart, though yet but illresigned — Clarel, thy heart, the issues there but mind; That like the crocus budding through the snow — That like a swimmer rising from the deep — That like a burning secret which doth go Even from the bosom that would hoard and keep; Emerge thou mayst from the last whelm- _ ing sea, And prove that death but routs life into victory. In the last six years of his life Melville produced two other volumes of poetry, John Marr and Other Sailors (1888) and Timoleon (1891). Until he found himself anew in Billy Budd, written during the three years immediately preceding his LESSON DEPARTMENT death, Melville found his greatest creative release in poetry. Often uneven in quality, patched, and rough, nevertheless some of his works, such as "Art," and "Maldive Shark" achieve their own power to a degree not unworthy of Melville. ART In placid hours well-pleased we dream Of many a brave unbodied scheme. But form to lend, pulsed life create, What unlike things must meet and mate; A flame to melt a wind to freeze; Sad patience — joyous energies; Humility — yet pride and scorn; Instinct and study; love and hate; Audacity — reverence. These must mate And fuse with Jacob's mystic heart, To wrestle with the angel — Art. Like his friend Hawthorne, Melville knew full well the duality of life. To them the great challenge lay in condensing and unifying seeming opposites into one blending truth. While Melville did not always succeed in his poetic endeavors, the art which is the unexplicable secret of his prose is at once evident. It is necessary that we know Melville, the man, completely alive in the searing cross-currents of his time, that we might have background for a reading of Moby-Dick, which among other major forces is one of the greatest treatments of mortal pride and evil ever written. 941 A simple, subtle statement of the relation of obvious brute evil to concealed, intellectual evil is found in THE MALDIVE SHARK About the shark, phlegmatical one, Pale sot of the Maldive sea, The sleek little pilot-fish, azure and slim, How alert in attendance be. From his saw-pit of mouth, from his charnel of maw They have nothing of harm to dread, But liquidly glide on his ghastly flank Or before his Gorgonian head; Or lurk in the port of serrated teeth In white triple tiers of glittering gates, And there find a heaven when peril's abroad, An asylum in jaws of the Fates. They are friends; and friendly they guide him to prey, Yet never partake of the treat — Eyes and brains to the dotard lethargic and dull, Pale ravener of horrible meat. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Enumerate some of the experiences of Melville's early life which influenced his writings. 2. In the poem excerpts included in this lesson do you think clarity of expression was the most important characteristic? 3. What did Elizabeth Melville contribute to Melville's success as a writer? Note: Clarel is a two-volume narrative poem. Class leaders are not expected to read this poem in order to present the lesson. SOCIAL SCIENCE ¢ Divine Law and Church Government The Foundation of Church Government Lesson 5 — Application of the Law in the Dispensations of Man Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, March 1963 Objective: To help realize that divine law has operated from the beginning of time. Hear, O ye heavens, and give ear, O earth, and rejoice ye inhabitants thereof, for the Lord is God, and beside him there is no Savior. Great is his wisdom, marvelous are his ways, and the extent of his doings none can find out. His purposes fail not, neither are there any who can stay his hand. From eternity to eternity he is the same, and his years never fail (D & C 76:1-4). The works, and the designs, and the purposes of God cannot be frustrated, neither can they come to naught (D & C 3:1). Purpose in the Divine Law N the Pearl of Great Price (Moses 1) we are informed that Moses, speaking to the Lord, said, "Be merciful unto thy servant, O God, and tell me concerning this earth, and the inhabitants thereof, and also the heavens..." (verse 36). The Lord explained to Moses that the heavens and earths could not be numbered. As one passes away another comes. 'Thus there is no end to his works or his word. Then in a simple statement, the Lord gives meaning and understanding to his creation — "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (verse 39). From the discussions in previous lessons, we are aware that through divine law God has established a plan of life and salvation, the observance of which makes possible the accomplishment of his purpose. From the quotations at the begin- 942 ning of this lesson, we are informed of God's great wisdom, that his purposes fail not, and that no one can stay his hand. We are further impressed with his eternal nature and that there is no end to eternity. From this we can conclude that the purpose and plan of God in its essential points has been revealed to man from Adam to the present day. It is also evident that the divine laws directing man's activities were equally binding on the people of each period of time. The Dispensations These periods of time are often referred to as dispensations, meaning a period of time during which God has made himself known to man, establishing his Priesthood upon the earth and revealing the essential elements of the plan of life and salvation, providing for the function and operation of his Church through organization. Elder Orson F. Whitney writes that Mormonism LESSON DEPARTMENT. Stands for the Gospel itself in all the dispensations, as those periods are termed during which God, from the beginning, has spoken to man and revealed from heaven these saving principles and powers (Saturday Night Thoughts, page 96). The dispensations are usually referred to under the name of the distinguished prophet and leader of the period. Specifically they refer to the dispensations of Adam, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus Christ, and the dispensation of the fulness of times. What they are called is not so important as the fact that during each dispensation the divine law governing the destiny of man was upon the earth. That men held the Priesthood and were properly commissioned to organize The Church of Jesus Christ for the enlightenment and welfare of the human family was equally important. What Adam Taught "And thus the gospel began to be preached, from the beginning, being declared by holy angels sent forth from the presence of God, and by his own voice, and by the gift of the Holy Ghost" (Moses 5:58). The gospel includes a clear understanding of man's relationship to God, the rules governing individual development, and man's relationship to his fellow men. In other words, it is the plan of life and salvation. Adam made all things known unto his children. Thus the descendants of Adam were made aware of the teachings essential to their exaltation. The teachings Adam received may be summarized as follows: 1. That God the Eternal Father lives. Adam walked and talked with him. The Priesthood, the power to 943 act in his name, was bestowed upon Adam. "And thus all things were confirmed upon Adam, by an holy ordinance... (Moses 5:59). 2. That Jesus Christ is the Son of God and that his mission is to redeem the world. Adam was given the law of sacrifice, '"'a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, which is full of grace and truth" (Moses 5:7). Christ's action provided for the redemption of man from the fall. "And the Lord God called upon men by the Holy Ghost everywhere and commanded them that they should repent" (Moses 5:14). Eternal life is promised to those who can hear (understand) the word of the Lord and act in the light of truth. Baptism is the portal to the joy of exaltation and the presence of the Eternal Father. 3. That the Holy Ghost, a personage of spirit, is a member of the Godhead and the special witness of the Father and the Son to mankind. The Holy Ghost is a constant source of light and truth for human progress. 4. That revelation is a continual flow of the divine will to enlighten mankind. 5. An acceptance of the first and great commandment, love of God. The second is like unto it, love thy neighbor as thyself. "On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." In an effort to give man the proper concept of love and to assure its continuance, the celestial pattern of family life was given to Adam. "... It is not good that the man should be alone" (Genesis 2:18). In the teachings of love of fellow men, their general welfare was emphasized and specifically the fact that we are our broth- 944 er's keeper. Essential to the operation of love is the personal discipline of bridling desires and controlling appetites. Divine Law and Human Response Adam taught the essentials for the exaltation of his children. At the same time they were subject to the influence of evil. They had the capacity to make judgments and decisions in the exercise of their right of choice. The first apostasy occurred within Adam's time. Not all of Adam's children loved darkness more than light,. But there were those among them who were envious, selfish, and greedy. They covenanted with Satan and swore secret oaths among themselves to gain power over their fellow men. This is all symbolized in the actions of Cain which brought death, sin, and nusery to those who disregarded the divine law. There were many who followed after him. Enoch received direct revelation to assist him in calling the people to repentance. The basic teachings were the same as Adam taught, with great emphasis upon the importance of accepting the mission of Jesus Christ and being baptized in his name for the remission of sins. 'The people had become carnal, sensual, and devilish following the counsel of Satan. 'These conditions refer to the weakness of the flesh. In this condition, men are ruled by the gratification of their desires and appetites. War, a common expression of Satan's influence in the world and basically caused by greed and selfishness, was rampant in the land. Enoch's plea was to return to proper human relations with love of God the directing force in the people's lives. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 He pointed out that "naught but peace, justice, and truth is the habitation of" the throne of God (Moses 7:31). Many of Enoch's people, particularly those living in the city of Zion, believed in his teachings. "And the Lord called his people Zion, because they were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there was no poor among them (Moses 7:18). "And Enoch and all his people walked with God, and he dwelt in the midst of Zion; and it came to pass that Zion was not, for God received it up into his own bosom... (Moses 7:69). But the balance of mankind was left in their wickedness. When Noah came to his leadership, the spiritual condition of men and their behavior patterns had fallen very low. "... Noah prophesied, and taught the things of God, even as it was in the beginning" (Moses 8:16). Noah was ordained after the order of the Lord and cried repentance unto the people, but they were lifted up in their own pride. In fact they had so completely forsaken the way of the Lord that "God said unto Noah: The end of all flesh is come before me, for the earth is filled with violence, and behold I will destroy all flesh from off the earth" (Moses 8:30). Noah had the unique position of giving mankind a new start. He, with his sons and their families, was given the responsibility of peopling the earth and of establishing the basic teachings given to Adam as the directing force in human association and progress. But the descendants of Noah lost themselves in the quest for the material riches of the world. They spent themselves -in LESSON DEPARTMENT building cities, in accumulating riches, and defending their gain. Finally they attempted to defy God by building Babel and he dispersed them over the face of the earth. (See Genesis 9, 10, 11.) The dispensation of Abraham is a record of the rise of the house of Israel. Abraham, being dissatisfied with his social environment, decided to find another place of residence. He received the Priesthood and the knowledge of the fathers, and called his own generation to repentance. But they were steeped in the idolatry of the Pharaohs of Egypt and would not listen. (See Abraham 1:5.) Following the inspiration of heaven, Abraham took his family "out of the world" (the land of the Chaldeans) into the promised land. Here he established his people (who were later given the name of Israel from his grandson Jacob), whose heritage included the direct biological and Priesthood lineage from Adam and the social environment created by the application of divine law to daily living, the major theme of which is love. Famine eventually drove the house of Israel into Egypt where the Lord had prepared for their preservation through his servant Joseph. Israel prospered and grew strong in Egypt. After Joseph's death, there came leaders who "knew not Joseph" and Israel was put in bondage. 'They became slaves to the Egyptians in work and in thought. In considering the dispensation of Moses, we must be aware of the fact that the people of the world who did not follow the divine law nor Tecognize the Priesthood as_ the authority to act in the name of God now constituted the mass of manI | SACRED THREE PART | CHORUSES FOR | —__ LADIES VOICES | FORTH IN THY NAME, O | | | | I | | | I | LORD, | GO—Madsen _...... 20 | | | ae: GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED, STRENGTH—Schreiner.............30 I = HOW LOVELY ARE THY | i DWELLINGS—Liddle _. 25 |. |... JESU, JOY OF MAN'S | i DESIRING—Bach....000.... 0.2... 25 | | LET NOT YOUR SONG I; END—cain..". Soe 25 | | LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens..............20 |... LORD, GOD OF OUR | | FATHERS—Armbruster __..........25 | _—- LORD IS MY LIGHT—Allitsen...20 | 'ie LORD WE DEDICATE THIS I HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen....20 tet MY HEART EVER FAITHFUL— aBach ooo eeeceececceeeceeeeee -25 | _ | = STILL, STILL WITH THEE— { © ioe VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— | | Scott ooo... Eee eee 25 | | Music Sent on Approval | Use this advertisement as your | | order blank | | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY i 5 E. Ist South {Salt Lake City 11, Utah } Please send the music indicated 1 above.! (J On Approval [] Charge \ CO Money Enclosed! | 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah | Name oon. Cece ete ceceecereteeecenneesceereessaess Madsen..........-.-..2222-ceecceeeceeeees.22 | \ 946 Rose Parade Tour Leaves December 27 for eight days Also via San Francisco and Reno ten days Hawaiian Tours February, June, and November, 1963 Orient Tour leaves March to April Northwestern Tour in June Alaskan Tour in July Hill Cumorah Tour July-August Europe in August Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah SPECIAL CHRISTMAS PRICE only SE $19.95 =e a IT'S SO EASY... SO ECONOMICAL TO MAKE BREAD WITH THE NEW DOUBLE H BREADMASTER Here's the perfect gift for the homemaker! Just put in the ingredients, turn the crank... And in five short minutes the dough is kneaded. So economical too! 100 pounds of flour makes 140 loaves of delicious, healthful, homemade bread! Big 12-qt. Size. Lifetime aluminum, For Christmas delivery... Send $19.95 check or money order to address below. Ask for PERMAPAK's Free catalog of storage foods and survival goods. Small Flour & Cereal Grinder postpaid Deluxe Flour & Cereal Grinder $6.95 value— $14.50 value— now $4.95 now $12.50 Write for Grinder shipping information. PERMAPAK PIONEERS IN PREPAREDNESS PRODUCTS 40 E. Robert Ave., Salt Lake City 15, Utah. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 kind. The house of Israel was comparatively small, but through this small but choice group the Savior of mankind, the Son of the living God was to come. Moses and the Wilderness As a Training Ground Moses, divinely chosen and miraculously preserved for the leadership of Israel, was taken out of Egypt and trained under the direction of the Lord for the task of returning Israel to the promised land. Moses received the Priesthood from Jethro and a special commission from God himself. He led Israel from Egypt to the wilderness and for forty years trained them in the divine law. The influence of the Pharaohs was strong upon the children of Israel. The law of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth was the type of direction they understood. The Ten Commandments were to be understood in terms of daily behavior. Moses taught with patience and diligence, praying for their response in righteousness. 'The golden calf, an idol, was made while Moses talked with God. Instructions written by the finger of God on stone tablets were broken to bits when Moses saw the children of Israel worshiping the idol. 'They were not ready for the new instructions. But Moses pleaded for his people and continued to teach the law pertaining to every human relationship, the responsibility for conduct and proper recognition for the Priesthood. The people were slow to respond. Finally, God took Moses and the higher or Melchizedek Priesthood out of their midst. 'The Aaronic Priesthood was left for their official direction until the coming of Chnist. LESSON DEPARTMENT Fulfilling the Law The dispensation of Christ is referred to as the meridian of time. All the prophets from Adam on taught the mission of Jesus Christ and that he would be crucified for the sins of the world. They pointed out that faith in his atoning sacrifice is the key to the blessing of salvation and exaltation. That Jesus, the Son of God, would be born into the world was the testimony of every true prophet. He alone could overcome death and make certain the resurrection. He fulfilled the law, justified the prophets, and testified to the reality of God, the Eternal Father. His teachings graphically express the meaning of the divine law revealed to Adam. Jesus was the personification of the first great commandment, love of God, and of the second, love of fellow men. The importance of human behavior in relation to exaltation is expressed in the Beatitudes presented in the Sermon on the Mount. Christ's life is an example of the effectiveness of divine law in producing perfection in human behavior. In spite of the heralding of angels at his birth; the identification of Jesus as the Son of God as revealed by the Father at the time of Christ's baptism; his ministry of miracles; the organization and functioning of his Church upon the earth; and his Tesurrection, his chosen people did not accept him. Acceptance required faith in the fact of his divine origin. 'They could not believe. Consequently, the Priesthood and his Church were taken from the earth. 947 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 2.0.02. 35 150 to 300 miles 2.00000. 39 300 to 600 miles...........000000.. 45 @ 600 to 1000 miles oo..-ccccec 54 1000 to 1400 miles —.....00022 0..64 1400 to 1800 miles —........000000000.... 76 Over 1800 miles.......0..000..22... 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah ROSE PARADE TOUR Eight fun filled days, including San Diego; Tijuana, Mexico; Catalina Island; Los Angeles; Las Vegas. Grandstand seats at Rose Parade leaving December 26, 1962. Also another eight-day Rose Parade Tour via Reno and San _ Francisco leaving December 26. MEXICAN TOUR Leaving middle of March, 1963. Mexico City; Cholula, Pueblo, Taxco, Cuernavaca, Acapulco, Archaeological Ruins. ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 948 The Dispensation of the Fulness of Times When the boy Prophet Joseph Smith received the manifestation of God the Father and his Son, the dispensation of the fulness of times began. With the bestowal of the Priesthood and the revealing of divine law and ordinances, the correct organization of the Church of God was established. Modern revelation established the true meaning of the ancient scripture, and the plan of life and salvation, as taught by Adam, became the direction for the development and progress of moderm man. The major responsibility of the Church today is to teach the mission of Jesus Christ, his crucifixion and resurrection, to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people. In this dispensation every enlightenment, every key and power that God has given through the ages to help man fulfill his destiny and to assist in the fulfillment of the purpose of the Father in man's creation, has been restored and _ is available to assist man in his struggle to perfection. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What evidence can you give to show that the purposes of God are the same today as in Adam's day? 2. What is meant by "neither are there any who can stay his hand''? 3. What do you understand by the term "dispensation"? 4. Does the right of choice assure correct decision? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 REFERENCES D&C Sections 3, 76. Pearl of Great Price Moses, Chapters 1, 6, 7, 8 Book of Abraham New Testament Book of Revelation Chapters 5, 6, 8 Old Testament Genesis, Chapters 9-41 Exodus Plea Betty G. Spencer I ask thee, not To sweep this hurt aside, Nor smooth my path That twists, in darkened glades. But grant me strength To meet grief face to face; And faith — that I Shall walk in sunnier days. Amazing NEW! MAGNIFYING GLASS Magna-Vu rane SPECIAL CHRISTMAS GIFT FOR A LOVED ONE Helps You See Better... Leaves Hands Free To Work Unfolds so that it can be hung from the neck and be supported away from the body leaving both hands free to do dozens of tedious jobs. Small objects become larger. Folds up small enough to carry in a lady's purse or man's pocket. Comes with case. On LOOK — Many Uses It is especially good for:. Reading.. Needlepoint.. Sewing.. Removing slivers.. Crocheting. Threading needle. Price $5.00 postpaid DESERET SUPPLY 464 North 8th West Salt Lake City 16, Utah U QOuaboWn = AUDIO-VISUAL PRESENTATIONS AVAILABLE FOR RENTAL At the Relief Society General Board Office 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah VISITING TEACHING: "Toward Ideal Womanhood," Conference 1962, slides and script, featuring the life of Mary Fielding Smith, wife of Hyrum Smith, and mother of President Joseph F. Smith, exemplifying the application of the Visiting Teacher Messages........................$1.00 "Unto the Least of These," Conference 1959, a 30-minute, 16 mm color film dealing with the value of Visiting Teaching 2.2... Eee cece eee eee erence cece econo eee eeeeeeeeeeee ee$5.00 MAGAZINE: "As a Voice Speaking," Conference 1960, 35 slides and script, an historical account of the '"Woman's Exponent" and "The Relief Society Magazine"...$1.00 "The Make-Up and Mailing of 'The Relief Society Magazine'," Conference 1962, I2-slide presentation and script..........2-ccsccesceessessssssoessoessoeeseesteesseesseesteeeeeeeee$.50 SOCIAL SCIENCE: "God So Loved the World," Conference 1962, 24 slides and script on the life of the Savior, introducing the Social Science Course, "Divine Law and Church Govmannan ccc cscneceeneencnennsenseeececeentesnecesteteeceeoeeteuteneoceoeeee cscs$1.00 SECRETARIAL: (sold only) "A Record Shall Be Kept,' Conference 1961, a 25-minute color filmstrip with recorded narration, showing the importance of record keeping 2.0...$3.00 For Bazaars — Gifts — Handicratt Days— LOOKING FOR NEW IDEAS? YOU'LL FIND THEM AT ZIM'S THE BEST IN HANDICRAFT SUPPLIES — ESTABLISHED 1932 SEND FOR OUR LATEST CATALOG — FREE V Lowest Prices MARBLE "JEWELRY," PLASTIC FILM SUPPLIES V Largest Stocks AND INSTRUCTIONS, FOAM AND TOTE BAGS, V Most Variety TIER HANDLES, BASKETRY, MOSAIC SUPPLIES, V Newest Ideas DOLL AND ANIMAL FACES, COPPER TOOLING, TEXTILE PAINTS, "IRON-ON" TRANSFER PENCILS, ALL FLOWER SUPPLIES, POPSICLE STICKS —EVERYTHING IN HANDICRAFTS Wholesale to Dealers — Discounts to Groups 7 M''S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City 11, Utah 949 Christmas Gifts SEGO LILY JEWELRY: "WIST YE NOT THAT | MUST BE ABOUT MY FATHER'S BUSINESS?" Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. This book is an engaging and highly informative account of the Passover and a valuable addition to any home library. $2.00 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE: Inspirational articles, fiction, poetry, and the Relief Society educational program. $2.00 COVER FOR BINDING twelve issues of the Relief Society Magazine. $1.75 SOUVENIR RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING PLATE: Made of Old English Staffordshire Ware, with bordered pictures of the Relief Society General Presidents. $3.50 Necklaces Heavy chain, gold - filled with double gold-filled pendant. $8.75 Light chain, gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.00 Bracelet Gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.75 Pins Double gold-filled. $5.50 Gold-filled. $3.75 SMALL RELIEF SOCIETY EMBLEM PIN (12 kt. Gold) $1.75 All prices include federal tax. Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah Il Betneen the Covers of this Book is the story back of the story of Joseph Smith — The Latter-day Prophet. The man who came at the right time — in the right place — with the right message! Here is the factual basis for all of his unique claims you have been awaiting and need to know. (1962 edition.) Within this volume is a chart of YOUR PEDIGREE FOR 2200 YEARS (24 generations from Adam to Ephraim). Fhe 1" S a faal 3 = " = ial z It is prepared with approved dates and references. JAMES H. ANDERSON was one of the best students of scripture and history that the Church has ever had. He was the first secretary of the Genealogical Society of Utah. He has written about YOUR RACIAL FAMILY and birthright. THIS BEAUTIFULLY BOUND BOOK AND CHART WILL PLEASANTLY SURPRISE YOU. THE IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFT ORDER YOUR COPY NOW! (You'll Be Glad You Did) (Detach and Mail) ORDER FOR "JOSEPH SMITH and OUR DESTINY" EARL W. HARMER, PUBLISHER ee copies to me. PRICE $2.50 POSTPAID EE ( Please send C. O. D. 1177 Yale Avenue Salt Lake City 5, Utah BIRTHDAY CONGRATULATIONS Ninety-six Mrs. Axuice Ports SouLE North Little Rock, Arkansas Ninety-five Mrs. Mary Ann HeErrAN Burrie Logan, Utah Mrs. EvisaBeTH THomas SHAW Los Angeles, California Mrs. ArvILLA Harrison STORRS American Fork, Utah Mrs. AnniE RoBerts SMITH Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. ExizABeETH GOULDING STRAUSER Sullivan, Missouri Ninety-four Mrs. CATHERINE Owens DANIELS Malad, Idaho Ninety-three Mrs. Mary Rovina Norris Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Laura NiELsEN NIELSEN Logan, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Otive L. SANDERS PRITCHETT HALES Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ciara ANDERSON NIELSEN Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Atice Paxman McCune Nephi, Utah Mrs. Epitry Hi. Ton CHENEY San Leandro, California Mrs. Katy HoxipAy Cracun Smithfield, Utah Mrs. Arice JANE WorRKMAN WINEGAR Independence, Missouri Mrs. ANNIE IRENE FREE Morris YOUNG Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Lity May Munk LivincsTon Manti, Utah Mrs. Mary Goprrey HumMPHREYS Rigby, Idaho Ninety Mrs. Mary ANN Hype Mortensen Ogden, Utah Mrs. Lizziz ANN Gut MonkK Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. ANNA VANDEN KREUNINGER Bacu Ogden, Utah Mrs. Lypia JANE ALLEN Harpy Orderville, Utah Mrs. Mary ELiten Minciey PERRY Holladay, Utah Thoughts Catherine B. Bowles As we stop to ponder along the way, Are we worthy of blessings sent today, Are the skies much brighter for kind words said, Is someone happier for radiance spread? Lf so, that day has been worthwhile, For a helping hand and a word of cheer Have driven away all the doubt and fear. 952 In Time For Christmas Giving! Creasures of Life by President David O. McKay This inspiring compilation of wisdom and counsel from the pen of the Prophet, President David O. McKay, is just off the press in time for Christmas giving and reading enjoyment. From the pages of the Instructor come inspira- ' tion, stories, lessons, and the gospel message as presented by the Loid's living mouthpiece. Here is a book that every Latter-day Saint will want to read and refer to over and over again. $4.95 Behold the Lamb of God by the late President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. The late President Clark spent a lifetime in the study of Jesus and His teachings and, on several occasions, stated that he felt his life's work was testifying of the divinity of the Son of the Living God. Even after his passing, President Clark's challenge to Latter-day Saints to pattern their lives after Christ comes forcefully to life in this new compilation of addresses focusing on the Savior. Here is a perfect gift for Christmas! $3.95 2472 Washington Blvd., Ogden, Utah D 9 5 p ret i he 0 0 k (o. _ 777 South Main Street, Orange, California "0 be 44 East oon Vemple ori Late phe Utah |, oil ae 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Ba? Money order. I have account, please charge. Amount enclosed $................. For encircled. Te a) books:; ' BP icc ctu cn emits Li. Zone.... State.......... Residents of Utah include 3% Sales Tax PSOSHSSHSSSHSSHSSSESHSSHHSSHSHSHSSSSHSESHSSESHSSHHOSSHSSSOSHSSHOHSESHSSSHSHOHSEHKRSHSESESEEOBSEEEEE 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City casi Deseret Book Company Gentlemen: Enclosed please find...... Check \ Naina pntsmonnertar ain te ska Lanes es AE ALN a ee ACU eSSHA RS OLS oe TMS AL ONL 12). Oe heen Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah a we powDERED MET Weigtty One POuNG Even would-be homemakers recognize a good thing when they see it - pure U and | Sugar. It's tops for cakes and frostingsand other holiday sweet treats... In fact, it's the purest, sweetest, finest sugar you can buy for all kinds of baking, canning and candy making. U AND | SUGAR COMPANY General Offices: Salt Lake City, Utah
