en % Aves OARS 3% \ &) ip, \ THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - « - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - FirstCounselor Velma N. Simonsen - - -. - _Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Mary G. Judd a B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Moe: Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Leone O. Jacobs Josie B. Bay RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Associate Editor - General Manager Lillie C. Adams Louise W. Madsen Aleine M. Young Nellie W. Neal Mildred B. Eyring Helen W. Anderson Vesta Christine H. Robinson Alberta H. Christensen Marianne C. Sharp P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford Vol. 40 JANUARY 1953 No. 1 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES New Years Greetings Testimony Through Reading The Book of Mormon Elder John A. Widtsoe (Obituary) Matthew Gomer Joseph Fielding Smit Award Winners—Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest.... No Barren Bough—First Prize Poem Eva Willes Wangsgaard Goodbye to Her Son—Second Prize Poem Sylvia Probst Young The Greater Love—Third Prize Poem Eleanor W. Schow Biographical Sketches of Award Winners Award Winners—Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Forever After—First_ Prize Story Hazel K. Todd We Must Unite to Conquer Poliomyelitis Basil O'Connor The Value and Use of FICTION The Summer Kitchen udio-Visual Teaching Aids in Relief Society............ Leone G. Layton Mary C. Martineau Fay Tarlock A Time to Forget—Chapter 7..... GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Editorial: Gifts of Prayer Marianne C. Sharp Elder Ezra aft Benson Appointed Secretary of Agriculture In Memoriam—Isabel Barton Callister Relief Society Monument at Nauvoo Moved Notes to the Field: Relief Society Assigned Evening Meetin Bound Volumes of 1952 RELIEF SOCIETY. Of Fast Sunday in March........ MAGAZINES Award Subscriptions Presented in April Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities FEATURE FOR THE HOME Irene Burch Sutton—Woman of Many Hobbies General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Nephi's Predictions, Promises, and Instructions Leland H. Monson Visiting Teacher Messages: 'For They Who Are Not for Me Are Against |. Cae ee ae Leone O. Jacobs Work Meeting—Home Management: Kinds of Income Rhea H. Gardner Literature: Jane Austen Briant S. Jacobs Social Science: The Kingdom of God Archibald F. Bennett POETRY New Snow—Frontispiece Kindness Bailey reAlice ary 3 Ida _ Isaacson Elena Hassell Stanley Ly? Fe Contfining Bounds cE Reflection Mirla Greenwood Thayne Twelfth Night................. Margaret Evelyn Singleton PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: scriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Payable in advance. Single copy, Subscription Price: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 8-2741; Sub- $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 15bc. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, the Act of March 3, 1879. Salt Lake City, Utah, under Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Cts p The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. Mary J. Wilson Alta J. Vance a AN AMAZING MONEY-MAKING OFFER TO MAKE NEW FRIENDS FOR CHILTON GREETINGS All 3 Boxes of Famous ® hilton Greeting ards + ¢ SELL THEM TO YOUR FRIENDS IN SPARE TIME— MAKE $2.00 PROFIT Thousands Make $50 'and More With This Plan! Think of it!... There's TWO DOLLARS CASH PROFIT waiting for you in these wonderful boxes of beautiful Chilton Everyday Greeting Cards. It's a GUARANTEED profit, too.... You must make $2.00 just by showing these cards to friends and neighbors, or return them at our expense. Each year thousands of men and women are making new friends and assuring themselves of extra money through the famous Chilton "friendship plan''. The moment you see these beautiful, colorful cards you'll understand why people are so eager to buy them. There are cards for all occasions... Birthday cards, anniversary, get-well, friendship cards. Nort just ordinary cards but cards so handsome they'll be treasured through the years! | Your good sense will tell you there must be bandreds of folks in your neighborhood who'll thank you for introducing them to Chilton cards. That's why we want to send you these introductory boxes now—to prove what a warm, friendly, human experience it is to show Chilton cards! ~ FREE TRIAL OFFER... YOUR PROFITS GUARANTEED. © get you started, we make this amazing offer of all 3 boxes of cards for just $1.00. You'll earn $10, $20, $50 and more, quickly and easily—and you need no experience because as a member of the 'Chilton Family'' you get our money-making guides which explain everything. Send no money, pay nothing when your boxes arrive. Just examine these cards... Then show them to friends and Please send return them at neighbors. Unless you get an immediate profit of $2.00, return the cards at our expense and owe nothing. You don't risk a | Name......... Penny! But this offer is limited, so mail the coupon now! Address...... SIGN CARDS IN 23K GOLD! Pastel Parchments with "Golden Signature*"' New!... New!...14 life-like florals mounted on pastel-tinted parchment folders. Includes enough magic "Golden Signature" to sign each card in 23K gold! Sentiments for all occasions. Box sells for $1.25. *Prize'' All-Occasion Most sensational assortment ever! 14 gorgeous cards with novel tip-ons, shimmering underlays, lavish embossing, gold bronzing. Box sells for $1.00. Spark-l-ettes 16 miniature folders mounted on gleaming, mirror-like aluminum cards. Richly embossed with scalloped edges. For all occasions. Box Sells for $1.00....... Zone,,, State "rade Mark oe Ge oe oe eee eee CHILTON GREETINGS CO. 1812 ROSCOE ST., DEPT. RS-1, CHICAGO 13, ILL. Me the three boxes of CHILTON Everyday Greetings described above, on free approval. I may keep them and pay only $1.00 plus mailing costs or your expense, oe 1812 Roscoe St., Chicago 13, Ill. 120 KINCSTON ST., DEPT. RS-1, BOSTON 11, MASS, 120 Kingston St., Boston 11, Mass. © city, = oe = ow I From ear and Sar Thank you for the page which you devote to me(page 533, August 1952). It has brought me many new friends and many nice letters. I feel very humble about my art. If I have any talent, I thank the Lord for it and hope and pray he will give me the health and strength to develop it. Please extend to President Belle S. Spafford my congratulations for the national recognition (being elected second vicepresident of the National Council of Women) which has recently come to her. —Lillian B. Corry Cedar City, Utah To be a Relief Society Magazine agent is a great calling and honor, because anyone who does not receive the Magazine, with its lessons, ideas for homemakers, and help in many fields, denies herself, her home, and her loved ones a great material and spiritual blessing which will last a lifetime, and knowledge to carry throughout eternity. So I say God bless all Relief Society Magazine agents and all who help to give such fine materials to such a worthwhile Magazine. A perfect friend to all is The Relief Society Magazine. —Mrs. Viola Thorn Eugene, Oregon Always when a new Relief Society Magazine comes, I open it to read the poem opposite the frontispiece photograph. Always I find the beauty and the message I need, "Valleyward" (by Dorothy J. Roberts, November 1952) is indeed beautiful—so beautiful in word and concept that I truly knew a rapture "akin to pain." The talks by President Spafford and her counselors, Mrs. Sharp and Mrs. Simonsen, seemed to be given especially to meet my need at this very time ('"'As for Me and My House, We Will Serve the Lord'; "Joy Here and Hereafter'; "Let Us Magnify Our Callings and Enlarge Our Souls.") I feel I know these three lovely, beautiful, and intelligent Latter-day Saint women. —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho Page 2 I cannot tell you how sincerely I regret that, owing to some mistake, I was given credit for being the author of the poem "House of Happiness" in the November issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I did not write the poem, and I have always been sorry that I do not know the author. When I was a member of the general board I quoted it on various occasions, but I tried to be sure to say that I did not know who wrote the poem, so appropriate for women. When I wrote the lines they were given proper quotation marks. I am still interested in all phases of Relief Society work and greatly enjoy the Magazine. —Jennie Brimhall Knight Provo, Utah I have enjoyed my copies of our Magazine very much. During my tour of duty as a missionary, I have been transferred and moved a number of times without the loss of even one copy. Now I have been transferred again and will have less than three months before returning to my home in Utah. —Blanche Billings Davenport, Iowa I can't say enough about our wonderful Magazine or the glorious Relief Society organization itself. Since I was married in 1945, I have been as active as possible and have found Relief Society one of the most stabilizing and helpful aids for building a happy home life and rearing my four little ones. It's too bad every young mother cannot realize the great values Relief Society has to offer. —Laurene L. Amett Tacoma, Washington I really appreciate our wonderful Magazine. It means so much to me to have it in our home for our entire family to enjoy. I have especially liked the theology lessons. 'They are helping me to teally study The Book of Mormon and as a convert I need all the help I can get in studying this beautiful gospel of ours. —Mrs. Doris Coleman Heybum Idaho New Snow Alice Morrey Bailey A white, unwritten page of earth's bright book Is this new snow which greets the frost-blue dawn. Its pillowed banks have folded on the brooks; No skier's slanting heiroglyphs are drawn Across the mountain slope; no printed tale Is left of bird or rabbit foot, no scar is hewed Where wheels have cut a black and muddy trail. No wind has carved its testament of mood. Old paths are lost beneath a magic weight, And peace lies on the hooded trees. The slate Of time is clean. The full and weary year, With all its joy and hurt, is buried here, But soon, within the hour, in this deep white Dark pens will move, the scribes begin to write. The Cover: Deep Winter in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah Photograph by Hal Rumel Cover Design by Evan Jensen Karl K. Krogue MORAINE LAKE, BANFF NATIONAL PARK, CANADA New Year s Greetings Once again a new year dawns, and with its dawning come the hopes and dreams, the longings and aspirations which always accompany new beginnings. At the beginning of this new year, there is perhaps no deeper-seated longing in the hearts of our Latter-day Saint mothers than that distinct and unmistakable progress shall be made toward world peace. Weary of the heartache, tired of the fears, sickened by the waste of human life and resources, they pray that the spirit of God shall penetrate the hearts of the leaders of nations, causing them to put away that which is evil and impelling them to seek after righteous purposes and the well-being of our Father's children. Page 4 Upon the United States of America, a great nation, conceived in liberty, flourishing in a land of promise, has fallen the grave responsibility of leadership. Our prayers are that the leaders of this nation shall not be found wanting in righteousness; that their prayers shall ascend daily to our Heavenly Father; that divine inspiration and guidance shall attend their councils, persuade their decisions, and mark the path they pursue. This new year, Latter-day Saint mothers earnestly and sincerely pray that the children of men shall repent and exemplify in their lives the attributes of character attested by the Master to be in-harmony with the will of God. For only as individuals are righteous, can righteousness truly prevail. When the Prophet Joseph Smith was given the wonderful revelation on the organization of the Church, he was told that it was patterned after the organization that exists in the heavens. So we pray, "Thy kingdom come, thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven." To the women of the Church, God has given through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith a divine instrument, the Relief Society, through which they may work for the overthrow of evil and for the accomplishment of righteousness, for the establishment of the kingdom of God, that his will might be done in earth as it is in heaven. This new year we pray for our beloved Relief Society. Our dreams, our hopes, our desires, our aspirations for this Society are many and varied, but they all tend toward one and only one end—the end that this Society shall not be found wanting, that it shall fulfill its mission in the establishment of righteousness upon the earth among the daughters of Zion. The earnest prayer of the general board is that the new year may bring to the women of the Church throughout the world the true joy and abiding peace that come from advancing the work of the Prince of Peace, and that a strong, unwavering testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel, the key to eternal peace and happiness, may comfort, sustain, and bless each one throughout the coming year and always. Affectionately, Belle S. Spafford Marianne C. Sharp Velma N. Simonsen General Presidency Testimony Through Reading The Book of Mormon Elder Matthew Cowley Of the Council of the Twelve Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, Wednesday, othe 1, 1952] (Spoke briefly in Maori) had to greet my friends from Hawaii, and my brother here from New Zealand. I feel somewhat like the minister who had not had time to prepare his sermon during the week, and when he arose on Sunday before his congregation, he said: "Brothers and sisters, I have not had any time during the week because of my social obligations to prepare my sermon, so I will just have to stand up and let the Lord speak through me, but next week I will promise to do better." That is the position I am in today, but I know I will not do better next week, if the Lord will speak through me, and, of course, that depends entirely upon you. This business of inspiration, I think, originates with the congregation, not with the speaker. 'The prayers of the congregation should go to God, and back from God to the speaker, then back from the speaker to the congregation, so if there is no inspiration in what I say this afternoon, it is entirely your fault. It is your responsibility. I feel very humble in trying to pinch-hit for President Smith. I 'use that expression because the World Series is on now, but I know that were he here, you would receive a message which would stir you up Page 6 in your desires to study the sacred record which we know as The Book of Mormon. I believe you know him well enough to know that he would speak very strongly to you about the gospel in The Book of Mormon, about the moral standards taught in The Book of Mormon, and about the spirit of The Book of Mormon, so I trust that while I speak a few moments to you, that I may, in a very weak way, bear my testimony as he would bear it were he here. I want to say that I have never met a more kindly, more considerate, more loving man in all my life than President Joseph Fielding Smith. He is one of the most loving characters I have ever been associated with, and I trust that God will give him strength and a long life to continue his great mission here in the earth in delivering his powerful discourses to the children of Zion. This morning, in referring to the No-Liquor-Tobacco Committee, I was reminded that (it has not been published yet) the name of the Committee is the "Personal Standards Committee." We finally discovered that liquor and tobacco are not the only sins in the Church, that there are other sins just as grievous, just as damaging, as the use of tobacco and liquor. So under this new name of "Personal Standards Committee" we incorporate all vices which man is addicted to or may be addicted to. After all, this life is just one eternal round of sin and death, repentance, and forgiveness. I So you mothers here, I would urge you to be vitally interested in the program which we have under the heading of the "Personal Standards Committee." You do not know what your own lives and your own influences mean in the lives of young people, and the lives of children. I was talking the other day to one of my friends, a life-long friend, who belongs to the Alcoholics Anonymous, who was drunk for twenty-seven years, and then finally turned his life back to God. He is now active in the Church and has not had a drink for fifteen years. I asked him how he was able to overcome that habit. I asked him if it was due entirely to the program of A. A., and he said to me: 'Matt, if I had not had the fortification which came to me in my childhood from a righteous mother, I never would have been able to overcome this terrible habit. The influence of that mother in my home is what has given me the courage and the strength and the fortitude to overcome this drinking habit." HAT a tribute to a mother! Now, you sisters, you are the mothers of men, and you may not live to see the fruits of your teaching in the lives of your children. Maybe from some of your homes there will come children who have not lived as you would like them to live. You may not see them turn their lives back to God, but the day will come, if you give them the fortification in their childhood, in those years when their souls and minds are pliable, the day will come when they will have the strength, because of you, to turn their lives and their characters back to God and be influenced by him. God bless you in this great and noble work of teaching your children and the children of others the ways of righteousness, because that which you implant in youth will crop up from time to time in later life, and it may be the very influence you are wielding, of which you do not see the immediate results, that will be an anchor to the faith of these young people. As the chairman of that Committee, I wanted to get in that much, anyway, to you sisters. After all, you belong to the great sorority of saviorhood. You may not hold the Priesthood. Men are different, men have to have something given to them to make them saviors of men, but not mothers, not women. You are born with an inherent right, an inherent authority, to be the saviors of human souls. You are the cocreators with God of his children. Therefore, it is expected of you by a right divine that you be the saviors and the regenerating force in the lives of God's children here upon the earth. I would like to bear my testimony to you about the book which you are studying in the Relief Society, The Book of Mormon. I know nothing about archaeology. I have not studied the maps which apparently relate to The Book of Mormon, the travels of the Lehites, the Lamanites, and so forth. I TESTIMONY THROUGH READING THE BOOK OF MORMON 7 8 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 know very little about the outside evidences of The Book of Mormon, but I have a testimony of the divinity of this book, and that testimony has come to me from within the two covers of the book itself. To me, archaeology, and all that archaeologists discover, which may in a way prove the genuineness of the book—these discoveries are lost in the spirit of the book itself, and if you can't find a testimony within the covers of this book, there is no need to look elsewhere. HEN I was a missionary on these grounds many years ago, I followed a group of tourists around. I have forgotten who conducted the party, but I was just following. It might have been President Levi Edgar Young, and in that group was a Japanese from Harvard, who was a doctor of philosophy. I recall that at the end of the tour around the block, he went to the guide, and he said, "I have been a little disappointed in this tour." The guide said, "Why?" He said, "You have not said anything about that book which you people have." | Well, he just had not had time to talk about The Book of Mormon, and so the guide said, "If you have time I will be glad to take you into the Bureau and present you with one of these books." So they went in, and he took a Book of Mormon, he autographed it, and presented it to this Japanese doctor of philosophy, and then he started to tell him the story of the coming forth of The Book of Mormon, and this Japanese stopped him immediately. "I do not want to hear anything about the outside evidences pertaining to this book. I will read the book itself, and then I will tell you where it came from. 'Then these other stories won't mean a thing to me. If this came from God, I will find that disclosed within the book itself. If it did not come from God, no matter what story you would tell me would have no influence upon my belief or disbelief in this record. I am a Christian. I do not know where the New Testament came from, but I have read the New Testament, and after I read it, I became a follower of Christ, because in that book is the life of One who was perfect, and I caught a spirit from the New Testament which turned me from the gods of the Japanese to the God of Christiani kK We have so much collateral reading in this Church. With all due respect to those who write books, I think there is only one place where we can really get a testimony of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, a testimony of the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and that is right back to the source material—the standard works of the Church, because within these covers, the voice rings out, "God hath spoken." HESE are not the opinions of men. These are not the opinions of men as to where Lehi and his party landed, either in the Pacific or the Atlantic. These are not the conclusions of the students of archaeology, of the drawers of maps. This is the word of God himself, and so, studying The Book of Mormon, brothers and sisters, you are getting back to God himself, and my, what this book contains! Voting was referred to this morning. Brother Lee read from the Book of Mosiah, I think it was, about the voting of the people on this continent. I think that is the first record in sacred history of voting, and it occurred on this continent. We are facing an election this year. We learn from this book that man is endowed with certain rights, just as the Declaration of Independence states. We have the right to liberty, to freedom, to the pursuit of happiness. We have the right of the franchise. We are told in this book that no kings can reign upon this continent, that this must always be a continent governed under the principles of a republican form of government. We are told that this land is choice above all other lands. All of these things are contained within this sacred book. You know when this book was written, these United States were confined to just. The fringe of this great continent. Daniel Webster had said that all of this western area was worth nothing. He said he would not vote one penny of the taxes of the people of the United States to extend the then boundaries of the United States, but here in this sacred record, it set forth that this land—the whole land—was a land choice above all other lands. We must preserve it as a land choice above all other lands. God was working in that generation, not only with the Prophet Joseph Smith, in giving unto him the plates upon which this record was inscribed, but he was working upon the minds of men who were raised up for the purpose of bringing to these people of the United States, called forth from all nations of the earth, the greatest principles of freedom and liberty that have ever been vouchsafed to man. The eyes of the world since that day have been upon this land, choice above all other lands. Were we to let down the bars now against immigration, people would flock here by the millions, because they know that this is a land choice above all other lands. This is where God has made of all nations one people, and I add my request to Brother Lee's that you people use your influence to get those of voting age out to vote. OU know, the slaves never had the franchise. Before the Civil War they were not allowed to vote. We have voluntary slavery in this country because we have millions who will not go out to vote who have the right to do so. They are slaves of their own choosing, because if we do not participate in preserving this land choice above all other lands, then to that degree we are bringing back to this land, slavery. Now, it is all within the book, brothers and sisters. Christ came to this continent. Why not? God is the father of us all. Christ, when he left the other hemisphere, told his disciples, "Other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: them also I must bring.... And there shall be one fold, and one shepherd." He came. He established the Church here. He chose twelve disciples. He gave them the authority to teach the gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof. Baptism TESTIMONY THROUGH READING THE BOOK OF MORMON 9 became essential here as it had been among the Jews whom he taught. And so we have the only witness in all the world to the divinity of the Holy Bible. The evidences of archaeology are not conclusive. The discoveries of men who dig in the earth are not conclusive witnesses of the divinity of the Bible or of The Book of Mormon. But The Book of Mormon is conclusive in its testimony and witness that the Bible is the word of God, and the Bible is conclusive in its testimony that The Book of Mormon is the word of God. One as a witness for the other, and God himself said that these two records would become one in his hand. He did not say that there would only be one record, only one stick, but he said two, and that those two would become one in his hand. So the missionaries go forth with two books in their hands to proclaim the word of God, not with one. I urge you to read The Book of Mormon. I learned the Maori language, what little I know of it, not from studying the grammars of the language, but from studying The Book of Mormon, and after reading diligently and with fasting and praying, The Book of Mormon in the Maori language for eleven weeks, I stood up for fifteen minutes and bore my testimony in that language. I caught the spirit of that book and it revealed to me in a way that I cannot explain the language of those children of Israel. Later on I assisted in a new trans- 'lation of The Book of Mormon into the Maori language, and after fasting and praying, I learned what it is to translate under the inspiration and the power of God himself. Now we have with us here my good Israelite friend (Wi Pere Amaru). Iam glad he has come to speak to us Gentiles, to bring to us a message right from the heart and blood of Israel. You know, in the 63d chapter of Alma, there is a little story which tells of Hagoth who was such an exceedingly curious man that he built a boat, and he went out on the seas, and he came back. He built other boats, and then finally the boats went forth and never returned. We are told in The Book of Mormon the place where those ships were built was near a narrow neck of land. HEN I was on my first mission as a young. Boy, I used to ask the oldtimers out there, "Where did you come from?" They would say (in Maori), "We came from the place where the sweet potato grows wild, where it is not planted, does not have to be cultivated." There is only one place in all the world where the sweet potato grows wild, and that is within the environs of that narrow neck of land where Hagoth built his ships. They will tell you that they came from several degrees of distance (Maori). One degree of distance, a greater degree of distance, and then a far greater degree of distance. Then they will tell you... (spoken in Maori). The Maori scholars tell you that... (spoken in Maori) means the place where the spirits are joined. But I have a little different interpretation of that. Wairua in the Maori language means "spirit." Wairua also means "two 10 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 waters," wai meaning water, rua meaning two. In the Hawaiian language Wailua means "two waters'; in the Samoan language Vailua means "two waters." 'The word for spirit in those other languages isn't Wairua, the same as in the Moari language. The Maori scholars say that they came from a far distant place, where the spirits are joined, or where the body returns to the spirit. But I say, knowing the story of Hagoth as I do, that they came from the joining place of two waters, a narrow neck of land between two bodies of water which joins those two great continents, Now, I have said this much to give Brother Wi Pere Amaru an introduction to his own talk. I hope I have not gone too far, and I hope that you will grasp the spirit of this testimony, the testimony of these people. I have never met a Polynesian Islander yet who knew anything about archaeology. I have never met one yet who was concerned about drawing a line across the ocean on a map to show which way Lehi went and where he landed, or I have never met one yet who knows anything about any of these discoveries that man claims prove the divinity of The Book of Mormon, but I have never met a Polynesian Islander yet who ever read The Book of Mormon who did not say, "That book came from God," and it has thrilled my soul to hear non-members of the Church stand up and say, "That book came from God. That is our record." It says right in the beginning that when Lehi and his party set forth they discovered they did not have the records of their ancestors, and he sent his sons back to get those records. Ah, that is Polynesian. No native ever stands up in any kind of a gathering to give any kind of talk, political, religious, or otherwise, but what he immediately starts talking about his ancestors, "being born of goodly parents," and how they all believe they were born of goodly parents! I have met some of them who were terrible, but they claim they were good, and I guess they were. They are wonderful people, and the fastest repenters I have ever seen in all my life. They will repent every week of the same offense, and you have to forgive them every week because they are so sweet and humble, and so sincere. But behold, my brothers and sisters, one of the finest living Maoris I have ever known. He grew up in a little locality near the sea where there was no Priesthood. His grandmother, as he says, was the president of the branch. His grand-aunt was superintendent of the Sunday School, and his mother was the Relief Society teacher, and they were all rearing little children. I think they were all widows, weren't they Wi Pere Amaru? HERE they were, faithful and devoted, and there they have built up strength because of their activities in the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. His mother has come to the temple, received her endowments, and been sealed to her noble husband. He has been here before, many years ago, and received two degrees at the Brigham Young University. Now he is at the UniTESTIMONY THROUGH READING THE BOOK OF MORMON NV versity of Utah trying to win his Doctorate. He has come back with a wife and four beautiful children. You know up there at the University there are one or two instructors, I think they have already said to him, I know they said to one of our other Maori boys, "Before you leave here we will destroy your testimony in the gospel of Jesus Christ, and your belief in your Church." Do you know what they tell them? They laugh when they tell them, "You are talking to Israelites. You can teach us anything you want. We will try to pass in these ¥ * courses. We will try to get passing grades. But there is something down in here which the wisdom of man can never withdraw, and that is our faith in God, his protecting care over us, as his children scattered over thousands of miles in the Pacific." God bless you, brothers and sisters. I have taken up too much time, but I have been thinking about the Maoris, and they never think of time. They will talk all day and all night, but I will say to Wi Pere Amaru, don't talk too long. I'm tired. God bless us all, I pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. * v Kind. Ness Ida Isaacson Who has not made glad And helped another on his way Has failed his noblest impulses, His counsel to obey. Beyond Confining Bounds Elena Hassell Stanley Man moves toward a distant destiny Beyond confining bounds of time and space; At times he falters, finds he must retrace, Then probe his soul to find the cryptic key. From parchment scrolls of ancient Galilee, He garners living gems of truth and grace, As gates of darkness fall, love will replace The law of tooth and claw, to set him free. Man's wisdom is a very feeble flame; It flickers, wavers, swayed by doubt and fear, But reinforced by faith, glows brilliantly, The radiant symbol of a greater name. The road ahead emerges straight and clear Transcending space into eternity. 12 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 &lder John A. Widtsoe (January 31, 1872 - November 29,1952) President Joseph Fielding Smith Of the Council of the Twelve OET, writer, educator, scientist, teacher,- executive, diplomat, friend of the oppressed and unfortunate, missionary and special witness for Jesus Christ, all these and more, was Elder John A. Widtsoe of the Council of the Twelve. His learning did not spoil him. The man-made philosophies and theories of this modern world through which, in his school days, he had to pass, failed to destroy his faith. When the pressure of such things was upon him and doubts arose in his mind, he presented his problem to his Eternal Father and obtained the answer. In his pleadings he wrote the beautiful hymn, | } "Father: Lead Me Out of Darkness." He received the answer. He believed the teachings in the Bible. He knew that "Adam fell that men might be; and men are that they might have joy." He knew that it was "by reason of transgression" that came the fall; that Jesus Christ is the Only Begotten Son of the Father in the flesh and our Elder Brother in the spirit, and that we are the "offspring of God." He knew without any doubt that Jesus is the Christ, the Redeemer of the world and the Savior of all men who ELDER JOHN A. WIDTSOE will repent and accept his gospel, and this was Elder Widtsoe's message as a special witness for Christ to all the world. He was loyal to his brethren, his religion, and to God. Page |3 Award WY calor: Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Relief Society general board is pleased to anounce the names of the three prize winners in the 1952 Eliza R. Snow Poem contest. This contest was announced in the June 1952 issue of the Magazine, and closed September 15, 1952. The first prize of twenty-five dollars is awarded to Eva Willes Wangsgaard, Ogden, Utah, for her poem "No Barren Bough." The second prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, for her poem "Goodbye to Her Son." The third prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Eleanor W. Schow, _ Brigham City, Utah, for her poem "The Greater Love." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society general board since 1932, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader, who was born January 21, 1804, in Becket, Massachusetts, and died in Salt Lake City, Utah, December 5, 1887. | The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others, except upon written permission from the general board. The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, Page 14 paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine tate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. There were one hundred and twenty poems submitted in this year's contest, as compared with one hundred and twelve entered last year. Many of the poems submitted this year revealed beauty of thought, and nearly all of the subjects of the entries were based upon an interesting and significant theme. Entries from nineteen states, the Dominion of Canada, and Hawaii, were represented in the contest, the largest number of entries coming from Utah. The first prize winner this year has received awards many times in the Eliza R. Snow Poem contest; the second prize winner was awarded first prize last year; and the third prize winner this year places for the first time in the contest. The general board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The general board wishes, also, to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prizewinning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the general board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and biographical sketches of the prize-winning contestants, are published herewith. Prize -Winning Poems Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest EVA WILLES WANGSGAARD First Prize Poem No Barren Bough Eva Willes Wangsgaard If you were here I would not mind the whiteness That threatens path and twig... And fading hair. Your eyes were focused always on the brightness, Too full of joy to notice boughs were bare. Snow-laden limbs were only April-burdened To you who saw in them the petaled vines, And crystal pasture lands were summer-guerdoned _ While siskins threaded scarlet through the pines. Maturity should be a time for sharing The blue of vine, the gold of stem and root, For stripping branches overlate in bearing And savoring together frosted fruit. No barren bough I dread nor aging bone, But withered fruits that I must pluck alone. Page 15 Page 16 Second Prize Poem Goodbye to Her Son Sylvia Probst Young She held the boy's brown hand; his sad young face Was marked with pain, he was so young to know The weight of grief. She had no will to go And leave him there in such a lonely place. He was her son, she understood his moods, His thirst for knowledge that she, too, had known, A restless longing so much like her own; His love for quiet forest solitudes. She spoke his name; the boy beside her bed Heard the soft whispered words, "Be always kind To Sarah and your father, dear, and find Time for the Lord and love him, Abe," she said. One tallow candle glimmered on the air, And sent its yellow light up like a prayer. Could she have seen how he would walk with truth Through all his years, a leader for the right, Guiding his nation through its darkest night, Remembering the teachings of his youth, And kneeling as he knelt beside her knee, Finding the greatest strength against despair Within the peaceful realms of secret prayer, Gaining his greatness in humility. Could she have seen that President, her son, Speaking her name with heartfelt gratitude, Giving her praise for all he knew of good, She would have known her earth work was well done. She held the boy's brown hand—then night was gone, For peace came gently—gently as the dawn. 2 * i ee SYLVIA PROBST YOUNG ELEANOR W. SCHOW Third Prize Poem She Greater Love Eleanor W. Schow Where men lay down their lives for men The earth is comforted. No fen Or sodden marsh where fever lies Is left unblessed; God sanctifies The soil, makes his own blossoms grow; Dry desert winds more kindly blow. The rock becomes an altar stone Where man makes sacrifice alone; All fears and lusts are swept away; His deed has purified his clay. The stars beneath high heaven's dome Are candles in the halls of home. The opaline veil of heaven is rent, And through the rift a ray is sent To guide the. Loved returning son, His guerdon sure, his glory won. Morning stars chant of One, esteemed For vows fulfilled, and souls redeemed; And always Jesus walks again Where men lay down their lives for men. Page 17 Ms Biographical Sketches of Award Winners in the &liza R Snow Poem Contest Eva Willes Wansgaard, Ogden, Utah, is the author of four books of poetry: Singing Hearts, Down This Road, After the Blossoming, and Within the Root. Since 1934 her poems have appeared in many publications, including The Saturday Evening Post, The New York Times, The New York Herald Tribune, The Washington Post, The Washington Star, and many other magazines and newspapers of national circulation. She has won many prizes in contests which have been open to all poets of the nation —contests sponsored by the Poetry Society of Virginia, the Poetry Society of Georgia, the Poetry Society of Texas, the Poetry Society of Ohio, the Writers' Club of California, and many others. Long a contributor of poems, stories, and articles to The Relief Society Magazine, Mrs. Wangsgaard was awarded first prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1942 and 1946, and second prize in 1939 and 1947. She is a member of the Blue Quill Writers Club of Ogden and an officer in the League of Utah Writers. As an excellent critic of poetry, Mrs. Wangsgaard has served as a judge in many contests and is one of the best-known of Latter-day Saint writers. Wife of David 'Wangsgaard, Assistant Superintendent of Ogden City Schools, who died in 1946, Mrs. Wangsgaard is the mother of four children and has twelve grandchildren. Y® &* & & Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, is the wife of Reid W. Young, and the mother of four sons, ranging in age, as she says, "from a Cub Scout to a toddler." Although she is a comparatively new writer, Mrs. Young is already well known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine, who have enjoyed her stories: ""We Are So Busy," (March 1949); "That Monson Kid" (April 1950); "A Star Is Shining" (November 1950); "Polly Played for Keeps" (June 1951); "A Vacation for Mother" (July 1951); and "A Tribute to Miss Tracy" (May 1952). Her poem "Shine Softly Stars" was awarded first prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest last year. She is an active member of the League of Utah Writers. Mrs. Young writes: "I love Relief Society, and I teach the social science lessons in our ward (Gardenview) in the East Jordan Stake. I write for the joy it brings me. But if anything I have written has afforded enjoyment or happiness to anyone, I am deeply grateful." + &*-§ &©§ & Eleanor W. Schow, Brigham City, Utah, comments upon the purpose in writing her poem "The Greater Love': "Because of the deep feeling expressed by many of our mothers concerning the dangers and sorrows of the present time, and the fears in the hearts of all for the future of their loved ones, I had felt that I should be very grateful if, through my poem, others should be comforted. "I was born in Paradise, Utah, a daughter of Patriarch John Welch and Edvenia Jeppson Welch. My husband is Elmer C. Schow, and we have four sons and two daughters, and ten grandchildren. From childhood I have loved the publications of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I feel, deeply indebted to the writers whose work reached me in childhood and youth. My poems have appeared in The Relief Society Magazine, The Improvement Era, The Deseret News, The Children's Friend, The Kaleidograph, and other poetry publications, as well as in the anthologies Our Legacy and Utah Sings (Volume II)." Page 18 Award Winners Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the names of the award winners in the short story contest which was announced in the June 1952 issue of the Magazine, and which closed September 15, 1952. | The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Hazel K. Todd, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her story "Forever After." The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Mabel Harmer, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her story "Morning's at Seven." __ The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Norma Wrathall, American Fork, Utah, for her story "Marcie's Pink Taffeta." This story contest, first conducted by the Relief Society general board in 1941'as a feature of the Relief Society centennial observance, was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories are to be published consecutively in the first three issues of the Magazine for 1953.: Thirty-three manuscripts were submitted in the contest for 1952. The winner of the first prize this year has not previously received an award in the Relief Society Short Story contest; the second prize winner this year received the third prize in 1944 and first prize last year; the third prize winner placed first in 1943 and second in 1950. This contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The general board feels that the response to this opportunity will continue to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Many of the stories submitted in the 1952 contest were beautifully and professionally written. Most of the entries revealed an understanding of characterization, dialogue, and other features of story technique. The Relief Society Magazine now has a circulation of approximately 110,000. 'There are subscribers in every state in the Union, and in many foreign countries, thus providing a varied and interested group of readers. Writers, recognizing this large and appreciative audience, realize the importance of entering in the contest their very best work. The general board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the three judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-wining stories. The general board also acknowledges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee in supervising the contest. Page 19 (ne Winning Story Annual Reliof Society Short Story Contest First. Prize Story Forever After Hazel K. VERY night when we went _after the cows, I would race Pood up the hill. But dogs have more legs than boys, so Pood neatly always won. I would pull off my shoes and dangle my bare feet in the sand from the sand ledge where you could see all over the valley. Tonight, as always, | looked down across the meadow to the willows where me and Pood caught frogs. And where my dad caught frogs when he was a little boy. But I wouldn't be catching frogs much longer now, because we were going to move away from the place where I had lived all the eight years of my life, and Bertha all her ten years. And _ there wouldn't be any frogs in the city where we were going because whenever we had been there to visit Grandmother and Grandfather Nelson, the only pond I could remember was a pool in the park where you swam, and there wasn't any frogs in it. Mother said it would be wonderful to be in the city, because Bertha could take dancing lessons, and I wouldn't roam all over the hills, and she and daddy could go to concerts. She had always lived in the city until she came to Springtown to teach school and married dad. Whenever mother Page 20 Todd HAZEL K. TODD talked about her home in the city she got stars shining in her eyes. I punched holes in the dirt with my toe and watched the sand hurry to fill them up. Dad came up the path with the shovel over his shoulder. He leaned it against a tree and came over and poked me in the ribs. Then he sat down beside me and put one foot up on the ledge with his knee sticking up; so I put a foot upon the ledge, too, with my knee sticking up. "Who won the race tonight?" dad asked. FOREVER AFTER "Pood did," 1 said, and Pood wagged his stumpy tail so hard he fell over., Dad laughed at Pood and patted his shaggy head. "When I was a little boy," he said, "I used to sit here in this same place with my dog." "I'm going to have six boys," I said. Dad just said, "Oh," without acting surprised or anything. "Six boys could catch a lot of frogs," I said. "Sure could," my dad said. "When I was catching frogs I used to think I'd like to live here all my life, and let all my children grow up here." And he told me again about his grandfather and grandmother Martin that Brigham Young sent here to settle the country, and how they had to boil the bacon sacks for soup so they wouldn't starve to death. "Dad," I said, "Let's not go to the city to live. I don't like city kids. They don't have any fun. Let's stay here and raise our kids." Dad put his hand on my leg without looking at it. Then he said, "Men should try to make their wives happy, shouldn't they, son?" "Unless they're like old man Kilgrew," I said, "and don't have a wife." Dad grinned a little bit. "But you wouldn't want to be an old batch, then you couldn't have those six sons to catch frogs." Pood was licking my bare foot with his tongue, and it made me remember I'd better take care of my business I'd been thinking about. So after I took the cows 21 home I went over to old man Kilgrew's. LD man Kilgrew's house was a one-room shanty with two old wooden chairs and a homemade table. It had a black stove and-a teakettle and some pots and pans hung around on wooden pegs. Most of the time he sat out in front on a bench whittling ornaments and things out of pine knots. He had shaggy eyebrows and a little bit of hair that curled over his old plaid shirt. When Pood and me came up, old man Kilgrew didn't say anything. I sat on the stool with little curly knots all over it. "Better go take your cows home," he said, without looking up. "T did," I said. Then I thought I just as well get it over with. "Mr. Kilgrew," I said, "IT want to give Pood to you." He stopped working, then, and looked at me over the top of his glasses. "What fur?" I was afraid he wouldn't take Pood. But I thought how unhappy Pood'd be in the city, so I went on, "I don't think Pood would like to live in the city. Every time I talk to him about it he yelps just awful. He couldn't run around. Mother said he'd have to' wear a dog harness or something." Mr. Kilgrew didn't say anything. He was gluing something. He didn't even look at Pood. "He'd keep you from getting so lonesome. "Don't need no comp'ny," Mr. Kilgrew said, and I felt like I might cry, so I turned and started away. "Where you goin'?" Mr. Kilgrew asked. "Sit down!" I came back and sat down. "Didn't say I wouldn't take Pood." "You mean you will, Mr. Kilgrew?" "Now, hold on. As long as he minds his business...." "Oh, Pood'll mind his business! Oh, thanks, Mr. Kilgrew! Oh, golly!" I was so glad that Pood could stay in the valley where he had always lived that I didn't know what to do, so I turned and ran for home. After supper dad went to a scout meeting, because, like he told mother, he had to train someone else to take his place, because it was lots of work to be the scoutmaster. I couldn't wait to be twelve so I could be a scout and go with dad's scouts on the camping trips and come home smelling like campfires and all covered with dirt. Mother was clearing away the dishes, and dad went over and kissed her like he always did when he was going somewhere. They stood looking out the window across the orchard and the blackberry bushes. 6¢ ARE you sure you have a sale for the place?" mother asked.. Dad kept looking for a minute, and then he pushed the curly hair back from mother's forehead and said, "Who'll lead the choir when you're gone?" Mother just sort of shrugged her 'shoulders. "You have no need to worry about the farm," dad said then. "Lew Jones has wanted this place ever since I was a little boy. All I have to do is say the word." I sat up with a jolt. Lew Jones! That meant that old freckled-faced Snurt would live here in our house and sleep in my room and.... It made me sick. Snurt was a great big bully, and I hated him. Once he had thrown a rock at Pood and made him limp for a week. And when I'd cried and tried to wrap up Pood's foot, Snurt had laughed at me and made ugly faces by pushing his nose up between his eyes. He called me Polliwog and picked on all the little kids at school. I went upstairs and sat on my bed. I felt weak like I'd been racing Pood up the hill a dozen times. I could hear Bertha in her room, so I went in. She was all dressed up in some of mother's big dresses with lace on her head and nbbons and sashes dragging across the floor. "Do you know who's going to buy our place?" I demanded. "Nope," she said, waving her arms around like pictures of dancing girls. "It's Lew Jones!" I said, "which means that old Snurt will live right here in our house!" Bertha stopped a minute. She didn't like Snurt either. But pretty soon she just shrugged her shoulders and went flitting across the room, holding her skirt up. As I turned to go I saw Bertha's dolls sitting in rows in the window seat where she always played with them. "Old Snurt will play in the window seat. And dangle his legs out the window," I said and went to my own room. I couldn't sleep. Mother came and kissed me good night, with 22 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 FOREVER AFTER shining eyes and sweet-smelling perfume. She whispered something about living where I could have more advantages, that I didn't understand. I lay and listened to the frogs croaking down in the pond. Suddenly I sat up with a jerk that almost shook my loose tooth out. Pood! What would happen to Pood? If he stayed here with old man Kilgrew, Snurt would get him. He would throw rocks at him and kill him. I got up and sat by the French windows. I watched the moon sailing through the sky. It went very fast. I thought about Pood and Snurt and Mr. Kilgrew and the frogs. And I was all mixed up because I didn't know what I was going to do. And the moon kept going faster and faster, and pretty soon it started to run. It had legs like Snurt. It was Snurt, running and throwing rocks. And Pood was yelping and limping because one of Snurt's rocks had hit him in the leg. And then, when old Snurt was about to catch up with Pood, I screamed, even though I was a big boy and ought to know better. I jerked and bumped my head on the window sill. And then I found that I had been dreaming, and it was still the moon sailing through the sky. I got back into bed and pulled the covers over me. Dad came in, in his robe, because he'd heard me scream. So I told him I was going to give Pood to Mr. Kilgrew; then he wouldn't have to be tied up in a dog harness and live in the stufly old city. When he'd gone I went down and got Pood from the porch chair. I pulled him into the covers with me and held his fuzzy body 23 close to me. And there in bed with his wet nose against my cheek, | knew what to do, just like it was so clear as if I should have known all the time. And so me and Pood went to sleep until morning when we would get up early and take care of our business. HE sun was just coming up when we came over the hill from old man Kilgrew's, where it had really been something. The first thing 1 saw was the big, old, black Buick in front of our house and old Snurt hanging out the window. I was real angry. The idea of old Lew Jones coming here before breakfast to get our farm! I slipped into the house before Snurt saw me, and slid down on the floor behind the hall door because I could hear dad and mother and Lew Jones in the living room. Through the crack of the door I could see dad twisting his hat around like he did the time when mother wanted him to sell the sorrel colt and he didn't want to. "It would be better to go now and let the children get acquainted before school starts," mother said. "Sure," old Lew Jones said. "What's the use stalling, Martin, if you've made up your mind to leave? Take the kids and let 'em get started." That did it. I got up from behind the door and I came out with my hands clenched. "Mr. Jones," I said, "I don't need to get acquainted with any city kids because I'm not going." Mother and dad both turned and looked at me. "William!" mother said, "What are you talking about?" "Tm not going to move to the city," 1 said. "I'm going to stay and live with old man Kilgrew. He said I could." 7 Mother stared at me, and dad came over and put his arm around my shoulder without saying anything. "What a joke!" Lew Jones said. He put back his head and laughed, a big, loud laugh. And then he looked at me' through his squinty little eyes. "So you're going to live with Mr. Kilgrew?" "Yes, I am!" JI said, "and it's none of your business!" "William!" mother said, "you musn't talk that way to Mr. Jones." "Would you mind coming back tomorrow night?" dad asked Lew Jones. Lew opened his mouth like he was going to say something, but, instead, he grunted and went out the door. Then I saw Bertha standing in the kitchen door. Her eyes were all red. And there we were, all the Martin family, standing there together and all feeling as if we'd eaten something that wasn't good for us. All of a sudden, Bertha ran and buried her face in mother's skirt and cried worse than I had heard her since the spotted calf fell in the gully. Mother lifted Bertha's face and looked into her tears. "Not you, too, Bertha! You mean you don't want to go either!" AND so, before I knew what was happening, mother was going to the city where grandmother and grandfather Nelson were. She came in the morning and kissed me on the cheek. She held onto me for a long time. Then, before I could make up my mind to get my clothes on and go with her, she was gone. And, in a few minutes, I heard the car drive away out of the garage, and I knew daddy was taking her to the bus station, and I was afraid. Bertha came in, in her nightgown. "Did mother cry when she told you goodbye?" she asked. I nodded my head. I was scared. Then daddy came back, and we ate breakfast, only nobody was hungry, so I gave it all to Pood, and he couldn't eat it all. | Daddy helped Bertha with the dishes, and then he took us each by the hand and we went into the living room. Into my stories." Hazel K. Todd, Salt Lake City, Utah, is a first-time winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, although she has been represented in the Magazine by three short stories: "Sweeter Than Any Story" (April 1948); "Through the Darkness" (April 1949); "Herman and the Birthday Dinner" (April 1951). Mrs. Todd writes: "I am the wife of Francis S. Todd, a civil engineer. We have five children, including seven-year-old twins. Love very much, but usually keep on the shelf while I do something else. At present I am president of the Relief Society in my ward and teach an eighto'clock seminary class for students at Horace Mann Junior High School. I have won story-writing contests at Snow College and at the Utah State Agricultural College, and was the 1946 winner of the Deseret News Christmas story "Snow in My Heart." For some reason, children always find their way Whiting is a hobby I 24 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 FOREVER AFTER "Daddy," I said, because I was awful afraid, "mother won't ever come back, will she?" Daddy's hand was shaking. He sat down on the couch and pulled us down on each side of him. "It would be very lonesome without mother, wouldn't it?" he asked. Already I hurt all over inside, and I felt as if it had been a year since: mother had gone. "Couldn't we go and get her after awhile?" Bertha asked. "But mother doesn't want to live in Springtown," daddy said. "A long time ago I promised her that sometime, if she still wanted to, I would take her back to her home." "But, dad, you want to stay here," I said. "We are a family, and we must stick together," daddy said, "and we must keep my promise." And then I knew we must sell the farm to Lew Jones and go to mother, even Pood, because he was part of the family.: And so all day we worked. Daddy got the suitcases out of the storage closet and told us to put our clothes in first. Then he got some big boxes and told us to put our toys in. I saw Bertha get her dolls in out of the window seat. And then when I looked they were back in the window seat. Then after while she put them in again. FTER a long while the day passed, and we had boxes all over. Daddy said the moving van would take the furniture, and there were still lots of things to take care of on the farm, so we wouldn't start on the dishes yet. We went into the living room, 25 and I knew we were waiting for Lew Jones to come, and then the farm would soon be his, and the frog pond and the window seat where Bertha kept her dolls, and everything. Bertha and I stood by the window, and sure enough, pretty soon the big old Buick started up our driveway, and I thought my heart would beat my ribs out.. The car stopped. I held' my breath. And then the door opened and there stood mother. The wind had blown her hair from under her hat so that it curled around her face. Her eyes were big and shining, and she was beautiful. "Lillian!" dad stood up. Are you here?" "Because," she said, almost like she could cry, "I wanted to come home." I looked at dad and saw the light leap into his face. "It happened as I rode along in the bus," mother went on, while we stood waiting. "Passing the farm- - houses that had been our friends. I saw over the hills the camps where you had taken the boy scouts; and the chapel with the choir I had led. And—well, as we left behind all the things that had been my home, where my children were born, I suddenly knew that the things that mattered were right here "Why 'in this peaceful valley, just as much as in the city that used to be my home. Here was my family, and, like them, I wanted to live here forever!" "But, mother, Jones' Car." Mother laughed, a bright, happy that was. Lew laugh. "Yes, Billy, he picked me up. I didn't call, because I wanted it to be a surprise." A car motor started out in front. It sped up and then died away in the distance. "Lew Jones," mother said. "I told him the farm was not for sale at any price, but I guess he waited a while to be sure." I felt so full I could burst. I hugged mother's legs as I went by because dad had his arms around the rest of her. Then I bumped into Bertha on her way upstairs. "Pood!" I called, and Pood came runing to meet me. "Come on, boy, Jet's run up the hill." At the top I stopped and pulled off my shoes and let my feet dangle in the sand. The sun was just going down. I looked across the valley, over the hill toward old man Kilgrew's, and I promised Pood we'd go over in the morning and tell Mr. Kilgrew we were not going to live with him. I looked at the willows where the frog pond was and thought of the six boys I was going to have, and I would raise them here in the valley and we would live here forever after. Nie We Must Unite to Conquer Poliomyelitis Basil O'Connor President, The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis DYOLIO incidence is getting worse in about the same proportion that March of Dimes research is getting better. Polio played a game of numbers with human lives in 1952. In its most savage attack of all time, the disease swept down upon the nation and made statistics of people. Week after week, in countless communities, public interest was focused grimly upon numbers—the significant numbers which, summed up in cold, simple terms, tell the full extent of polio's ravages. While scientists this year were discovering that gamma globulin provides marked, if temporary, protection against paralytic polio, the disease claimed more than 50,000 victims in an outburst as perverse as it was unprecedented. The nation is in a tug-of-war with polio, and the help of every American is urgently needed if this crippling disease is ever to be banished from our environment. As polio casts its shadow over its potential victims of 1953, the need for a quick knockout blow grows in significance. That punch will take a tremendous amount of March of Dimes funds. You can bolster the 1953 March of Dimes campaign by giving it your individual support and, by urging every organization to which you belong to unite in support of the campaign—and thereby join in what may well "be polio's last stand. _ We hope that you will be able to lend your strength to the winning of this war against the only epidemic disease still on the increase in America. 26 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 She Value and Use of Audio-Visual Teaching Aids in Reliof Society Leone G. Layton Member, Relief Society General Board HE objective of every Relief Society class leader is to convey to her class members ideas, knowledge, and basic information of the lesson in the time allotted to her. It is her earnest desire that learning will take place that the purpose of her hours of preparation will be accomplished. She, therefore, welcomes a teaching aid which will add to the effective presentation of her lessons. Learning is experience centered. The more vital the sensory experiences that are provided in the lesson presentation, the easier it will be for class members to learn. To see as well as hear helps us feel more completely the reality of the experience shared through lesson subject matter. The Master Teacher shows us the value of appeal to the eye as well as the ear:... Bring me a penny, that I may see it. And they brought it. And he saith unto them, Whose is this image and superscription? And they said unto him, Caesar's. And Jesus answering said unto them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's and to God the things that are God's. And they marvelled at him (Mark 12:15-17). Well might they marvel. When was a message more simple or more forceful? When was a visual aid used more effectively? Values of Audio-Visual Aids There are many audio-visual aids which we may use today. Books, still pictures, motion pictures, film strips, maps, posters, graphs, charts, blackboard chalk illustrations, records, and many others are readily available. But before we can make effective use of them we must understand some of their teaching values. They save words and so save time. They stimulate interest. They focus attention. They supply concrete material. They give correct impressions. They aid in retention. They help recall experiences. They substitute for real experience. They provide emphasis. They enrich and clarify. Oe) oS However, as you study their values, you also become aware of possible dangers in their use. For example, if a picture shown does not apply specifically to the lesson and must be explained, neither words nor time are saved. It is true that interest will have been stimulated; attention will have been focused; the class may remember the incident; but the lesson certainly will not have been clarified and a correct impression will not have been left by the use of the aid. Selection of Teaching Aids Our selection of teaching aids must be carefully made. Relief Society is a Church auxiliary, and every picture, chart, graph, map, or Page 27 book used, must teach truth in such a manner as to forward Relief Society and Church objectives. We must be sure that the aid we plan to use: 1, Will have direct relationship to lesson subject matter. Z. Will supplement and enrich lesson subject matter. 3. Will have definite and apparent place in lesson presentation. 4. Will forward lesson objective. 5. Will be suitable for Relief Society members. If the chart or picture has no direct relationship to the lesson, it will distract from the smooth, wellintegrated unfoldment of the lesson material and will serve no real teaching purpose. Relief Society members are women of broad and varied experiences. An abstraction or generalization attains a richness of meaning only to the extent that concrete experience is wide and varied; also the value of visual aids depends upon the nature and extent of the person's previous experience. It follows, then, that visual aids prepared for a child's level of experience would not be suited for use in teaching an adult level. Cautions in Choosing Teaching Aids: We must not use: 1. Too much material for one lesson. When you find it hard to discard an interesting picture and are tempted to use too much material, think how the effectiveness of the lesson of the coin would have been lessened by elaboration. 2. Material unsuited to the teaching facilities. You must suit the amount of material you plan to put on a blackboard to the size of the blackboard that is available. - Light projected pictures demand a room that can be darkened and a source of power for the light. 3. Material poor in quality. A picture that is poor in quality, and detracts from the ideal, does not add to lesson quality, such as a line drawing of a Book of Mormon character prepared for children. 4. Inaccurate or confusing material. Any map used must be accurate, with the placements on it correct. Latter-day Saints do not show angels as having wings. Charts that are not simple and definite may confuse rather than clarify. 5. Material not well integrated. If you have a real reason for using a record, picture, chart, or book, you will have no difficulty integrating it in your lesson plan. It will fit as does the right piece in a puzzle and will forward your objective by its use. Ten Ways Pictures Aid in Teaching While all audio-visual aids have a certain common value, each one has a certain definite service it can render. For example, pictures serve in ten ways. A well-chosen picture may capture attention and at the same time introduce a lesson, arouse interest, curiosity, and suspense, and thus stimulate thinking about the lesson. Pictures definitely increase understanding. "You will have to draw me a picture" has become a catch phrase to let a person know you do not understand his explanation. We can read about a place or hear it described, yet find that when shown a picture of it, the thousand 28 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 words have not made us _ understand as one picture does. Through arousing interest and aiding to a more complete understanding, pictures stimulate the desire of the members to tell the class about their experience, or ask questions, and so they promote class participation. Pictures create mood. They can arouse in us definite feelings of response. Literature leaders will be able to use this to advantage in the lessons on poetry. To be able to create the mood of the poet's word picture will aid in an appreciation of a poem, as a stage set does a play. Pictures aid memory. They help us re-live experiences. One picture can serve as a quick review of an entire lesson, and thus accelerate learning. We never become too old to ap- -preciate a book containing pictures. They enrich reading, they stimulate the imagination, and help us go beyond the mere words of the text. Use of Pictures in Literature Lessons "Imagination is the soul of poetry," Coleridge says. The right picture may stimulate our imagination and add to our enjoyment of a poem. In the lesson on Shelley, "My soul is an enchanted boat, which like a sleeping swan doth float," or "deep autumnal tones" or "drive my dead thoughts like withered leaves," call for pictures which will help us imagine the mood and beauty of the lines. Pictures of the countryside the authors knew and loved, help us re-create the experiences they had. The rugged highlands to Scott typify the stark courage of Jeannie Deans and her rugged honesty which provide the theme for "The Heart of Midlothian." We follow her by map and picture on her journey from Edinburgh to London to see the queen. Fortunately for us, another woman took that same walk, and we have pictures and a map illustrating it in the National Geographic Magazine of August 1950. Teaching Helps for Theology At the present time there are no pictures illustrating the Book of Mormon which can be purchased, and so for help in these lessons we must look to other teaching aids. The blackboard is the common medium of visual instruction, and is readily available. Its use also encourages attention, adds interest, and brings active class participation. The class leader can list, describe, or sketch ideas as the occasion demands. This season both our theology and social science courses have lessons that are doctrinal in nature. Doctrine does not lend itself to visual présentation; however, there are many concrete and _ factual things in the lessons which may be illustrated on a blackboard to aid in understanding, to clarify, to add emphasis, and to help us remember. In lesson 13 of the theology course, "Separation into Nephites and Lamanites," we could list the differences between the Nephites and the Lamanites. We could write THE VALUE AND USE OF AUDIO-VISUAL TEACHING AIDS 29 down the answers given by class members in answer to the question, "What industries did Nephi encourage among his people?" 'The principles of progress applicable to our nation which are found in the development of the Nephite civilization, might be written on the board. 'Aids for Social Science The social science lesson 8, "Modern Trends in Government," has some factual material in it which could add interest and make the lesson more forceful, if listed. The abundant knowledge which has been given in specific fields, the agencies being debased today, the signs of warning we have been given already, will all provide lesson emphasis if placed before us by the class leader. Collecting Teaching Aids for Future Lessons As soon as your Relief Society Magazine comes, read over the lesson, and become aware of the possibilities contained in the lesson for audio-visual aids. It will be sur- ' prising to you how many ideas come to you for lesson enrichment. You may start to collect aids for future lessons, as well. Many magazines are a fruitful source for tear Sheets (pages torn from a magazine or book). The magazines of the past year have had a wealth of good material on the early history of the United States Government, the Constitution, and reproductions of historical documents. These are always valuable, so look over your magazines carefully before you discard them, and start a file of good tear sheets. Use of Hectograph and Opaque Projector When simple line drawings are needed for a lesson presentation, it is possible to reproduce them © with a hectograph. A hectograph helps us prepare study sheets in quantity when we wish to give excerpts to all members of our class. Hectographs can be obtained from any good school supply house or you may make your own. To display pictures that are too small to be seen by all the class, or that you do not wish to remove from a book, an opaque projector can be used. 'These can be made quite inexpensively and are very simple to use. Directions for making your own may be found in the New Home Workshop Encyclopedia, Popular Science Publishing Company, page 439. The Sunday School in your ward may own both an opaque projector and a hectograph. Directions for making both were given in the Sunday School Visual Aids Clinic held in connection with the Sunday School general conference of 1952. You can trace the enlarged drawing or map from the projection or use the projection if facilities are available. In conclusion, we would urge you to recognize the value of teaching aids; study how to use them purposefully; and remember always that audio-visual aids are valuable only as they aid in teaching the teality of the lesson quickly and effectively. - 30 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 Wayne Davis BIG LAKE, ARIZONA e® © Ff & Reflection Mirla Greenwood Thayne How constant stands the stately evergreen; Steadfast amid the change of sun and sod, She holds her destiny in gnarled roots And lifts her pinioned fingers up to God. When autumn paints the oak a lavish hue, And aspens barter green for burnished gold,, Then winter wields his scythe of icy blue And leaves the forest shivering and cold. Still placid stand the gallant fir and pine, Accepting winter's mantle in a storm As age receives the silver crown of time, To stand undaunted, in majestic form. Yet many a man whose strength could fell a tree, Caught in life's storms, knows less of constancy. Page 31 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1893 "FoR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL Nations" WOMAN'S WORK ON THE SANDWICH ISLANDS:... After bidding goodbye to those who had assisted us (in Maimea) we mounted our horses for a twenty five mile ride to Halaua in the North Kohala District. Riding horseback through pleasant scenery to one accustomed to horses might seem a pleasure trip, but to one who is not it becomes a very arduous task. The scenery, most of the way, is very barren and rocky. At 6 o'clock we arrived at Halaua tired and exhausted from our long ride Thursday, with horses for only half our company, we started out for Honokani.... I can imagine some of our dear friends at home would have enjoyed seeing us on those little donkeys wending our zigzag way down the almost perpendicular face of the mountains.... The R. S. Organization at Honokani is a lively one, awake to their duties and is managed as satisfactorily as any with which we have met, the sweet singing, by the young members of the Society as interspersed through the meeting, was a very pleasing feature....—E. D. N. - HAIL THE GLAD NEW YEAR: No doubt many good resolutions have been made and will be kept, and it is always good to try even though one may sometimes fall short of the standard of excellence which he or she may desire to reach.... While we may realize that many things have been neglected in the past year and mistakes made, new resolves will be formed that in their earnestness and favor will help those upward and onward that diligently seek to do good and assist in the perfecting and uplifting of humanity, and the preparation for the great day of the Millenium. —Editorial WOMAN First to greet lovingly man at his birth, Last to forsake him when dying, First to make sunshine around his hearth, Last to lose heart and cease trying.... Last at the cross of her crucified Lord, First to behold him when risen, First to proclaim him to life restored, Bursting from death's gloomy prison. —Lu Dalton INTERESTING NEWS FROM CANADA: The Relief Society having no outside branches have made their annual meeting the occasion of general reports and an assembling of outside ranching members. The last meeting was gratifying in all re spects... A lunch stand dispensed the good things of life... A neat sum of cash was handed over as the result. In the evening an excellent program was rendered. Music by the brass band, solos on the violin and organ, recitations, songs and speeches, with some fine step dancing.... As there are no poor here who depend on the society, the means gathered is spent in caring for the occasional needs of sickness or accident, and all public enterprises. From Cardston, Alberta, January 2, 1893. NOTES AND NEWS: A St. Louis woman has recently perfected a singular invention. She has applied for a patent to cover the process of making ''sweet potato flour." The processes are those of peeling the potato and kiln drying the peel.... Of drying and grinding the potato into three distinct grades of flour. Page 32 ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, and Counselor Velma N. Simonsen attended a three-day convention of the National Council of Women in New York City in October 1952. Mrs. Spafford, who has served as third vice-president for three years, was elected second vice-president. She conducted one of the general sessions, and in a morning business meeting, presented the annual report of the activities of Relief Society. 'AMY BROWN LYMAN, former general president of Relief Society, was especially honored at this convention in a tribute read by Anita Pollitzer, which extolled Mrs. Lyman's service as a pioneer worker in the organization and as a distinguished leader of women, particularly in the field of social work. MB:. VIRGINIA BORRISON of Tarentum, Pennsylvania, rode in an ambulance to the polls to vote in November 1952, six hours after the birth of a baby. REPRESENTATIVE Frances P. Bolton, Republican, was reelected to a seventh term in Ohio's twenty-second district. Her son Oliver was elected representative in the eleventh district, Ohio, for a first term. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon VY BAKER PRIEST (Mrs. Roy Priest) Bountiful, Utah, who directed the activities of the women's division of the National Republican Committee during the recent election campaign, has been appointed Treasurer of the United States by President-elect Eisenhower, to succeed Georgia Neese Clark, present incumbent. Mrs. Priest, a Latter-day Saint woman and mother of three children, has long been active in educational, political, and community affairs. In commenting upon her appointment, Mrs. Priest remarked: "General Eisenhower has given women a representative voice in the financial housekeeping of the Government." VETA CULP HOBBY, wife of former Texas Governor William Pettus Hobby, has been named administrator of the Federal Security Agency by President-elect Eisenhower. Former wartime head of the Women's Army Corps, Mrs. Hobby. With her husband, is editor and publisher of the Houston Post. ONGRATULATIONS to Mr. And Mrs. R. H. Eardley of Salt Lake City, who recently celebrated their sixty-fifth wedding anniversary, and to Mr. And Mrs. Joseph Watkins of Brigham City, Utah, who have been married seventy-one years. Page 33 OQ EDITORIAL mS VOL. 40 JANUARY 1953 Gifts of Prayer If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him? — (Matt. 7:11) S the new year begins, good gifts await the righteous individual who, with a living faith in his Heavenly Father and a knowledge of his commandments, seeks the desires of his heart in fervent prayer. He who thus prays is sustained in sorrow and "good things" are given him of the Father throughout the year. The scriptures are replete with admonitions of the necessity for prayer and the sure promise of an answer. "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (Matthew 7:7), reiterated the Savior. One is commanded to pray always. The love of a mother has been termed the nearest thing on earth to God's love. Her love is such that she sorrows at waywardness in a child and maintains a constant vigil and watchcare over him, pouring out loving kindnesses day and night. All the spiritual guidance she can bestow and the material gifts she considers wise, she gives to her child. The Father's love is infinite. He has wept over the wickedness of the children, the workmanship of his hands, who are without affection for him, to whom they owe their ~ Page 34 knowledge and their agency. Yet he holds out to the least worthy the divine gift of repentance, and there is joy in heaven over the sinner that repents. To a faithful son he has promised, "Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine" (Luke 15:31). The Father will give his children the greatest gifts if they seek them and ask him. Whether one kneels alone to pray aloud and plead with the Lord or sends up a silent cry. Among men, the Father is close at hand to heed the prayer. However, the Savior has set forth certain requirements for the answering of prayers, for the bestowal of good gifts. What things soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them. And when ye stand praying, forgive if ye have ought against. Any: that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses (Mark 11:24-25). One is counseled to forgive and believe. Heavenly Father is perfect. He is loving and merciful; he is likewise just, omniscient, and omnipotent. In approaching him in prayer, David was led to exclaim: When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained: What is man, EDITORIAL that thou art mindful of him? And the son of man that thou visitest him? (Ps. 8:3-4) In family prayer when a young couple kneels, at first alone and then, as the years pass, joined by their children, the proper language of prayer should be used. President Stephen L Richards has given this - admonition: 35 learns to pray, almost from infancy. There, first, he may be taught not only to pray in love, expecting an answer to his prayer, but also that the prayer should be couched in respectful and reverential words. The language of the sacred writings is the pattern to be followed in addressing Deity, thou and not you. Through prayer, the knowledge of the Father grows and increases within one. As the Savior said, "The Father hath not left me alone" (John 8:29), neither need any of his children on earth be left alone, but they may go to him in prayer always and receive "good things," eternal gifts. —M. C. S. It always seems disappointing to me to have our Father in heaven addressed as "you." I think you might make note of it and avail yourselves of all opportunities that may come in order to teach the sacred and reverential language of prayer. In a Latter-day Saint home it is at a mothers knee that a child y+ © & & Elder &zra Saft Benson Appointed Secretary of Agriculture LDER Ezra Taft Benson of the Council of the Twelve has been appointed Secretary of Agriculture in the cabinet of President-elect Dwight D. Eisenhower. Elder Benson was born in 1899 of pioneer forebears who were among the first settlers in the farming community of Whitney, two and one-half miles east of Preston, Idaho. The eldest of eleven sons and daughters, he was educated at Oneida Stake Academy, Utah State Agricultural College, Brigham Young University, and Iowa State College. He and his wife, Flora Amussen, whom he married in the Salt Lake Temple in 1926, are the parents of two sons and four daughters. Elder Benson is the first clergyman in a century to be appointed to membership in the cabinet of the United States. A devoted defender of the Constitution of the United States, Elder Benson has expressed his belief in the American system of Government: "With all its weaknesses, our free enterprise system has accomplished in terms of human welfare that which no other economic or social system has ever approached." The general board and members of Relief Society throughout the stakes and missions of the Church congratulate Elder Benson on this signal honor which has come to him, and extend best wishes for happiness and success in his new work. May the blessings and guardianship of our Heavenly Father be with him. 36 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 _ Yn Memoriam — Gsabel Barton Callister [SABEL Barton Callister, a former member of the Relief Society general board, died November 13, 1952. High tributes were paid to her beautiful and outstanding character at her funeral services on November 17, 1952, by President Belle S. Spafford, President Richard L. Evans, and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. One speaker characterized her outstanding attribute as courage, for in the five years since her health forced her to resign from the general board, she has courageously faced her situation, and though many months have been spent in bed, she always looked to the future with cheerfulness and hope. Because of her deep faith and knowledge of the gospel, she was unfaltering in her trust in the Lord and in the life hereafter. Her fine intellect was enhanced by sweetness and charity. Sister Callister will be recalled by the Relief Society sisters of the stakes in which she conducted Relief Society conventions a few years ago. She will be remembered with love and appreciation by her fellow workers on the board where she gave unreservedly of her great capabilities to every assignment. Isabel Barton Callister leaves her devoted husband, Louis H., a son Louis Jr., and a daughter Sharee. To them and to her mother Sarah Armstrong Barton, who has cared for her with great faith, tenderly, and untiringly, the general board of the Relief Society and Relief Society members everywhere tender their heartfelt sympathy. Relief Society Monument at Nauvoo Moved HE monument erected in 1933 by Relief Society to mark the site of the Joseph Smith Store in Nauvoo, where Relief Society was organized. By the Prophet Joseph Smith, March 17, 1842, was moved on August 7, 1952, at the request of the Reorganized Church, owners of the property. Under the direction of the First Presidency, the monument has now been placed in a beautiful location on the Nauvoo Temple Block. It is a short distance south of the Bureau of Information at the front of the Temple Block, looking toward the Mississippi River. Notes v0 THE FIELD Relief Society Assigned Evening Meeting of Fast Sunday in Mlarch HE Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day, March 1, 1953, has been assigned by the First Presidency for use by the Relief Society. Suggestive plans for this evening meeting have been prepared by the general board and sent to the stakes in bulletin form. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents confer with their bishops immediately to arrange for this meeting. Music for the Singing Mothers should be ordered at once. > Bound Volumes of 1952 Relief | Society Magazines RELIEF Society officers and members who wish to have their 1952 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through the office of the general board, 40 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.25, including the index. If the leather binding is preferred the cost is $3.25. If bound volumes are requested and the Magazines for binding are not supplied by the person making the request, the charge for furnishing the Magazine will be $1.50, which will be added to the cost of binding, thus making the total cost for cloth-bound volumes $3.75, and for leatherbound volumes $4.75. Only a limited number of Magazines are available for binding. It is suggested that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1952 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. Award Subscriptions Presented in April HE award subscriptions presented to Magazine representatives for having obtained 75 per cent or more subscriptions to the Magazine in relation to their enrolled Relief Society members, are not awarded until after the stake Magazine representatives' annual reports have been audited. Award cards for these subscriptions for the year 1952 will be mailed to ward and stake Magazine representatives about April 1, 1953. Page 37 Gene Burch Sutton —= Woman af Mlany Hobbies id would be difficult for Mrs. Irene Burch Sutton, of Oakley, Idaho, to tell which of her hobbies is most important in her life, or which gives most pleasure to her and to her friends and family. She is particularly skilled in crocheting, and her many exquisite and intricate designs reveal a keen sense of artistry and color harmony. Mrs. Sutton does many other types of handwork, as well as making decorative artificial flowers and many types of novelty gifts. Music has long given Mrs. Sutton much personal pleasure, and she has been most generous with her talent, having served as ward organist for many years and as piano accompanist. She plays the harmonica and accordion, and has made many dances merry with her music. She has sung alto in choruses since her early youth, and particularly enjoys singing the hymns of the Latter-day Saints. Her Church service has included many years of Sunday School teaching and secretarial work, and forty-eight years as a Primary teacher and officer. In Relief Society she has served in many capacities—counselor, organist, visiting teacher for thirty-five years, and at present she is Magazine representative, having achieved a one hundred per cent record during her three years of service. However, the many hobbies and talents of Mrs. Sutton are not of greatest importance in her life. She keeps a lovely home and yard, assists her husband in his work on the farm, and maintains much interest in the families of her own three children and two adopted children. Page 38 The Summer Kitchen Mary C. Martineau ALLY Anne didn't have to cook over a fireplace. No, indeed! Sally Anne had a cookstove, and her cookstove was her pride and joy. She kept it polished a shiny black and the fire glowing cozily. On the front door of the stove above the grating it said Home Comfort, and on the oven door it said Marvel. In the summertime Anne burned dry chips in her stove, and in the wintertime she burned thick sticks of pine and mahogany wood brought down from Logan canyon by her husband John, with his team, old Duke and Baldy, hitched to the running gears of his wagon. John was a man a little over medium height, and he had wavy light brown hair and merry blue eyes. Sally Anne's hair and eyes were dark, and she was as slender and lithe as a willow. Now Sally Anne wanted a summer kitchen. She was bound and determined to have one. You perhaps know what a summer home is, even if you have to live in your home the year round. But you cannot know what a summer kitchen is unless you are about my age and remember when they were in style. All Sally Anne's neighbors had summer kitchens. Reeses' had one built out at the side of their house, connected to the back porch by a little runway. Jorgenson's summer kitchen didn't fasten on to their house at all, but stood clear away from it, and some planks were laid down from the back steps of the house to it, for Mrs. Jorgenson and the family to walk on (especially handy in rainy weather). Davis' summer kitchen was much on the same order, except no planks. And so I could go on and on from farmhouse to farmhouse all up and down the river in Jonesville, proving that Sally Anne's neighbors nearly all had summer kitchens. But all that doesn't say what a summer kitchen was. Well, it was a place to put the kitchen stove in the summer and not "heat up the whole house," as Sally Anne put it. One hot summer day while Sally Anne was cooking dinner, the kitchen (which was kitchen and dining room combined), kept getting hotter and hotter. The bread was baking in the oven, and kettles of vegetables were boiling on top of the stove. The meat for dinner was frying, and so was Sally Anne. The children were all out playing in the swing under the trees, and the "men folks" (John and the big boys) were up in the meadow hauling hay. Sally Anne was alone in the hot kitchen. She leaned over the woodbox to get another stick of wood to put in the stove, thinking to herself, I feel like putting the stove out instead of putting this wood in! But she put the wood in—she had to or the bread and the dinner would have been. Ruined. She wouldn't cook supper that evening. She simply fed the fam ily something cold. There were no warmed up potatoes with fresh gravy; no rice pudding or pie. There wasn't anything but the bread that had finally cooled, freshly churned Page 39 40 7 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 butter, green onions and _ lettuce from the garden, and milk to drink. She was on strike for a summer kitchen. ARLY the next morning Sally Anne said, "John, I want you to help me put this stove out under the trees." John looked at her with apprehension. He was older than she and could never quite figure out what she'd be thinking of next. But he loved her—remember that—he loved her. She seemed amiable, and he was anxious to get out to the field, so he took hold of one side of the stove while she held to the other side. They carried the cookstove outside and put it under the trees in front of the house. She'd rather have had it around at the back, but when ethe kitchen was built they hadn't bothered to cut a door or window on that side., John grumbled a little—just a littlek—when he scraped his knuckles on the door frame, as they were trying to get the stove through the doorway. But when he pinched his fingers, putting the stovepipe up, he said quite a few things. Sally Anne, pleased at getting her own way for once without argument, said nothing. But her dark eyes rebuked him. John picked up a scythe and proceeded to the lucerne patch; Sally Anne prepared breakfast. She made mush in the kettle, black on the outside, white on the inside, and round on the bottom. But it stood solidly on three tiny legs. The children were all up by now. The big boys went to help with the morning chores, but the younger ones brought the woodbox out and stood it behind the stove. Nothing else was brought out of the house, not a thing, only the stove, with its heat and discomfort. Soon the little waves of heat went joyfully up to heaven where the winds blow free. It was such fun to have the stove out. Now the kitchen was cool and pleasant when the family gathered around the table happily at dinnertime. Sally Anne's dinner was a masterpiece. 'The creamed vegetables, the delicious ham, the hot rolls, and the fresh apple pie were enough to heal any man's fingers and cheer his soul. John smiled in hearty approval at his ambitious, sweet wife, making his blue eyes twinkle merrily, and his voice was like a caress. All was harmony. The seven children laughed and talked joyously. Under the circumstances, Sally Anne wouldn't have owned for the world that her legs were aching from the countless trips she had made between the kitchen and the stove. © As the summer wore on, Sally Anne found the outdoor stove very handy when it came time for corn drying. Two fifty-pound sacks, the results of her labors, were nearly full, when something happened— it rained! It rusted the stove, Sally Anne's precious stove. She'd just have to have a summer kitchen! As Sally Anne rubbed the rust off with a rag dipped in vinegar, she was more sure than ever that she wanted a summer kitchen. The last straw to try Sally Anne's patience was when Lucy stepped on the hot stove lid. The lid, which had been taken off in order to put THE SUMMER KITCHEN one of the big black kettles next to the fire, had been put on the ground back of the stove with a warning, "Now keep away from this." But Lucy, running away from her older sister Martha, dashed round the stove and stepped on the lid, barefooted. Martha, grief-stricken, ran to the house, and brought out the soda. Sally Anne loaded all the soda on that would stick. Martha put Lucy in the little wagon and pulled her about the lot, telling her stories, doing everything she could think of to distract her from her sorrows while Sally Anne finished cooking dinner. It was served in the cool, pleasant kitchen; but John wasn't jovial, and Sally Anne was silent. She felt defeated. John said, "If the stove had been left in the house where it belongs, a thing like this wouldn't happen." | Sally Anne didn't eat any dinner. She had food for thought—and that was sufficient. In her heart she felt the sting of ingratitude. After dinner she crushed all arguments to the contrary, and the stove was brought in and put where it be longed. HE weather became cooler, and the heat of the cookstove in the mornings felt good. Sally Anne thought, a house divided against itself cannot stand, so she told John before the children that she would never ask him to move the stove outdoors again. "I don't like to feel like a gypsy anyway," she added. John had some very strong dislikes against other things, as well as against moving stoves. He hated 41 debts, and if he had to sign a note to get machinery or some other necessity, it haunted him day and night. It happened that right then John was worrying about a note he had signed for a new wagon and a mowing machine, and he knew that when the crops were harvested, he still wouldn't have enough to pay for them. He could sell the potatoes, most of them anyway; but he wouldn't sell the wheat for that meant the winter's bread for his growing family. "When's our turn to take the water, John?" asked Sally Anne one evening, as John sat beside the oilcloth-covered kitchen table reading. The lamplight was shining over him and his book. He loved to read; but tonight he was pretending. Sally Anne noticed that he looked a little stooped across his shoulders and that his hair was beginning to turn gray. She was knitting | a stocking. She kept her needles clicking merrily, and began to turn the heel. She spoke again, "John, I can look after the water with the boys' help, if you want to make a trip up Logan canyon and get out some timber." John put the book down with a bang. "Sally Anne," he said, "you can always find a job for me." "And one for myself, too," answered Sally Anne. The next morning John went to the canyon on the running gears of his wagon, with Duke and Baldy trotting merrily along. His grub box, well filled, was lashed on, as was his roll of bedding. He was gone four long days and nights getting out logs for the sawmill, but on 42 the fifth day, toward evening, he came down the lane on a big load of wood to be used in the kitchen stove that winter. After the children were all in bed that night, John pulled an envelope out of his pocket and took a number of greenbacks out of it. "I can pay that note now, Sally Anne," he said, "with the money from the logs." She smiled happily when he handed her the money, and walked proudly to the cupboard to put it carefully away up on the top shelf. 'THE fall and winter passed, and spring came again. One morning, early, Sally Anne was down in the raspberry patch. The shadows of the trees still lay across the garden. It was cool. The birds were chattering their morning medley. Sally Anne stopped picking and hesitated; her sunbonnét had slipped back on her shoulders, showing her dark hair and sensitive face. The foliage of the berry patch hid her feet, but her lovely, straight shoulders and form were clearly visible to John, as he went down the hill to get the horses. "The birds say, 'Sally Anne, Sally Anne,'" she called laughingly as she noticed John looking at her in a strange sort of way. "T think they do, darling," replied John, and without more ado, he went on down the lane. Sally Anne filled the big eightquart milk pail with berries, and had the dishpan half full, when the girls came out to help. She said to Lucy, "Listen to the catbirds call, they are saying 'Sally Anne, Sally Anne.' " Lucy listened. She could hear the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 catbirds all right, but they only sounded like a cat mewing softly, although she tried very hard to make their call sound like "Sally Anne." The day was getting hot when they went to the house. Sally Anne bottled the berries when breakfast was over, and then began preparing dinner. The kitchen was fairly belching heat when John and the boys came in to eat. | The shirt on John's back was wet right through. If Sally Anne had said, "Come and help me move the stove out after dinner," he would have responded gladly, for he remembered the cool kitchen and the delicious dinners of the summer before. But Sally Anne didn't say it... She wouldn't. And he couldn't, not after his complaint. So they sat and ate dinner in silence and heat. After dinner John stretched out on the lounge for his usual nap, but it was too hot to nap, so he got up and went out, the boys following. That night he said, "I'm going up the canyon in the morning, Sally Anne, can you fix me up some grub?" "Why, John," she replied, "you know the potatoes need watering, and there is the rest of the hay to get in." But he didn't care what she said. He left the rest of the hay for the boys to haul, and turned the watering job over to fate (although he knew Sally Anne would take care of it). Up the canyon he went, grub box, bedding, and all. Sally Anne was surely vexed. Her fury did not spend itself on (Continued on page 72) A Time to Forget CHAPTER 7 Fay Farlock Synopsis: Serena Abbe, who works in San Francisco as a secretary, lost her fiance Jim Towers in the war. Unexpectedly, she inherits from her cousin Harriett Lester a walnut farm in the San Vicente Valley. There she meets a neighbor, Jeff Landeau, who lives wih his son David and his deceased wife's cousin Delia. Luis Trejeda, a Mexican, offers to help Serena with the farm work, and she gratefully accepts his offer, becoming much interested in his wholesome. And buoyant attitude toward life. Serena makes friends with young David, and Jeff and Luis help her with the first harvest. Then the torrential rains come and flood Serena's land and her house. A huge oak tree, uprooted by the storm, destroys a screen porch. Soon after Christmas, Jeff and Serena are married and go on a honeymoon trip to Mexico. Upon their return, Delia greets them coldly. _ ' LONE with Delia, Serena was tense. She talked too much, covering Delia's coldness, who went about her work tight-lipped, scarcely answering questions. When she started to set the dining room table, Serena rose to help her. "No," Delia said, lifting out the Haviland china from the corner cupboard, "I'll tend to it myself." Serena struggled to keep the rebuff from showing in her soft, brown eyes. "You're tired, driving all that way. You must go sit in the parlor." Delia made an attempt to cover her rudeness. The sound of the returning car broke the awkward silence. Serena tan through the house to the back porch, her arms outstretched in eagerness to David. A step behind his father, the boy halted. "Hello," he said with slow indifference, holding out his hand to ward off her embrace. She could not have been more surprised if the boy had come, leading with both fists. The color left her face, and she had to brace herself against the tailing before she could tell him how glad she was to see him. Relax, don't show there is anything wrong. Relax and wait. David started towards Delia, his face a question mark. She drew him to her side with an affectionate gesture. "You mind your manners, David, and tell Serena you're glad she's back." Her tone was that of a fond, admonishing parent. It was all Serena could do to keep from turning to Jeff, who stood there as puzzled as she. Smiling brightly at David, she said, "If you'll go into the living room, you'll find some things you might like. But we're saving the best for you when we go home tonight." "Thanks," David answered and went into the living room, trailed by Delia, her face smug. HE couch was heaped with brightly-colored wooden toys. Serena had bought the airplane and the child's gay carrousel made from discarded tin and bits of painted wood, with miniature figures astride the tiny animals. There were the straw animals bought from street vendors and the wooden bull's head Jeff had bought from a boy playing in the street. 'There was also a Page 43 44 > ¢ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 boy's dream of a leather belt and wallet. In spite of his show of indifference, David's eyes danced. "Oh, boy!" The exclamation died, half born on his lips. "Thanks, dad," he mumbled. Leaving his gifts untouched, he walked outside to the barn. "Tl...." Jeff turned in anger to follow the boy. 'Don't, not now.' Serena touched his arm. Everything inside her crumpled. "There's something we don't understand." "There surely is. And I intend to find out." But his feet hesitated. "Boys get notions." Delia's voice was superior, her hands clasped under her white apron. "They pass quick enough if you leave them alone." She started for the kitchen, stopping to say, "Dinner will be ready in an hour, and I want you here on time. I can't have my biscuits ruined." "We'll be back in plenty of time, Delia." The words came automatically as she followed Jeff outside. "T'm going out to the barn, and I'm going to find out what's happening." His back was stern with purpose. Matching her stride with his, Serena debated with herself. Her first day with David was no time to start interfering. She thought she had some intuition; yet it had failed her today. "I wouldn't, Jeff, not for a little while. Let's just act as if we hadn't noticed. We can't push him too far—yet." "All right." Jeff's reply was half sigh. "I'm going out to the orchards to see the soil condition. Want to get your boots and come along?" "T think I'd better go in and shower and change in Delia's honor, if you don't mind." She gave his arm an affectionate pat, glad to have a few minutes alone. Luis was on the front lawn waiting. "Meeses, meeses," he cried, removing the old, white sailor cap he was wearing. He came running forward with his hand outstretched, his black eyes shining with tears. With the sun on his silvering hair, he was, as on the first day she had seen him, clothed in radiance. "It's good to see you, compadre," she called gaily in Spanish. The word started the tears coursing anew down his withered brown cheeks. "Gracias, gracias!" He shook her hand again and again. Muy contento with the brown serape, he traced the design with his brown fingers, "Is good." VEN after she told him she was home to prepare for Delia's dinner, he lingered intentionally. "Did everything go all right while we were gone?" she helped him. His black eyes flashed. Placing his gifts carefully on the floor, he faced her, his arms free for gesturing. "Ay, that Mees Delia." His shoulders shrugged expressively, his mouth twisted in delicate mockery of Delia. "What was your trouble with Delia?" She asked him in Spanish. "Oh, Senora, I have no trouble." His denial was swift. "I keep myself separated from her at all possible times. It is with herself that she has trouble." His look asked if A TIME TO FORGET Serena understood, and added, "That senorita lives with ingratitude. For all that Don Jeff has done, she has no remembrance. She remembers only that she grows old without the strength of Don Jeff or the sweet youth of David." Moving his hands in pantomime, he showed Jeff as the staff and David | as the light. "She thinks only that people will no longer salute her as the head of Don Jeffs household. To herself she says, 'Now I cannot have the expensive garments or prepare the splendid meals. I will have only my cousin who is older than I and who complains that her days of affliction have taken hold of her and that her soul is weary of life.' Is it not so?" He threw out his hands in a gesture of dislike and started to fold his serape. Serena could have hugged him in sheer love, but she only said, "It is very difficult for her." "Difficult!" Luis jerked himself upright, standing militantly in the doorway. "Is she," he demanded of Serena, "the first person in the world to grow old? Is she the first person to be bereft of family? No, God has not deserted her. It is she who has deserted God." His shoulders dropped wearily, then in one of his quicksilver moods, he smiled sweetly as a child. "Now it is Delia who has the sick soul. If she can be made to see she has many blessings to count," he raised one hand impressively above him, "for she still has strength, a splendid home, and the love of you and Don Jeff—if she can see these things, there is a cure for " her." Stooping again, he picked up his gifts, settling them in his arms with a final gesture. "You must be of great endurance with her, Senora." Bowing, he trotted amiably away. He was barely out of the house before Jeff came in, the cool breath of the orchards and the smell of damp earth clinging to him. "We could have stayed longer," he said remorsefully. "It will be days before we can turn the soil." Hugging her tightly, he whispered, "Glad to be home?" ERENA knew the question meant many things. "Wherever you are, Jeff," she answered, smoothing his windblown hair, But a part of her wished that she were still in Mexico, far away from Delia, and without problems to be solved. "I thought you were going to change your dress." His eyes said that he had seen her brown tweed suit before. "I was, but Luis came in to talk, and you know Luis." Slipping away, she went into the bedroom to pick out a dark dress, suitable to wear to Delia's dinner. "Tl be with you in a minute," she called later from the shower. When she came out, Jeff was standing at the west windows, viewing the green hills through the bare limbs of the walnut trees. "I don't mind making Delia wait," he teased her, "but my soul rebels at the thought of spoiling her biscuits." As they passed through the dining room, she saw a large, gilt-covered box on the table. With a sudden impulse, she picked it up. "Do you have to show everything tonight?" Jeff protested. "This one is so pretty." Her voice was light. In the box was a beautiful white woolen scarf, big as a cloak. She had bought it in one of the shops in Juarez their last day in Mexico. "That's pretty enough for an evening wrap," Jeff said. "I'll take you dancing when we go back." "Tt doesn't look like the Legion hall on Saturday night." "Legion hall," Jeff scoffed, "that's for Nob Hill." Delia, wearing the silver combs and earrings, was slightly put out. "You go right into the dining room," she commanded them. "Everything is spoiling by waiting. Don't make it any worse. And my land," she turned to David who was shining with cleanliness, "pull out a chair for Serena. I hope I've taught you how to treat guests." Serena's eyes met Jeff's. Don't say anything, her eyes begged. T was a good dinner, rich with dressing, brown' gravy, and whipped cream. "How does it feel to be back to some good home cooking after all those hot Mexican dishes?" Delia asked as she served Jeff a second helping of cream cake. "Heavenly, Delia, heavenly," Jeff smiled, settling back in his chair. Serena rose from the table, asking to be excused for a moment. Then she was back with the golden box. "Our thanks for the wonderful dinner and all the other things you have done for us and David." She put the box in front of Delia. Jeff's mouth started to open in quick protest, but she did not look his way. "It's something beautiful to look at and lovelier to wear," she told Delia, who was staring at the box. "My land, you've brought me so many things! Go get my kitchen scissors, David." Her veined hands fumbled with the cord. "We saved the best for the last," Serena assured her. Delia cut the cord and lifted the scarf from its tissue wrappings. Her mouth fell open, her hands trembled, and telltale color darkened her thin cheeks. 'Why, it's beautiful, too beautiful for me!" She kept her eyes downcast. "It will give you something really elegant to wear to your parties." Serena draped the scarf around Delia's square shoulders. "My, my," Delia muttered, watching herself in the buffet mirror. "Now I have to get at the dishes," she scolded them, folding the scarf with jerky fingers. She left the box on the table and went to the kitchen, where Luis was scraping the pans. "You don't need to help," Delia said testily. "TIl help." Serena took a pan from his hands. "Isn't it your night to go to Church?" Luis beamed. "Tonight I would like to work. We build a new chapel, and now we finish floors." He went happily out. In the living room David and Jeff got out the chess set. They were still deep in their game when Serena looked at her watch. "It's eight-thirty." She smiled at David. "And there're still the best gifts to look at before you go to bed." 46 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 A TIME TO FORGET David looked questioningly at - Delia, who was knitting one of her endless sweaters. She started to count stitches, not lifting her eyes. "That's right," Jeff said, stretching, "and time for two people who have to get back to a farmer's schedule to get to bed, too. Get your things," he turned to David. "Tomorrow we'll move everything over." AVID stood up, the red king in his fingers. "Get along." There was authority in Jeff's tone. David made no move, looking at Delia. "I'm going to stay here." His voice was a monotone. Abruptly he dropped the red king and went quickly out of the room and up the stairs. Jeff rose, his face black. "What's this?" He turned to Delia. "What have you been doing with the boy?" "Tye been doing nothing but taking care of him." Her voice was as bland as her cream cake. "You know you've often let the boy make his own decisions." "Well, he's not making this one." His voice was iron. He turned to follow his son. Serena was also standing. She had not yet earned the right to interfere. The lace on her fragile white handkerchief tore under her fingers. "Leave him alone for a few minutes, Jeff. If you'll let me, I'd like to speak to him first. It's because of me that he's acting so." Already she had lost count of the times today she had interposed her will on Jeff. David had not made this decision alone. She had to learn why. "He needs a good spanking. He's 47 been spoiled too long," Jeff announced, but he was wavering, his face puzzled and unhappy. Poor Jeff. He hadn't counted on this either. Serena looked at Delia, too intent on her knitting. Smiling weakly at Jeff, she went upstairs. The silence was dark under her feet as she groped her way to David's bed. The boy was still, the covers protecting him. "May I talk with you a few minutes, David?" Her voice was easy. "If you want." His answer was a mumble in the darkness. I'm swimming in waters too deep and dark for me, and so much of my strength is already spent. Help me, she prayed, make me wise enough. I know so little about children. She fumbled for the bedside chair, found it, and drew it close to the low bed. "Do you remember before your father and I left, David? You told me something?" She pushed the anxiety from her voice. From underneath the bed covers came an assenting mumble. "You said you were planning for days when we could live together, and you would call me mother." Her voice had a soothing quality. The silence that followed was long, and Serena could hear the throbbing of her heart. "Maybe I did," he said at last, pushing the covers back, "but I feel different now." GiAD for the darkness, she asked, "Can you tell me what happened to make you feel different? Was it anything I did?" David twisted his head on the pillow. "I don't want to tell." His voice was flat. "T think you should tell me, David. Your father feels very bad about this and I feel worse. We have to understand what it is." It was hard not to reach out her hand to the troubled boy. There was no answer. "Was it something I did, David?" By an effort she retained the smoothness. He was biting his lips. "T don't know," he managed to say. "Was it something that someone else said to you, maybe Delia?" "T guess so... Maybe." "Did she say I didn't want you?" His "yes" was a bare whisper. "Why did she say that I didn't want you?" David sat up in bed, his hands clutching the blanket. "She said," his voice was thick, "that you only wanted dad, and I would just be a nuisance to you." "Did you believe her, David?" "Well, I didn't, not right at first... Then maybe I did." | Serena could feel his hot breath on her face. Still she kept her hands tight in her lap. "Did she say that she wanted to have you, that maybe she would act differently?" "How did you know that?" he asked in a gasp of surprise. "T just thought she did. What did she promise you?" "She said that now dad was gone she would have lots of time for me, that she wouldn't be so tired and I could have my friends come to see me." 66 D! P she promise anything more?" Nothing must be hidden now. "Oh, yes," his voice came clear and boyish, "she said that this year she would give me a big birthday party. She said I could invite all the boys I wanted, and she would cook me a big dinner with lamb roast and cake and ice cream, afterwards." "A birthday party means a lot to you, doesn't it David?" "Yes, it does. I've never had a real birthday party, not since the one my own mother gave me when I was four years old." "Can you remember it?" "Not too much. I just remember the children singing 'Happy Birthday' and I couldn't blow out all the candles at once." "Has Delia let you friends?" He was emphatic. "She never acted like she wanted me to. And they didn't like to come much because she was always following us around and never letting us do the things we wanted to do." His tears were beginning. "And was that all Delia told you —was that the only reason she felt you should stay with her?" Serena let her cheek rest against his hair. "No, it wasn't all." He straightened a little, still keeping within her arms. "She said that this was my own mother's house, and that my father had no right to take me away from it. She said I could only have one mother—it wouldn't be tight to my real one to have you for a mother." Oh, let me say the right thing, Serena prayed. I have to say the right thing. (To be continued) invite 48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 = | From The Field General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Kliza Clark SANTA MONICA STAKE (CALIFORNIA), SANTA MONICA WARD DISPLAY OF QUILTS AND CROCHET WORK _ Maud Whitehead, work director of the Santa Monica Ward Relief Society, is shown with the one-hundredth quilt (center top) that has been completed under her direction in the last five years. Sister Whitehead is seventy-seven years old, and in her spare time she has also crocheted the beautiful covers shown in the display. Eliza Clark is president of Santa Monica Ward Relief Society, and Odette Cou: lam is president of Santa Monica Stake Relief Society. Page 49 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 Photograph submitted by Hilda M. P. Stutzman SOUTHERN ARIZONA STAKE VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION, June 5, 1952 Visiting teachers who have served for thirty-five years or more, front row, seated, left to right: Myrtle Martineau; Elsinor Nelson; Linda Jang; Hallie Wilson, who has served as a visiting teacher for fifty years. Back row, standing, left to right: Laura P. Hardy; Francis East; Silva Scott; Gladys Huish, former stake Relief Society president. Sister Maude Clawson, a veteran visiting teacher, was not present when this picture was taken. Seventy-five per cent of the visiting teachers of Southern Arizona Stake were present at this convention. Hilda M. P. Stutzman is president of Southern Arizona Stake Relief Society.:: +f: LW Photograph submitted by Rose Goates WEST UTAH STAKE, SUNSET WARD VISITING TEACHERS COMPLETE FIVE-YEAR RECORD OF 100% Seated, front row, right to left: Hazel Halladay, who has served eleven years as a visiting teacher; Alice Carter, seven years a visiting teacher; Lillie Campbell, Lide Carter, and Thelma Williamson, who have each served five years. Rose Goates is president of West Utah Stake Relief Society, and Lucile Christopherson is president of Sunset Ward Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD: 51 Photograph submitted by Lila Croshaw SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION AND FOR STAKE CONFERENCE Photograph taken September 28, 1952 Lila Croshaw, stake chorister, is seated in the front row, seventh from the left; Mable Arnold, stake organist, is seated at Sister Croshaw's left. This chorus includes members from the following wards: Bellingham, Bremerton, Everett, Olympia, Port Orchard, Renton, Shelton, Tacoma First Ward, and Seattle First, Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Wards. Two numbers were furnished by these Singing Mothers for Relief Society Convention, August 12, 1952, and at the stake quarterly conference, September 28, 1952, the following numbers were presented: "If God Forgot"; 'Praise Ye the Father'; "God Painted a Picture"; and "Peace I Leave With You." Birdie S. Bean is president of Seattle Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mabel J. Hansen IDAHO FALLS STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT RECEPTION, February 1952 Front row, seated, left to right: Lettie Jensen; Mary Butler; Mary Poulter; Gerttude Orme; Eliza Madsen; Ethel Olsen. Back row, standing, left to right: Mathilda Johnson; Amanda Bowman; Martha Davenport; Amy Fielding; Lydia Clark; Martha Rushton; Amanda Cooper; Laura Nielson; Margaret Kellar; Ruth Haderlie; Ethel Criddle., Each of these visiting teachers has served for thirty-three years or more, giving much devotion to her calling and bringing hope and cheer to many homes over a long period of time. Mabel J. Hansen is president of Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society. a2 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 Photograph submitted by Anna H. Toone CANADIAN MISSION, BRANCH PRESIDENTS ATTEND RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, October 11, 1952 Front row, left to right: Ethel VanderVoort, Belleville Branch; Phyllis Johnson, Hamilton Branch; Mable Lee, Brantford Branch; Mabel Barnwell, Chatham Branch; Dorothy Sayers, Oshawa Branch. Back row, left to right: Bernice Peacock, Galt Branch; Florrie Smith, Kitchner Branch; Anna H. Toone, Canadian Mission Relief Society President; Janet Boucher, Toronto Branch; Mildred Smith, London Branch; Myr Willis, Woodstock Branch. Sister Toone reports that this conference was well attended and provided much enjoyment and inspiration for the Relief Society women. "'One hundred twenty sisters assembled in Toronto. A wonderful time and a rich outpouring of the spirit of the Lord were enjoyed by all. Representatives from three districts were not present because of the great distance to travel. A luncheon was served between sessions. Our sisters are very devoted and faithful. They are mostly small groups, and are carrying out the program as planned by the general board. Five new societies have been organized this fall. The assighments at the conference were exceptionally well prepared and presented. We all enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. J; welfth Night Margaret Evelyn Singleton I saw the Christmas lights go out, The Christmas trees come down, The twinkling lanes once more become Our ordinary town. And will the star-illumined heart Soon also lose its light? I saw the Christmas trees come down— And wondered in the night. LESSON Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 15—Nephi's Predictions, Promises, and Instructions Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon, 2 Nephi, Chapters 25-33) For Tuesday, April 7, 1953 Objective: To study Nephi's predictions concerning the Jews, Nephites, Lamanites, and the Gentiles. EPHI delighted in teaching his people that except Christ should come, all men must perish. For this purpose he quoted extensively from Isaiah and expounded his message to the people. Nephi felt that many truths expressed by Isaiah were hard for his people to understand because the Nephites did not understand "the manner of prophesying among the Jews." Nephi knew that until one is acquainted with the intellectual, social, political, and religious milieu or environment of a people, one finds it difficult to understand its literature. That is why he undertook to explain Isaiah to his people. He told them that he came out from Jerusalem and his eyes had beheld the things of the Jews, that the Jews understood the things of the prophets and none others understood them unless they had been taught after the manner of the things of the Jews in which way - Nephi said he had not taught his children. His explanation appears in the form of a major prophecy delivered in plainness in which he forecasted what would happen to the Jews. He also foretold the fate of the Nephites and the Lamanites, and of the Gentiles, extending his prophecy from his own time until the last days. Jews He first recounted the destruction of Jerusalem, telling his people that according to prophecy, Jerusalem had been destroyed, that many Jews had been killed, and others carried away captive into Babylon (2 Nephi 25:10). Notwithstanding this captivity, however, he foretold their restoration to the land of their inheritance (2 Nephi 25:11). He said that six hundred years from the time Lehi left Jerusalem, the Messiah whose name should 'be Jesus Christ, the Son of God, would be born among the Jews, and because of their iniquity and because of their hardened hearts, they would reject him and crucify him. Page 53 ig On the third day, however, he would rise from the dead. Nephi further predicted many things which should happen to the Jews after the crucifixion and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Jerusalem would again be destroyed, and the Jews be scattered among all nations. Babylon would also be destroyed and the Jews be scattered by other nations. When these other nations should have scourged the Jews from generation to generation, the Jews should then begin to accept Christ and no longer look forward to the coming of a Messiah. Then, and not till then, the Lord would set his hand again the second time to restore them from their lost and fallen state. Wherefore, the Lord would proceed to do a marvelous work and a _ wonder among the children of men. He should then bring forth his words unto them for the purpose of convincing them of the true Messiah who was rejected by them. Nephi declared Jesus Christ is the only name given under heaven whereby mankind can be saved (2 Nephi 25:20). In order to accomplish this mission of taking his word to the nations, Nephi said the Lord had promised him that the things which he wrote should be kept and preserved and handed down from generation to generation unto Nephi's seed, and fulfill the Lord's promise to Joseph that his seed should never perish as long as the earth should stand (2 Nephi 25:21). Nephi spoke eloquently of Christ: We talk of Christ, we rejoice in Christ, we preach of Christ, we prophesy of Christ, and we write according to our RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 prophecies, that our children may know to what source they may look for a tremission of their sins (2 Nephi 25:26). Blessed are parents today in Zion of whom such words can be written. Nephi also promises the Jews that when they shall accept the Christ and live his teachings, they shall become a delightsome people. (See 2 Nephi 30:7.) Nephites and Lamanites Turning from his prophecies concerning the Jews, Nephi predicted what should happen to his own de-. Scendants, the Nephites, and to the Lamanites. Nephi told them that after the crucifixion and _ resurrection of Jesus Christ on the Eastern Hemisphere, he would appear to the Nephites in the land of promise, the Western Hemisphere. Signs of Christ's birth and crucifixion on the Eastern Hemisphere would be given to the Nephites and Lamanites on this continent. At that time great tribulations and sorrow would come to their wicked descendants because of their rejection of the truth and their other sins. Nephi wrote: O the pain, and the anguish of my soul for the loss of the slain of my people! For I, Nephi, have seen it, and it well nigh consumeth me before the presence of the Lord; but I must cry unto my God: Thy ways are just (2 Nephi 26:7). After this period of sorrow and tribulation, which should occur before the Savior visited the Nephites, peace should be restored among their people. Three or four generations would then pass away in tighteousness, but at the expiration of this period of righteousness, and because of the moral degeneration LESSON DEPARTMENT of their descendants, God would send a speedy destruction unto Ne- _phi's people. "For the reward of their pride and their foolishness they shall reap destruction" (2 Nephi 26:10).. The spirit of the Lord would cease to strive with them, and then speedy destruction would come, which Nephi said grieved his soul. Concerning the Lamanites of our day, who would represent, in part, the remnants of Lehi's posterity, he prophesied that a book should come forth which would be of great worth to the children of men, and particularly to their seed, who are a remnant of the house of Israel. Nephi writes: And then shall the remnant of our seed know concerning us, how that we came out from Jerusalem, and that they are descendants of the Jews. And the gospel of Jesus Christ shall be declared among them; wherefore, they shall be restored unto the knowledge of their fathers, and also to the knowledge of Jesus Christ, which was had among their fathers. And then shall they rejoice; for they shall know that it is a blessing unto them from the hand of God; and their scales of darkness shall begin to fall from their eyes; and many generations shall not pass away among them, save they shall be a white and delightsome people (2 Nephi 30:4-6). The Gentiles Having foretold many _ things which would happen to the Jews and to the Nephites and Lamanites, Nephi then predicted what would be the condition of the Gentiles following in the wake of Columbus, when many Gentiles would migrate to America and establish a great free government. It is these Gentiles of our nation that Nephi had 55 in mind in the last part of his prophecy. Nephi wrote: But behold, I prophesy unto you concerning the last days; concerning the days when the Lord God shall bring these things forth unto the children of men. After my seed and the seed of my brethren shall have dwindled in unbelief, and shall have been smitten by the Gentiles; yea, after the Lord God shall have camped against them round about, and shall have laid siege against them with a mount, and raised forts against them; and after they shall have been brought down low in the dust, even that they are not, yet the words of the righteous shall be written, and the prayers of the faithful shall be heard, and all those who have dwindled in' unbelief shall not be forgotten. For those who shall be destroyed shall speak unto them out of the ground, and their speech shall be low out of the dust, and their voice shall be as one that hath a familiar spirit; for the Lord God will give unto him power, that he may whisper concerning them, even as it were out of the ground; and their speech shall whisper out of the dust (2 Nephi 26:14-16). Among the Gentiles at that time there will be many churches whose ministers shall teach for gain their own wisdom and learning. Among these sects there shall be envyings, strife, and malice. These churches will have put down the power and miracles of God and will have built up secret combinations as in times of old. Nephi related that the visitations of the Lord of Hosts should come upon the Gentiles and predicted that all the nations that fight against Zion should be as a dream of a night vision. Then Nephi said, "... The Lord God shall bring forth... The words of a book, and they shall be the words of them which have slumbered" (2 Nephi 27:6). When the book is delivered unto the man (Joseph Smith), the eyes of none shall behold it save it be that three witnesses shall behold it by the power of God. Nephi then adds that "there is none other which shall view it, save it be a few according to the will of God, to bear testimony of his word unto the children of men" (2. Nephi Z721gy. It was in accordance with these statements that the three and eight witnesses were permitted to view the plates. (See lesson 2, The Relief Society Magazine, August 1951, page 555.) Nephi declared that "the eis which shall be written out of the book shall be of great worth unto the children of men, and especially unto our seed, which is a remnant of the house of Israel." Nephi also prophesied that many of the Gentiles would say, "Eat, drink, and be merry... For tomorrow we die; and it shall be well with us." Others would say, God will is us "in committing a little sin... Liea little, take the advantage of one because of his words.... There is no harm in this...." After this manner they would teach "false vain, and foolish doctrines." As a result of the pride of the people, the false teachers, and the Peise doctrines, the churches would have become corrupted. They would rob the poor to build fine sanetuaries, and all but a few who were the humble followers of Christ would have gone astray. (See 2 Nephi 28:7-13). ' "But behold, that great and abominable church, the whore of all the earth, must tumble to the earth, and great must be the fall thereof" (2 Nephi 28:18). The devil would rage in the hearts of men and deceive the people in many ways. He would lull them away into carnal security and they would say, "Zion prospereth, all is well—and thus the devil cheateth their souls, and leadeth them away carefully down to hell" (2 Nephi 28:21). Others he would deceive with telling that there is no hell. Then Nephi continued his warnings to those living in the last. Days: | Therefore, wo be unto him that is at ease in Zion! Wo be unto him that crieth: All is welll Yea, wo be unto him that hearkeneth unto the precepts of men, and denieth the power of God, and the gift of the Holy Ghost! Yea, wo be unto him that saith: We have teceived, and we need no more! And in fine, wo unto all those who tremble, and are angry because of the truth of God! For behold, he that is built upon the rock receiveth it with gladness; and he that is built upon a sandy foundation trembleth lest he shal fall. Wo be unto him that shall say: We have received the word of God, and we need no more of the word of God, for we have enough! (2 Nephi 28:24-29). Nephi continued his teachings with the prediction that in the day that the Nephite record would be brought forth, many Gentiles would say: "A Bible! A Bible! We have got a Bible, and there cannot be any more Bible." To these Gentiles, Nephi wrote that God speaks unto the Jews, the Nephites, the other tribes of Israel, and unto all nations of the earth, and all these groups shall write what is spoken to them. These various records shall be united. Nephi wrote: 56 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT And it shall come to pass that the Jews shall have the words of the Nephites, and the Nephites shall have the words of the Jews; and the Nephites and the Jews shall have the words of the lost tribes of Israel; and the lost tribes of Israel shall have the words of the Nephites and the Jews (2 Nephi 29:13). Regarding the status of the Gentiles who repent, Nephi wrote that they thus would become then covenant people of the Lord, also, and would carry the words which had been written unto the remnant of Nephi's seed, who will know them, that they are descendants of the Jews. After giving this extensive prophecy regarding the Jews, Nephites, and Lamanites, and the Gentiles of the last days, Nephi instructed his people concerning the doctrine of Christ, who, he had said, would come to the Jews six hundred years after Lehi left Jerusalem. His instructions remind us of our fourth article of faith: We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are: first, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; second, Repentance; third, Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; fourth, Laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. Christ, Nephi says, was baptized to fulfill all righteousness. By subjecting himself to baptism, "he showeth unto the children of men that, according to the flesh he humbleth himself before the Father, and witnesseth unto the Father that he would be obedient unto him in keeping his commandments" (2 Nephi 31:7) Christ taught the children of 57 men the straightness of the path, and the narrowness of the gate, by which they should enter, he having set the example before them (2 Nephi 31:9). It is not enough, Nephi taught, to embrace the gospel, to accept and perform the first principles and ordinances of the gospel, but we must be steadfast in Christ and endure to the end in following the example of the Son of the living God. We must also pray always and not faint. Nephi said that he was not "mighty in writing, like unto speaking; for when a man speaketh by the power of the Holy Ghost the power of the Holy Ghost carrieth it unto the hearts of the children of men" (2 Nephi 33:1). Knowing that he must close his record, Nephi bade farewell to his brethren of the house of Israel and to all the ends of the earth, saying that he had charity for the Nephites, the Jews, and the Gentiles, but that all must be reconciled to Christ. He also urged all mankind to hearken to the words of Christ, for they teach men to do good. Questions on the Lesson 1. What did Nephi predict concerning his seed and the seed of his brethren? 2. What did Nephi say would happen to the Gentiles in the last days? 3. What warnings did Nephi give to the people living in the last days? 4. What did he promise repentant Gentiles? 5. Discuss the meaning of the phrase "their speech shall whisper out of the dust" (2 Nephi 26:16). Ussiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 15—"For They Who Are Not for Me Are Against Me, Saith Our God" (2 Nephi 10:16). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, April 7, 1953 Objective: To stress the necessity of giving support to the work of the Lord. HIS scripture quotation makes a very definite line of demarcation between those who are for the Lord and those who are against him. This may seem a rather arbitrary line to draw, but in the final analysis it resolves into just that situation. One's status is either for the Lord or against him. If we are for him, we are actively engaged in contributing to the building up of his kingdom, keeping his commandments, and supporting his work. If we are cold or indifferent, we are impeding the progress of his work and are, therefore, against him. In the vision given to John the Revelator, the words of the Lord are recorded as follows: I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot: I would thou wert cold or hot. So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spue thee out of my mouth (Rey. 3:15-16). In preaching the gospel, missionaries usually find that those people who are indifferent to religion are the least likely to be converted. When there is active interest of any kind, either in favor of, or against the principles of the Church, there is some foundation to build Page 58 upon, some starting point; but an indifferent attitude offers no point of contact whatever. If we are for anything, we support it; and we are loyal to its doctrine, willing to defend it, and accept it in its entirety. Christ said in the sermon on the mount: No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and Mammon (Matt. 6:24). Our allegiance is either to God or to worldly ambitions. In Matthew 6:21, we read: "For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also." In the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord gives us this counsel: "Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness" (See D. & C.. 58:27). Thus we may show our allegiance to our God. To be truly happy, we must say, as did Joshua of old, "Choose you this day whom ye will serve... But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord" (Joshua 24:15). Work Neeting—Home Management (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 7—Kinds of Income Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, April 14, 1953 VERYONE desires happiness. Everyone wants to achieve or accomplish certain. Things that to him have greatest value. We are happiest when we can see that we are moving progressively toward our goals in life. To do so in the least time, and with the least effort, it is important that we make efficient use of all our resources. Time and energy are two very important ones. Income is another. Many think of the family income only in terms of the number of dollars in the pay check. This is but one part of the total family income. The total income consists of money income, real income, and _ psychic income. In our democracy there are many sources of wealth, both tangible and intangible in nature, that are free for everyone to enjoy, if he will but make the effort. Often these are of greater value than the dollar income in contributing toward a good life. Families which have a comparatively small money income, but with many other avenues of wealth, may enjoy a higher standard of living than those with a high cash income, but little else. Money Income Money income, of course, is the purchasing power in dollars and cents that is received periodically for services rendered. The amount of goods this income will buy changes as the value of the dollar goes up and down. It is, therefore, a good plan to see that one is never wholly dependent upon cash, as a source of income, if a high standard of living is to be enjoyed at all times. Real Income Real income includes the services rendered by owned property or other possessions, such as_ the house, furniture, equipment, automobile, and other goods that are used by the family members in their daily living. An important part of real income is the service rendered by the homemaker and other family members. It may either decrease or increase the net income of the family. Often a mother may contribute much more to the real income of her family by being a full-time homemaker than by working and paying another for services she could render. How efficiently this part of the family income is used, depends primarily upon the managerial ability of the homemaker. Homemakers may contribute much to the real income of the family by learning how to buy food economically, and how to prepare and serve it so it is both appetizing and nutritious. Whenever food is Page 59 wasted (such as pouring vegetable stock down the sink or thick peeling of fruits and vegetables), part of the real income is lost. The same use of knowledge is also applicable to. Another group of family expenditures. Whenever you use equipment incorrectly or without keeping it in good working order, it costs the family part of its real income. The life of a vacuum cleaner may be cut to as much as one-fourth by using. It repeatedly without thoroughly emptying the bag, or by otherwise misusing it. A good broom may serve efficiently for two months or two years, depending upon the care given it. Keeping broom fibers off the floor when the broom is not in use, and sweeping with a light rhythmic motion will mean real income for all the family to enjoy. Some other suggestions for increasing the value of your real income follow: 1. Prolong the life of your carpet by keeping surface litter picked up from soft-pile floor coverings, and clean them before they become too soiled. 2. Always hang clothes on hangers when they are not in use. Remove soil and stains from them as soon after they occur as possible. 3. Use a rubber or plastic scraper to re- -move cake batter or other food from the bowl in which it is mixed. 4. Never let frost on the coils of your refrigerator get more than one-fourth inch thick. You do not get full value for the electricity you are paying for, and the refrigerator motor must work over time. Place things on the shelves so the cold air can circulate around them. Use the refrigerator as a place to keep 'foods cool, not as a storage place for food items in general. 5. Run your washer only as long as is needed to remove the soil from clothes. To run it longer wears out both machine and clothes and wastes electricity. 6. Tum electric or gas stove units down as soon as food begins to boil. A rolling boil is no hotter than light boiling, and the cost in fuel to sustain a rolling boil is at least double. Psychic Income The third part of the total family income is the psychic income. It is the flow of satisfaction that comes from everyday experiences. It is largely the result of the use we make of our money and real income, that makes for mental and physical wellbeing. Such income is intangible, but is the most important income of all in terms of quality of living. No one can rob us of it, and the value of it does not vary with economic tides. The amount of psychic income we enjoy is limited only by our own actions and thinking. The interest we put into homemaking bears interest in each succeeding generation. Our daughters and their daughters are influenced by our vision of homemaking as a big, wonderful, challenging occupation, or as a mere job that is an obstacle to the enjoyment of life. The other day a dear pioneer mother passed on. During her eighty-seven years of life she had amassed the great fortune of fourteen children, sixty-two grandchildren, ninety-nine great-grandchildren, and countless friends. She knew the joy of unselfish and continuous service to her family, community, and to her Church. Much of it was given under circumstances that required sacrifice and personal deprivation. She wasted nothing, neither did she want for the things she valued most. The size of her psychic income was incalculable. 60 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT Summary With the dollar mark talking _ ever louder and steadily gaining in power to influence peoples' thinking and actions, many of us need to stop a moment and redirect our efforts in line with our big goals in life. We may find that we are richer than we thought, or that we could be richer than we now are by investing what we have more profitably and using it more wisely. It has been said that the problem for the great majority of American families is not maintaining family solvency—most families do amazingly. Well at this—but to somehow get more happiness and less worry out of money. The important thing is the kind of life we are buying with our money and our savings. If we buy family happiness and long-term family se — curity, Our management of income is a good one. If we are not, we 61 need to sit down together—everybody in the family—and work out a plan for spending more profitably. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What are you doing to add to the real income of your family? 2. What would you most willingly give up, your money income or psychic income? ° References for Lessons 7 and 8: Discussion of Family Money, Institute of Life Insurance, 488 Madison Avenue, New York 22, New York. Single copy free. Women and Their Money, Public Affairs Committee Inc., 22 East 38th Street, New York 16, New York. Price 20c. Plan Your Family Spending for Happtness, Institute of Life Insurance, 488 Madison Avenue, New York 22, New York. No cost.. An additional reference for the February lesson, Orderly and Convenient Storage Areas (published in the November Magazine), is Storage for Your Home, Extension Bulletin No. 436, Utah State Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. Single copies free to Utah residents, 5c a copy to others. « oLiterature—The Literature of England Lesson 31—Jane Austen (1775-1817) Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, April 21, 1953 Objective: To attempt to understand Jane Austen's world of reality. GINCE Jane Austen was born within the same five-year period as Wordsworth, Coleridge, and Robert Southey (1770-1775), she should be classed with this first generation of romantic writers, particularly since her premature death at age forty-two occurred in 1817, before Byron, Shelley, and Keats had begun to produce their mature writings. Yet she can nev. Er be classified as one of this group, since her life was spent in isolation from romanticism, surrounded though she was by its vogues, and since much of what she wrote was created expressly to oppose what she considered its excesses. And if further points of difference are. Needed, it might be noted that she was a woman writer when such a combination was still not entirely respectable; she flaunted the fact that she came of a family who were great novel-readers without being ashamed of the fact; and instead of writing poetry she indulged in novels. In addition, she was the youngest of seven children, the spinster daughter of a rural clergyman, living a life which to many of the romantics would at the very least be called dull. Her Quiet Life For those moderns who think they would like to write but who hesitate, they like to tell themselves, because "Nothing has ever happened to me'"—for these selfdeceivers, the unique achievement of Jane Austen should provide silencing proof of their folly. Since at this time, and long afterward, women were not considered worthy of an education, she was taught to read and write and cipher and no more. 'Thus she was denied the privilege of living vicariously, since the great works of cla$sical literature were not presented to her. We do not know that she was ever courted. Since she never had husband or household or offspring of her own, all the dependent realities were denied her. Her life was spent with her parents and sisters in cooking and sewing and dusting and sweeping and gossiping and reading and corresponding. Her occasional trips to Bath and London, and her brother Edward's house in Kent, were her only escape from her confined existence. Motives for Writing 'During her entire life she had not one contact with other people skilled or interested in literature. JANE AUSTEN 1775-1817 As a child she began writing to amuse herself and her family; at twenty-one she wrote her fitst novel, penned while she sat in the front room with the usual family gossip and events going on about her. As each chapter was completed she read it aloud for the amusement and approval of her family. So well did she know her characters that she often told extended incidents in their lives which were not included in the book. Her first novel, Sense and Sensibility, was not published until fourteen years after it was written. In 1803 she had been paid ten pounds for the manuscript of her Northanger Abbey, but it was never published in her lifetime, a fact which undoubtedly delayed her presenting her other novels to the public: Pride and Prejudice (1813), Mans- 62 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT field Park (1814), and Emma (1815). Her last novel, Persuasion, was not published until after her death and then, like all the others, it appeared anonymously. Her books sold very slowly during her lifetime and after her death. For example, the 1833 edition of her collected works was not sold out until 1882, almost fifty years later. Never could she have dreamed that the day would come when, for every copy of Sir Walter Scott that was sold, hundreds of copies of her novels would be bought and read by a reading public so loyal as to become almost a cult. Style and Tone For many critics Jane Austen is the first realistic novelist in the English tradition. Applying to her very limited world the principles of common sense, reason, and restraint which she highly esteemed in her "Dear Dr. Samuel Johnson," Miss Austen, to quote her own words, worked "with so fine a brush" on her "'ittle bit (two inches wide) of ivory" to achieve the sharpness and precision of a skillfully wrought cameo. As a literary housekeeper, she plans her work most carefully to make each phase of her work fit neatly into the pattern of the whole. She is me ticulou$ in her cleanliness, and so efficient that it has been aptly said of her that "she never drops a stitch." Her tone is one of balance and calm. Never does she scold nor rant; never hurries by that which is important, nor overemphasizes the petty. Her style has so delicate and sensitive a touch that it shines with "a celestial brightness." So clear and clean 63 and easy is her style that, somewhat mistakenly, her Pride and Prejudice is currently being advertized with Black Beauty and Treasure Island and other books for children. Because Miss Austen had no literary critics, friends, or reading public to impress, she could write in whatever manner she pleased about whatever subjects appealed to her. Because she did just this, her novels have a freshness and charm which cannot ever be mistaken as counterfeit. Also, because it amused her to portray the human comedy ironically, her pages are filled with a light but piercing humor. Sometimes this humor is subtle; sometimes she overwrites slightly, and her caricature of someone's weakness, or the moral quality, emphasized, becomes too apparent. For the most part, however, her controlled, humorous approach to her characters is entirel successful, and we feel both the force of their individualities and the weakness within their make-ups which makes them human, and therefore fit subjects for her sharp eye and pen. She was perfectly aware that comedy, pushed too far, soon can become tragedy in a most powerful form. Subject Matter of Novels Since her purpose was to create a miniature of her own real world, Jane Austen never discussed those areas which were not real and actual therein. Never does she write a scene without at least one woman present. Within her novels there is little concern with crime, politics, wars, religion, and passion. Love is central to her theme, but someone 64 has counted the number of kisses in all her novels: sixteen, and none of them described in terms made so familiar by Hollywood. About detailing the passion of love she constantly shows a reticence, yet she successfully moves the imagination of the reader to supply by implication what she has not mentioned; thus the emotion of love is present, but proper. If she is to be a realist, and paint her world as it is, she cannot agree with one of her overly romantic characters, who says that "facts are such horrid things.'"' She never violates her integrity by calling a spade anything but a spade, and neither does she forget her constant purpose of creating each of her characters to represent some moral trait, mortal and weak, either because of excess or shortage of sense, emotion, pride, or prejudice. This is done that the moral truths which underlie her world may be pointed out for a potential audience who accepts Miss Austen's views of society and morality without question. While she will not warp reality as she defined it to herself, Miss Austen continually finds within this mortal reality illustration for certain moral truths. Good is good; bad is bad, and "as ye sow, so shall ye reap." Miss Austen speaks in the words of Elizabeth Bennett, the heroine of Pride and Prejudice, when she says, "I hope I never ridicule what is wise or good." Thus Miss Austen seemed blessed with the requisites for success, either in life or in art: she knew what effect she wanted to achieve, what materials she was to use, and the style or method of treatment which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 would achieve her goal. In addition, she possessed the requisite innocence of purpose in writing, and the persistence and the talent to write as she desired. All these ingredients were combined so successfully in her novels of manners that within her own special realm she reigns supreme to this day; no one has ever attempted to challenge her. Among other reasons why the popularity of her novels continues to grow is the subject matter which is common to them: the eternally real problem of marrying off daughters, lovely but poor, to gentlemen so prosperous that they might choose whomever they pleased. How completely she understood the vital role which economic difference plays in society in general, and the mating process in particular! While she opposes the practice of young maidens boldly selling their happiness for economic security, in the words of one admirer, she does believe that: Decency is more important than happiness, and she knows that, though martiages may be made in heaven, they must be lived on earth. Pride and Prejudice All the qualities discussed thus far are eminently present in Miss Austen's best-loved novel, Pride and Prejudice. The Bennets, a respectable couhtry family, are excited when a wealthy young bachelor, Charles Bingley, moves to their community, bringing with him a friend, Fritzwilliam Darcy. Mrs. Bennett, shallow and petty, is hopeful of marriage for her daughters, Elizabeth, Jane, Lydia, and Catherine, at any LESSON DEPARTMENT price; but Mr. Bennett, a restrained,.. Sensible man, bears the cross of his wife's driving urge with resignation. At the Bingley ball Jane and Bingley are mutually attracted, but Elizabeth is repelled by the pride of Darcy, having been told he is a scoundrel by Wickham, a handsome army officer. To Darcy she seems prejudiced against him. A fortunehunting minister, stupid and conceited, asks Elizabeth to marry him, but she refuses, even as she refuses Darcy when, as a complete surprise, they meet at a neighbor's home and he declares his love. After the refusal he writes her how difficult it was to ask for marriage with a gitl beneath him in station, and describes some of the very real faults of her family. Later Elizabeth visits his estate and from his servants receives a much better impression of Darcy. When the Bennett family learns that giddy Lydia has eloped with unprincipled Wickham, and _ that they are living together in London even though unmarried, Mr. Bennett and Darcy go to find them, but only Darcy is successful in finding them, and he pays Wickham to wed Lydia, who has no dowry to offer him. Excessively foolish, romantic Lydia then comes home to taunt her sisters that since she has been successful in getting a husband, she can perhaps help them. Soon after Elizabeth learns of Darcy's secret gallantry, he proposes again and Elizabeth accepts, to the temporary consternation of her family. Jane and Bingley have already announced their engagement, and the novel ends happily. 65 Use of Irony Miss Austen's intent is to reveal the English character as she knew it. Central in her method is her use of indirection and irony, which might be defined as saying the exact reverse of what is intended. For example, after her marriage, Lydia purposely lets fall "by accident" the fact that Darcy was at the wedding. She is dying to tell; her sisters are dying to hear; yet Lydia's promise to Wickham, her husband, must not be violated. "TI ought not to have said a word. What will Wickham say? It was to be such a secret!" "If it was to be a secret," said Jane, "say not another word on the subject. You may depend upon my seeking no further." "Oh! Certainly," = said _—_—_ Elizabeth, though burning with curiosity; "we will ask you no questions." "Thank you," said Lydia; "for, if you did, I should certainly tell you all, and then Wickham would be angry." On such encouragement to ask, Elizabeth was forced to put it out of her power, by running away (ch. 51, page 261). Earlier, Elizabeth's pride is still smarting under Darcy's own display of pride, which he feels is absent within himself, since, in his words: "Where there is a real superiority of mind, pride will be always under good regulation." Elizabeth turned away to hide a smile. "Your examination of Mr. Darcy is over, I presume," said Miss Bingley "and pray, what is the result?" "I am perfectly convinced that by it Mr. Darcy has no defect. He owns it himself without disguise" (ch. 11, page 49). Realistic Statement Sometimes, by contrast, Miss Austen's method of revealing charac- 66 ter is extremely open and direct. After listening to his daughters Catherine and Lydia talk at great length about officers stationed nearby, their handsome uniforms, and the wealth of eligible bachelors, Mr. Bennett coolly observed to them: "From all that I can collect by your manner of talking, you must be two of the silliest girls in the country. I have suspected some time, but I am now convinced" (ch. 7, page 24). On a journey Elizabeth finds that: Sir William Lucas, and his daughter Maria, a good-humoured girl, but as empty-headed as himself, had nothing to say that could be worth hearing, and were listened to with about as much delight as the rattle of the chaise (ch. 27, page 127). Elizabeth wanted to talk to Darcy at a party, but "was overthrown by seeing him fall victim to her mother's rapacity for whist-players" (ch. 54, page 280). When Jane announced to her father that Bingley has asked for her hand, Mr. Bennett congratulates them both: "You are a good girl, and I have great pleasure in thinking you will be so happily settled.... Your tempers are by no means unlike. You are each of you so complying, that nothing will ever be resolved on; so easy, that every servant will cheat you; and so generous, that you will always exceed your income" a 55, page 286). At other times, Miss Austen shows great skill in condensing the essence of a situation or a person into a few, well-chosen words. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 Fond of dancing! Nothing could be more delightful! To be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love..... (ch...3, page 8). Elizabeth tried to unite civility and truth in a few short sentences (ch. 38, page 177). She wanted to talk, but there seemed an embargo on every subject (ch. 43, page 209). Bingley was ready, Georgiana was eager, and Darcy determined, to be pleased (ch. 44, page 213). Jealousy has not yet made her desperate, ch. 46, page 219). Miss Bingley's congratulations to her brother on his approaching marriage were all that was affectionate and _ insincere (ch. 60, page 316). Note to Class Leaders: The pages of Pride and Prejudice overflow with such insight and skill and truth. Telling part of the story, then reading the scenes and characterizations that, in your opinion, best convey the delight of the novel to your class members, seems an effective method of bringing Jane Austen's world of reality into the present moment. If a class leader finds that Pride and Prejudice has. Been presented to class members in recent years, she may use either Emma or Persuasion in substitution. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What relation did Jane Austen's life have to the novels she wrote? To her literary method? To her definition of reality? 2. What was her attitude toward romanticism? Toward reason? 3. Why did Jane Austen write novels? 4. After considering her subject-matter and her style and theory of writing, why might, do you think, Disraeli read Pride and Prejudice seventeen times? emiale Science The Progress of Man Part Ill—In the Way of Destiny Lesson 20—The Kingdom of God Elder Archibald F. Bennett (Text: The Progress of Man, chapters 40 and 41) For Tuesday, April 28, 1953 Objective: To explain how, at the climax of earth history, the wicked shall be swept off, and the Lord shall come in glory to reign over the righteous for a thousand years of peace. The Earth Is the Lord's VERY person professing belief in Jesus Christ as the Redeemer of the world and the Only Begotten Son of God, by and through whom all things were created, must agree with the psalmist: "The earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein" (Psalms 24:1). Since this is true, the time must come when the present order of things must change and a perfect universal and divine theocracy be established upon the earth, never again to be destroyed or overcome by rebellious men who seek their own selfish ends and the usurpation of political power. It cannot be disputed successfully that the rightful Ruler of this earth does not at this present time occupy his place of power and honor which belongs to him. If he tuled upon the earth today, and his law was supreme and _ enforced among all peoples, there could be no more war, no strife, no envying or wickedness among the people. There would be only happiness and peace, for every man would seek the welfare and eternal blessing of every other man among every race and people. Perilous Times It is very apparent that we are living in perilous times. Rulers in some of the nations are despotic and dictatorial; the freedom of many peoples has been taken from them even as it was in ancient days of monarchial despotism. The freedom and liberty, which by divine tight belong to the people have, in many places, been destroyed, and the people have become pawns in the hands of wicked, unscrupulous dictators. Jealous nations are watching each other, fearful that some political, territorial, or trade advantage will be seized upon by some rival power to the disadvantage of themselves. With greedy eyes some nations are gazing upon the territory of weaker nations and seeking a pretext by which they may pounce upon them and seize the coveted territory. The day has come when fear has entered into the hearts of worldly rulers. The whole world is in commotion and a fearful looking forth to the time when war shall again be poured out without measure upon the inhabitants of the earth. Even in this land, dedicated to liberty, and where the hand of the Page 67 68 Lord guided our fathers in righteous endeavor to establish freedom of conscience, equality and justice for all the oppressed, we find strife and commotion. Organizations are at work intent on the overthrow of constitutional government and the setting up of some such system as today prevails in some distant parts of the earth. The liberties of the people are threatened. 'The Constitution of the United States is in grave danger, as was predicted by the Prophet Joseph Smith. It is the duty of all members of the Church to uphold and sustain this Government and to stand by the Constitution and preserve it from al! Unwarranted and destructive attacks. This is our duty until Christ shall come to take his place as the rightful Ruler of all the earth. The fact remains that while we have a government here, the fundamental laws of which were directed by and given to us through the inspiration of the Lord, nevertheless the Government is not the kingdom of God which eventually is to be set up and have dominion over all the earth. No one need take offense at this saying, for the men and women in our nation who are the most lawabiding and patriotic hold to this view, which has been proclaimed by divine commandment, and _ they, like the righteous in times of old, confidently look for the coming of a country, and "'a city whose builder and maker is God" (Hebrews 11: 10). The Second Coming of Christ The Savior taught his disciples that he would come to the earth again in the last days in power and great glory to set up his kingdom RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 and bring to pass the end of the world. By "end of the world," is not meant the end of the earth, but the end of the reign of Satan, or of wickedness. Isaiah, by the spirit of prophecy, speaks of the second coming, and declares that at that day Christ will come in the clouds of heaven with dyed garments, glorious in his apparel, traveling in the greatness of his strength (Isaiah 63: 1-4; compare D. & C. 133:63-74). The ancient apostles had a perfect understanding that Christ would come to reign on the earth for one thousand years. In the epistles they dwell upon this great event with warnings to the saints to watch in faithfulness and endure to the end. Since the fall of Adam and his ejection from the garden of Eden, Satan has usurped authority and dominion upon the earth. This he could not have done if the children of Adam had not hearkened to him and followed him in his wickedness. In the wisdom of the Almighty, this domination by the forces of evil, with Lucifer at their head, has been permitted that men might be tried and proved according to the plan declared before the foundation of the earth was laid. The time is near, even at our doors, when this unrighteous dominion of the earth and its inhabitants, governments, kingdoms, and peoples by Satan shall come to an end. No one knows better than Lucifer that the days of his power are near their end. For this reason he is raging in the hearts of the people and stirring them up to anger and strife, as predicted by Nephi. For this reason the whole earth is filled with violence which will increase until LESSON DEPARTMENT Christ comes as the Prince of Peace to set all things in order. Shortly after the restoration of the Church the Lord said: For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion. And also the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world (D. & C. 1:35-36). The time has now come when peace has been taken from the earth, and the devil has, today, power over his own dominion. That dominion will soon cease to be. The other part of this prophecy is about to be fulfilled. The scourge of the Lord is now passing over the nations, as he promised it should in the day of wickedness, "and the report thereof" is vexing all people, but we have been told that "it shall not be stayed until the Lord come." A Gathering of the Righteous Daniel had opened to his vision the prophetic history of nations from his time to the end of the world. (Read Daniel 7:9-22.) With the explanation which has come to the Church by revelation this vision is made clear. We have been informed that the place where the Ancient of Days shall sit is Adamondi-Ahman, in Missouri. At this place Adam dwelt after he was driven from the garden of Eden. Here, three years before his death, he called his posterity together, those who were righteous, and blessed them, and "they rose up 69 and blessed Adam, and called him Michael, the prince, the archangel" (D. & C. 107:54). In ful fillment of this scene in Daniel's vision, here, once again, Adam— the Ancient of Days—shall come to visit his people at a time when the judgment shall sit, and Christ shall come and receive dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, which shall not pass away, and "all people, nations, and languages, shall serve him" (Daniel 7:14). This gathering of the children of Adam, where the thousands, and the tens of thousands are assembled in the judgment, will be one of the greatest events this troubled earth has ever seen. At this conference, or council, all who have held keys of dispensations will render a report of their stewardship. Adam will do likewise, and then he will surrender to Christ all authority. Then Adam will be confirmed in his calling as the prince over his posterity and will be officially installed and crowned eternally in this presiding calling. Then Christ will be received as King of Kings, and Lord of Lords (D. H. C. III, pp. 386-7). We do not know how long a time this gathering will be in session, or how many sessions may be held at this grand council. It is sufficient to know that it is a gathering of the Priesthood of God from the beginning of this earth down to the present, in which reports will be made and all who have been given dispensations will declare their keys and ministry and make report of their stewardship according to the parable. Judgment will be rendered unto them, for this will be a gathering of the righteous, those who have held and who hold keys of authority in the kingdom of God upon this earth. When all things are prepared and every key and power set in order with a full and perfect report of each man's stewardship, then Christ will receive these reports and be installed as rightful Ruler of this earth. At this grand council he will take his place by the united voice of the thousands who by right of Priesthood are there assembled. This will precede the great day of the destruction of the wicked and will be the preparation for the millennial reign. The Earth to Be Cleansed of Wickedness Following this grand council there shall come upon the earth great changes. In the restoration, spoken by the mouths of all the holy prophets since the world began, the earth is to be renewed and cleansed from all unrighteousness. In that day all enmity and evil are to cease and the nations are to be swallowed up as part of the kingdom of Jesus Christ, after they have been cleansed of their wicked inhabitants as proclaimed in the Holy Scriptures. (See D. & C. 101:23-31.) The day and the hour of the Lord's coming no man knows, neither the angels in heaven, but he will come when the vast majority of mankind are the least prepared for it, and when they are denying his power, saying that he delayeth his coming. It will be a time similar in all respects to the days of Noah, when the great flood swept over the earth. Malachi speaks of the day of the coming of the Lord and declares that it shall burn "as an oven; and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble: and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch" (Malachi 4:1). In this manner have all the prophets spoken. Wickedness must come to an end, for it would be inconsistent to have Satan loose seeking to regain his lost power and contending with men, as he has done for six thousand years. During the earth's Sabbath, the seventh thousand years, which is set apart as the reign of peace and righteousness, Christ will rule undisturbed by any wicked element or influence from the adversary of truth and righteousness. Not only will the earth be cleansed from all wickedness during the reign of peace, but the Church, or kingdom of God now known as the Church, will be cleansed also. 'The Lord declared it in the following words: "The Son of Man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and them which do iniquity" (Matthew 13:41). We know that the coming of the Lord is near, but we have been assured that he will not come until the cup of iniquity is full. Notwithstanding all the warnings, and the plainness of the message which has come to us, the inhabitants of the world will go on about their business, paying little heed, until that day shall be upon them. For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of the whole earth, 70 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT ai Preserve Your Relief Society Magazines For Reference Have your Relief Society Magazines bound into permanent yearly volumes. They are excellent for reference. Cost is small. Write or phone today for information. Deseret News Press 8 SOUTH MAIN STREET 10) 4-258] Salt Lake City, Utah Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man (Luke 21:35-36). Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why is Christ truly termed the rightful Ruler of this earth? 2. Appoint one to describe the great events, foretold by Daniel and explained by the Prophet, which will occur in the valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman when Christ is officially installed as King of Kings. 3. Why must the earth be cleansed from all unrighteousness before the millenial reign can be ushered in? 4. Repeat the parable of the fig tree. Give evidence that the signs of the coming the Son of man in power and great glory are all about us. 5. Describe conditions on the earth during that blissful period when all mankind shall dwell in goodness and peace for a thousand years. 71 ahah ahah ah ahah ahabahavahsl Beautiful SACRED CHORUSES bo RELIEF SOCIETY SSA — How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings—Liddle.................... 16 =A If God Forgot—O'Hare...........20 —_ Let the Mountains Shout For Joy—Stephens.................. 15 a Lord Is My Light—Allitsen.......18 = My God and!—Withol...........20 a O Day of Rest and Gladness—Schumann............... 15 — One Sweetly Solemn Thought—Ambrose...............--- 15 _ Seek Ye the Lord—Roberts.......15 fl Thanks Be To God—Dickson.....16 — That Sweet Story of Old— West -20 WE PAY POSTAGE Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement on your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated above. 0 On Approval 1 Charge ( Money Enclosed Name... Cece cence eee eee Address.............. City & State SALT LAKE CITY 2, UTAM The Summer Kitchen (Continued from page 45) her children, though. It went like electricity into energy and determination; and in the days before the children spied their father coming down the road, she had partly turned the world over, so to speak, and the children had helped her. Down from the canyon came John. He was singing, Splash came the horses through the big ditch, and there was John sitting on top of a big load of—no it was not firewood—but a big load of planed lumber! "The new summer kitchen!" breathed Sally Anne, and she leaned against the door frame. Then she managed, in spite of tears in her voice, to say, "Oh, John!" VIDA FOX CLAWSON Announces Two Winter Tours HAWALL === MEXICO For complete details, write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple — Tel. 4-2017 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Flectric WATER HEATING Is Thrifty! Utah Power & Light Co. WINTER TERM at your Chaurch Schools Start off the New Year by enrolling at L. D. S. Business College New Classes for the New Year— @ GREGG SIMPLIFIED SHORTHAND @ HY-SPEED LONGHAND @ BUSINESS MATH @ OFFICE MACHINES These and many other classes begin Monday, January 5th You're always cordially welcome at BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY BUSINESS COLLEGE Branch | 1) \ 70 North Main e @hI@ Salt Lake City, Utah 72 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1953 NEW WITNESS FOR Gop Vol. 1, UT 1, Volume I A Stirring dissertation on Joseph Smith, £ Prophet, 4S a Witness of God, ormon 12¢ Postage for fest 'ad 4c for each there. 4, AUTOBIOGRAPHY PARLEy P. PRA IT The lif and = — 1 f xenon enesee alls — SeehPHeRt A - | pgp) 2 PRT 2 5. THE WRITINGS OF PARLEY P. PR Parke COMPREHENS IVE OF R The great SWeep of the founding, Stowth and developm Of the Church Written under the inspired Pen of one of our Greatest istoriang Volume I From founding to 1839 (BeJinnings ). Volume il From 1839 to 1846 (Growth ).: Volume nT From 1846 to 185] (Exodus West), ys Volume Iv From 1851 to 1860 (Colonj. Zation), 10, Volume Vv From 1860 to 1880 (Expan. Sion),. Volume VI ATT From 1889 0 1930 (Con. Solidation ). CP, Robison The complete set $30 1 t COver, Te are the dis (Add 20¢ Postage songs Written by & of our earliest church leaders "The Eterna] of th ing heretofore "Unpublished 9S of this 6 For which } enclose check [7 $ ollowing circled Sreat leader, emple, Salt Lake City, Utah.: books: 8 9 10 1 or money order [7 for Now collected under one Courses, eg YS, poems and Single volo co*e208) Or each volume ) U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 WOW ~ WOW \: SS Bs ¢ a \ SS we BERN \ NRG NS BA. # @ 4 NY XK § XY made him a special kind of cap... He says it also only takes a little while for my Bene-: ficial policy to grow big enough __ to pay for my education. Daddy mrpeetty pert The qualified Beneficial Life © Underwriter in your community is anxious to help you plan your family's financial future. OVER QUARTER BILLION OF LIFE INSURANCE IN FORCE ye X a F Our family built the snowman in just a little while and daddy David 0. McKay, Pres. \ \ a@a@e Xs wants to be sure that someda lil wear a cap like this. Salt Lake City, Utah VOL 40 NO 2 P<,: ' _ FEBRUARY 1953 all von Lehi Wakes Again Dorothy J]. Roberts Lehi wakes again in these deep eyes, For dawn unraveling his shroud of night Reveals arroyos where his red dust lies, His fables crumbling in the mesa's light. He walked in his decreed immunity Spared, when his fair kin met oblivion's waves; Through sinful eras, saved by chastity, He built his hogan on the fair ones' graves. Penanced with clouded sight and darkened skin, He roamed, lost courier of the distant dead; Stalking the centuries in moccasin He left few symbols save the arrowhead. Lehi looks again toward the promised land From persecution's wide and bitter sea. Calm is the spirit tried on trackless sand Where patience hardens into majesty. His fair, white kinship to its source will trace Through blood remembered, when his mind is freed. Lehi lives in this long-chastened race To fill the covenant upon his seed. The Cover: Mount Athabaska, Jasper National Park, Canada Photograph by Bob Bishop Cover Design by Evan Jensen Frontispiece: Taos Indian, Photograph by Hal Rumel From Near and Sar I find peace and calm for my need in the December frontispiece. This is the most beautiful painting of Christ I have seen—and the child touches my _heartstrings. And the poem on the opposite page ("They Looked for Him" by Lael W. Hill) is so beautiful. These 'two pages give so much to so many in and out of the Church. I am enjoying all of the Magazine, but believe I have received most, along with the frontispiece picture and poem, from the editorial— "From a Far Country'—which has the metaphor and imagery of a poem, and from the little article "Not Wholly Yourself" (by Kate Richards, page 862). Also, I shall use the information given in "Christmas Aprons From Scraps" (By Celia Luce, page 835).. —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho I usually get to Church, sixteen miles away, Sunday night, but, of course, I miss Relief Society. I do enjoy the Magazine, which helps to keep me abreast of the activities. 'The Christmas poetry is excellent. I particularly like Ruth H. Chadwick's "Christmas Preparations" and Martha Whiting Brown's "Journey to the Holy Land." I was glad to see another poem by Gertrude Kovan ("Early _ Sunrise," page 860). —Matia McClelland Burk, Tombstone, Arizona I just received the December Relief Society Magazine, with its beautiful, uplifting articles and poetry. I made the delicious almond tortes (from the recipe on page 190, March 1951) and they were very much enjoyed by my guests. I am going to try some of the other cookery recipes. The Relief Society Magazine writers are marvelous authors of short stories. 'Thank you for such lovely reading and for the extremely practical household suggestions. —Helen McQuarrie Evans Salt Lake City, Utah Sweden is the best mission ever for me. I love to teach the gospel, and find that a mission helps to make one alert, kind, studied, and clean in mind and body, and with. All these gifts from our Father in heaven, we can reach the human soul and teach the principles of the gospel. —Hilda O. Malmberg Kalmar, Sweden I have just finished reading the article "Activities of Latter-day Saint Women in Europe" (by Emma Ray McKay, December 1952) and it touched my heart greatly. It so aptly proves that we are all of one family.... It is heartwarming to learn of those in other countries being faithful against every obstacle. —Mrs. Mabel Rogers Seattle, Washington Thanks for your lovely letter of acceptance of my story "Pot-Head Kettle." Your letter brought with it the thrill and the joy which all letters of acceptance bring, but it brought something else—a closeness, a sort of belonging, of reaching out to my own people. As a child I would sit for hours listening to the oldsters tell true experience stories of their lives. Some day I would like to put those stories in book form, that others might sec and know those great people. —Velma D. Cloward Turlock, California I would like to say how much I think the covers are of beauty this year. I have them lined up for easy reaching to back numbers, and they are like a flower garden, with their pinks, yellows, lavenders, and greens. Charming idea. —Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho Being a regular subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine, I have for. Many years been very interested in the poems and stories that are published from time to time, which I feel sure are sent in by Relief Society sisters. —Arvella N. Jaynes Crescent, Utah I read and enjoy The Relief Society Magazine so much—such clean, wholesome and inspiring stories and poems, together with the wonderful lesson outlines, articles, and features for the home—so much we gain by reading the Magazine. —Pauline O. Snow Ferron, Utah I have to sit in a wheel chair now on account of arthritis, but I get a lot of good out of the Magazine. I enjoy it very much. —BMrs. Irene O. Clawson Hyrum, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - i -. President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First-Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - _Second Counselor. Margaret C. Pickering - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Lillie C. Adams Christine H. Robinson Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson eine M. Young Nellie W. Neal Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Josie B. Bay Mildred B. Eyring Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Alta J. Vance Helen W. Anderson RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol 40 » FEBRUARY 1953 No. 2 Con tents 4 SPECIAL FEATURES The Fluorescence of the Lamanites Spencer W. Kimball 76 "Wings of the Morning"' Ruth Young 106 FICTION '*'Morning's at Seven'' — Second Prize Story Mabel S. Harmer 82 Charlie's Wife Simley, Sargent 89 Trite, But True Iris W. Schow 102 A Time to Forget — Chapter 8 Fay Tarlock 116 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 74 Sixty Years Ago 96 Woman's Spree Ramona W. Cannon 97 Editorial: ''Whosoever Will Be Great Among You" Vesta P. Crawford 98 Birthday Greetings to President y Brown Lyman 99 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activties i General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering 121 FEATURES FOR THE HOME A Party That's Different Yvonne Child Hiss 102 Adventure in Glass—VII. Old Glass in New Houses Alberta H. Christensen 108 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: The Words of Jacob Recorded by Nephi: Leland H. Monson 126 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''And If It 2, Be That the Children of Men Keep the Commandments' Leone 6. Jacobs 130 Work Meeting: Use and Distribution of Income Rhea H. Gardner 131 Literature: Readings in Romanticism—A Review Briant S. Jacobs 132 Social Science: Destiny of the Earth and Man Archibald F. Bennett 137 POETRY Lehi Wakes Again—Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts 73 The Dispossessed Zera Wilde Earl 88 My Hearth Ru Ethel Hopper 88 The Familiar Dark Margery S. Stewart 94 Night Grace Barker Wilson 95 Afterthought Beulah Huish Sadleir 101 George Wastiligien Christie Lund Coles 107 Old Couple tace Sayre 115 Nostalgia Ouida Johns Pedersen 125 Forever Summer Eva Willes Wangsgaard 136 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 38-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. The Fluorescence of the Lamanites Elder Spencer W. Kimball Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 1, 1952] pay tribute to you, the mothers of Israel, and thank the Lord for you, and for the glorious work that you are doing in Zion. I come to realize more and more, as my experience broadens, the vast influence and power that a small minority may wield in this world, in politics, in religion, in social activities, everywhere you go. A small group, united in purpose, with definite goals, may greatly influence the great majorities. Sister Spafford mentioned that the subject of my talk would be the Indian Relations work. I should like: to broaden that slightly, and discuss with you the minority program. Last year the brethren saw fit to reorganize the proselyting program within the stakes of Zion. The First Presidency and the Council of the - Twelve were brought into the program with the First Council of the Seventy, and some additional prestige has come to this great program. The 35,000-odd conversions in the past fifteen years under the First Council of the Seventy have proved the power of this work. I feel that we have hardly scratched the surface in the proselyting endeavor in the stakes of Zion. Now that stakes are scattered from ocean to ocean, from the north to the south, and we have strong leadership and many people, there is no reason now why we canPage 76 not reach out and bring into our numbers the millions of good, honorable people of the world, who are searching for the truth. The stake missionary program, as now ré-org@nized, is under the direction of President Stephen L Richards of the First Presidency. President Joseph Fielding Smith is the chairman of all of the missionary endeavor. There is a sub-committee on the stake missionary work, and included in the stake missionary work is the proselyting of the minority groups. | This is not limited to the Indians, though in many of the stakes, perhaps half of the stakes of Zion, the Indian program looms the largest of all the minority groups. However, we have far more Lamanite people speaking the Spanish language in the stakes of Zion, and there are areas where the Japanese are predominant, and there are other minority groups—the Greeks, the Italians, and others. It is the purpose of the stake missionary work to reach out and proselyte, and bring into the Church these many wonderful people. It is far easier for us to teach the gospel to the Japanese, the Chinese, the Italians, the Greeks, and the Spanish, here, rather than to go to their homeland where laws and competition and persecution as well as the language barrier, control and limit our efforts. THE FLUORESCENCE OF THE LAMANITES In the stake missionary work now is the work for the minorities, and the work for the minorities includes all of these various groups. I should like to read at this juncture the instructions of the First Presidency of the Church as sent to the presidencies of stakes in May of this year. 4 In or near many stakes of the Church are found groups of Indians, Spanishspeaking people, Japanese, Chinese, Greeks, Armenians, Italians, and others. Where such minority groups are found, it may be desirable to have district presidents supervise the work among them. Missionaries who have returned from foreign missions, especially those who speak the language of the minority groups, should be called to labor in this field, and, wherever possible, converts from among the groups themselves should be used as missionaries among their own people. In many stakes are groups of Indians who are somewhat permanently located. In others, Indians come from the reservations for seasonal employment. Careful planning should be made to prepare for these people. Too frequently the Indians are about ready to leave the area before the missionaries are alerted to the need. Sometimes missionaries and stake officers feel that since the transients are going to be there for only a short time no good will come of working with them. But many converts have been made in a period of a few days in the fields, on the railroad track, in the mines, or on the ditchbank. Many of the Indians returning to their reservations after the seasonal work take with them fond memories of kindnesses and of testimonies, and frequently complete their conversion at home. The stake and ward auxiliaries, with their enlistment committees and other facilities, should lend the fullest possible assistance and cooperation in aiding the stake missionary program. They should gather information on investigators and others who might be interested, and cause 77 such information to be transmitted to the mission presidency. They should, whereever possible, adapt classes to meet the needs of investigators and new converts. Stake presidencies will arrange for a proper correlation of the auxiliary organization with the stake mission. We no longer call it the Indian Relations Committee. We no longer call it the Correlation Committee. However, the functions have not changed, as you note in the last two lines: "Stake presidencies. Will arrange for a proper correlation of the auxiliary organizations with the stake mission." HIS means, sisters, no diminu- ~~ tion, no relaxing, in the. Program of. Carrying the work to the minority groups. It is merely new emphasis. It is the old program, but we are using the organization which we have: the stake presidency, the stake mission presidency, the high councilors, the auxiliary leaders in the stakes, and then the stake missionaries, of course, under the stake mission presidency, all working co-operatively together to take the gospel to those who are in need in the various stakes. Now the work in all of the stakes is so varied, it is a difficult thing to work out a program which will fit all conditions found. In the regular work in the stakes the sisters may study literature and social science, as well as work day and theology, but among the minorities, sometimes the work must be adapted to suit the needs of the people. Literature, obviously, would not fit the needs of some of the groups who are less cultured among the minorities, and so substitutions are made by wise stake presidencies and auxiliary leaders in those stakes. Now, I have wondered how I could best stimulate and encourage you folks toward the promotion of this work, and it seemed to me that perhaps if I. Gave to you some ex- | amples of work that has been done by your own selves, that that inspiration might pass to others of you. Being very intelligent people, you can adapt programs, All you need, I am sure, is the original vision, a vision of millions of good folks who need the gospel, millions of minority peoples who have been long deprived, and particularly millions of Lamanites, some sixty million, who have the blood of Lehi in their veins—these people, who have been so long deprived, and who need the gospel so much! O I should like to quote from some of your own sisters in some of your stakes, the work that has been done in some of them, hoping that you may catch the spirit of it, and the vision of it, and go back into your own stakes, and under the direction of 'your stake presidency, find ways and means to bring the gospel to these people. Reno Stake From the Reno Stake, Sister Oxborrow writes: At the time the Relief Society was organized three years ago in Fallon, there were no baptized members, and now there are twenty. They have also six non-members who attend the meetings regularly. The monthly visits of the visiting teachers are doing much to break down the superstitions of these people, and in gaining their confidence and friendship. Some of the Indian sisters are officers, and attend our union meetings regularly. The visiting teachers are - being welcomed in the homes, now, where, at first, they were not. This has also proved an opportunity to help improve their home conditions. They are teaching them how to care for themselves and their families, and how to can foods. At our visiting teachers' convention tw@ weeks ago, three of the Indian sisters sang for us. One of the Indian sisters bore her testimony. She said it was quite difficult for her to preach the gospel to her people because of their legends, but said that the gospel seemed to be what they had been trying to remember. Union Stake Sister Lindsay in the Union Stake said that two sisters were sustained on the Relief Society stake board as a special committee to work with Indian women on the Umatilla Indian Reservation.: When we held our annual stake homemaker's day here in LeGrande, our Indian sisters had a beautiful display. Meetings were held twice monthly, and attendance increased from three at first to thirteen during the winter. Indian sisters were asked what they would like to do or learn, and a vote showed a preference for quilting. Besides quilting, knitting, crocheting, and cooking were taught. Such foods as corn bread, cocoa, bread puddings, and sauces, doughnuts, and applesauce were taught, and a blessing on the food was always given by the Indian women. They gave lessons on the gospel, too, and hymns were taught. North Box Elder and South Box Elder Stakes From Brigham City, Sister Wight and Sister Knudson report: In three years' work we have been able to reach about twenty women. At first they were very cold and reserved, but now they accept us as their friends 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 THE FLUORESCENCE OF THE LAMANITES and helpers. We have had a weekly work meeting during the three years. We have given them all the arts and crafts taught in our Relief Societies, including crocheting, knitting, textile painting, flower and quilt making. They have finished eight lovely quilts. Humboldt Stake Sister Burner, from Elko, writes: The Lamanites who have joined the Church seem to be faithful people, and we hope that we can continue our labors with them. If we do not, they will be sorely disappointed. One Indian woman in Wells has been baptized and is a visiting teacher and a Primary teacher. She is very faithful in attending to her duties. A few days ago President Dahl mentioned this sister to me and said, "She is one of the finest teachers in our whole stake.' She is a full-blooded Indian. Kanab Stake Sister Heaton writes from Moccasin, Arizona: The care of their children and homemaking are improving. They make their own quilts and sew and mend. The Relief Society teachers make a monthly visit to each Indian home. ~ Sevier Stake Elder Christensen, down in Richfield, writes that they have a Relief Society with the Indian ladies alone. The meetings are effective, and the attendance is good; they plan a lesson to present along with sewing and quilting. During the past season they have completed seventeen quilts and have six in the making. Snowflake Stake Sister Hendrickson flake reports: at SnowWe have attempted to hold meetings among the cucumber pickers of Shumway, Taylor, and Snowflake. Through 79 the efforts of one of our sisters, at Flagstaff, an entire family of Hopi Indians joined the Church. I can see that they (the Indian women, generally) have made a few improvements in cleanliness and a marvelous advancement in their attitudes toward us. One day a Lutheran minister walked into our Relief Society meeting. As is often the case, a husband of one of the women was present. The minister proceeded to try to discredit the Mormons, trying to stir up contention. Then this young Indian husband stood up and defended us. He said he was glad we came to teach his wife good things, and he wanted us to keep coming. Just that speech was pay for all that I have done. The message taken into all the homes in the stake for a year was, for this stake, "Do a kind act for an Indian." San Juan Stake From Blanding, writes: Sister. Hurst We have two Relief Society organizations among this people, one for the Navajos, and one for the Utes. We have attempted to give them some simple lessons on health. We have some old sewing machines, and with them we have taught the Indian women to piece quilt tops. The Indian women buy quilt batts and use them with the tops which they make, and the backs which they buy. They have quite a number of very good serviceable quilts for their families. Some of them are very good at making clothing for their families, too. This year, on her own initiative, one woman has bottled over 120 quarts of fruit, besides making some jams and drying some apricots and peaches. One Indian family planted and raised a very nice garden, and: from it gathered a good deal of produce, some of which is being dried for use in the winter months ahead. We are attempting to teach them how to darn. One thing we have learned is that every one who works with our Lamanite sisters learns to love them. St. George Stake Sister Dewsnup of St. George, says: Lessons on gospel subjects, the Golden Rule, cleanliness, sanitation, and honesty are given, and they are taught to sing our hymns and to pray. All the women make quilts, etc. Mt. Graham Stake Sister Merrill of the stake board writes that she fixes meals in her home, shows these women the many conveniences that she has, lets them help to prepare the meal. One of the Indian brothers there said, "Well, I sure believe in the way you treat the Indians." Cedar Stake Sister Parry reports: Of the thirteen babies born in our village last year and this, nine died, four lived. We teach them nursing. Two Indian women completed a home nursing course under the direction of the Red Cross in the spring. The Welfare co-ordinator of this region reports that the attitude of the Indians receiving Welfare is very good, and above that of some of our own white people receiving Welfare, in that most of them are willing and anxious to work for what they receive. We have been able to remodel and mend enough clothes for most of the children in the village, as well as for most of the grown folks. Millard Stake From Kanosh, in Millard Stake, where Sister Beckstrand presides, we have this report: They (the Indian women) seem to enjoy our theology and work meetings. One sister wept silently as we delivered the teachers' topic in her home. Last Thursday we held our work meeting at the Indian camp. All attended. A card table with a white cover and a centerpiece of asters made the undecorated room homey and attractive. Roosevelt Stake At Ouray, some forty quilts were made out in the Roosevelt Stake. At Randlett, from one home where they had grown a fairly good garden of their own, a sixty-five year old Indian mother brought for me to see, pint bottles of string beans, little carrots, plums, etc., and her face was beaming with pride as she wiped the bottles with a white cloth, and how they sparkled! She said, "The Relief Society teaches us how to do it." Maricopa Stake Sister Brinton writes that one of the finest things that has ever affected their Indian sisters there was the request from the general board of the Relief Society for every member to pay the $5 to the Relief Society Building. They feared they could not do it. But with some encouragement from the stake authorities, they went to work. President Wright gave a dozen chickens for a chicken dinner, then each of the Indian women gave a chicken. President Wright gave the cakes from his bakery, and Bishop Hicks gave $25. In the next months we had an average attendance of 22 out of 27 enrolled. Some walked as far as 3 miles to be there. Two old women, almost blind, could weave pot holders and were always there. The Indian girls served. They made themselves crepe paper aprons and caps and some sisters were with them to help them prepare and show them how, but had them do all the cooking and serving. After they paid their assessment to the general board they had $299 left. The Spanish-American Lamanite Relief Society was the first, and the Indian Relief Society the third in the whole stake to turn in their quota. And wasn't the Spanish-American branch here in Salt Lake the first in the Church to reach the goal? 'Sister Spafford says this is correct. 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 THE FLUORESCENCE OF THE LAMANITES Almost all of the Lamanite sisters can make light bread, wholewheat and white, beautiful cakes and pies, rolls, etc. Phoenix Stake In the Phoenix Stake they are doing an admirable work. Several different groups of Indians, and Spanish-Americans, are doing a wonderful work there. Sister Shumway writes: | We realize that our real purpose with the Lamanite people is to teach them the gospel. Their interest grew in The Book of Mormon, and then we taught them with flannel- -grams, and with the stories and pictures, pictures brought from Salt Lake, which had their attention. We have encouraged the women to go to the hospital to have their babies, so there would be greater safety and there would be less loss of life. The Government hospital there gives them five days in maternity cases. We teach these dear people everything from soap making to marriage vows, and family ties. A year or so ago the first marriage which most of them can remember was performed. Our bishop performed the marriage. The stake president was present and gave a fine talk on marriage. It was in the schoolhouse, and we decorated with flowers, had a lovely refreshment table, with music, and did our best to make it sweet and lovely. There were forty invited guests, and they sat wide-eyed and quiet. Many eyes were filled with tears, which spilled over and ran down brown, freshly scoured cheeks. Men attend the meetings in many of these cases. GISTERS, this is a great work. There are limitless possibilities, as limitless as are your dreams of the night and your thoughts of the day, and your interest and your love for 81 your fellow men and women. You can go out to these people, take your sisters to these camps. You can provide a program that will inspire them. I want to close with my favorite theme, that quilts and cans of fruits and vegetables and layettes and banquets and bazaars and clothing and sewing and cooking and sanitation and nursing and knitting, and all those things are but the bolts and the screws and the fenders and the wheels and the tires of the vehicle that takes us to our goal. Our goal is not to make quilts. Our goal is to make saints of the Lamanite people, and the other minority groups. It is to build character; it is to build faith; it is to give them knowledge of their Lord and his program. - The Lord said, "This is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). He did not mean the white man only, he meant the red man and the brown man. And that is your privilege as executives and officers in the Relief Societies of this Church, under your stake presidencies and in co-operation with the stake missions, to carty the gospel of peace and good will and love to the minority groups in this the true Church, the Church of Jesus Christ. I bear testimony of the divinity of this work, and the divinity of this Church, and I do it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest '"Morning's at Seven"' Mabel S. Harmer She had been told to sit there on the porch and shell peas. If her mother had wanted to get her away she could easily have said, "Run down and gather some currants, Janey." Or, "You may go and play now, dear. The peas can wait." She did that often enough, when Mrs. Mathews came across the street to visit. Janey was awfully glad that today wasn't one of those times. She did so love to hear Mrs. Mathews talk. She knew absolutely everything about everybody and rolled the most delicious little bits of news off her tongue. It was easy to tell that she got real enjoyment just out of talking. Right now, however, she was merely telling about Mrs. Whitcomb's operation, and it wasn't at all exciting, so Janey went back to thinking of Pippa, the little factory girl, about whom she had been reading last night. Pippa was an entrancing character. She had only one day in all the year for herself, and had used that day to go through the countryside singing her song. Although Pippa didn't know it, the song had changed the lives of everyone who heard it. Pippa—what a lovely name! Janey said -it twice very softly. It sounded like a song sparrow at dawn or wood violets in April. As Page 82 J 'ste t was not eavesdropping. MABEL S. HARMER for her own. Name, it wouldn't always be just plain Jane. When she grew up and could wear nylons and a black satin dress she would spell it Jayne. Nearly everyone now called her Janey, so she would only have to juggle the y and e around. And Pippa's song! It was as lovely as her name. No wonder it changed everyone who heard it. Janey tried to make up a tune for the words, "The year's at the spring and day's at the morn, morning'svateseven®..." She was brought back with a start when she heard Mrs. Mathews mention Andrea Cline. "MORNING'S AT SEVEN" Anything about her music teacher would be interesting. She was so tall and had such beautiful camellia skin—at least, Janey called it that. And her great dark eyes! Besides, it was so romantic for her to live in the big Cline mansion that had been built by her grandfather, who, some people said, was a rogue. Whatever he was, he had certainly built a beautiful big house with a sparkly glass chandelier in the parlor. "You know she must be nearly thirty now," Mrs. Mathews was saying. "And she's never been able to settle on another fellow since Steve Welling married. After his wife died I thought sure...." "It's nothing but pride that keeps them apart," Janey's mother interrupted. "And mighty foolish pride at that. Steve met Elsie _ while he was down in Georgia in the army. I guess he was like a lot of the other boys—so upset with this war business that he didn't know what he was doing— and they'd get so lonely and all. Not that Elsie wasn't a sweet little girl, but now that she's dead, and Steve is left with those two children...." "That's just the trouble,' declared Mrs. Mathews emphatically. "T'm just as sure as I am that I'm sitting here that he wants to make up with her, but he's afraid it might look like all he wanted was someone to take care of the children—although, goodness knows, he sure needs someone better than that poor, old, slow-moving Mrs. Ransome. And Andrea's too proud to lift a finger to get him back because he didn't ask her in 7 first place." 83 JeXEY let the peas fall absently through her fingers as she drew a mental picture of the lovely Andrea Cline sitting alone in the big two-story house with the glass chandelier and the attic made into a ballroom—her beauty gradually fading, while she taught five-finger exercises to the little girls of Torrey, turning away all suitors because she still loved Steve Welling. With Mrs. Mathews' next words, the fascinating, soul-stirring picture was shattered. Janey gave such a start that the pan fell right off her lap and half the peas went rolling across the porch. "She's going away, you know." It was clear from her tone that Mrs. Mathews had been saving this choice bit of gossip until the last. "She's leaving for Boston to study music, although I'm sure I don't know why she needs any more." Janey knelt to scoop up the peas before her mother saw them and had a conniption. This was a tertible situation. Something must be done about it. Andrea musn't be allowed to go off to a big city where she would never see Steve Welling again while his little girls grew up just getting their hair combed every other day and maybe no vitamins. It was up to somebody to do something about it—probably herself. Would it help to walk past the Cline house singing Pippa's song? Perhaps Andrea would listen and when she heard the words, "The hillside's dew pearled, the lark's on the wing," her heart would be so full of beauty that there would be no room for pride. On the other hand, maybe she wouldn't pay the least bit of attention. Pippa didn't. Know about the good that came from her song. But this was different. Janey had to know. She took the peas in the house and said, "If there isn't anything else for me to do I'd like to go for a walk." Her mother nodded, "All right, dear," and went ahead basting ruffles on curtains. Janey put on her wide-brimmed hat that she often thought would look beautiful trimmed with big, red roses, and walked briskly down the front steps. She didn't have a plan yet. She hoped one would come before she reached Andrea's house. All she knew was that she simply had to do something. Something so that she could sing "God's ' in his heaven; All's right with the world." So that Andrea and Steve could sing it, too—if they knew it. She walked the four blocks down to the Cline house, and still had no plan, so she stopped and picked a few rose berries from the bushes that climbed over the fence. For the first time she noticed how shabby the mansion was. The yellow paint had darkened and peeled. The front porch sagged, and the garden was overrun with weeds. All those rooms for just one person, thought Janey. I guess she'll never be able to sell it, unless someone needs it for a boarding house or a mortuary. But it could sure use a man around. There was no sound of the piano, so she knew that Andrea wasn't giving a music lesson. Should she sing, "And day's at the morn?" She'd have to sing awful loud to be heard above the mail truck coming down the street. 'There was one thing sure. Pippa didn't have to compete with motor trucks when she was singing. She thought once of going inside—but what could she say if she did? She couldn't very well plead with Andrea not to go to Boston. She couldn't stand there picking rose berries all day, so she walked along. She wasn't quite sure that she had meant to go past the Welling house, but the next thing— there it was. T looked very small after the Cline mansion, but it was fairly new, and everything, including the garden, was neat and trim. Janey sighed. It was a perfectly darling place, and maybe tile in the bathroom was better than a_ glass chandelier in the parlor. It would probably be better for them to live here. If nobody would buy the mansion for a mortuary, it could be made into apartments. She knew well enough there was no need of singing here. The song would do Mrs. Ransome no good, and Steve probably wasn't home. Anyway, at that moment, there was a shriek from within that would have drowned out all but the very loudest of songs. Janey walked up to the door. Maybe one of the children had just fallen from the top of the refrigerator. No one answered her knock, and the shrieks were becoming increasingly louder, so she walked in. The two little girls, who looked to be about three and four years of age, were fighting over a doll. There were at least a dozen 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 "MORNING'S AT SEVEN" other toys scattered about, but they were both determined to have that doll. Janey separated the two and consoled one of them with a battered Teddy bear. "Where's Mrs. Ransome?" she asked. "Downstairs," answered the older child. Janey was about to go and see if she had, by any chance, fallen down the stairs, when the basement door opened and Mrs. Ransome came into the kitchen. "Excuse me for walking in," said Janey.. "I knocked, but no one answered, and the children were screaming, so I thought I'd better come in and see if anything was the matter." She hoped that Mrs. Ransome wouldn't ask why she was there in the first place. It would have been a very hard question to answer. "One of them is always yelling," shrugged Mrs. Ransome. "Linda wants Gay's things, and the other way around. I was doing some _washing. I have to leave them alone sometimes or I'd never get anything done. All this work and fuss is too much for a woman of my age. I don't know as I can hold out much longer." "You do look awfully tired," sympathized Janey. "Would you like me to take them for a little walk?" Mrs. Ransome brightened at once. "I sure would appreciate it. Seems like I just can't get through the day unless I have a rest of some kind." Maybe I'd even have time to run down to the store." She looked at the tousled youngsters and sighed. "They ought to be 85 'cleaned up, though, only everything they own is in the wash." "They'll be all right," said Janey quickly. The beginnings of a wonderful plan had just popped into her head. "T'll take care of them." "That's mighty sweet of you. It's awful hard for me to get away. I just have to hang up the clothes, and I'll be through with the washing. HE plodded off, and Janey turned to the children. "Come on," she said brightly. "We're going for a walk." She knew that their faces could have done with a washing, but clean faces might be a detriment to her plan. Linda still clung to her rag doll and Gay to the Teddy bear. Janey took hold of the free hand of each. They had to walk slowly, but came at last to the Cline house. This time there was no hesitation. Janey swung the gate open on its rusty hinges and guided her party up to the front door. She hoped that Andrea was at home. If not, they would have to wait on the porch. There was too much at stake for her to go back now. She rang the bell and waited breathlessly, as the sound of footsteps came closer. The door opened, and Andrea said with a smile, "Well, Janey, this is a nice surprise. It seems that I have visitors." She swung open the screen door and ushered them inside. "I was just taking the children for a walk, so I thought we'd come in and see you. They wanted a drink," Janey added, with sudden inspiration.? "Of course. It's such a warm: day. Ill get them something at once. Do you care for them regularly?" she asked, starting for the door. "No, just for today. Mrs. Ransome has so much to do that she can't ever take them for a walk, and they were just dying to get out. Anyway, she's too old and slow. She can't even keep them clean— all the time. They're the Welling children, you know." Andrea stopped short for a brief moment, and her cheeks colored lightly. "Oh—I didn't know," she said, turning back to look at them again. Gay stared back with great, solemn eyes. Janey decided that she couldn't have done better if she had been coached. Linda sat down primly on a footstool and smoothed her. Doll's dress. Presently Andrea came _ back with glasses of milk and some cookies. "I thought they might like this better than just a drink of water. Anyway, you're supposed to give company light refreshments," she said gaily. "Lovely!" cried Janey. "I'm sure they don't get cookies very often. I'll bet they've never even tasted homemade ones, like these. I suppose Mrs. Ransome does her best, but she can't do more than just keep things going. She said today that she didn't think she could stay there much longer. I guess older women don't have much patience with children." She sighed as she patted Gay's tangled curls. "T daresay it is difficult," Andrea agreed. | "My mother says," Janey went on, "that Mr. Welling ought to get married again, but that he has too much pride to ask anyone, because they might think it's just to get a housekeeper. I think pride like that is a terrible thing, don't you?" "Yes—I suppose that the wrong kind of pride can cause a lot of heartache," Andrea agreed slowly. ANEY made her cookie last as long as possible, then remarked, "I guess we ought to be going. I thought maybe I'd take them home for supper tonight. With Mrs. Ransome going to town, there likely won't be much at their house. Mother is busy canning peas, but there's always something good and filling. We can go and see, anyway." 7 She stood up and was starting for the door, when Andrea said— almost as if she were forcing herself to speak—"I could give them some supper here tonight, if you like. I'm not especially busy." "Oh, could you really!' cried Janey quickly. "That would be wonderful. But I'd have to go home and get them some clean dresses. I'd have put them on before, but Mrs. Ransome was just through washing and they weren't dry enough to iron. I reckon Mr. _ Welling would just have a conniption if he ever found out I'd taken them away looking like this. Is it all right if-I phone him and ask him to pick them up here?" Janey held her breath. It was the most daring part of her whole plan, and she didn't know whether she had gone too far or not. Andrea bit her lip for a moment 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 "MORNING'S AT SEVEN" 87 Mabel S. Harmer, Salt Lake City, is well known to Relief Society Magazine readers for her serial stories: ""The Lotus Eater" (1937-38) and 'For the Strength of the Hills" (1951), as well as for her many excellent short stories which have appeared in the Magazine since 1933. Her story "The Pink Angel" was awarded third prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1944, and her story "Eloise and the Indian" received first prize in last year's contest. ~ Mrs. Harmer writes: "I have a husband—Earl W. Harmer, five children and six grandchildren. I am a member of the League of Utah Writers, having recently served as state president of that organization. Also, I am a member of the National League of American Penwomen. I have written the Deseret News daily children's story for the past five years, making a total of 1500 stories. My sixth book The Youngest Soldier will shortly be published by The Deseret Book Company. I have served in a number of stake and ward Church positions, and am currently teaching the social science lesson in the Garden Park Ward Relief Society." and then said, "I'll call him. Perhaps he would like to stay for dinner, too." "He works at the Balfour Lumber Company. I'll run for the clothes right now." She hurried down the street and took the dresses from the line. Then she left a note in the door for Mrs. Ransome, telling her that they would all be away for dinner. When she came back she found the little girls with scrubbed faces and smoothly combed hair. Janey ironed the dresses and helped put them on. "That's the way they ought to look all the time!" she exclaimed. "Aren't they just like little dolls?" "They're very sweet," Andrea agreed with a smile. Janey helped prepare the dinner and kept the children out of the way so that they would be the least possible trouble. She declined an invitation to stay, although she would gladly have given both eye teeth and her Christmas pearls to have done so. When it was nearly six she said fervently, "It was simply super of you to offer to give this poor family a good home-cooked meal. I'm sure that they'll never forget it." She knew that she ought to go straight home, but she couldn't resist hiding behind the lilac bush until Steve Welling came. After all, the happiness of four lives was at stake, and she had to know something of how it was going to turn out. _ He drove up in his old Chev and stopped at the gate. Then he got out slowly as if it took a lot of courage. All the time Janey stood with her fingers crossed, saying, "Come on, Mr. Welling. Brighten up and leave your silly pride out there in the Chev." - He opened the gate and seemed to smile at the creak. Must have remembered that, thought Janey. Then he walked up on the porch and rang the bell. She noticed that he didn't even have to look to see where it was. There was a tense moment be- fore the door opened. Then Andrea was standing there, looking like a camellia in her pale pink dress and saying in a warm voice that made tingles go up and down Janey's spine, "Come on in, Steve. It's good to see you." "It's wonderful to be here," he replied. He went in, and the door closed. Janey was walking on air as she turned to go. Se SY She opened the gate very carefully so as to subdue the creak. She picked some more rose berries and threw them up high into the maple tree. "The year's at the spring," she sang softly to a surprised robin. "And day's at the morn. Morning's at seven...." The six o'clock whistle blew. It was suppertime. Mother would have a conniption. +' & JS he Dispossessed Zera Wilde Earl Long skirt rippling, you trudge your tired way Beside your country road, your dress a tone From some forgotten tainbow gone astray, Your face deep-lined by the clouds your life has known. Swift-speeding drivers mark your Indian grace, _ Glance briefly at your calm and patient face. Your people claimed this valley once, roamed free Its sage-grown miles; knew every wind-swept hill; Caught fish in our blue river; cunningly Stalked game in those far canyons, deep and still; Watched flaming sunset die in the day's last light, Told tales of conquest round campfires at night. Our wheat fields ripen now, the valley's length; Snug and secure, our farm homes nestle where Those old trails lay, but though our puny strength Has triumphed, still the plan is in God's care. Our interval of power is but a bridge; The land, a loan, a borrowed heritage. My Hearth Rug Ethel Hopper A rug is on my hearthstone Like sunshine on the floor, Its welcome brightness greets me As I come in the door. I know how it was fashioned. How mother's face would shine As careful hands worked swiftly Creating a design. This cheers our little cottage And makes us feel a part With dear ones who are distant— Love from the old home's heart. 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 Charlie's Wife Shirley Sargent 66 HIS is it," Charlie said briefly and turned away to pay the cab driver. Oh, no, Ann thought, staring at the square box-like frame house beyond the sagging wire fence. Tired umbrella trees drooped, shading straggly flowers in the front yard, and stubble fields stretched out, surrounding the planted area. Horriblel How could you stand a place like this, she wondered, looking down at her dust-covered high heels. She could never call a house like _that home. Never. Dust swirled as the cab drove off. Charlie was beside her, his thin mouth twisting upwards, saying, "Well, honey?" Just hearing his flat, waiting tone brought all the frustration and disappointment in her out in a single angry statement. "It's a hovel," she said, letting hot tears press against her eyelids. "You knew I didn't have much money before we were married. In a way, you signed up for things like this." Charlie's blue eyes narrowed, and parallel lines etched between his brows as he spoke. "Oh, did I?" her voice shrilled unexpectedly on the still air. "I didn't dream then that you'd get yourself fired. And, now, look at us! Did you turn down all those good jobs just so you could drag me out to the sticks? Working for a contractor! What's so great about that? I'd rather live on less money in an apartment than move to a dump like this.", Charlie's voice was still quiet, but no longer flat. ""There're plenty of reasons for starting here, Ann. But let's not dig up past history; let's start fresh." He put his arm around her. "New job, new home, new attitude. Here, I'll carry you over the threshold." "No." She pushed him away. "There's nothing romantic about this doorstep." She stepped quickly over the hardpacked earth toward the door. Grizzled tentacles of devil grass spread thinly over the dirt. As Ann grasped the door knob, it came off in her hand. That does it, she thought, feeling anger surge within her as she flung the rusted knob high. Charlie made a wild stab at it, losing his straw hat in the attempt, then walked patiently after the knob. "Safe at first," he yelled. Why did he make a joke out of it? It wasn't funny. Ann held herself tight, trying to get her temper under control. If he would only lose his self-possession; that calm of his was driving her mad. She put both hands flat against the door, pushing it open. Ann saw her new home then, saw the linoleum floors, the torn shades, the plain wooden walls, and the bareness. She denied herself the luxury of contrasting it with the apartment. Page 89 "It's not very big," Charlie said, "but there're two rooms and electricity." She resented his cheerful acceptance. "No bath, I suppose?" "Right off the kitchen." He ignored her sarcasm. "It's small, but there's a shower. I can fix it without too much trouble." "Oh, fine," she said, letting bitterness seep into her tone. T was then, when she least: expected it, that he turned on her. "Now you listen to me, Ann. I warned you about the drawbacks of this place. We're renting it because it's so dirt cheap even we can afford to pay for it." "You don't need to make us sound so poverty stricken," she said, tightly. "No?" Charlie's tone was dangerous, and his eyes ablaze as she had never seen them before. "What do you call it, I wonder, when we owe debts all over town? It's not prosperity." "You don't aa to shout like that." She pitched her voice low. "And don't blame me for debts. We couldn't live on nothing for three months, waiting for you to get just the right job." "Who went ahead and bought an automatic deep fryer, and I hate to think of what all else?" Charlie glared at her, but suddenly halted his tirade as she burst into tears. "All right, honey, let's forget it." In the security of Charlie's arms, Ann allowed herself to weep unchecked. He was good and gentle, and she let him carry the bags in while she looked around. Their belongings—kitchen goods, lamps, one chair, and clothes—looked pitiful piled in the middle of the floor. Charlie had brought their bed and bureau up last week. There were two rooms, the living-bedroom with the bed in one corner and the bureau in the other, and the kitchen. Compared to the living room, the kitchen was well stocked, but, compared to memories, both rooms were bare. Less than a week ago, Ann remembered, she had been curled in the love seat reading the new Bookof-the-Month selection. The apartment wasn't large, but adequate, furnished tastefully from beige carpeting to the month-old green drapes. She had felt like a young homemaker until Charlie had walked in with his mouth set in a thin, grim line. "One," he had announced, "I have a job working for a contractor up north. Start as a timekeeper, with a good chance to advance. Two, I talked to a man at the bank today about our overdrawn account. They want their money—now. So, three, I arranged to sell most of our furniture...." "Sell?" The numbness had worn off, and protest rose to her lips.. To a second-hand man," he ignored her. "And, four, we're moving to a two-room excuse of a house as soon as we take care of things here. Answer the door, honey, it's probably the furniture man." "I won't let you sell my nice furniture." Ann had been almost hysterical. "Daddy will send us a check." "Grow up, Ann. Your father is through paying for things for us. Please help me get good prices for these things." 90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 CHARLIE'S WIFE Afterwards, Charlie had congratulated her on her courage, but bargaining with the man over her own pieces had been torture to Ann. Finally, she had welcomed Charlie's embraces and reassurances and promised to start over again. UT, now, the promise seemed as hollow as the house. Automatically she went about fixing dinner, missing her electric mixer and automatic roaster. Charlie had returned his electric razor, too, she reminded herself, but he seemed to think this whole move a lark of some sort. The kitchen was tiny and crowded by the bulk of an oldfashioned electric stove. The sink needed scrubbing, the tileboard was worn, and the icebox drain was plugged up. If it weren't for Charlie, if she didn't love him so, she would never have agreed to this move. Not that there was any decision left for her except to go back home. What did Charlie mean saying daddy was through keeping them? Daddy liked to help them get ahead. Tomorrow she'd find some way to get to town and send him a telegram. He wouldn't stand for her living in this place that Charlie wanted her to call home. If Charlie hadn't been fired from his job with the insurance company, they'd still have the apartment. Well, he couldn't blame her for that. "Will you set the table?" she called into the living room. "There isn't one—yet." Charlie grinned as if it were a huge joke. "T'll pick up some lumber and make us one tomorrow. 'Tonight, we'll have to eat off a box." He helped 91 her crowd the dishes on an upturned box. Ann saw nothing humorous in the situation. At their apartment she had always set a pretty table, with candles and flowers for effect. Again she wanted to cry, but swallowed her tears along with a mouthful of scrambled eggs. Charlie didn't even look worried! And never an apology. "That was a good dinner, honey." He leaned back on another box, glancing about the room as if he were pleased. "A coat of paint and some Hercules mahogany will do wonders for this place. It'll be homelike in no time." That's what he thought! "What about the car?" she asked. "Are you going back to town and get it out of the garage, or can't you pay the repair bill? "We," he corrected. The relaxed look was gone from his face as he looked at her. "I sold the car," he said quickly. "So I could pay our back rent. There was enough money left over to pick up a fourteenth hand 731 Ford." "A what?" Shocked protest was in her demand. "Look, honey, people like us can't afford convertibles when we owe rent, so I went ahead and traded her in. I figured you'd be upset...." "But you didn't bother to consult me?" she asked coldly. "This place and no car. What next?" "Next I'm going to work my head off to make good on this job and start a new bank account and Shake free from the last of the debts we managed to pile up in the city." "Oh, if you'd wanted to make good, you wouldn't have been fired three months ago." "You ask for it, don't you?" His tone was cold and his eyes measured her as if she added up to two feet. "All right, listen to me, I got fired because I refused to toady to your father's friends. Remember? Well, I wasted three months hunting for just the right job, not wortying about money because I thought we had it in the bank. Then I finally discovered we were up to our necks in debt, thanks to that wall-to-wall carpeting and a lot of labor-saving devices you bought without asking me." "I guess that stock father warned you against wasn't so good after all. Not to mention the money you put in Hilary's business—I suppose that's gone, too?" His eyes went blank. "Yes," he said dully, as if it didn't matter. "We're both to blame. But, Ann, don't you see? We stopped in time; we can start over." Before she could stop him, he had kissed her forehead and disappeared into the bedroom, leaving her with the dishes. At home—at the apartment—he had always helped. It was a small matter but, added to everything else that had gone wrong, it was enough to make her weep. He was right about the job, but she wasn't the only one to blame, she thought, as she washed the few dishes. N the morning she heard the alarm go off, but pretended sleep as she listened to Charlie getting ready for work. After he went into the kitchen, it was quiet and she drifted back to sleep. When she awoke, later, sun streamed through the bleary windows, highlighting the pitted linoleum. The dormant anger in her stirred as she realized how little Charlie had told her about this new job. Timekeeper for a contractor, that was about all she knew. Had someone picked him up this morning, or had he walked to work? Was he coming home for lunch? Why, she didn't even know what time to expect him this evening! He could have told her a few things, she thought resentfully. _Remembering that she had not asked, only swelled her irritation. When she saw the plain ugliness of the living room in the sunlight, a feeling almost like hate held her. Charlie had done this; brought her to this place. It was his fault they had had to move from their apartment. If he hadn't got himself fired, they would never have had to worry about debt. Everything she had bought had been for the future—the expected future when Charlie would invite important people home to the apartment. But Charlie had invested their savings in Hilary's business. Still, that wasn't quite true, Ann admitted to herself, sinking onto their one chair. He had loaned him $250, sure that he would get it back in time, while she had spent nearly that much on clothes and things for the apartment, forgetting that the monthly pay check was of the ast. She hadn't realized in time that their bank account was gone. She hadn't told Charlie, but had wired her father for a check to cover the overdraft. As usual, Daddy's 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 CHARLIE'S WIFE check had been more than generous, and she had ignored the warning tone of his letter. The next time a check came back, Charlie had discovered the whole story. "You mean to tell me this is the second time we've. Been overdrawn?" "Daddy covered it the first time. I didn't want to worry you." "Worry me? You're giving me gray hair, making me liable for jail and a few other minor details like being in your father's debt." "Daddy doesn't mind. He wants us to have nice things." Charlie had just looked at her. "That's a sweet idea, honey, but it's outmoded. 'That last letter from your father says no more checks. Let Charlie support you and stop running up bills. Maybe you don't remember that, but here's the letter. Read it." Re-reading it, under Charlie's gaze, she had recognized the finality of daddy's phrases. "I'm sure he'd reconsider," she had managed, positive that he would. But Charlie had answered quickly, "We aren't going to give him the chance. I'm keeping an appointment with the man at the bank, then, I'll have news for you." Even that, Ann remembered, hadn't convinced her. Selling the furniture had, losing the apartment had, and renting this house had. Had what? She asked herself. Had convinced her that Charlie was tight—not about everything, of course, but daddy's attitude toward her spending. She twisted uneasily in the chair, seeing the drabness of the room. Those nails in the wall must have 93 supported pictures... Maybe she could put... But no, they didn't have any pictures now. They didn't have much of anything, and if daddy was right, it was her fault. Restlessly she strode into the kitchen, surveying the unpacked dishes and the cupboard space with a critical eye. After a quick breakfast, she arranged the plates, cups, and bowls, one by one, finding a pleasure in doing something. But the task she had set herself was a light one, soon done to her satisfaction. The house was so quiet. And empty, and forlorn, echoing with Charlie's accusations. Brakes, squealing to a stop, sent her flying outdoors. There wasn't another house within half a mile, so it had to be Charlie. He had come, she thought happily. When she saw the strange truck driver and felt the knifing disappointment, she knew that neither the house nor life mattered—if she only had Charlie. €€VOU Charlie's wife?" the burly driver touched his hat. "Yes." She found herself smiling inanely at the stranger. "Reckon you'll be glad to see these then." He began unloading small, empty boxes from the truck. "Charlie sent me along with some Hercules mahogany. Said you folks was about down to scratch when it came to furniture. Just lead the way, Mam, and I'll heft them into the house for you." Why, he was nice, Ann marveled, not rough-spoken nor rude as she had expected. "Charlie mentioned Hercules mahogany last night," she told him, holding the warped door wide. "What did he mean?" "Why, these here powder boxes." A slow grin spread across his blunt. Face as he met her puzzled expression. "These are powder boxes," he explained, "they used to pack dynamite. See what it says on the side?" Examining the square, sturdy boxes with a new curiosity, Ann read the "Dangerous—High Explosives' warning. "Oh," she said, feeling stupid. _ "There's them that prefers Atlas mahogany—that's another kind of blasting _powder—but I've always leaned toward Hercules myself." His blue eyes twinkled as he continued his explanation. "These powder boxes make mighty fine furniture, Mam, so they picked up the Hercules mahogany name. Charlie and you can have yourselves quite an expansion without any trouble or expense at all." Se OS _knowledge. "Wonderful," she replied flatly, still staring at the powder boxes. The man smiled knowingly, as he let himself out. "Reckon you're just-married folks, aren't you, Mam?" The quick words of denial caught in her throat as she called a "Thank you," after him and a surprising, "Come again." Then Ann let herself go and had a real cry, not crying from frustration or anger, but from a sharp "Just-married folks," the man had said, and he was right. It had been ten months since that beautiful ceremony. Ten long months. Still, in all that time she'd been daddy's little girl. But now, starting out on their own like this, she realized they were really martied. With a room full of Hercules mahogany to arrange and a new home to make, she wasn't daddy's little girl any more—she was Charlie's wife. Se The Familiar Dark Margery S. Stewart The house is creakily settling itself For the night, with a star or two caught In its windows and the wind sighing against it, 'While I go tiptoeing from room to room, Straightening a cloth, putting away the broom, Tuming the lights out. I would like to sit Here in the darkness listening to a lot Of crickets gossiping, or the clock on the shelf, But I am drawn upstairs to the narrow Beds of my little ones, to stand listening To their slow breathing and to touch Uncovered shoulders. There is much A woman gathers when the moon lies glistening On the sills, things inviolate against harrow Of years. These moments are a recompense. 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 aes ps seins SNOW-CAPPED MOUNT TIMPANOGOS AND UTAH LAKE Night Grace Barker Wilson The day has turned the sunset off, And night, with slippered tread, Comes in on carpets of the dark, As stars bloom overhead. The mountains still wear caps of light, And robes of purple mist; The mirror lake has gone to rest With a goodnight moon-kissed. A little wind stirs in the leaves; Across the valleys wide The homestead lights reflect the stars, And night is glorified. Page 95 Sixty Years | Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1893 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN oF ALL NarTIons" BIRTHDAY PARTY FOR ZINA D. H. YOUNG: On Tuesday, January 31:5t, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young the venerable and respected President of the Relief Society celebrated the anniversary of her 72nd birthday. The party was given by her daughters at the residence of Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie.... President Wilford Woodruff and wife were present and several members of the family of the late President Brigham Young.... Miss Maude May Babcock gave some of her characteristic recitals and quite astonished as well as delighted the company by her artistic character representations, and wonderful changes of voice and manner.... All enjoyed the feast of good things, also the enchanting music, and for our "Dear Aunt Zina" as she is lovingly designated, may she live until her soul is satisfied and always be as greatly honored and beloved in Israel as she is at the present time. —Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY IN A FOREIGN LAND (FAGOLII, UPOLU, SAMOA): On Christmas Day we sang and prayed in native; we held two native meetings, and then in the evening we held a meeting in English. At this meeting we sang "Tho' Deep'ning Trials Throng Your Way" and after prayer we sang "Glorious Things Are Sung of Zion." We each bore our testimony and closed by singing "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning."... When dinner was announced our tables were laden with boiled chicken with soup.... We also had plenty of native food in the shape of "Kalo" and "Palusami."... Our dusky guests were dressed up nicely in light wrappers..... The natives thought the tables were lovely, with their white covers and the shining dishes, and beautiful flowers on them.... After the dinner was over our native sisters insisted on doing up the dishes.... I will perhaps write again and tell you about the rats, lizards, bugs, etc.... —Sarah McMurrin Hilton THE VOYAGE OF LIFE Thrice happy, he, who when his voyage o'er Has life's best gifts and graces in his store. Who, when our Master Owner calls "Return," Presents his ship well laden from stern to stern. —E. A. Bennion IN MEMORIAM—ELLEN WALTERS WINDER (Wife of Bishop John R. Winder): Sister Winder possessed, and as she advanced in years that same sublime faith grew stronger and more steadfast still.... She identified herself with the Relief Society of the 14th Ward (Salt Lake City) when it was organized, and was an active worker in all benevolent labors, never weary in well-doing.... She was a model wife, mother, and housekeeper; her home the place where she displayed those charming attributes of character that made it a paradise on earth to those with whom she was thus associated; her love of flowers constituted one of her chief pleasures, and her plants were the admiration of all who passed the house and the displays in her windows were a great attraction.... She was tender-hearted, gentle, conscientious and forgiving, a woman of many virtues and much goodness of heart, womanly in every respect, yet brave and strong when occasion called for action, —Julia Druce Page 96 LIZABETH KENNY, sixty-six, Australian nurse who discovered and developed a new treatment for infantile paralysis (hot packs and massage) died in November at Toowoomba, Queensland. Her interest in poliomyelitis began when Sister Kenny was a young nurse in the bush country of Australia, and continued throughout her life. She lived to see her methods of treatment recognized in nearly every country of the world. LENA, ex-queen of Italy, wife of Victor Emmanuel, died at the age of seventy-nine in Montpelier, France, in November 1952. A daughter of Nicholas, a Balkan chieftain, Elena spent her youth in the Black Mountain country, where she was known for her prowess in outdoor sports, and as an expert horsewoman. | nen L. KNIGHT JORDAN died in October at the age of eighty-six. A widow since 1931, she was the wife of the eminent scientist and first president of Stanford University, David Starr Jordan. She was known to thousands of students as a gracious hostess and a true friend, and "Thursday Evenings" at her campus home became a Stanford institution. She shared her husband's keen interest and his untiring efforts for international peace. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon R. And MRS. PETER PETERSON, of Fairview, Utah, celebrated their seventy-fourth wedding anniversary in December 1952. They have 190 descendants. N the ancient Iroquois Indian tribes, women nominated, elected, advised, and often impeached the male chiefs. Voting power was held solely by the women, though they held no offices. They owned the homes—the "long" or apartment houses, and passed on their names and property by matriarchal order to the children. E extend congratulations to Anna C. Milne of Murray, Utah, who recently celebrated her 104th birthday, and to the following women whose recent birthdays have marked their near approach to being a century old: Ruth May Fox and Mrs. W. N. B. Shepherd, Salt Lake City, ninety-nine; Elizabeth Tate, Tooele, Utah, ninetyeight; Elizabeth Kingsbury Druce, Salt Lake City, ninety-seven; Hilda Erickson, Grantsville, Utah, and Agnes Dunlop, Salt Lake City, ninety-three; Anna A. Empey, Salt Lake City, ninety-two; and Janet Buchanan Evans, Sarah Louella Hansen Hardy, Catherine Beckstead Holt, Mary Hawkins Wright, and Sophia Shimmin Andersen, Salt Lake City, ninety. Page 97 Q—> EDITORIAL c~2 VOL. 40 FEBRUARY 1953 NO. 2 "Whosoever Will Be Great Among You ' "... Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; and whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant" (Matthew 20:26-27). NOW, in the month of February, when we remember with everincreasing gratitude, the birthdays of great men whose words of faith and wisdom and whose deeds of magnitude and compassion have gone far beyond our borders to influence the destiny of the world— at this time it is well to consider the qualities of greatness in men. It is well for us to understand why some men may justifiably be called great and noble. It has been said that history is but the lengthened shadow of great men. However, it may also be inferred that the deeds of some men who have greatly influenced the course of world events have cast darkened shadows across the earth, and have left behind them a path of destruction, of broken dreams, of abandoned faith, and _ shattered hopes. Not every man who has wielded power among his brothers may rightfully be called great, however vast the shadow that he casts upon the land. What, then, are some of the qualities of authentic greatness, the attributes which enhance the stature of men and lift them and their brothers to more lofty ideals and more lasting accomplishments? Though all men are born equal before the law and before God, all are not of equal physical strength or mental power; all are not placed Page 98 in equally favorable environments. To some extent, every life is beset by accidents and influenced somewhat by chance. Yet, in any time or place, the great man requires of himself the utmost effort to make the best of his circumstances, to widen the borders of his little world, to rise as tall as innate capabilities and the vista of his surroundings will permit. He does not regret unduly that he may not have been blessed with all the tools of accomplishment perhaps more lavishly bestowed upon another, but he takes the abilities and the insight and the ideals which he has and which he can develop, and makes his own house of life. And who shall say, except our Heavenly Father, in the day of final judgment, who has been the most faithful builder, he whose final accomplishment is greatest, or he who has risen from the most forbidding circumstance? It would seem, if we scan the pages of history, that men of achievement have walked their earthly paths guided by a great purpose to which they have dedicated themselves, and the more this ideal transcends personal ambition and enters into the sphere of the welfare of mankind, the greater has been the uplifting influence of the individual. It was the hope of Washington EDITORIAL to see his countrymen united under a Government to which the wise and liberty-loving of the earth might repair. It was the high resolve of Abraham Lincoln to preserve the Union of the states, and at the same time to give freedom to the slaves. And it is likely that neither Washington nor Lincoln, though they were different in their personalities and in their heritage— it is likely that neither desired the tremendous responsibility that leadership demands. Both men were cast by their innate greatness, their ideals, and their integrity, as well as by the demands of their times, 99 Also, they molded the character of their age, placing the welfare of the group. Above their individual advancement. It is well, in considering the elements of greatness in men, to read again the words of the Bible which tell of the mother of Zebedee's children who came to Jesus, asking that her sons might be advanced in their positions with the Master. Jesus said unto her, "Ye know not what ye ask." Then he explained the order of the Father's kingdom— "... Whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant." Birthday Greetings to President Amy Brown Lyman February 7, 1953 It is a pleasure to Relief Society women throughout the Church to remember the birthday of our beloved President Amy Brown Lyman, and extend congratulations to her. It is the wish of all of us that the day may be filled with the happiness and satisfaction that come from a life of devoted service and rich accomplishment. Since the age of eleven, Sister Lyman has served in positions of leadership in the Church. Forty-four years ago she became a member of the general board of Relief Society. In 1913 she became general secretary, and in 1928 was appointed first counselor to President Louise Y. Robison. She was thus familiar with all phases of Relief Society work before she was appointed general president in 1940. Her five years in this position were marked by a rapid growth of the society and an enrichment of its program, including the observance of the Relief Society Centennial in 1942. Her breadth of understanding, enthusiastic leadership, and whole-hearted devotion to the society have endeared her to the sisters everywhere. All good wishes and much joy to our former President, and may the coming years be filled with the activities and the services which still give her pleasure and fulfillment. Into roles of supreme leadership. —V. P. C. A Party Shat s Different Yvonne Child Hiss NOTHING makes a child feel more like the belle of the ball than to have her friends exclaim after attending her birthday party, "That was the best party I ever went to!" To be outstanding, a party should be different, and it can be, with a little planning. The first and greatest requirement is a "theme," and all plans should be carried out under the one idea. I'm going to give you a list of themes and ideas to carry them out. These may inspire any number of original ideas of your own, once you see the ease of this method. First, for the under-five age, try a circus theme. Have pictures of animals mounted around the walls. You may use these for a game, giving a prize to the one who can name the most animals correctly. "Pin-the-tail-on-the-donkey" is a favorite game, and is nearly always included at every party, but it does get tiresome seeing the same old donkey. Why not try "Pin-the-earon-the-elephant," or "Pin-the-ballon-the clown's-hat"? Any hostess or obliging neighbor could draw a clown's head or an elephant, just as well as a donkey. Try buying gummed stars and sticker pictures and letting the children stick them on their own clown party hats. It takes up time for one ame, makes each hat individual, and children love to paste. The tiniest tots never seem to win any of the games, so why not give them a chance, by giving a Page 100 prize for the shortest, or youngest, or the one who weighs the least. It's fun to line up for measuring or climb on scales for weighing. My favorite party trick, and one that is always a hit, is to bake a surprise right into each child's cupcake. I like to use cupcakes, as they are cuter to decorate and easier to serve. (You may bake a layer cake for the candle-blowing ceremony, then not cut it until evening when the grandparents and telatives come for their celebration.) I bake a charm in each cake, or a well-scrubbed penny. For a nearChristmas party, I bought some small silver jinglebells, tied a string on each one for a bracelet (do this - with charms also), and baked it in the cupcake. The children were delighted and curious, when they shook the cake and could hear it rattle. It was the more exciting because all the strings were blue except one. It was red, and the one who got the red string on his bell won a prize. I promise you, they lost no time in eating their cupcakes! One word of caution is needed for this trick though, use only metal charms, as plastic charms will melt in the baking. Also, wrap charms, bells, or pennies in waxed paper, then pour the batter around them and bake. The waxed paper keeps the dough off the prizes and they look clean and attractive when un- 'wrapped. For a circus cupcake, decorate with a peppermint stick candy pole, stand an animal cracker, A PARTY THAT'S DIFFERENT dipped in chocolate, at the base of the pole, and put a paper canopy on top. You can make a canopy yourself out of typing paper, or get paper-cone drinking cups, cut them off to the desired length, and decorate with stripes. For a Thanksgiving theme, decorate cupcakes like a turkey, with fan-tail and turkey head. Give Pilgrim hats or an Indian headband with a feather, instead of party hats. Play "Pin-the-feather-on-the-Indianbonnet," or "Pin-the-trigger-on-themusket"! FOR a spring party, decorate cupcakes like flowers, with chocolate wafer centers and frosting or gumdrop petals. Or, decorate them as a butterfly, with big paper wings, a gumdrop stick or orange stick body, and curled pipecleaner feelers. For hats, make May baskets out of old cottage-cheese cartons covered with crepe paper. Give them a paper handle, some imitation grass, and a daisy sprouting out. They look pretty silly perched on a head, but that's the whole idea for party hats, and they are cute for older children. For a February party, fold soldier hats out of newspaper (or crepe paper, if you prefer) and give each child a flag. Decorate cakes with cherries, hatchets, or flags. You might want a Valentine theme. Make hats out of two 101 large red hearts glued together around the outside edge and worn upside down, with the point of the heart up. Pierce each hat with a white paper arrow. This is an easy theme to carry out, with so many favors available in the stores, and many attractive ones that you can make. For a snow theme, make a marshmallow snowman on_ the cupcake, give him a licorice stovepipe hat, and paint a face with cake coloring. For the children, make stovepipe hats, or snowball hats, covered with cotton, or blue hats with a white paper snowflake on them. There are hundreds of possible themes and many variations on old games to fit in with your theme. Swimming in August—Chewing gum diving board. Fourth-of-July—Peppermint stick _firecracker. Autumn leaves—A gumdrop and pipecleaner elf, with an autumn-leaf tunic. March wind—Paper pinwheels and kites. Now, one last rule to remember. Give everybody a prize to take home. It's not a party unless each one has a present. Give whistles, horns, balloons, bubble pipes, pinwheels, flags—and, if you can't think of anything else, have a fish pond and give everybody something different. Your child deserves a party that's different! —— Afterthought Beulah Huish Sadleir I one time thought, when days were hard and long, That only rested throat made perfect song— Until I heard a mother's weary sigh Transposed into a soothing lullaby. Trite, But True Iris W.. Schow FTER getting out of Madge's new red and tan convertible, Karen Moore lingered, holding the large box from Clarrell's Apparel absently, while everyone talked about the trip. Her short chestnut hair, gently waved at the very ends, made her slender face look a little rounder, she thought hopefully., For, perhaps, the dozenth time the idea had been expressed by one girl or another. Karen said, ""The main point is to have everybody picked up and be actually leaving town by five am." "Sure thing!" agreed Shirley, bounding out of the back seat and moving up in front, followed by Jane Ann. "T'm so thrilled," said Madge. "Not that I haven't already been to Yellowstone several times—but driving instead of going with the fam- - ily, and deciding where to eat and stay all night! Won't it be special?" Might as well say I've never been, thought Karen, her eager hazel eyes growing serious. Anyway, sooner or later I'd give it away by some remark. "It's my first trip to Yellowstone," she said. "Well, I'll see you—before daylight." She started for the house, their gay voices ringing after her. "Will we ever keep you busy, seeing everything we point out!" "See you before five!" "Now, be ready! Be alerted!" As they drove away Karen became aware of the box she carried. Page 102 She hurried, hardly able to wait to show Mom and the little girls its contents, the cleverly tailored brown skirt,. The lovely, longsleeved gold blouse, and the cute little green weskit. She could use last year's sports jacket when it was chilly. How lucky it was that her pal, Jane Ann, had that wonderful older sister Madge, who had been working long enough to own a beautiful new convertible! How lucky that Madge and Shirley were willing to have her and Jane Ann along! Lots of older girls wouldn't be. "Mom, where are you?" Karen called, before discovering that she was alone in the house. She remembered then that her mother was doing her Relief Society visiting teaching. That responsibility, plus the cherry canning and Karen's preparations for the trip, had provided Mom's reason for leaving the washing until Tuesday. Well, Mom would be home any minute. Meantime, Karen could finish packing and set the table. Deciding to set the table first, she hurried to the breakfast nook. On the table was a little heap consisting of Joyce's blouse that needed the sleeves shortened to get rid of the worn elbows, a lunch cloth with the hem picked out far enough so that a frayed edge could be sewn under on the machine, and the top of the pajamas that 'Ray liked so well, with a patch pinned in place under the arm. They were TRITE, BUT TRUE all folded neatly in a pile, of course, still they gave the room a cluttered effect. Funny thing about Mom, she was such an efficient mother in most ways. Her canning was perfect, and she had the cleverest ideas for sewing and making over. But she was always laying out little piles of things, intending to mend them sometime during the day. If she stopped to think about it, she would know perfectly well she couldn't do it on a full day like this. Karen seized the sewing, started for Mom's chest of drawers, hesitated. Maybe she could run up this little bit herself before dinner. No, she positively wouldn't get time. In the front bedroom she noticed Mom's print dress that needed taking up in the shoulders, spread out on the bed. Mom knew it would have to have the collar taken off and the top of the sleeves undone to get to the shoulder seams. 'Then someone must help her fit it, to do a really good job. There was no point in getting it out today and pinning it to see how it would look. Karen put it away and hurried to the kitchen. On the counter were the quarts of rosy cherries they had canned that morning, cool now and ready to store. They looked grand. But there lay a dish towel, with a streak of gravy across it.... Mom had forgotten to use the potholders again. Karen dropped the towel into the laundry chute and started for her room with her purchases. UST then the telephone rang imperatively. "Hello, Moore's?" asked a man's 103 voice urgently. "Karen? This is Joe Reed. My boy Joey and your brother Bert have had an accident, riding Joey's motor scoot. They're both in the hospital. Now, Bert is going to be all right, but they are sure he has a broken pelvis, and one wrist is broken, too. I've tried to get your house, and then your father at the store, but the line was busy, so I tried the house again. You'd better get your mother and bring her over." "Thanks, Mr. Reed," said Karen. "She's out visiting teaching, but Pll locate her." She tried to get control of her shaking hands and weakened knees. "How about Joey?" she asked as an afterthought. "He isn't hurt as seriously as Bert, but he's pretty battered up," stated Mr. Reed. "Well, we'll see you." Poor, poor Bert! What a shock for an eleven-yeat-old boy, Karen thought. Maybe Mom was coming. She dashed out to the sidewalk to look. No one was in sight on the shady street. She started for the house. What should she do? Call some of the homes in Mom's district? She would just look again. And sure enough, there was Mom coming around the corner, looking neat and brisk, unaware of the trouble she must face in a few minutes. Karen hurried to meet her. The next few hours brought Karen a series of vivid impressions: Mom's alarmed face paling as Karen talked to her, the two-block dash to the hospital, calling Daddy, Bert's pain-widened eyes. It was well into the evening before Karen noticed her box from the store by the telephone, and remembered her packing. 'The trip was out of the question now. Bert would want and need Mom at his bedside much of the time for the next few days. Someone must get fifteen-year-old Ray off to pick cherties, prepare meals, and look after Joyce and Nancy, who were only seven and four. Oh, well, she wouldn't want to be away from home with one of the family in such a serious condition, anyway. She talked to Jane Ann and Madge on the telephone. "I hate to drop out," she told Madge. "I know you've all been counting on four to pay the expenses." "Think nothing of it," said Madge. "It won't be much extra. Probably we can get a roll-away bed put in the room, and all stay together nights. We'd wait for you," she added, "'but with all the scheming it took to make our vacations overlap for a week, I don't think we could all four get together again this summer.": "Well, have fun for me, too," said Karen, keeping back her tears with an effort. NEXT morning Karen had an early breakfast ready for Ray. "I'm going to tackle the washing today," she announced. "Tl get it sorted now." "Tl stay home a few hours and help you," offered Ray, his mild blue eyes looking kind like their father's. ""There's too much lifting connected with running that old washer of ours.' "Oh, I can manage,' Karen. But their father said, "Good idea, Ray. Karen hasn't had much ex- ' protested perience being responsible for the whole washing, and our equipment isn't first class." The sorting was easy in general, though a few items almost defied classification. 'Then Karen measured the soap and left Ray to fill the washer, while she went up to the kitchen to make starch. "Does the pile where the white shirts are go in first?" he called up the stairs. "Sure thing!" she replied. A few minutes later he was shouting urgently, "Better come down, Sis! I've made a real boner!"' There were the best white clothes in the suds, while Ray was picking up the dolly from a near-by tub. "Is there any way to get this thing on without taking out all the clothes?" he asked. Karen began to laugh. Then they both giggled until it was a slow process wringing out the unwashed clothing. When, at last, the washing was under way, Karen hurried back upstairs, to be met by Joyce, who held Mom's little ornamental lamb in one hand and in the other its leg, which had been snapped off. Nancy trailed dismally after her. "Nancy climbed up and took it off the bookcase," said Joyce, adding appealingly, "but she might not have broken it, if I hadn't come in. When she saw me, she hurried so fast to put it back, she knocked it right over." "I just wanted to love it," said Nancy. "Well, you just musn't love Mom's little ornaments," asserted Karen, testing how the leg looked fitted back in place. "But maybe 104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 TRITE, BUT TRUE | I can glue it back on." She laid the pieces inside the cupboard. NEX? Day, after getting everyone off to work or out to play and tidying the house, Karen freshened her own appearance and started on the ironing. She really had everything under control today, she thought. She was going to be all 'right at running the house. _ As she ironed, Karen found that the stitching of one cuff placket of Daddy's best shirt was undone. She could mend that best by turning under the edges carefully by hand, she decided. She laid the folded shirt at the end of the counter farthest from the cooking. Ray's shirt, with a button missing, was laid aside also. Then she discovered that part of the ruffle on Nancy's dress was loose, and one of Mom's aprons had a string nearly off. These she took to the sewing machine in Mom's bedroom. She could save time by doing such bits of mending before putting things away. When Karen looked at her watch it was fifteen to twelve. She had forgotten about lunch. By calling Joyce to set the table, and choosing foods which took no preparation, she had lunch nearly ready when Daddy brought Mom home. It was almost two before Karen returned to the ironing. She must hurry and finish. Then she could rest while she mended, before cooking dinner. The ironing went on and on. The two little girls certainly did use a lot of play suits and pinafores, mostly ruffletrimmed. 'The number of shirts seemed high, too. 'Through at 105 last, she hurried to put away everything that needed no mending. Karen sat down at the sewing machine and repaired several pieces. This was really a restful change after standing or racing around all afternoon. 'Then she glanced at her watch, and hurried to the kitchen to start dinner. When you had everything to do in the home, those meals kept interrupting until you simply couldn't get ahead! With the carrots and potatoes started, she might be able to sew buttons on some of the things on the counter while she watched the meat, Karen thought. "You forgot all day to. Look in the mailbox," called Joyce from the hving room. "Isn't that funny? There's a lot of mail, too." Karen dashed in to see it, brushing back her damp hair from her perspiring forehead. She certainly looked untidy, she thought, as she passed the mirror. Jane Ann and the others had sent one of those postcards where you choose and check your messages. It was actually from all three. The key on the back explained that red pencil was Jane Ann's, while Shirley had checked in ink, and Madge in ordinary pencil. They all had marked, "Wish you were here," and several items they had added, "Wardrobes reasonably adequate," "Too much talk at bedtime," and the like. Jane Ann had checked practically everything. It was so clever! "THE odor of burning meat sent — Karen scurrying for the kitchen. She turned off the unit, put out her hand to move the pan, saw (Continued on page 143) "Wings of the Mlorning » Ruth Young 'TF I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea...." Oh, how this beautiful verse haunted me all down through the years of my life! ~ It all began way back when I was a small child, a strange, lonely little girl getting my happiness mostly through a vivid imagination. Every summer I would stay with my dear grandmother. She lived on a large farm down on the river bottoms. | How I loved her! She didn't preach—but she did teach me the Bible. And it became wonderfully alive to me. There was a hill on the farm which I named Mount Ararat. How often I have spent countless hours searching for decayed bits of wood which might have been pieces of Noah's ark. There were David's "green pastures" and the "still waters." 'The "valley of the shadow of death" was the old orchard, which was the favorite resting ground of the big buck sheep.. Of course, the River Jordan really flowed through the entire length of the farm. In one spot I could wade across it to an enchanting island which, to me, was the promised land. In the center of a green, green meadow, grew a gnarled hawberry tree. There were white rocks there, too, and grandma's sheep would lie in the shade of that tree. Sometimes, if I looked quickly enough, I could almost imagine Jesus seated upon a stone. I hada picture in my Bible of just such a scene! Page 106 Each evening when the shadows grew long, grandma and I would go on our pilgrimage to find firewood. It was sagebrush we gathered in our aprons. Blackbirds built their nests in a huge. Sagebrush—and, of course, I knew 'where each one was located. I would stand tiptoe 'and reach my finger into the nest to feel that delicious sensation of a baby bird's wide-open mouth. I watched the mother bird dive and fly close to my head. But she didn't need to fear—I loved her babies almost as much as she loved them. It was on just such an occasion when my little grandmother first spoke those beautiful words: "If 1 take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea."" I loved them instantly! But the years went by, and grandmother was laid to rest in the old cemetery just over the hill—and my bit of heaven was sold. I grew up and married and began to rear a family. Still that bit of verse stayed with me. Yet I couldn't remember more than the first two lines. I was sure it was from the Bible, but I never could find just where. How I longed to know the rest of it! I asked many people who, I thought, should have known, but none of them had even heard of my "wings of the morning." ONCE, a missionary friend told me that it sounded as if it might be from Isaiah. So I read the book of Isaiah. 'Those lovely lines were not there. Then I tread "WINGS OF THE MORNING" Job and the Song of Solomon, and more and more of the Bible. Years went by, and still I could not find "the wings of the morning." Yet, whenever I saw a beautiful bird take wing and soar high into the sky, the words came to me again. One morning, as I was washing the dishes, I turned on my kitchen radio. Someone was saying, "If I take the was of the morning. Hid, I held my breath and began listening in earnest. Yet, alas, the lines were not finished, and the speaker did not give the reference. However, I was sure that it must be somewhere in the Bible. So back to studying I went! I found some very beautiful, inspiring verses, but never "the wings of the morning." Still I searched—and asked—and searched still more. ® ON 107 Then, only yesterday, I went to the library, as usual, to borrow more books. I got a book for each member of our family, including my three-year-old. I found a beautiful little book named Small Rain for her. It had Bible verses and pictures of children acting them out. And there were the lines, my "wings of the morning"! The picture above the lovely words showed a white bird circling up over the ocean. Hurriedly I looked at the small print. It read Psalms 139:9-10. At home, I picked up my muchthumbed Bible—and turned to Psalm 139, and there it was—my dearly beloved verse in its entirety! If I take the wings of the morning, And dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea; Even there shall thy hand lead me, ° And thy right hand shall hold me. A) George | Washington Christie Lund Coles I think of him alone at Maley Forge, With but a few Seeing the dream he saw, fewer the faith he knew; With radaale willing to turn back, To admit defeat Rather than stumble on With bleeding feet; He could not comprehend their fear, Knowing no doubt, Knowing no fear himself; Looking about Toward a land where bondage reigned, He knew his course, And hunger, cold, and death Were but a source Of proof of the path that he must go To make men free. His choice that hour meant Our destiny. Hal Rumel (Courtesy Alberta H. Christensen) AMERICAN PRESSED GLASS TABLEWARE—THOUSAND EYE PATTERN Adventure in Glass VII. Old Glass In New Houses Alberta H.: Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society "Today and yesterday become as one; 'Within the home, each plays a part, Where prudence guides the thrifty hand And wisdom activates the heart. Slippers made of glass. Were she here today she might carry a bouquet of crystal flowers, have her veil and wedding gown fashioned from the sheerest fabric of spun glass; and she might live ina house whose sliding doors and «enormous windows would make it seem literally a house of glass. Today, we are glass-conscious, not only of the multiple uses of modern glass; but we are newly saware of thé charm of old glass. Only a few of us can possess the rare and precious glass of past Page 108 C INDERELLA, we read, had centuries, but most of us have inherited one-or more pieces of. American ware of a somewhat earlier period, If we have not, collecting a few pieces canbe intriguing, for there is a chance -of discovering them almost anywhere. Interesting items can be found in the most unexpected places. One of my most prized glass objects was rescued by a friend from'an ash can. There are still lovely glass articles gathering dust in cellar cupboards, attics, and on the top shelves of pantries. 'They should not be there; they should be brought into the sunlight where they may be enjoyed by families and friends. " ADVENTURE IN GLASS: \etouiap Glass - The most easily collected glass items are those of the Victorian era, because glass was produced so extensively during that period and distribution was so wide that much is still available.. For the same reasons, the glass which we have inherited most frequently represents those years. The term Victorian does not indicate a distinct styles such as Chippendale or Sheraton, but, as used. Here, refers to those varied objects, replete with color and decoration, produced be-' tween the years 1830 and 18g90., Although thousands of exquisite pieces were both blown and pressed during these years, the so-called "Victorian Glasses," considered collectively, are in contrast to the fine simplicity and proportion of earlier: periods. What We Have Inherited Occasionally a family may own a handblown article of great value, such as the handblown, expertly engraved pitcher illustrated at the right, but what most of us have received as a legacy from our fore- © 'bears are such items as an old spill holder, pressed salts, Victorian "art glass" vases, a whimsey or two, or a few pieces from a setting of pattern glass tableware. Spill holders, sometimes called spill boxes or spill pots, were made in the day of the whale-oil lamp and the candlestick. They held the spills, made of paper or wood, which were used as a substitute for matches. These holders were often thick, heavy affairs, with short stems, and were the foreruners of the spoon holder. 109 "Whimsies" is a term used by glass collectors to designate those odd, unusual pieces, generally the work of individual blowers, outside the regular commercial output of the factory. In this class come such objects as canes, rolling pins, small and oddly shaped hats, buttonhooks, children's toys, and miniature dishes. Interesting money banks, fantastically trimmed with hand-tooled birds, represent the kind of plaything skilled blowers Hal Rumel - "BOHEMIAN GLASS PITCHER One Hundred Years Cld This unique and exquisite pitcher, about eighteen inches tall, is owned. By Mrs. Olga Miller, daughter of Josephine Komarkova, former president of the Prague (Czechoslovakia) Relief Society. The initials on the pitcher, not visible in the photograph, are H. G., representing the name of Mrs. Komarkova's father, Hubert Glossauer, to whom the pitcher was given upon his retirement as an official in the Austrian government, Hal Rumel (Courtesy Marianne C. Sharp and Alberta H. Christensen) VARIED GROUP OF AMERICAN PATTERN GLASS Front row, left to right: Covered Hobnail butter dish; Thumbprint toothpick holder; Small Daisy and Button fruit dish; Argus footed saucer; panelled Daisy and Button berry bowl. Back row, left to right: Shell and Tassel sugar bowl (cover missing); Westward Ho covered compote; Maple Leaf platter; Garfield Drape water pitcher. Liked to create after working hours. Ointment and pomade jars, cologne and scent bottles, toothpick holders, and small baskets have also often survived the years. Paper weights (millifior!) were produced in interesting variety, and are sometimes found in our homes. Salts (small, open salt dishes) were manufactured extensively, and offer a greater variety in design and color than most Victorian collectables. Since nearly every President and Vice-president of the United States was in some way memorialized upon our glass, nearly every occupant of the White House has used a "salt" named for himself. Many interesting salts have been handed down through families. Types of Victorian "Art Glass" The following brief descriptions of some of the Victorian "art glasses" may be helpful in identifying our old family pieces. Satin glass, as mother-of-pearl is popularly called today, has a soft satin-like surface, produced by subjecting the completed article to an acid vapor. Most satin glass wares have a lining of white glass, while the outside coating is colored. A gradual shading of one color into another is to be found on several "art glasses" of this period. Peachblow, made by the New England Glass Company, is one of the most popular. It has a satin finish, and shades from warm white to deep rose. Agata, a variation of peachblow, has a shiny but mottled surface. Amberina shades from pale amber or yellow to rich ruby red. Burmese shades from pale green-yellow to delicate pink. Pomona glass was blown from clear metal, but was 110 _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 ADVENTURE IN GLASS treated with etching, tinting, or staining. The stain is of straw color, with leaf designs in deeper straw color. 'There were occasional garlands of flowers in pale blue. Vasa Murrhina has a variegated effect produced by coating the glass with particles of metal in various colors. Vases and baskets with large applied flowers are often found in this ware. Striped glass, reminding one of candy. Canes, similar to the Venetian ware, was a speciality at Sandwich. Canes or ribbons of glass were rolled into the body of the metal, which was then expanded by blowing, to give a striped effect. Should you possess a piece of this glass, made by Nicholas Lutz of the Sandwich works, who Hal Rumel (Courtesy Christine H. Rouiin, Alberta H. Christensen, and Mary Louise Richards) VARIED GROUP OF AMERICAN PRESSED PATTERN GLASS mW was trained in Lorraine, France,. Treasure it. Tortoise shell was an experimental glass that looks-like shell. Hobnail, popular: in_ the. 1880's, was originally called dewdrop or opalescent dewdrop. It has small raised spheres on its surface and it is very familiar today, because it is reproduced so extensively that even our novelty stores carry it. Custard glass derives its name from its custard-like color. It is Opaque and of a creamy, almost lemon shade of yellow, usually ornately decorated with gold or dark green. Marble glass (purple slag), originally called mosaic, is an opaque glass, where white and purple are mixed, resembling a marble cake Front row, left to right: Wildflower goblet; Bellflower goblet; Strawberry and Currant goblet; Daisy and Button celery vase; Thousand Eye goblet; Panelled Thistle goblet; Loop and Fan goblet. Back row, left to nght: Thousand Eye open compote (pale blue); Ribbon spoon holder; Honeycomb decanter; Honeycomb celery vase; Thousand Eye matching compote. Hal Rumel - (Courtesy Marianne C. Sharp) GROUP OF MILK WHITE GLASS batter. Objects of this ware are sometimes wrongfully called: ""endof-the-day" pieces. The making of Cameo glass is an ancient craft, the famous Barberini vase, with its white figures in relief, being the most well known. It was copied in 1790 in the jasper ware of Josiah Wedgwood. For many centuries after the decline of the Roman Empire, no cameo glass was made in Europe, but by the 1850's both European and Ametican glasshouses were making a near approach to it in the beautiful "Case" or overlay glass. Here an outside layer of colored glass is cut away, leaving a pattern of clear glass underneath. Milk glass, also called opal ot opalescent glass, is an opaque glass made extensively during the Victorian period, and is still a very popular ware. Originally, the only true milk glass was milk-white, but in recent years the various opaque glass pieces in blue, green, and black have been called blue milk glass, green milk glass, etc. Caramel glass, purple slag, and custard glass are close kinsfolk to the milk glass family, but are still called by their more descriptive names. Pattern Glass We recall that in the 1840's the trend toward complete table settings in a given pattern' resulted in the production of quantities of pressed tableware known as pattern glass. Much of this was made of fine, resonant flint metal attractively designed. 'The later sets, made of inferior and cheaper metal, were and are, of course, less desirable. Lacy glass (described in article V), with its tiny, stippled and elaborate, but low-relief patterns, was dependent upon a brilliant silvery sheen for its attractiveness. The new and less expensive designs used for the pressed tableware that followed were, at first, rather simple. 12 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 ADVENTURE IN GLASS They were composed largely of geometric motifs, such as flutes, loops, thumbprints, and diamonds. Later, the trend in design was toward more elaborate and naturalistic patterns, using floral, fruit, and leaf motifs. The Ashburton pattern was probably the first one to be made in complete sets. The Bell Flower, Horn of Plenty, Ribbed Palm, and Thumbprint were also early favorites. Other popular patterns were: the Tree of Life, Lincoln Drape, Westward Ho, Morning Glory, Roman Rosette, Princess Feather, Moon and Star, Jewel and Teardrop, Panelled Grape, and Honeycomb. As the population grew and wealth increased, new patterns and variants came into being. Over three hundred patterns of pressed tableware have been listed, described, and illustrated, these being those in which complete or partial table sets can be assembled. Some 113 designs were made exclusively by one or two glasshouses, but, more often, manufacturers copied patterns which gave promise of becoming good sellers. Pitchers, large and small, are among the most interesting of pattern glass items to be found. Literally hundreds of patterns and types are still extant. A sugar bowl may be the only article of a table setting to survive. These bowls, with their deeply pressed designs and interesting knobs or finials on the covers, may be effectively used in room or table decoration. During the 1870's and 1880's the vogue for colored ware developed, to which we owe those designs so eagerly sought by collectors today. Among them are Wildflower, Cathedral, and Thousand Eye. It was through a little pale blue dish of Thousand Eye pattern that I first became interested in old glass. A handbook of early American glass Hal Rumel. 4 (Courtesy Christine H. Robinson, Marianne C. Sharp, and Alberta H. Christensen) GROUP OF AMERICAN PATTERN GLASS Left to right: Hobnail berry bowl, with fan top; Tree of Life group, with open compote on high standard; Jewel and Teardrop sauce dish; Shell and Tassel small fruit dish; Double Loop Celery Vase. Drawings by Elizabeth Williams PRESSED GLASS CUP PLATES Sandwich Star design; Fan and Cross-cut; Rosette and Star. Patterns is interesting and helpful in identifying the pieces you may own. Many of these patterns are being reproduced today. If you are interested in adding to your present pieces, and want them to be authentically old, care must be taken in purchasing. Some authorities on old glass are printing lists of reproduced patterns for the benefit of the lovers of the old ware. However, if you are interested in pattern only, then you will find it an easy matter to purchase matching pieces for some patterns in clear and colored glass in department stores and gift shops. Milk glass is very popular today and can be effectively used in almost any home. The Westmoreland Glass Company, in operation since 1889, produces an excellent quality of milk glass and has indicated its intention to mark its current production so that the new ware may be easily identified. The J. E. Kemple makers of modern milk glass have collected and are using over a hundred of the original pattern molds and, therefore, do not class their ware as reproductions. More and more, we are returning to the past, reclaiming beauty from an earlier day to give sentiment and atmosphere to our homes. Old glass, used with discretion, can be effective even in very modern settings. Colored glass articles can be used to give color emphasis by contrast or by adding an additional touch of color. If you have a Daisy and Button berry dish, one of the most common designs, and do not wish to add other pieces of the pattern, try using it as a table centerpiece. Old celery vases and spoon holders make very attractive flower containers. Some women enjoy using goblets of varied designs, so collect others of the same height, regardless of design. Others collect for color only. Arrange a few pieces of your glass upon a window shelf where sunlight may enhance their sparkling color or design. The wise homemaker of today — will not discard the past. She will 114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 ADVENTURE IN GLASS cherish its wisdom, preserve its worthwhile traditions, and utilize its beauty, whether it be in the form of seasoned wood, fine porcelain, or lovely old glass. BIBLIOGRAPHY Barbour, Harriot Buxton: Sandwich, the Town That Glass Built, Houghton Mifflin Company, New York, 1948. Belknap, E. M.: Milk Glass, Crown Publishers, New York, 1949. Ce e 5 oy) Drawings by Elizabeth Williams ATL Geary 115 Knittle, Rhea Mansfield: Early American Glass, Garden City Publishers, New York, 1937. Lee, Ruth Webb and Rose, James H.: American Glass Cup Plates, Ruth Webb Lee, Publisher, Northborough, Massachusetts, 1948. Lee, Ruth Webb: Victorian Glass, Ruth Webb Lee, Publisher, Northborough, Massachusetts. McKearin, George L. And Helen: American Glass, Crown Publishers, New York, 1941. Watkins, Lura W.: American Glass and Glassmaking, Chanticleer Press, 1950. PRESSED GLASS SALT DISHES Left to right: Strawberry Diamond with Scallop; Diamond Star and Scroll; Gothic Arch. Old Couple Grace Sayre She was old and so was he, Plainly clothed and humble, But he guarded her with greatest care, Fearful lest she stumble. The love he gave with every look ~ Was beautiful as a picture book. A Time to Forget CHAPTER 8 Fay Tarlock Synopsis: Serena Abbe, who had lost her fiance in the war, goes to live on a walnut farm which she inherited from her cousin Harriett Lester. There she meets Jeff Landeau, a widower who owns the adjoining acres, and who helps her in running her farm. Luis Trejeda, a Mexican, also assists in the work, and Serena is impressed by his wholesome and buoyant attitude towards life. Serena also makes friends with young David, Jeff's son, and, after the first harvest, she feels at home in the San Vicente Valley. Soon after Christmas Serena and Jeff are married, but, upon their return from a honeymoon in Mexico, they find that Delia, who is a cousin to Jeff's first wife, has persuaded David to stay with her instead of going to live with Jeff and Serena. Serena tries to persuade David to change his mind and go home with them. 66 HIS is the room my mother made for me. I have to stay in it, just like it is." His voice had a sad finality. Serena could see only the outlines of the furniture, yet she could see it as clearly as if it had been illuminated by a rocket. There were the nursery pictures on the pastel walls, Jack and Jill and the three pigs. The low cream-colored chest and bed were gay with nursery decals. And the white organdy curtains were ruffled in baby blue. "Tt's a beautiful room, David. I know how happy your mother was when she made it for you. But do you know how old you were when she finished it?" "No, I don't." He said it as if it were an entirely new idea. "You were a tiny baby, just three Page 116 months old when she was able to put up the blue ruffled curtains. She had waited to see if you would be a boy or a girl." She gave his hand a little squeeze. "I think if she were alive now, she would change this room to fit a big boy, don't you?" "T guess she would at that." He let out a long sigh of relief. "What kind of a room would you like, David, if you could plan your own room?" The dark waters were receding now and the ground under Serena's struggling feet would soon be solid. "Tf I could plan my own room?" He toyed with the idea, pleased. "Well, the first thing Id like would be a bunk bed, two bunk beds, so I could have friends stay with me overnight." "Go on, David, go on." "And I'd like a little desk, where I could write and put my things." He was excited now. "I'd like a secret drawer, one with a key. And I'd like a big closet with a sliding door, big enough to put everything away." | "T think I know what you mean, David." She let the excitement in her voice match his. "You'd like a big room with lots of built-in furniture." She sat upright beside him. "That's just the kind of room we want in the new wing. You can help me plan it." "Oh, boy!" he cried happily, then he became strangely silent. A TIME TO FORGET "What is it, David?" was gentle. "Delia said," he began, shame in his voice, then hesitation, "she said you didn't want me to have a room near you—that was why you were building the new place." "What a funny' Delia!" She laughed as if it were a good joke. "Delia just doesn't understand families, does she? We want you to have a room that is fitted for you, and it's much easier to start from new than to change an old one." Reaching, she took David's hand and pressed it between hers. So much depended on how she made the next step. Her voice S6()F course, until the room is built, you'll have to get along with the room across the hall from ours. It will look more like you when we move your things. You won't mind waiting in it for a few months, will you?" "Oh, sure not." tive. "And there's another reason why your room should be in the new wing with the guest room and a room for Luis. Do you think you could keep it to yourself if I told you the reason?" She waited for his quick nod. "Your father and I want you to have brothers and sisters. You'd like brothers and sisters, wouldn't you?" "Would I? Oh, boy!" He was exultant. "I've always wanted a brother or a sister." "That's why we must save a room next to ours, a baby has to be close, you know." With a contented sigh, David lay back on the pillow. Just one more step and the He was posiW7 ground might be forever firm. "Did Delia say anything else I ought to know?" She asked the question with finality. "Not much, I guess." He was concentrating in the dark. After a few uneasy wriggles, he sat up. "['m sorry now, but when Dad came to get me today, and you weren't with him, I thought that everything Delia had said was true. I decided not to like you any more." "Oh, David!" She kissed him on the cheek, her tears mingling with his. "I was so foolish. I thought you'd want to see your father alone —I made him go without me. After this we'll always listen to what he says, won't we? Now, is there anything else?" She stood up, ready to turn on the light. David made his final confession. "You only wrote to me two or three times, and I wanted you to write to me every day like Dad did." Serena' laughed contritely. "T'll have to tell you my secret. I wanted to write every day. Sometimes it was hard to keep from writing, and I made your father sit down and write for me. The things I wanted to tell you, I thought you would rather hear from him." "T liked your letters best." Serena hugged David impulsively. "In every town we went I bought you something. I wanted you there to enjoy it with us." "Someday we'll go together." He spoke as a man of decision. "That's a promise. Are you ready to come home now?" HE slipped out of bed. "If you'll turn on the light by the door, Pll get dressed." "I'm going to bathe our eyes," she said after she had pressed the light button. "We don't want them to know we've been crying." At the bathroom door she hesitated. "These things you've told me... About Delia—we're going to forget them, aren't we? I'm sure she didn't want to make us unhappy. She was just lonely." "TIl be glad to forget them." He grinned at her. "You won't tell Dad all the things I've said? | He'll think I should know better and be angry with me." "Most of it is our secret." She wiped his eyes with a wet cloth. "Tll have to tell him just enough for him to understand what happened tonight. Don't dress," she stopped him. "Put on your slippers and robe. I'll bring your school clothes for tomorrow." Waiting at the foot of the stairs was Jeff. His look said they had been a long time, but he would be patient for a while longer. Behind him in the living room Delia was still bent over her knitting, a look of strain on her face. When she saw David in his blue and white striped robe, holding his shoes, the strain turned to a look of relief. David hesitated before Delia. He looked at her, his blue eyes deep and incalculable. "I'll be seeing you every day," he said, "... That is every day I possibly can." He added this with a child's regard for utter truth. He turned to his father with a smile so winsome that Jeff swept him up into his arms. At the door, Serena, in the rear, turned to Delia, "Come over the first thing in the morning, won't you? I'm unpacking then and I'm longing to show you our things." Delia came to the door. "You're a good woman, Serena Landeau," she said in her thin, dry voice. To Serena's amazement Delia leaned forward and gave her a cool little peck on the cheek. Serena's heart turned over. Why it was an apology, signed, sealed, and delivered. N the big mahogany bed in the former guest room, David's charro suit was spread in all its gaudy splendor. The soft suede trousers and short jacket were fancy with braid and silver coins. There were small silver spurs. Silver jingled as Serena lifted up the boy-sized sombrero. Fancy stitched boots and a red ribbon for a tie made the costume complete. David's eyes were wild with delight. "It's all mine?" he asked, his excitement mounting. "What an outfit!" He stroked the soft suede with an appreciative hand. Towering over him, Jeff laughed. He pulled Serena toward him, ready to leave, but she lingered. "See," she said, and held up a small white fluff of a dog. "I found him under your bed at Delia's house. Do you want him?" Pure joy shone in David's eyes. "It's Cream Puff." Clutching the small toy, he lay back, tired and contented. "Good night," he said softly. He pulled Serena's head down close to his. His face, pressed against hers, had the velvety softness of childhood. "Good night, Mother," he whispered. Serena felt bathed in happiness. All at once she was tired and relaxed and she let herself go in a 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 A TIME TO FORGET luxurious yawn. "Good night, Son," she whispered, and turned off the light. Ek ke & HE day of the San Vicente Circle in early April Delia was low with a cold. "I wanted to be the first to introduce you to our Circle.". Her voice over the telephone was a disappointed croak. "Now you'll have to go with Myra Hale." "Tll wait until next month. It doesn't matter about today," Serena consoled her. "Indeed it does matter!" Delia's indignation was loud. "All the ladies are anxious to see you. And you simply can't disappoint Constance and Martha Bates." Serena's laughter was bright as the morning. "If it's that important I'll be there," she promised. "T hate to go," she confessed to Jeff, who still lingered at the table though David had been gone half an hour and the workmen's hammers were competing with the birds. "They will be so curious." Jeff pushed back a brown curl on her forehead. "They," he teased, "are only a group of farmers' wives, all envious of you because you are a bride and young and beautiful." A wrinkle came between her eyes. "Don't laugh, but it's the oldtimers, the forty-niner's progeny who have lived in the same houses all their lives—they may not approve of me." Jeff's fine blue eyes twinkled. "I see no concern there. With few exceptions, the group is quite mature. I think you can hold your own with them." "I want advice, not nonsense." 19 Her fingers curled over his hand. "You know some of them are going to resent me." "Be yourself." He pressed his cheek against hers in a farewell gesture. At the kitchen door, he hesitated. "You have to meet them sometime. Do it on the wholesale, and it will be over." He came back into the room. "The Bates sisters are grand old girls, pushing ninety. Except for a married niece, they're the last of their direct line. When they open their house to the Circle, which their Boston mother founded, it's a great event. "You'll hear them called Miss Constance and Miss Martha, but remember that Miss Constance is Mrs. Chadwick. She was married for a few weeks some seventy years ago—her husband was killed in some accident. Right after they were married, and she's been Jording it over Miss Martha ever since." "What should I know about Miss Martha?" Serena asked. "Miss Martha is younger, by a year. She taught the village school for three decades and is the strong pillar of the family despite her inferior state." He rose, putting on his broad-brimmed felt hat. "They- 're the first ladies of Meadtown, and you will be right at home with them." At the door he hesitated again, his face newly serious. "I guess I'd better brief you on Alice McKellar. She's sure to be there. I should have taken you calling." His voice was contrite. "She was a great friend of the Henleys. I want you to be especially nice to her. She didn't come to the wed- 120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 ding, I don't know why. She's a bit on the erratic side, but she's been a good friend to me and she's one of the old-timers here, along with the Bates family. Bye now." He closed the door. It was barely shut before he opened it again. "T'm as hard to get rid of as an unwelcome guest, but there's just one more thing on my mind. It's not for today, just sometime when you feel the time is ripe. Find out what blows with David and the boy scouts?" "He's not eligible until next fall, is he?" Serena asked. It wasn't like Jeff to worry about a thing so far into the future. "He gets out of the cubs this spring, and I want him to start scouting this fall. Yesterday I heard him and Johnny Talbot talking in the barn. Something's up. They. Said they weren't going into the scouts." This time the door stayed closed. Tipple of elation went through Serena. Jeff trusted her in relation to David. In the short years before Jim's death she had expected much of life and received all she asked and more. Then came the dark years when she began to wonder if she even cared to ask for bounties. Now life was showering her with gifts as if to atone for _ the shadowed period. Singing, she went about her housework. Fall was a long time off; she would have plenty of time to talk with David. Too bad Luis couldn't help her today, but he was washing Delia's neglected dishes and getting her garden ready for planting. Today she must be smartly, but quietly dressed. Carefully, she chose a soft gray woolen dress with a swirling skirt of tiny pleats. She wore with it a silver-studded belt and her silver accessories and a vivid orange scarf that brought out the warmth of her hair and eyes. In spite of the bright sun, a cold wind was blowing, and she threw her gray Persian lamb jacket over her shoulders. It was given her by her father her last year in college. Just before the wedding it had been restyled. When she arrived at the Hale home, her friend looked at her approvingly. "You look like a bride ought to look," Mrs. Hale said. "The rest of us will look mighty plain and old." "Suppose they tum thumbs down on me?" She was in Mrs. Hale's car now, her skirt carefully arranged. Puffing, Mrs. Hale slid her weight into the driver's seat. "That could never happen," she said, her mouth frm. "Everyone I've seen has urged either Delia or me to bring you. You belong with us, and we're flattered you're coming. We're not as young as we used to be." "No one is," her, smiling. The valley was a sweet place. Mustard blooms still carpeted the. Valley floor. Here and there orchards were white and heady with fragile flowers. For accent, gardens flaunted the flame color of the flowering quince and ornamental peach. From the main highway, Mrs. (Continued on page 142) Serena reassured From The F ield General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ellen S. Bunting BAKERSFIELD STAKE (CALIFORNIA) FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY | STAKE BOARD, October 25, 1952 Front row, seated, left to right: Ellen S. Bunting, Secretary-Treasurer; Maude Hutchison, Second Counselor; Arlene Sutton, President; Edna Hacking, First Counselor; Orvetta Mortensen. Back row, standing, left to right: Marjorie Luke; Eulalah Robinson; Kathryn Pond; Evelyn Brown; Anna Gage; Hortense Erickson; Ethel Phillips. Ellen S. Bunting reports a very successful opening social given by the stake officers for ward officers and class leaders. Eighty-three women, out of a possible eighty- _mine, attended the social and everyone seemed to be much interested in the unique and outstanding presentation "'Let's Get on the Relief Society Train." Page 121 122 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 3, Photograph submitted by Muriel S. Wallis UINTAH STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR MANY OCCASIONS The chorister, Mary Manwaring, stands at the left in the second row, and Venna Bascom, the accompanist, stands next to Sister Manwaring. Muriel S. Wallis, President, Uintah Stake Relief Society, reports that this group of Singing Mothers, organized in 1947, has furnished music at stake conferences, conventions, and socials, every year since its organization. During the Centennial Year, they presented a public concert in Vernal, Utah, and in Roosevelt, Utah. At the dedication of the stake center, they were on the program. Their beautifully rendered numbers are an important part of all Relief Society stake gatherings. Photograph submitted by Gladys K. Wagner JUAREZ STAKE (MEXICO), DUBLAN WARD YOUNG MOTHERS IN ATTENDANCE AT RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to right: Marie Bluth; Thelma Bluth; Viola Jarvis; Dorothy McClellan; Anna Marie Taylor; Ora Bluth; Rinda Robinson; Naomi Bowman. Back row, standing, left to right: Shirley Robinson; Agnes Bluth; Nelle Bowman; Melvina Jones; Ester O. Robinson; Sarah Camphuysen; Theresa Call; Clara Matilda Wagner; Willa Wagner; Nilus Memmott; Ella R. Famsworth; LaVetta Taylor; Jennie R. Bowman; Rhoda C. Taylor, President, Dublan Ward Relief Society. Gladys K. Wagner, President, Juarez Stake Relief Society, in commenting upon the activities of this enthusiastic organization, reports: "We are proud of our young mothers and their efforts to attend Relief Society." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 123 — ' t i Wo Nas, Phitograph submitted by Beulah Warren UVADA STAKE (NEVADA), PIOCHE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to right: work committee—Phoebe Lamb, Frances Hollinger, and Mary Campbell; Secretary-Treasurer, Grace Stewart. Back row, left to right: Mary Hansen, Stake President; Grace Sherwood, social science leader; Ardelle Wilson, visiting teachers message leader; Faye Chadburn, Magazine representative; Orilla Hammond; Martha Bleak, President; Grace Fullerton, First Counselor; Susan Horlacher, Second Counselor; Jetta Brunson, theology leader; Gladys Lees, organist; Ivie Donohue. Photograph submitted by Eva L. Clinger SHELLEY STAKE (IDAHO), FIRTH WARD VISITING. TEACHERS WHO HAVE ACHIEVED A 100 PER CENT RECORD FOR TWO AND ONE-HALF YEARS Front row, left to right: Lila Daines, Second Counselor; Nellie Roos, retiring president; Mary Crofts, First Counselor and incoming President. Eva L. Clinger is president of Shelley Stake Relief Society. 124 ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 Photograph submitted by Genevieve L. Anderson EAST LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), WHITTIER WARD OPENING SOCIAL PAYS TRIBUTE TO FORMER OFFICERS, September 26, 1952 Former presidents, left to right: Electa Thatcher; Edna Cooley; Ada Harding; Ruth Perkins; Rachel Muir; Blanche Vaughn; Lucille Baker; Edna Skinner; Bessie Bleak; Alta Heder; Ruby Choate; Ethel Bailey; Rea Jorgensen; Martha Graham. Every former president, except Cleta Hansen, the second president, who resides in Utah, was in attendance. A program paying tribute to each former president of the Whittier Relief Society, since its organization in 1926, was presented. Heart-warming, as well as humorous incidents of the society's growth were described. In June 1940, the ward was divided, creating Whittier First Ward and Whittier Second Ward, with Rea Jorgensen presiding in the First Ward, and Martha Graham in the Second Ward. Genevieve L. Anderson is president of East Los Angeles Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Rebecca Mortenson SOUTH BEAR RIVER STAKE (UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION November 8, 1952 Left to right: Sophia L. Taylor, stake education counselor; Virginia Adams; Gertrude Iverson; Bertha Firth; Pearl Toland; Grace Brough; Eva Hansen, stake visiting teacher message leader; Mary Marble; Ida Miller; Norma Erickson. Eva Hansen gave a talk on the visiting teachers messages, and the ward leaders gave the messages for 1952-53, illustrating the thoughts with posters. The following were honored for their long service as visiting teachers: Virginia Adams, Sylvia Christensen, Rozina Dodd, Ethel Hampson, Ada Calderwood, Kate Harris, Margaret Thomas, Grace Fryer, Mae Bosley, Victoria Thompson, Mary Anderson, Ida Miller. The visiting teachers assembled in this convention especially enjoyed the dramatization "A Message in Action," given by Geraldine Summers, Peggy Marble, Bessie NOTES FROM THE FIELD 125 Calderwood, Vilate Archibald, Alvaretta Rytting, and Margaret Thomas. The group also enjoyed a display of Christmas gift suggestions prepared by Roma Whitaker, stake work director, and Fanny Fridal, stake work meeting leader. Dainty refreshments were served. Rebecca Mortenson is president of South Bear River Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Ruth M. Pell SANTA ROSA STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RETIRING RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ENTERTAIN NEW STAKE BOARD AT SOCIAL September 12, 1952 Retiring officers, seated, left to right: Dorothy Blaisdell, chorister; Leola Hamblin, Secretary-Treasurer; Jennie Dusenberry, literature leader; Louise Arntsen, organist; LaVaun Allen, visiting teacher leader. New officers, standing, left to right: Vera Mitchell, visiting teacher leader; Helen Murdock, theology leader; Verda Newman, social science leader; Jean Porter, chorister; Elda Lowry, Second Counselor; Dorothy Knowlton, Secretary-Treasurer; Ruth Pell, President; Martha Byme, First Counselor; Edna Peterson, work meeting leader; Eva Southwick, Magazine representative; Katherine Davis, organist. Vera Maude Sorenson, retiring president, and Verda Telford, former second counselor were not present when this photograph was taken. Nostalgia Ouida Johns Pedersen I have left my sullen hills for this fair sea. Sequestered valleys intimate to me I must forget. All that I know is sand, Round-breasted dunes that press against the land. Unfettered, unrestricted by the chain Of circling mountains, I am whole again, And only the observing, or the wise, Can tell it is not sea spray in my eyes. LESSON Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book.#| of Mormon Lesson 16—The Words of Jacob Recorded by Nephi Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon, 2 Nephi, Chapters 5-10) For Tuesday, May 5, 1953 Objective: To study the eternal truths taught by Jacob. ABOUT 570 B. C., Jacob, youngest brother of Nephi, having been called of God, was ordained after the manner of his holy order and consecrated by Nephi as a priest and a teacher to the people (2 Nephi 5:26; 6:2). Because of his interest in teaching his people to glorify the name of God, he read to the people from Isaiah the words which Nephi desired him to speak unto the people, and Jacob taught them much of the history recorded on the plates of brass. A gathering seems to have been held for two days at least, at which Jacob spoke at great length. He read and expounded parts of Isaiah to them (Isaiah 49:24-26; and chapters 50 and 51). He told the people that he read those parts of Isaiah that they might know the covenants of the Lord to all the house of Israel; the covenants that he had spoken to the Jews through his holy prophets from the beginning down until the time they should be restored to the true Church and to the lands of their inheritance, and the blessings the Page 126 Lord had in store for the Nephites as part of Israel (2 Nephi 9:1-3). In discussing the prophecies of Isaiah concerning the Jews, he informed them that he knew that the Jews in Jerusalem had been slain and carried away captive (2 Nephi 6:8). He told the people, however, that the Jews would return to Jerusalem, and that the Savior would manifest himself to them in the flesh (2 Nephi 6:9). He further said that the Jews living at the time of Christ were the more wicked part of the world. Jacob prophesied that because: of the hard hearts of the Jews and their stiff necks, they would scourge and crucify the Messiah. Commenting on this dreadful act, Jacob said: "There is none other nation on earth that would crucify their God" (2 Nephi 10:3). Jacob predicted that because of their iniquities, the Jews would suffer destruction, famine, and pestilences, and bloodshed would come upon them and those not destroyed should be smitten, scattered, hated, and afflicted (2 Nephi 6:10, 11; 10:36). LESSON DEPARTMENT Jacob informed his people, however, that in the end God would be merciful to them, that he would set his hand a second time to recover them, wherefore he would manifest himself unto them in power and great glory unto the destruction of their enemies (2 Nephi 6:14). This restoration, Jacob said, should come when they would believe in the Lord that he is Christ (2 Nephi 6:14; 10:7). Then they should be gathered in from the isles of the sea and from the four parts of the earth. Finally, Jacob told his people that whoever would oppress the Jews at that time should be fed with their own flesh and drunken with their own blood as with sweet wine (2 Nephi 6:18). Directing his attention to the prophecies relating to the Gentiles, Jacob taught that the nations of the Gentiles should be great in the eyes of the Lord in carrying the Jews forth to the lands of their inheritance. He said that because of this service to God's covenant people, the Lord would greatly bless the Gentiles that this land would be a land of liberty unto them, that the Lord would fortify it against all other nations (2 Nephi 10:10-12), and that the righteous Gentiles should be blessed and numbered among the house of Israel (2 Nephi 10:18). Jacob also informed his people that whoever fights against Zion, either Jew or Gentile, bond or free, male or female, shall perish (2 Nephi 10:16; 6:13). Great as these promises were to the Gentiles, Jacob also made great promises to his own descendants. He predicted that his own seed 127 would be afflicted by the Gentiles, but that the Lord would soften the hearts of the Gentiles. He told his people that the Lord had consecrated the land to their seed and to those who should be numbered with them, and that it was to be an everlasting inheritance (2 Nephi 10:19). Thinking of the fact that his people were a branch of the house of Israel which had been broken off and directed to the land of promise from Jerusalem, Jacob told them to lay aside their sins and not to hang down their heads, for they were not cast off, but that they had been led to a better land. He told his people that the Lord would remember them. He closed his discourse with a prayer, saying, "May God raise you from death by the power of the resurrection, and also from everlasting death by the power of the atonement, that ye may be received into the eternal kingdom of God, that ye may praise him through grace divine. Amen." (2 Nephi 10:25) The Atonement and Resurrection Not all of Jacob's instructions were in the form of prophecies and expositions. He also explained to his people God's plan for the redemption of mankind. Jacob's teachings of the atonement and resurrection are clear and convincing. He explained — that death came upon all men through the fall when Adam and Eve transgressed the law and partook of the - forbidden fruit. "Because man became fallen they were cut off from the presence of the Lord. Wherefore, it must needs be an infinite atonement — save it should be an infinite atonement this corrup- 128 tion could not put on incorruption. Wherefore, the first judgment which came upon man must needs have remained to an endless duration. And if so, this flesh must have laid down to rot and to crumble to its mother earth, to rise no more.... And our spirits must have become like unto him [Satan], and we become devils, angels to a devil..«.." (2 Nephing;6f,), Jacob exclaimed about the goodness of God who prepared a way for man's escape from the grasp of the awful monsters, death and hell. Because of the way of deliverance of our God this death shall deliver up its dead which death is the grave. And the spiritual death which is hell, shall likewise deliver up its dead, and the bodies and spirits of men will be restored one to the other by the power of the resurrection of the Holy One of Israel (2 Nephi 9:6-12). Commenting on this need for an infinite atonement which Jacob said was necessary, Elder Orson F. Whitney, the apostle, writes: Redemption must come, if at all, ' through some being great enough and powerful enough to make an _ infinite _ atonement; one completely covering the ' far-reaching effects of the original transgression. The scales of Eternal Justice, unbalanced by Adam's act, had to be repoised, and the equilibrium of_right -restored. Who could do this? Who. Was able to mend the broken law, bring good out of evil, mould failure into success, and snatch victory from the jaws of defeat? The life of a God was the price of a world's freedom, and that price was paid by the God of Israel.. Whodescended from his glorious throne, became morfal, and by submitting to death: broke the bands of death, and made it possible for man to go on in his eternal destiny (Saturday Night Thoughts, page 94). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 Why there had to be a fall and _ redemption, we have not been made fully aware. We do not know why God found it necessary to put Adam and Eve into a position "Where they were commanded not to do the very thing that had to be done...." It "is one of those infinite problems that must remain to finite minds a mystery until the All-Wise shall will to make it plain. Man cannot sit in judgment upon his Maker, nor measure, by human standards divine dispensations" (Saturday Night Thoughts, page 95). The atonement of Christ did more than atone for the sin of Adam alone, for Christ suffered the pains of all men, the pains of every living creature, men, women, and children who belong to the family of Adam. "O the wisdom of God, his mercy and grace!" Jacob exclaimed (2 Nephi 9:8). Christ showed his mercy as well as justice. He atoned for our individual sins as well, provided we repent and acknowledge him as the God of this world (2 Nephi 9:21, 23). The Doctrine and Covenants expands this point of view: For behold, I, God, have suffered these things for all, that they might not suffer if they would repent; but if they would not repent they must suffer even as I; which suffering caused myself, even God, the greatest of all, to tremble because of the pain, and to bleed at every pore, and to suffer both body and spirit (D. & C. 19:16-18). This infinite atonement releases the wicked and the righteous from the grave and men _ become. Immortal, living souls... They will ap-. Pear before Christ for judgment. On that occasion, we shall have a LESSON DEPARTMENT perfect knowledge of all our past actions. The wicked shall remember their guilt, their uncleanness, and their nakedness, "and the righteous shall have a perfect knowledge of their enjoyment, and their righteousness, being clothed with purity, yea, even with the robe of righteousness" (2 Nephi 9:14). The spirit and the body of each person shalt~-bereunited never to. Be separated again. At the great judgment bar of God, the righteous shall inherit the kingdom of God, and they will be righteous still (2 Nephi 9:16). The filthy shall remain filthy still, and they must suffer torment as a lake of fire and brimstone. On the other hand, those who died _ without law shall 'have claim on the justice and mercy of God, and "they. Are restored to that God who gave them breath" (2 Nephi 9:26). 'In this discussion of this vital doctrine, Jacob, in summary, said there must be an infinite atonement to redeem men from the fall and from their individual sins. He recognized that Christ exemplifies the justice and mercy of God by suffering for Adam's transgression and for the sins of all mankind who will repent. As a result of this justice and mercy, all mankind will go back into the presence of God where each will be judged according to his works and will be trewarded or punished accordingly. During his dissertation, Jacob told his people that as their teacher it was his duty to teach them the consequences of sin since they were not holy (2 Nephi 9:48). He advised them not to spend their money for that which had no worth, nor to labor for that which cannot 129 satisfy (2 Nephi 9:51). He warned his people of the state of those who know the law of the gospel and then transgress it. He urged the learned to listen to the counsels of God, and the rich not to despise the poor, not to persecute the meek, and not to center their attention upon their treasures. He warned the deaf who would not hear and the blind who would not see. He told those who had unclean hearts that their iniquities would smite them at the last day. He warned the liar, the murderer, the whoremaster, the idol worshippers, and all who die in their sins of terrible judgments to come. "Remember," Jacob warned, "to be carnallyminded is death, and to be spiritually-minded is life eternal" (2 Nephi 9:39). He pleaded with his people to come unto the Holy One of Israel (2 Nephi 9:44, 45, 46). These instructions from Jacob mark him as a prophet who looked into time and saw the important things that should happen to the Jews, to the Gentiles, and to his own people. They establish Jacob in our minds as a humble follower of the Master, a leader-prophet, mighty in righteousness and in a knowledge of the Savior and his eternal plan. Questions on the Lesson 1. Is part of the prophecy concerning the Jews being fulfilled in our time? See Joseph Fielding Smith, "Restoration of Israel and Judah," The Signs of the Times, pages 45-62. 2. What were the prophecies Jacob taught relating to this land? 3. Will all mankind, the wicked and the righteous, be resurrected and stand before the throne of God and be judged according to their works? Explain. Visiting Sleacher Nlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 16—"... And If It So Be That the Children of Men Keep the Commandments of God He Doth Nourish Them, and Strengthen Them, and Provide Means Whereby They Can Accomplish the Thing Which He Has Commanded Them" (1 Nephi 17:3). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, May 5, 1953 Objective: To leave the comforting thought that if we keep the commandments of God, he will help us to achieve the things that are required at our hands. Wat great comfort this message may bring to us! To know that we will be aided in doing all things that are expected of us, if we keep the commandments of God. We not only believe this, but we have seen the truth of this quotation verified in many instances. Missionaries testify to the help and direction of the Lord in various situations. They have felt the spirit of the Lord directing them to certain homes; they have had words put into their mouths which they themselves could not have brought forth; they have spoken in foreign tongues with little training; they have accomplished many things that were required of them which they acknowledged they could not have done except the Lord had come to their aid. When individuals in our Church are appointed to positions of trust and responsibility, many are at first overwhelmed with the magnitude of the calling, with feelings of inadequacy. They cannot see how they can ever measure up to the great work that will be expected of them in the performance of such positions. But we have seen them Page 130 put their trust in the Lord, strive to the best of their ability to keep his commandments, and then accomplish deeds that they little dreamed they were capable of accomplishing. "For with God nothing — be impossible" (Luke 1:39). Nephi, the author of the quotation used as the subject of this lesson, may be a pillar of strength to all readers of 'The Book of Mormon. His great faith inspires us to trust in the Lord and to: be more diligent in keeping his commandments. When Nephi was commanded by the Lord to build a ship in order that he and his brethren might sail to the promised land, his brothers murmured against him, saying he had not the knowledge to build a ship. Nephi was not trusting in his own knowledge but in the knowledge of the Lord, and he said to them: If God had commanded me to do all things I could do them. If he should command me that I should say unto this water, be thou earth, it should be earth; and if I should say it, it would be done. And now, if the Lord has such great power and has wrought so many miracles among the children of men, how is it LESSON DEPARTMENT that he cannot instruct me, that I should build a ship? (1 Nephi 17:50-51). Nephi further says, "neither did I build the ship after the manner of men; but I did build it after the manner which the Lord had shown unto me" (1 Nephi 18:2). May we put our trust in the Lord. May we have implicit faith in the 131 | fulfillment of his word, and may we keep his commandments that we may be nourished and strengthened in performing all that is re-- quired of us, always remembering the words of the Lord, "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise" (D. & C. 82:10). Work IT leeting—Home Management (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 8—Use and Distribution of Income Rhea H. Gardner (For Tuesday, May 12, 1953) HE effect of income is influ- "enced by the manner in which it is spent, as well as by the amount which is earned. This is the conclusion of those who have made widespread and repeated studies in the field. Women are credited with spending eighty-five per cent of the net cash earnings of their husbands. "How can I put the money I spend to most profitable use?" is a question to which homemakers have sought an answer for a long while. There is no one spending plan that is best for all families. Each family must decide on a plan that is in keeping with its goals in life. There is no substitute for thinking and planning together as a family group. Experiences and suggestions of others are often helpful. An aged, rich man, who had known poverty in his earlier years, gave the following bit of wisdom: "Man's wants will always exceed the size of his income, unless he protests to the contrary. Decide what you want out of life, then set up a spending plan that will enable you to get it," he added. Some families decide how much they can spend for each division of the family living expense, then regulate their spending accordingly. Others find it irksome to keep within set limits in their spending. A wife can be a good manager under either system, as long as she knows how much she is spending, makes wise choices of the things she buys, and gets her money's worth for what she spends. To the inexperienced person this is not always easy. However, if you determine how much you can afford to spend, and then abide by it, this is a sure way of spending only as much as your income will allow without being overdrawn. Spending plans ate highly recommended. Some values of them are: 1. They help to control expenditures. 2. They tell where your money is 'going and why. 3. They help to get more of the things you want by cutting out wasteful spending. 4. They help to provide for a more equitable distribution of family income among all family members. 5- They eliminate, or at least minimize, wasteful spending. 6. They help one to match means and ends. 7. They insure more peace of mind and satisfaction for those who do the spending. To make a success of your spending plan, it is important that you: 1, Start simply. 2. Work out a system that suits your personal or family needs best. 3. Start a record-keeping system of all income and expenses. Then keep it until the habit is formed. 4. Control your spending plan by making adjustments whenever it seems wise to do so. The purpose of it is to suggest and guide but never to rule. While the spending plan of each family will differ, records kept by hundreds of average families of moderate incomes show their expenditures to be about as follows: Food 29%. 'This lowers as income increases or as more food is produced and prepared at home. When no food is produced, it may go as high as 50%. Clothing 15%. It may drop to 107% Or 12% in low income groups, or when most of the sewing is done at home. It has been a fairly constant figure, however. Housing 17%. 'This should not exceed 20%. The general rule has been used, over many years, that a house should not cost more than twice the annual gross income. However, it is questionable whether that figure can be held to during these days of high costs of building materials and labor. House Operation 9%. The cost of comforts and luxuries above those normally enjoyed may raise this to 12 to 15% All Other 23%. (Recreation, education, health, travel, church, etc.) a iterature—The Literature of England Lesson 32—Readings in Romanticism—A Review Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson) For Tuesday, May 19, 1953 Objective: To re-define the length and texture of the romantic strands, that fmally they might be bound together in a solid knot. ICH and various as it might be, the journey from Samuel Johnson to Matthew Arnold is also a long one. And just as anticipation whets realization, even so an easy, mellow remembering of what has been met and seen and felt, is not an inconsiderable value in itself. To 132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT be able to look back with satisfaction over a period of time or even a life well spent is equivalent to having lived twice, and the second seeing is not to be considered preponderantly inferior to the first one. During our journey of the past two years we have met many writers whose friendship might well be renewed with pleasure. For strength, and a renewing, then, we turn back. Before we do so, however, we should know that we are traveling on borrowed time and space, since originally this lesson was to be devoted to some minor romantic poets (text, pp. 296-315). But because within these pages there is what might seem a bewildering amplitude of poets and their works, it seemed wise to review familiar paths, rather than attempting to travel too far, and in too many directions, all at once. It might be fitting on our part, however, were we to express our gratitude for use of this space by at least acknowledging its original and excellent owners. Of our six hosts, the first we already know, because of his friendship with Wordsworth and Coleridge, and because Byron early saw that he was not a great poet, continually reminding Robert Southey and his audience of the fact. We might justly commend Mr. Southey for his industry and for his bestknown poem "The Battle of Blenheim" (pp. 300-301), which with its rather morbid detail and ironical tone strongly attacks the futility of war. Next to Byron, our second host Thomas Moore, was the most popular poet of his age. When we 133 acknowledge him as author of three lyrics which are still universally known and loved, we can _ better understand his wide popularity in his own time. "The Harp That Once Through Tara's Halls" (page 303), "Tis the Last Rose of Summer" (page 303), and "Believe Me, If All Those Endearing Young Charms" (pp 303-304), have all been set to music, so compelling was the singing quality of Moore's words. Recently we have met Leigh Hunt because of the inspiration and encouragement he gave the budding Keats. While he has never since enjoyed the literary prestige he knew in his own day, two of his poems, "Abou Ben Adhem" (page 304) and "Rondeau" (Jenny Kissed Me, page 305) have endeared his name to Englishmen since his death. While neither is a great poem, each endures on its own charm and merit. His own life made wretched by poverty, Thomas Hood cried out his protest against industrialized England in poetry. Best known is his "Song of the Shirt," with its indictment, It's Oh! To be a slave Along with the barbarous Turk, Where woman has never a soul to save, If this is Christian work. Also worthy of our attention is his "Silence" (page 306, 1. 13-16) and "The Bridge of Sighs" (pp. 307-308) which asks pity rather than blame for a girl driven to suicide by poverty and the bleak indifference of London city life. Thomas Lovell Beddoes is best represented by three exquisite lyrics in our text: "Song" (How Many A Perry Picture POETS' CORNER, WESTMINSTER ABBEY, LONDON Times Do I Love Thee, Dear?) page 309, "Dirge" (If Thou Wilt Ease Thine Heart) page 309, and "Dream-Pedlary": If there were dreams to sell, What would you buy?» (text, page 310, 1. 1-2) Our hasty smile-nod procedure of greeting yields its bitterest fruits as we sketchily bypass the considerable worth of Walter Savage Landor (pp. 311-315). In his poems are found a beautiful symmetry of form, a chiseled exactness of diction and tone, which reveal a powerful blending of his classical and romantic elements. While his excellence is everywhere apparent, at least two of his best-known pieces must be quoted. Rose Aylmer Ah, what avails the sceptered race, Ah, what the form divinel What every virtue, every gracel Rose Aylmer, all were thine. Rose Aylmer, whom these wakeful eyes May weep, but never see, A night of memories and of sighs I consecrate to thee. (page 311) On His Seventy-Fifth Birthday I strove with none; for none were worth my strife, Nature I loved, and next to Nature, Art; aaa both hands before the fire of ife, It sinks, and I am ready to depart. (page 315) Here, yes, is restraint and sensitivity, but also, in its own realm, another "pure serene" of masterful poetry. Now that our respects are paid, it is time to begin laying the groundwork for our review of romanticism. Why not embody the review in the participation of as many oral readings of best-loved selections as time will permit? 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT At least two plans suggest themselves; doubtless there are countless others, and any plan is valid. In the first plan either the class leader or someone appointed by her introduces the program by reading a brief statement of the history and principles of the romantic movement; then various musical numbers and oral readings of romantic selections may follow. In the second plan the class leader or someone she chooses might act as narrator, introducing each reader by explaining what romantic principle predominates within her selections. This project will prove more rewarding to everyone concerned, if art forms other than the written word are employed in presenting it. If the magnificent illustrations of William Blake are to be found anywhere in your community, use them to present not only Blake's poetry but the inspired beauty of romanticism. If large, clear portraits of the authors are available, show these when poems are presented. Music, the sister-art to poetry, ideally can be alternated with reading of selections. The following poems have been set to music (possibly many others have been, also) and are to be found in many music libraries: Thomson—"Rule, Britannia'"' Cowper—"God Moves in a Mysterious Way," and many other hymns Burns—"'Auld Lang Syne," Afton," "Bonnie Doon" Moore—"'Tis the Last Rose of Summer," "Believe Me, If All Those Endearing Young Charms." "Sweet The lesson entitled, "Introduction to Romanticism" appeared in the July 1951 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. A review of this 135 material might prove useful both to the class leader, to those who participate in the program, and to the members of the class. Pages 1-31 in the text contain much pertinent material. In preparing the introductory material or the unifying narrative comments, the speaker should be reminded that her function might be compared to that of the string which connects the pearls. In this project the emphasis should be on the literature itself; theory and history and classification best justify themselves if they merely join the various selections and then remain in the background. It would seem that the greatest problem in planning this program is the selection of what to read. Since the purpose of this hour is primarily one of enjoyment through participation and recollection, the class leader should recall those passages of prose or poetry which she felt were most warmly received by the group. Various authors should be represented, as well as the various phases of romanticism. With the hope of assisting the class leader in choosing representative selections covering the many phases of romanticism, a preliminary incomplete listing has been made. The authors are classified under six arbitrary phases of the romantic movement. Several authors made significant contributions in more than one phase. Space will hardly permit listing each poem by title, even by the pertinent lines, and many of the phases might appear in the same poem. As a suggested springboard, then, from which the final selection might 136 evolve, the following suggestions are offered: 1. INDIVIDUALITY - DEMOCRACY - IDEALISM Gray Coleridge Burns Byron Blake Shelley Hood 2. NATURE Thomson Burns Collins Keats Wordsworth Shelley 3. Love Burns Keats Wordsworth Moore Byron Beddoes 4. MELANCHOLY - Mystery Gray Keats Cowper Shelley Byron Hood "Coleridge 5. THe Past Coleridge Keats Scott Hood Shelley 6. Beauty - IMAGINATION Blake Shelley 'Wordsworth Keats Coleridge Landor RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 Complete short poems might be read, or the most rewarding excerpts from longer ones. Participants should be selected at least a month in advance, that they may become familiar with their' readings, and completely at home as they hear the sound of their own voices reading the poems. The entire program will be much more pleasant and effective if an actual rehearsal of the program can be held before the scheduled day of presentation in Relief Society. In such a tehearsal we learn tremendously from the presentations and suggestions of each other, and confidence will be bolstered considerably. This lesson concludes our study of the romantic period. Next year's lessons will continue on in our text into the Victorian period, which all of us may anticipate proving to be as challenging and as rewarding and as pleasant as anything we have studied previously. X Forever Summer (Palm Desert Vacation) Eva Willes Wangsgaard I'll remember this butterfly as yellow As lemon rind on the ripened fruit. I'll remember these moments, warm and mellow, Petunia-fragrant, still as a root. I'll remember the bougainvillaea, climbing The trellis, blossoms cool in my hands, The slender palm tree's penciled timing Of sunlight's progress across the sands. Strange scent for winter's keeping, The fragrance new-mown grasses know! I shall remember when winds are sweeping New crests and swales in a sea of snow. Social Scsence—The Progress of Man Part Ill—In the Way of Destiny Lesson 21—Destiny of the Earth and Man Elder Archibald F. Bennett (Text: Progress of Man, chapters 42 and 43) For Tuesday, May 26, 1953 Objective: To emphasize the truth that the earth is destined to become a glorified celestial kingdom, sanctified and immortal, inhabited only by those who attain to celestial exaltation. Worlds Without Number JN the visions given to Moses when he was caught up into an exceedingly high mountain, the Lord revealed the history of the creation of this earth. The Lord opened the spiritual eyes of Moses and he "beheld the world and the ends thereof, and all the children. Of men which are, and which were created." As the vision continued Moses was given the privilege of looking also into the great expanse of heaven, and there he beheld innumerable worlds, and as he looked, he marveled, and he said unto the Lord: "Tell me, I pray thee, why these things are so, and by what thou madest them?" And the Lord answered: For mine own purpose have I made these things.... And worlds without number have I created; and I also created them for mine own purpose; and by the Son I created them, which is mine Only Begotten. And the first man of all men have I called Adam, which is many. But only an account of this earth, and the inhabitants thereof, give I unto you. For behold, there are many worlds that have passed away by the word of my power. And there are many that now stand, and innumerable are they unto man; but all things are numbered unto me, for they are mine and I know them (Moses 1:31-35). Jesus the Creator From this and many other revelations we are taught that Christ worked throughout the universe building worlds long before this earth was formed. In the meridian of time Christ came into this world, in fulfilment of the promise and appointment. He is the Firstborn in the spirit, and the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh. He became the Redeemer of all things upon the earth, and even of the earth itself. Island Universes Centuries before the time of Moses, visions of similar character were given to Abraham. The Lord gave him the Urim and Thummim by which the heavens were revealed to him. Abraham saw that some of the stars were very great. He was informed that there was a principle of divine mathematics by which he might know when he looked into the heavens, that where there was one planet, or world, above the earth in its magnitude and time of reckoning, that there was still anPage 137 other above that and so on until you come to the throne of God. Modern astronomers have confirmed the teachings of Abraham and Moses in relation to the greatness of the universe and the innumerable stars extending in all directions as far as telescopes, and other instruments of man's inven- - tion, are able to reach. Our earth belongs to what astronomers call an island universe. There are a great many of these island universes, each a system composed of worlds without number. These systems are also called galaxies. In fact, some of the other systems, or island universes, are so far away that the entire group of billions of stars composing them appear merely as points of light. The brightest of these is in the constellation of Andromeda and is reckoned according to man's time as being nearly one million light-years away from the earth. At present the farthest known nebulae are three million light-years away. The purpose of this brief statement is merely to give some faint idea as to the greatness of the works of God, the end of which no man has seen, and which no man will ever see without the revelation of God. This creation is ever going on. Worlds are filling the measure of their creation, dying, receiving their resurrection and place in the great universe, and others are coming to take their place and go through the same course of development. In this way the work of the Lord is one eternal round. Life the Crowning Glory | Life on this earth is in varied forms and subject to many different conditions. What laws-may have been given to other spheres and how life is regulated elsewhere in the universe, we have no means of knowing by any scientific investigation. The scriptures teach that God and celestialized beings live "in everlasting burnings." Mortals, of flesh and blood, cannot endure these conditions, but would be consumed. This earth of ours was designed by the Father to become a celestial orb. In the Doctrine and Covenants (sec. 88) we are given a very clear and definite statement in relation to this earth and its destiny: And the spirit and the body are the soul of man. And the resurrection from the dead is the redemption of the soul. And the redemption of the soul is through him that quickeneth all things, in whose bosom it is decreed that the poor and the meek of the earth shall inherit it. Therefore, it must needs be sanctified from all unrighteousness, that it may be prepared for celestial glory; For after it hath filled the measure of its creation, it shall be crowned with glory, even with the presence of God the Father; That bodies who are of the celestial kingdom may possess it forever and ever; for, for this intent was it made and created, and for this intent are they sanctified (D. & C. 88:15-20). From this scripture we learn that the earth was created for glory, to become the habitation of celestial beings; that God the Father will come and dwell here after the earth is sanctified. 138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT Stages of the Earth's Existence This earth has passed through several stages; it has three more stages through which to pass before it is glorified. After the fall of Adam a curse was placed upon the earth;. That curse is upon it now. It is passing through its telestial order. Before many years have passed it will be cleansed from its iniquity and pass into the terrestrial order. This will*come as the advent of Jesus Christ and the millennium of -peace. At that time we will have, so Isaiah declares, "new heavens, and a new earth: and the former shall not be re membered nor come into mind" (Isaiah 65:17). These new heavens and new earth will be the earth and its heavens in its purified, or restored state, during the millennium. It will be the condition which is spoken of in the tenth article of faith. It will not be the final new heaven and earth, for at the time of this change mortality will still be upon the earth. The enmity of man and of beasts will 'disappear. There will be no more death as we see it, for men will live until they are old; infants shall not die, and when the change comes from mortality to immortality it will be in the twinkling of an eye. This condition of glorious change will continue for one thousand years, and then there shall come another change, and the earth shall die. The Celestialized Earth This passing away of the earth was well understood by ancient prophets. Isaiah has predicted it in several places. Like all other mortal things it must die; but it — great battle. 139 will come forth again. For the earth shall die by fire and thus be purified; through this death and distintegration and purification which will follow, the earth will be raised to its celestial and final state, that of glory. The Prophet Joseph Smith has said: This earth, in its sanctified and immortal state, will be made like unto crystal and will be a Urim and Thummim to the inhabitants who dwell thereon, whereby all things pertaining to an inferior kingdom, or all kingdoms of a lower order, will be manifest to those who dwell on it; and the earth will be Christ's. Then the white stone mentioned in Revelation 2:17, will become a Urim and Thummim to each individual who receives one, whereby things pertaining to a higher order of kingdoms will be made known (D. & C. 130: g-10). When the earth is cleansed and celestialized, Christ will make his final report to his Father. Before that day Michael shall lead his forces against Lucifer who shall be banished with his followers into the second death. Mortal conditions will end following this last Paul says the last enemy to be destroyed is death, and it will be after the destruction of this enemy, and when every living thing—as spoken of in the Doctrine and Covenants, section twenty-nine—has received its resurrection, that Christ will make his final report and be able to say to his Father that he has finished his work so far as mother earth is concerned. Degrees of Glory for Man After explaining to Moses that there were innumerable worlds that have been created, and as one passes away to its exaltation another comes, the Lord declared that the purposes of these creations are to furnish habitations for his children, and he says: "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). In other words, there is but one purpose in the creation of earths like unto this where we dwell, and all other worlds throughout the universe, and that purpose is to provide habitations for mankind. We are the offspring of God and hence the crowning glory of all of his creations. The creation of earths, then, is but a means to an end. If there were no human beings and other animate things, there would be no need for earths or suns throughout the universe, for they are to serve, and are serving, the same purpose for which houses are built by men upon the earth. Since, then, the great work of the Lord is to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man, we must expect the fact to be that man is found inhabiting these worlds throughout the universe. The destiny of man is to pass through three estates. In the first estate he existed as a spirit in the presence of God. Second, by and through the goodness and mercy of the Father, he is privileged to come to earth, here or somewhere else, and pass through mortality partaking of all the vicissitudes which mortal life has to offer. The third estate is that of the resurrection, the coming forth from the grave after death, the spirit and body being inseparably united. This gift will be given to every mortal creature whether he be good or bad, whether or not he seek it. This is unconditional redemption. Conditional salvation will not be received by all. It is based upon obedience to the laws of God, faith, repentance, baptism by immersion and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. Nor is this all; it requires obedience constantly and to the end. (See D. & C. 132:22-25; 88:17, 21-28.) This earth is created especially for the few who are willing to keep the celestial law. In his Sermon on the Mount, Christ said that the meek should inherit the earth. The meek are those who in humility, as little children, keep the fulness of the law of God. They are heirs of the celestial kingdom. Those who live upon the earth who are only willing to live the telestial or terrestrial law, must inherit some other world suited to their condition. - For, we see from this written word, in the resurrection they receive - bodies celestial, terrestrial, or télestial, according to the law which has been observed. The great majority of the inhabitants of this earth will not inherit a permanent residence upon the earth when it becomes celestialized. While they may have place, honor, and wealth in mortal life, the time will come, because they have not abided in the law which was given to this earth—the celestial law—when they will be assigned to a world which is terrestrial or telestial. (See D. & C. 88:37-39.) An Eternal Inheritance Upon the Celestialized Earth We learn, then, that there have 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT been prepared from all eternity past, and there will be prepared to _ all eternity to come, worlds for the children of God to dwell upon. This earth, because it abides the law of the celestial order, is to be crowned with the fulness of the celestial blessings and glory. Christ and his Father will come here, for this is the abode of Christ; and the saints of God shall possess the kingdom and it is revealed that they shall "be made kings and priests unto God and his Father." (See D. & C. 29:23-26.) We can reasonably expect that other worlds than ours are peopled with beings akin to ourselves, and that this condition prevails with tegularity throughout the entire universe; not only in our system, but also in the innumerable galaxies beyond our system. This thought is borne out in the words of the Lord to Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon: For we saw him, even on the right hand of God and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father— That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were cre-. Ated, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God (D. & C. 76:23-24). President Brigham Young taught: When it (the earth) becomes celestialized, it will be like the sun, and be prepared for the habitation of the Saints, and be brought back into the presence of the Father and the Son. It will not then be an opaque body as it now is, but it will be like the stars of the firmament, full of light and glory; it will be a body of light. John compared it, in its celestialized state, to a sea of glass (Journal of Discourses, 7:163). 141 BOOKS for the L. D. S. Ward ORGANIST =. At the Console $1.50 =. Chancel! Echoes 1.50 = Chapel Organist............--....-------------- 1.50 =. Devotional Organ Album—Asper.... 2.50 -. Music for the Consonata Organ— Vol. 1 1.50 _. Music for the Consonata Organ— SY 0) i ee 1.50 =. Organ Melodies—Landon................ 1.50 = Organ Musings............--.----------------- 1.50 =. Organ Voluntaries—Vol. 1— Schreiner........... C...: sccccsseecceeeceeeeeeoeees 3.50 _ Organ Voluntaries—Vol. 2— Schreiner............ C.:: cccecceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 3.50 on Sacred Hour at the Organ—Arno.... 1.50 WE PAY POSTAGE Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement on your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated above. O On Approval O Charge 0 Money Enclosed Name Address City & State....... FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY Daynes Ae MAIN STREET "Muse I suppose this is one of the lowest kingdoms that ever the Lord Almighty created, and on that account is capable of becoming exalted to be one of the highest kingdoms that has ever had an exaltation in all the eternities. In proportion as it has been reduced so it will be exalted with that portion of its inhabitants who in their humiliation have cleaved to righteousness and acknowledged God in all things (Ibid., 10:175). When the celestialization of the earth shall come, the theocratic kingdom of Jesus Christ will continue among the exalted beings who are counted worthy to possess an inheritance on the earth and in that kingdom. Then will be fulfilled that which is written: "And (he) hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father; to him Se aSe be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen" (Rev. 1:6). Thoughts for Discussion 1. Through what stages has this earth passed or will yet pass? What is to be its ultimate destiny? Are there other worlds with a similar destiny? 2. Outline the progress of man through the various stages of his existence. If faithful, what is to be his ultimate destiny? 3. Explain and apply the following quotation: "For strait is the gate, and narrow the way that leadeth unto the exaltation and continuation of the lives, and few there be that find it.... This is eternal lives—to know the only wise and true God, and Jesus Christ, whom he hath sent. I am he. Receive ye, therefore, my law" (D. & C. 132:22, 24). SS A Time to Forget (Continued from page 120) Hale drove through a new subdivision with ranch-type homes set deep in the walnut trees. She gave a reminiscent sigh. "When we first came all this side of the valley was in walnuts, right up to the Bates' garden. Then Henry, that was the girls' only brother, began selling bits of it for small farms. Now look at it. Half-acre lots, and some of them go almost to Main Street." She shook her head sadly. "They'll be doing that to our places soon." "Oh, I hope not!" Serena spoke with fervor. Just when she was learning to love this place and feel a part of it, it might be taken from her. | GHE turned her shining eyes to Mrs. Hale. "I hope it doesn't come for a long time yet, not until our new wing has grown old." Mrs. Hale's plump cheeks shook with understanding laughter. "Today," she chuckled, "you're going to see a place where life has been going on pretty much the same way for a hundred years. You'll have to look at the refrigerator and tadio to see there's been any change at all. Everything else in the house either came by boat around the Horn or in the early freight cars. Except for a married niece, Miss Constance and Miss Martha are the last of their direct line and they've got everything the 142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 A TIME TO FORGET family ever had. See, there it is," she nudged Serena enthusiastically, pointing to a great three-storied white clapboard house ahead of them on the slope. "It was built before the groves were planted, when all this country was grazing and wheat land. And the right wing," she waved a plump hand, "the lumber for it came around the Horn. The Bates wouldn't tear it down when they built this place." "Looks like everyone is here," she said, maneuvering her car along the circle of parked automobiles. "They're curious as a cat to see you." She propelled Serena up the broad gray steps and rang the bell. (To be continued) SSP S252 SS Trite, But True (Continued from page 105) or felt that it was too hot, snatched a dish towel, and lifted the pan from the heat. It was frightfully hot. She tried moving a_ piece with a fork, decided on a spatula, dropped the fork on the dish towel, and began 'turning the meat inquisitively. Only one piece was burned much. Karen trimmed all of it hopefully and finished frying it. Now the potatoes were done, and the gravy wasn't even started! How did you ever get it all to come out even? Stirring the gravy, Karen glanced around the kitchen. 'The greasy fork on the dish towel caught her eye. Forgetting to use the potholders! On the table lay the little 143 MUSIC for the Relief Society Special Program Sunday Evening, March I, 1953 "Let the Mountains Shout for Joy" by Evan Stephens—ll5c a copy "Thanks Be to God" by Dickson—16c a copy Order your copies of these songs ALSO SPECIAL ANTHEMS and all other music for RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 South Main Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH ~ x Preserve Your Relief Society Magazines For Reference Have your Relief Society Magazines bound into permanent yearly volumes. They are excellent for reference. Cost is small. Write or phone today for information. Deseret News Press 33 RICHARDS STREET & 4-2581 Salt Lake City, Utah THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hanlin The Stradivari of Pianos KNABE The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built i All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH alata ha RS a REREAEAEAENED Join Members of the Salt Lake City Dance Clubs For a Spring Tour to — HAWATL (Conducted) - Sail from Los Angeles on the LOVELY LURLINE May 4, 1953 Early Reservations Advisable For detailed information write or telephone.. VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone 4-2017 cr 9-5388 'thinking? Ornamental lamb Nancy had broken yesterday. Karen had thought she could mend it with china cement in her spare time today. The things needing buttons and. Daddy's best shirt cluttered the counter. She remembered the open sewing machine piled with other pieces needing a stitch. Little piles of things waiting to be done all over the place! And she was the one who thought Mom was always planning more than she could do! MoM came in, her kind face tired beneath the dark hair that was beginning to show several locks of gray. "How has my young housekeeper been making out?" she asked, putting her arm around Karen, "Oh, Mom!" exclaimed Karen, "when I came home that day Bert got hurt, you know what I was I was feeling a little critical of you for not using the potholders, and for pinning your rayon print, and laying out your little piles of mending, and thinking you'd have time to do them, when you wouldn't. But I've done the same way, only worse. I've got everything I ironed that needs mending laid out in little piles. I've burned the meat. I've been learning the old trite, but true lesson, mothers have an awful lot to dol" Her mother smiled. "It is a trite, but true lesson, dear. But it has its beautiful and important side. For having things you honestly think you are going to do sometime during the day, that would actually require more time than there is in the day—that's part of the secret of being happy, for a woman." 144, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1953 George Albert Smith speaks... 1. SAYINGS OF A SAINT Compiled by Alice K. Chase Brief excerpts from the sermons of President George Albert Smith typifying his deep and abiding love for humanity. 1.00 2. OUR LEADERS Compiled by Doyle Green The story of the lives and services.. Words of guidance and inspiration of four Church leaders: President David O. McKay, President Stephen L Richards, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and President of the Twelve, Joseph Fielding Smith. $1.00 3. THE MORMON Marcus Bach A series of short, connected dialogues between the author, a non-member, and his friend, Ted Logan, a convert. Ted explains to the author details of Mormon history, the Word of Wisdom, baptism for the dead, temple marriage and many other L. D. S. Doctrines, as one would explain to a questioning investigator. An $1.00 excellent missionary aid. SNAIL i = Deseret ot Pill Be der Mn 'Conventenlly ty Marl "Salt puth Temple - Salt Lake City City. Utah, eo ae ow ewe wee om we: * <A a 3 © New this month: Companion volume to "Sayings of a Saint" The BEST from BRIGHAM YOUNG Compiled by Alice K. Chase A new volume that is large in everything but size... For here the reader can peruse the most noble thoughts of a great man - great in heart, great in soul and great in mind. In this pocket- -size book are President Young's best statements on religion, education and community building... A tonic for the Autobiography of a beloved church leader... IN A SUNLIT LAND Dr. John A. Widtsoe Sprinkled with bits of wisdom and sprightly humor, here is a_ heartwarming aes of a distinguished man of God and man of science. A book refreshing in its human understanding... Inspiring in its religious philosophy. The story of tithing... WILL A MAN ROB GOD? Dr. Milton R. Hunter 8 = R ° 3 fa Dr. Hunter delves into the origin 'and background of the Lord's tenth. Couples this with many latterday stories about tithing to bring the reader a thorough and interesting discussion of this vital subject. $3.00 Meas ee —_— SS ee oa DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 E. South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah | m send the following checked and circled books: 1 THE BEST FROM BRIGHAM YOUNG 2 IN A SUNLIT LAND 3 WILL A MAN ROB GOD? | for wh'ch | enclose ( ) check or ( ) money order for LY. Ree _! City........... _ State.... I r I I 1 I I I! 1 I I i | | | | I | L troubled mind, a rock of strength for a troubled world. Residents of Utah add 2% sales tax. $1. C0 | Yes: you are invited to accept both of the wonderful books shown on this page as your FREE Membership Gift when you join the Family Reading Club. Dedicated to the fine traditions of the average American home, the Family Reading Club is pledged to recommend only the cil A MAN CALLED PETER By Catherine Marshall Who Was This Man So Close To God Yet So Near To The Hearts Of Men? Sometimes this world is given the divine gift of a man who can lead his fellow men to our Savior Jesus and show us the face of Heaven. Peter Marshall was one of these inspired men—a pe a man who spent his days and hours building the ingdom of God on earth. To the thousands who knw him and loved him, he was a constant beacon of hope, courage and power, Reading this biography will inspire yen life, show you the way to a happiness in Christ greater perhaps than you have ever known. The young wife whom Peter left wrote it as a record of her love and' faith. You will find yourself calling it "*my book."' Publisher's edition, $3.75 - Petes Marshall family Heading (lub o wan TeVeeAwe most enjoyable books published each year, eliminating from consideration those books that unduly reflect upon the sanctity of the home or the decency of human beings. Read, below, how the Club operates, then mail the coupon to join the Club and get vour éwo free books — today! Yey) Ran THE SILVER CHALICE By Thomas B. Costaim The Dramatic Story Of The Cup 7 Jesus Used At The Last Supper Once in 4 generation, an inspired author of supreme talent has.. The courage to dramatize anew the greatest theme in all literature! Here is the story of the mystery of the Holy Grail and the young pagan sculptor who saved it from destruction. It is a novel bursting with adventure, love, faith, passion and intrigue—a monumental drama with a cast of immortals including Luke, Paul, Peter, Mark, James and John! A towering novel that sweeps vu back to che curbulent years of Christianity's birth the masterwork of Thomas B. Costain, America s best-loved storyteller, Published at $3.85, your copy is free if you ion the Family Reading Club now. WHY THE FAMILY READING CLUB MAKES THIS UNUSUAL OFFER The Family: Reading Club makes this unusual offer to demonstrate how membership in the Club brings you the best and most enjoyable new books at much less than~the publishers' regular editions! Founded to select and distribute books which are worthwhile, interesting and entertaining without being objectionable in any way. The Family Reading Club is just what you have been looking for. Each month our Editors select the one book they can recommend most enthusiastically—a book which every member of your family can read, which you can safely leave where. Older children can read it if they wish, and which can be kept in your home library with pride. How Members Save Up To 60% You pay only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling) for the books you purchase after reading the book review magazine which will come to your home each month, You may accept as few as four books each year to retain your membership—and you will receive a handsome new "'Bonus'' Book free for each four Club selections you take. The purchase of books from the Club for only $1.89 each—instead of $3.00 to $4.00 in the publishers' original editions—saves you from 35% to 50% on each book you accept. And when the value of the Bonus Books is figured in, you can save as much as 60% of your book doliars! Join Now — Send No Money If you believe in a book club which will appéal to our finest instincts, let us introduce you to the Family Reading Club NOW while you can get both of the wonderful books described here as your free Membership Gift. Send no: money now, just mail the coupon at once, before you ferget! FAMILY READING CLUB — MINEOLA, N. Y. MAIL COUPON NOW! Cs BOTH FREE win memseesur "A MAN CALLED PETER" and "THE SILVER CHALICE" FAMILY READING CLUB, Dept. 2-RSM, Mineola, New York Please send me at once the two books listed above as my Iree Mempership Gift books. Also enroll me as a member of the Family Reading Club and send me, each month, a review of the Club's forthcoming selection. I have the privilege of notifying you in advance if I do not wish to accept any selection. Or alternate book—at the special members' price of only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling). There are no membership dues or fees, and I may accept as few as four selections or alternates during the coming twelve months. You may begin my membership by sending the current Club selection with my two free gift books, and bill me only $1.89 (plus shipping) for afl three. As a member, I will receive a free Bonus Book with each four Club selections or alternates I accept. SPECIAL NO-RISK GUARANTEE: If not delighted I will return all books in 7 days and this ship will be led Mr. Mrs. Miss Street and No. (Please Print) City. Zone. State. Same offer in Canada. Age. If Address 105 Bond St., Toronto 2, oni. | UNMET ZB. Recssecsees Offer good only in U. S. A. And Canada VOL. 40 NO. 3 MARCH 1953 A Safer World Ahead! Your baby today has twice as much chance to grow into a healthy childhood as an infant twenty years ago. One reason for this better birthright is improved infant feeding care. Good, safe Sego Milk, developed through years of scientific testing, is always easy for babies to digest —- always uniformly rich in whole milk's food substances. Sego Milk supplies your baby with something else, too — pure crystalline vitamin Ds, the sunshine vitamin that helps develop strong, straight bones and sound teeth, and to make the best of growth. Ask your doctor about Sego Milk FREE TO YOU! Your Baby, a handy, 64-page book that makes it easier to care for and train your baby. Approved by Min, alan é a well-known doctor. Send for your free copy today. Qxvm2wereaseo ro 400umts | LiOU0 tAseae' Address: Sego Milk Co., Dept. R-1, Salt Lake City, Utah. YOU CAN WIN A YEAR'S SCHOLARSHIP TO COLLEGE Design the Student Nurse Uniform for the new Brigham Young University School of Nursing. Contest Design the student nurse uniform for the new Brigham Young University School of Nursing. The winning pattern must distinctive so as to characterize the B. Y. U. Student and differentiate her from other nursing students. It also must be stylish and conform to the current mode. Some details to be considered are the color, style, tailoring and practicability. Prize... The designer of the winning pattern will receive a tuition scholarship to Brigham Young University for one regular fallwinter-spring term. The winner will be notified by mail. Eligibility... Anyone interested in receiving the scholarship prize or interested in nursing or in attending college may enter. Entries are especially invited from high school and college students and members of Relief Societies, Sunday Schools and Mutual Improvement Associations. The entry must be sent in the name of the person who would receive the scholarship if he or she be chosen winner. Deadline... All entries must be received by April 1, 1953. Details... Mail entries to: Uniform Contest School of Nursing Brigham Young University Provo, Utah Any type of paper may be used for the entry. Designs must be clear, and writing legible. Neatness, originality, and aptness will be considered in judging. In addition to the drawing of the design, it must be described in several paragraphs, giving reasons or significance of pattern chosen. Do not send completed uniforms. Decision of the judges will be final, and all entries become the property of Brigham -Young University. Here are Some Tips... Remember, the student uniform is NOT the regular white uniform worn by graduate nurses. The student uniform may be of any color, flared or tailored, with or without apron, with or without cuffs and collar. Pockets may vary in number and position. BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Provo, Utah Strom lear and Sar Words cannot express how much I love The Relief Society Magazine, with its inspirational features, interesting stories, and above all the wonderful lessons for the benefit and education of the women of the Church. And how I love the poems, and often read and reread them many times over. Especially have I been interested in the poems of Iris W. Schow, whose mother was a neighbor and friend of mine when I went as a young bride into their community to live. I used to hold Iris and her little brother Rodney on my lap before my own little ones came along, little dreaming that I should be reading her poems with great pleasure later in life. —Rose J. Halling Los Angeles, California I would like to say thank you for the wonderful Magazine. I have read it before and have always liked it very much. Recently, when I was going back to Denmark, I met a Mrs. Oldroyd on the train. She was very nice to me, and now, for Christmas, she sends me the wonderful Magazine. I am really going to enjoy that. I know it is going to get me closer: to the Church. —Lissie Due Aalborg, Denmark. In October 1952, I had the good fortune to go to Salt Lake City with a good friend of mine and we stayed at the home of his sister, Mrs. Stanley Monroe.... While in her home I read most of the old copies of The Relief Society Magazine, and so it happened that another of your good people has subscribed to it for me. I am very grateful for this as well as many other kind things that were done for me while I was in Salt Lake City. —Harold M. Dunning Loveland, Colorado I have thought for some time I would like to write and tell you how much I have enjoyed the Magazine. It has been one of my tools for work for years in the organization, and it has always been an inspiration toward an upward. Climb. —Kate Richards,. Ogden, Utah Page 146 Throughout the stakes and missions of the Church, The Relief Society Magazine unites the sisters in friendship and in accomplishment. From Colchester, Essex, England, Sister Birmingham expresses her thoughts in verse: On every Tuesday night The Relief Society will meet, And I assure you It is a special treat. First a song, then a prayer, Then the lesson starts. The knowledge which we gain Goes deep into our hearts. The sisters are united And as friendly as can be— In health and strength, we're better, For, Lord, it is of thee. I have only recently begun to receive The Relief Society Magazine myself, but have grown up with it, having read stories from it all my life, and I would like to say how much I and all the sisters in our ward organization enjoy it. I have heard them express many times how much joy they get from it. —Sandra DeLucia Jerome, Idaho I am now seventy-one years of age, and throughout my entire life The Relief Society Magazine has been an inspiration for me in rearing my children, for I have received a good many words of faith from the pages of the Magazine. I have been a subscriber for fifty-three years, and a reader since I was a small child as the Magazine (or its predecessor, the Woman's Exponent) was in my _ childhood home. -—Adella Waterlyn Provo, Utah I wouldn't miss an issue of The Relief Society Magazine for anything. The stories and poems are among the best published anywhere, and it is such a relief to have a Magazine without liquor and cigarette advertisements. —Mrs. Robert Caldwell Grantsville, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford -. Marianne C. Sharp - Velma N., Simonsen - - -. Margaret C. Pickering - Achsa E. Paxman Leone G,. Layton Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Josie B. Bay Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Alta J. Vance RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Lillie C. Adams Aleine M. Young Editor - Bo - Associate Editor - - General Manager '? ' ' ' ' ' Louise W. Madsen - President First Counselor Second Counselor - Secretary-Treasurer Christine H. Robinson Alberta H. Christensen Nellie W. Neal Mildred B. Eyring Helen W. Anderson Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford No. 3 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES A Visit to Relief Society Headquarters: Leone O. Jacobs 150 Chasing the Rainbow C. W. McCullough 161 Answer the Call of the American Red Cross We Found Spring On Trains Marcie's Pink Taffeta—Third Prize Story Deflated Dollar The Family Reunion Celebration A Time to Forget—Chapter 9 From Near and Far Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere United States Toda Louis C. Boochiver 179 Frances P. Reid 188 Matia McClelland Burk 202 Norma Wrathall 155 Frances C. Yost 165 Yvonne Child Hiss 180 Florence B. Dunford 190 172 Ramona W. Cannon 173 Editorial: Dwight D. Eisenhower Inaugurated President of the Vesta P. Crawford 174 FEATURES FOR THE HOME. Loretta P. Epperson 201 Maryann M. Ukropina 201 "Health to the Bones" Tricks With Bed Linen Leona Bammes Gardner 204 POETRY Supplication to Spring Ing Smith 205 antasy esta ukel PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Ey G. Judd Anna B. Hart Vol. 40 Travel Highlights—Family Outings in Switzerland FICTION: GENERAL FEATURES Notes to the Field: Organizations and Reorganizations Official Costume for Singing Mothers Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue By Early Candlelight—2. Building a Home in the Valley Arts and Crafts Appeal to a Young Mother ee Richardson) A Tribute to Visiting Teachers—Frontispiece Midnight Moon Take-Off Impressive Entrance Salute How Shall I Say Your Name? Crocus Yellow Violets Romance Bergannel for Spring Resonance Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson MARCH 1953 Elizabeth Williamson 189; Fay Tarlock 197 ia 176 178 179 Bonnie A. Kesler 185 196 Alberta H. Christensen 149 Grace Barker Wilson 154 Ora Lee Parthesius 160 Iris W. Schow 160 Mabel Law Atkinson 160 Lael W. Hill 171 Ida Isaacson 184 Ethel Jacobson 195 Pansye H. Powell 205 gs te Woolsey, ae Eva Willes Wangsgaard 208 A ribute to Usiting Seachers Alberta H. Christensen The Call Sorrow finds its way to every door, And there is need of love to lessen grief. Disaster strikes; flames leave a cindered waste, And urgencies require swift relief. Fear, like a saber thrust, can sharpen doubt And tear the day apart. Who will afford The patience, then, to guide toward inner peace Along a path where faith may be restored? The little hungers of the heart, although Unwritten or unvoiced, may leave their scars; Where are the understanding words to mend A broken dream, or to re-kindle stars? The Answer She sees these needs, who, with a gentle grace And fortified by faith, will calmly go Through parching sun, through winter wind and snow On love's brief errand. She will find the place Where friendliness and humble ways may bring Peace to a troubled mind. And she will leave The solace of his word for those who grieve— The message that is shared faith-strengthening. And if the need arise, she will divide Her substance, but wisely will dispense Her loaves of healing, keeping confidence With all who shield their hungering with pride. She earns the joy that they alone attain Who magnify a calling, who will go Through parching sun, through winter wind and snow To clothe, enlighten, to comfort and sustain. There is no record which can chart The loving service of her hands, The healing that her words impart. The Cover: "Joshua Tree in the Desert" Photograph by Josef Muench Cover Design by: Evan Jensen Frontispiece: 'Daffodils,' Photograph by Ward Linton A Visit to Relief Society Headquarters Leone O. Jacobs Member, General Board of Relief Society T is a real pleasure to meet you, Mss. D - - -, and tell you something about the Relief Society. I enjoy discussing our organization with visitors, and, particularly, with someone like yourself, who has come to our country especially to learn about women's organizations, for we maintain that the Relief Society is unique among all women's organizations. Here we are at the headquarters of Relief Society on the second floor of this building at 40 North Main Street. These rooms on both sides of the building serve as business offices and offices for the executives, and this large room at the end of the hall is the board room. Here the four officers and the other twenty board members gather weekly around this long table for meetings. These portraits you see hanging on the walls of the board room are of the nine general presidents of Relief Society, including President Belle S. Spafford, our present president. They are noble looking women, aren't they? Each one has been unusually gifted. I hope you can meet President Spafford before you leave. She has a keen mind, an engaging personality, and is very capable as an executive and leader of women. Her duties and responsibilities are tremendous. She it is who directs the activities of over 132,000 Page 150 Relief Society members who live in the United States and its possessions, and in twenty-five foreign countries. Oh, didn't you know Relief Society is an international organization? Yes, we have members in many countries. Throughout the world. We have more members in your country, Germany, by the way, than any other European country. 'There are nearly two thousand members in East Germany and over fifteen hundred in West Germany. Since the Relief Society was organized in 1842, there have been many German converts to the Church and many German _ Relief Society members. Are you surprised to learn of the age of Relief Society? It is the oldest national women's organization which has persisted in the United States—one hundred and eleven years old this March 17th. I'd be glad to tell you how it came into existence. In the spring of 1842 some of the Latter-day Saint women in Nauvoo, Illinois, wished to help the brethren working on the temple. (You heard about the Prophet Joseph Smith and our temples when you were on the tour of Temple Square, didn't you?) One of the women, Sarah M. Kimball, suggested to a Miss Cook, a seamstress, that she would furnish material for shirts for the workmen, if Miss Cook would make them. This was A VISIT TO RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS agreed upon, and then they thought some of their neighbors might like to join with them in this endeavor, so a group decided to form an organization to carry out the work more efficiently. Eliza R. Snow (this is her portrait) was asked to write a constitution and by-laws and submit them to the Prophet Joseph Smith for approval. When the Prophet read the documents, he said they were the best he had ever seen, "But," he said, "this is not what you want. Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of the Lord, and he has something better for them than a written constitution." Then he told the women to meet in the room above his store on the afternoon of March 17, and he would organize them under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood. VER here at this end of the board room in this glass case, you see a miniature replica of that meeting with those eighteen original members who met with Joseph Smith and two other brethren who took part in the organization of the Female Relief Society, as it was first called. It is the only women's organization in the whole world instituted under the inspiration of the Lord by a Prophet of God, and the Prophet continued to meet with the © sisters from time to time and gave them instruction. That is why it is unique. The Prophet Joseph Smith stated that the society of the sisters should provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity, and in administering to ia their wants—to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community. This little figure represents Emma Smith, the first president. (This is her portrait.) Here are her two counselors and, at the end of the table, is the secretary, Eliza R. Snow, taking the minutes. The styles of the dresses and bonnets are interesting, aren't they? From that day until this, the Relief Society has been directed by the Priesthood of God. At our Relief Society general conference, which we hold each fall, members of the General Authorities today give us instruction and inspiration. OON after that first little group of eighteen women were organized into the Relief Society, they chose a "necessity committee" to "search out the poor and suffering" that they might care for their needs. Today, we call this type of service our "compassionate services" and that is one great purpose of the society—to render service to the poor, the needy, and the sorrowing or despondent; and another purpose is to promote cultural and homemaking features for the benefit of our members. In line with the "necessity committee," we have today what we call visiting teachers — over 49,000 of them—who go two by two each month into all Latter-day Saint homes throughout the world, to observe the needs and to impart encouragement and love. Any cases of need they observe are reported confidentially to the Relief Society president of their particular ward or branch, and she, under the direction of the bishop, or branch presi- 152 dent, sees that these needs are met. A short spiritual message is also discussed in the homes by these visiting teachers. Yes, it truly is a great program. I don't wonder you marvel. You recall that the saints arrived out West and began settling in little communities under President Brigham Young, beginning in 1847. He realized how necessary the services of the Relief Society were to these little colonies, and he called Eliza R. Snow to help the bishops organize branches of the society. Meetings were at first held twice a month—one meeting devoted to sewing and caring for the poor, and the other consisting of a discussion of some educational subject and what we call the "bearing of testimonies." Now, today, we have weekly meetings for eight months, with uniform courses being studied all over the world. The first week of the month we study theology, the second is our work meeting (for homemaking activities), the third, a study of great literature, and the fourth, social science. You say you never heard of any organization giving its members such a broad education? Well, thank you. We think it is wonderful, too, and appreciate it greatly. Health and nursing have always been of great concern to the Relief Society. As early as 1873, classes were conducted in nursing. Some of the early Relief Society women became doctors and taught nursing, obstetrics, and hygiene. The Relief Society even established a hospital in 1882, called the Deseret Hospital, which served the community for some years. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 F you will just sit here a minute, I would like to tell you of two or three of the distinctive projects the Relief Society women have cartied on. One was the promotion of sericulture, or the raising of silkworms. Yes, raising silkworms—isn't that unusual? President Brigham Young felt very strongly that the people should make the things they wore and used, so, in 1875, he called Zina Young to this mission. (This is Sister Young's portrait.) A large cocoonery was built south of the city in which to raise the silkworms, and Sister Young herself was the first one to take charge of it. She was successful in this venture, even though the worms were very repugnant to her, as we can well imagine. The Legislature provided for a bounty on cocoons, which encouraged the project. Acres of mulberry trees were planted in various communities, and for several years the industry flourished. Then the bounty was discontinued, interest waned, and finally the venture terminated. But many of those early articles made of the silk are still preserved. The Woman's Exponent says that Susan B. Anthony proudly wore a dress made of Utah silk, presented to her by Relief Society women. Oh, you have read about Susan B. Anthony? Yes, she was the great suffrage leader. She and Dr. Anna Howard Shaw came to Salt Lake City during the time the suffrage movement was on. You see, Utah women were the first in the United States to vote, and Relief Society women were very active in the cause of suffrage. Several of them were "excellent speakers and good reasoners," and because of their political experience and privileges, became prominent in the National Woman Suffrage movement. Today, the Relief Society is affiliated with the National Council of Women, of which you know. In fact, the Relief Society became a charter member of the National and International Councils in 1891, and has retained membership ever since. Several of our Relief Society women have held executive offices in the National Council, the most recent being President Spafford's appointment to the office of second vice-president in October 1952. Yes, it is a great honor and distinction. Another unique assignment given to Relief Society was that of saving grain. President Brigham Young, in 1876, called Emmeline B. Wells (this i is her portrait) to carry out this mission. Sister Wells looks like a fragile little piece of Dresden, doesn't she? But she was a veritable dynamo of energy—courageous ~ and brilliant. She was to begin, 'President Young said, by writing the strongest editorial she could in The Woman's Exponent. As usual, the Relief Society women took up the assignment with a will. They raised wheat, bought wheat with their funds, and went into the fields and gleaned, filling their aprons with the overlooked stalks of grain. This storing of grain went on for a period of almost forty-five years, and much grain was stored. Some was used to relieve distress in times of disaster. Then came a time during World War I when the United States Government needed wheat, and at the Government's request, the Relief Society sold it over two hundred thousand bushels. When President Woodrow Wilson was in Salt Lake City in 1919, he visited Emmeline B. Wells to thank her personally on behalf of the Government, for the Relief Society wheat. You say they told you down at Welfare Square something about Relief Society wheat in speaking of the grain elevator, but you did not understand the connection? 'There certainly is a connection. When the Relief Society wheat was sold to the Government the money was put in a trust fund for the Relief Society, and, in 1940, when the Church erected the huge elevator, wheat was again bought with Relief Society money and is being stored against another time of need. Before the time of your appointment with Sister Spafford, let's walk down the hall and look in this doorway. Here is the mailing room of The Relief Society Magazine—the official monthly publication of our society. It has over 113,000 subscribers, all over the world, and con- - tains the lesson courses of the society, editorials, articles by Church Authorities, fiction and poetry by Latter-day Saint women, homemaking helps, and instructions to Relief Societies all over the world. Let me present you with this month's copy. It will help you to become better acquainted with Relief Society. The forerunner of The Relief Society Magazine was The Woman's Exponent that you have heard me mention already. It was a magazine of excellent quality, first issued in 1872, and was the second woman's publication west of the Mississippi River. A VISIT TO RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS 153 154 Now, I would like you to take a look at an architect's sketch of our new Relief Society Building. Yes, it will soon be reality. It is a dream building which is finally coming true. 'The idea first began many years ago. The first Church. Buildings here in the valley were very small, often only one room and there was no space in which the Relief Society women could do their quilting, remodeling clothing, making of burial clothes, and other activities, so they used to build their own little halls, raising money in many ingenious ways. One of these ways was referred to as "Sunday eggs." 'The women contributed all their eggs laid on Sunday for the erection of their Relief Society halls. They said it seemed the hens laid better on Sunday than on any other day. Then, later, a great need was felt for permanent headquarters for this fast-growing organization and, in 1896, President Zina Young launched a proposal for a Relief Society building, and Relief Society women began making donations toward it. They thought they were going to have this building in which we are now, but as it turned out, it was needed for other Church offices, so we have only this second floor. In one year, however, Relief Society members raised ae - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 over $500,000 to help erect a Relief Society building. The new building is to be built on the northwest corner of this very block. We are all eagerly awaiting the fulfillment of this dream. You would like to become a member? Well, we would surely be happy to have you. No, you don't have to be a member of the Church, although most of our members are. Any woman of good report may be voted in as a member. You ask about the ages of our members? Why, all ages are equally welcome and all receive great benefit through the great program. Some have had the idea that Relief Society was for older women, but that is not true at all. Many of our most successful groups are made up of very young mothers. There is much in Relief Society to help them become better mothers and homemakers and great joy is experienced through service. We need all ages—all learning and all working together. Oh, here is the secretary saying President Spafford is ready to meet you. Oh, you are very welcome. I have thoroughly enjoyed my visit with you, and I'm happy that you also have enjoyed it and have been impressed by the greatness of Relief Society. I will see you later. Y+ & Midnight Moon Grace Barker Wilson A midnight moon hangs high in desert skies, The hazy, far horizon disappears; On solitary buttes a silence lies Intense enough to stir a soul to tears. Shird Prize Story Annual Reliof Society Short Story Contest Marcie's Pink Taffeta Norma Wrathall | ERTHA Carlisle flipped an B elastic band around the fifth grade's arithmetic papers. It was nearly five o'clock, and work yet to be written on the board. "It's this everlasting rehearsing for the spring festival that does it," she grumbled aloud, pressing so hard on the chalk that it creaked in protest, and crumbled in her fingers. —@h,. @earlZ trieve it, she was startled by a shuffling around. "Why, Marcie Morgan! I thought you'd gone home?" "Uh—no, Miss Carlisle. I've been here practically an hour." Marcie wriggled with embarrassment, and held: out the bits of chalk she'd picked up., "Well, my goodness. I guess | was too busy to notice you. Just drop the bits in the waste basket, Marcie. I'll have to use another piece. If you want to help me, you might water the plants. Be careful, now—don't drown them. And just water the ones that need it." Presently, she was aware of the child again standing beside her, one foot awkwardly rubbing against the other leg. "Uh—Miss Carlisle— that's sure a pretty blouse." "Well, thank you, Marcie...." "Uh—Miss Carlisle—I wanted to ask you something. It's about the spring festival." As she bent to re-- NORMA WRATHALL Miss Carlisle dusted off her hands. "Yes—what is it?" Marcie swallowed past a certain place in her throat, and with an awkward gesture, pushed the bangs up from her eyes. "Well, Ma'am— I haven't got a part in the festival— and I wondered if I could—could have a part?" The last words came in a desperate sort of gulp, and color showed under the sallow tan of Marcie's cheeks. Bertha Carlisle was tired; it seemed, sometimes, that every child in the room wanted something of Page 155 156 her every moment of the day. She tried to keep her voice from sounding sharp. "I know, Marcie, but everyone can't have an individual part. You're in the chorus, aren't you?" "Oh, yes, Ma'am. I've been in the chrous every single year since I was in the first grade, and every time Miss Redford won't let me sing out loud because I'm a—a— megatone." "A monotone, Marcie," murmured Miss Carlisle, looking thoughtfully at the child, and realizing that it was so. "Well, at least you are in the festival. And you can wear the costume of a fairy. Won't that be nice?" "But, Miss Carlisle! I don't want to be a fairy. I don't even look like one. All the kids say I'm too tall to be a fairy. I—I—want to play a piano solo." Marcie's face had become very red at the enormity of her request, and at the supreme effort it had cost her to make it. ISS Carlisle looked at the child before her with new interest. She saw the familiar sallow-brown face, the straight dark hair that somehow never seemed to conform to the contours of the face it should have adorned, the uneven bangs that were forever falling over Marcie's eyes and having to be brushed back with a thin, bony hand. She tried to imagine Marcie's fingers drawing music from the keys of a piano. "Why, Marcie," she said slowly, "T didn't know you played the pi- "? Ano.... "Oh, yes, Miss Carlisle; I've taken lessons quite a long time; and I know a real pretty piece; honest J RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 do. And mama has made me a new dress for the festival—pink taffeta, with ruffles.' Marcie's breath was now spent, and she swallowed painfully, and looked up at her teacher. Miss Carlisle busied her hands at straightening her desk, and searched her mind for words to make her refusal as gentle as possible. She tried to recall something of Marcie's background, and remembered that the child lived at the outskirts of the little community, that she had no brothers or sisters in school, that her mother was a large, plain-faced, grim-visaged woman who had occasionally appeared at school on parent's day, and who had been known to send notes to the principal's office complaining of Marcie's low grades. She looked up at the child again, and opened her mouth to speak, when she happened to peer deeper into the small dark eyes, and glimpsed something that was more than eagerness. For just an instant, she saw something lonely and forlorn, mixed in with long-endured hope. "Well, now, Marcie, I think that would be nice. I'll speak to Miss Redford about it in the morning," she heard herself saying. Marcie gave a little gasp. One hand flew to her mouth. "Oh, thanks—that's—that's—uh, goodbye, Miss Carlisle." Her feet stumbled over each ather as she hurried from the room. Not until later did Miss Carlisle realize that the child must have deliberately missed the bus, and had a long walk home, in order to make her request. MARCIE'S PINK TAFFETA It was not until after a harrowing rehearsal period the following day that Bertha Carlisle had an opportunity to mention the matter to the school's veteran music teacher. Miss Redford, who was sitting on the piano bench with her head in her hands, slowly uncovered her eyes and looked at her colleague. "If I didn't know you so well, Bertha, I'd say you were slipping. Surely you of all people know how I—how all of us—have worked to bring out the beautiful unity of this performance. The birth of spring —the unfolding of the flowers—the awakening of the earth.... How in the world are we going to put in the kind of piano solo which, obviously, Marcie could play? If she can play one?. Because, if there's any music in her, I've never been able to get it out!" Miss Redford covered her eyes again; sometimes, as now, she felt the full weight of fifteen years of teaching., "I know, Redford. I felt the same way when she asked me. But there's something about the poor child—I think Marcie has a fine personality, hidden under that awkwardness. And think what it would be like, to be almost totally unattractive. She's never had a part in anything. We could let her play it right at the first, after the curtain is drawn back, just before Peter Rabbit hops across the stage." Miss Redford gave a small shudder. "And, besides, her mother has made her a new dress for the occasion. Pink taffeta. And—I've already told her she could play." 157 "Well, if you've told her—but wouldn't you think they'd have asked us, before making the dress? I leave it entirely to you. And you can tell Mr. McQueen about it. I've bothered the poor man enough as it is.' She rose limply, and started from the music room. Miss Carlisle didn't worry about Mr. McQueen. She knew that the principal of the school was too preoccupied with weightier matters to concern himself with details. THE days preceding the festival crowded into each other, with teachers and pupils alike becoming _more harried with each busy hour. The supply room became a rainbow of crepe paper costumes; the music room gradually filled with properties loaned by teachers and pupils; the shop department was cluttered with newly painted scenery. Looking back, Miss Carlisle didn't know just when it was that she began to feel uneasy about Marcie's solo. It was Monday afternoon, the week of the festival, that she said to the child, "Marcie, we are planning to have a complete rehearsal tomorrow afternoon, all the scenes and all the music and everything. Will you be prepared to 'play your solo?" Marcie brushed back her bangs, and rubbed one foot against the other leg. "I—uh—I guess I can..." she gulped. "But, Marcie, you told me a week ago that you knew it really well. Now, don't be nervous about it. Just have it prepared for tomorTOW." The following day, Marcie was absent from school. 158 Miss Redford moaned, '""Oh, dear —the backdrop for the dance of the elves isn't even started, and the programs have been mislaid at the printers—what was it you said?" Afterward, Miss Redford said that she wasn't too surprised, in a way. And Mr. McQueen suggested vaguely that perhaps they could give Marcie a chance at some later time, when the whole thing had blown over.... But Bertha Carlisle, holding the office phone to her ear, felt sick with dismay as the voice of Marcie's mother rasped in her ear, "Play a piano solo? Marcie? Why, she's never had a lesson in her life —why, we haven't even got a piano. I never heard of such a thing!" "Well, I don't understand. There must be some mistake...." "Mistake? Well, more than that I'd say," boomed the voice in her ear, "it's just a lie—that's what it is. I don't hold with youngsters telling lies—you can be sure she'll ue punished for it...." Miss Carlisle replaced the receiver and glanced at her watch. There was time enough to drive down to Marcie's home. 'There must be some explanation. As she drove along in the spring twilight, her mind searched back over her association with Marcie. HE old frame house was set back from the road. As Miss Carlisle walked up the dusty path, she saw a dark, tear-stained face move away from the window. Mrs. Morgan was alone in the kitchen. After greeting the teacher, she resumed her work at the table, peeling apples. - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 Miss Carlisle sat on the edge of the proffered chair. "Well, at least I'm glad Marcie isn't ill. It would be too bad for her to miss the festival, when she's counted on it so much." Mrs. Morgan laid her peeling knife flat on the table. "For pity's sake! You don't mean you intend to let her be in it? After the lie 'she's told?" "I don't think Marcie meant to be untruthful," Miss Carlisle began slowly. "It's just that she wanted so much to have a part that she". Rm." "A lie is a lie, no matter how you look at it. And I hope you teachers don't hold me to blame for what Marcie's done." Mrs. Morgan stabbed fiercely at an apple. Miss Carlisle thought of the tearstained face at the window. She remembered the years that Marcie had stood patiently at the edge of every festival chorus, her lips sealed because she was a monotone; of Marcie's awkward ways and constant embarrassment. "Maybe we're all to blame—you, and I, and the other teachers," she said. "It wasn't a lie Marcie told. It was a wish, that has been bottled up inside her for years—a wish to be recognized—don't you see?" A look of. Scornful incredulity flicked over Mrs. Morgan's face. She pointed her peeling knife at the teacher. "You mean, you think Marcie wants to play the piano? Why, she can't carry a tune in a bucket!" "Not necessarily;" said Miss Carlisle quickly. "In fact, we don't consider her to be—especially musical. She just wanted very, very MARCIE'S PINK TAFFETA 159 Norma Wrathall, American Fork, Utah, has contributed stories, articles, and poetry to The Relief Society Magazine. Her story "All That Glitters" was awarded first prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1942, and her story "The House That Jim Built" received the second prize in 1949. Her work reveals a deep and sure understanding of her characters and a delightful mastery of plot and dialogue, and these elements of successful literary technique are revealed in the following stories: "You Are Never Alone" (November 1945); "The Luxury of Giving" (November 1946); "It's Up to the Women" (June 1947); "A New Stove for Mother' (April 1948); and "Music in the Home" (August 1949), and several other excellent stories. Mrs. Wrathall writes a brief note regarding her family and her hobbies: "I was born in Grantsville, and lived there until a few years ago. While in Grantsville, I served in various Church and community activities. My hobbies are writing, music, and reading, but as my family always comes first, I don't have much time for other things. As every mother knows, the work of caring for a family leaves little of the peace and quiet required for creative work! Two boys and two girls." My husband is Morris Y. Wrathall. We have four children, much to have a part. And making a fantastic claim was the only thing she could think of." "That's no excuse. Maybe Marcie hasn't had as many advantages as other kids, way out here with no one but me and her pa. But at least she's got to tell the truth." The knife swirled recklessly around the apple. ERTHA Carlisle felt color rising in her cheeks. "Of course, she has! But sometimes it's hard for all of us to know just what the truth is. Please, Mrs. Morgan. 'Think over what I've said. And don't punish Marcie. She's stood her punishment already." The teacher rose to leave. Mrs. Morgan dropped the halfpeeled apple into her pan, and shoved back her chair. "Well, then, what do you intend to do about it?" she demanded. Miss Carlisle paused at the door. "I intend to see that she gets a part—and make her a costume, if necessary. Goodbye, Mrs. Morgan." She hurried down the path, unmindful of the muttered remark that no schoolteacher was going to tell a mother how to rear her child. Bertha Carlisle spent her noon - hours the rest of the week coaching a grimly determined Marcie to walk across the platform without stum-: bling. But Mr. McQueen insisted that Mrs. Morgan be asked about buying crepe paper for a costume. Then, if she refused, they'd see what they could do. He didn't want to come to any open break with a parent. Again, Miss Carlisle held the office phone to her ear, as the nowfamiliar rasping voice crackled over the wire. "Buy crepe paper for a costume? Well, I should say not! What do you teachers expect?" "Well, of course, if you feel that you can't...." 160 "Wait a minute! Marcie said how she'd sure like to have a pink taffeta for the play. So I bought her one—ready-made—took all my egg money, too. Only it isn't pink— more of a red. Anybody ought to know Marcie can't wear pink. Now, hold on—I've been thinking over what you said—and another thing, my sister is going to give Marcie a home permanent. Ought to look nice, don't you think?" "Yes. Oh, yes, indeed!" Weakly, Miss Carlisle replaced the receiver. Ew ek Ke Ok & HE festival was a beautiful picture of the awakening of spring, the rebirth of hope after winter. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 Miss Redford said afterward that the children's voices had never sounded so lovely. But perhaps the happiest one on the stage was the thin, dark girl in the rosy taffeta, her bangs firmly curled above her eyes, her feet shining in new shoes, who walked carefully across the platform to draw the curtain, and to open it again, for each act. "Looked kinda cute, didn't she?" Mrs. Morgan boomed into Miss Carlisle's tired ear, after the performance. "And you'd never guess what we're getting for Marcie's birthday? A piano! Now, hold on, don't look scared. It's a player piano, with rolls of music that Marcie can play." Take-Off Ora Lee Parthesius The two were one, the boy and scarlet kite, That wind-swept morning on the balcony, Each straining upward, past the apple tree, Where blueness arched its lure of burnished height. But even as the cord between strained tight, A plane appeared in azure gleamingly— And scarlet followed silver—out of sight. Impressive Entrance Iris W. Schow Wise little crocus, simply clad, To greet the wistful world so soon, When any flower excites us more Than will the perfect rose of June! Salu te Mabel Law Atkinson While March was sweeping off The winter's snow, A bluebird tipped his hat And called, "Hello!" Chasing the Rainbow C. W. McCullough F all the scenic wonders of Utah _~ none exercises quite the peculiar appeal and the emotional impact of Rainbow Bridge. This may be due in part to its remote and almost inaccessible location. Or it may be because one must invest more effort, more of himself to get there. But in earning your passage, though the cost is high, the rewards are comparably greater. | Membership in the "I've Been There" club is quite exclusive, and the joining qualifications are not lightly met. According to the Rainbow Bridge National Monument register, only 7,615 persons are known to have looked upon the Rock Rainbow That Spans the Canyon. Since its discovery in 1909, the average visitation has been less than 180 per year. To the initiated, this is quite understandable. There is no easy way to visit Rainbow Bridge, though one has a choice of three routes. One is by boat down the Colorado or San Juan rivers to the foot of Navajo Mountain, or you may charter a power boat at Lee's Ferry and reach the same point, sixtyeight miles upstream. But if you choose this method of travel, there still remain some seven miles of chasing the rainbow afoot before you reach your goal. The third alternative, that our party (being landlubbers) chose, involves several hundred miles of driving into Arizona before one teaches Rainbow Lodge, where the soft cushions of an automobile must be traded for the hard, hard seat of a saddle superimposed upon the back of a long-eared mule. The road to the lodge follows dirt and graveled trails, stretches of shifting sand, and terrifying winding ledges of slick rock. The last thirty miles are such that the roadwise reduce them to time rather than distance. The truck driver we asked said, ""T'wo hours; it will take you that long." In many places we noted tracks where cars had said "Enough" and turned back. Bill Wilson, the retiring caretaker of the lodge and trail, explained that long before the lodge is reached, the road starts to separate "the men from the boys." Anyone who drives through to the lodge, he assured us, will usually tackle the mule trip. Rainbow Bridge Lodge is located near the northern border of the Navajo Indian Reservation. Situated picturesquely on a bench below the towering hulk of Navajo Mountain, it commands a sweeping view of the upper reaches of Forbidden Canyon. The timing of our arrival was propitious. We were enabled to spend a little time in contemplation of an amazing sunset that splashed bold brushmarks of pink and purple across this torn and twisted land. Somewhere, we knew, in this maze of erosion stretching to the Colorado was hidden the end of our trail, Rainbow Bridge. The dinner bell cut short our visioning of the morrow before the mind began to consider the sinister Page 161 162 2. Josef Muench RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 RAINBOW TRAIL Looking down Cliff Canyon in the rugged chasm land of the Colorado River country matter of negotiating canyons and cliffs a-back of a mule. By the time we had met our hosts, Merritt and Nona Holloway and Catherine and Bill Wilson, had partaken of a bounteous meal, spent an hour in talk and the conjuring of maps, night had blotted out the view, and we slept, oblivious of mere mules, canyons, and trails. UT, after breakfast in the morning, the inevitable mules, all saddled and accoutered, were waiting outside the lodge door. Our mounts were assigned us. We clambered aboard, and there was no turning back. "The Rainbow Bridge. Streamliner now leaving on track one," our guide, Merritt Holloway announced blithely. "Streamliner, hah!" I protested, as my heavy-footed mount thudded along at the end of the string. But I had to admit that our Pullmans were vista-domed. For a few miles the trail to Rainbow Bridge kids you along as it zigzags through a series of draws that drain the northern slopes of Navajo Mountain. But once across the Arizona line and in Utah, one teadily understands why so few of the Navajos who live in the area have ever seen the bridge. From CHASING THE RAINBOW an elevation of 6,480 feet, at the crest of Cliff Canyon, the trail drops 2,200 feet in about two miles. No one has seen fit to measure the additional mileage involved in the bounce that the plodding mules impart to their vista-domed passengers. From the viewpoint above Cliff Canyon, one looks out over a weird plateau world lined and cross-lined into endless miles of closely situated knobs that resemble most of all a huge pan of Mom's biscuits. The descent from the rim took us to the bottom of the pan, where we realized that the lines and cross-lines were, in reality, mighty canyons gnawed out and bulldozed by the same relentless forces that fashPhotograph by Al Morton 163 ioned the graceful arch of Rainbow Bridge. Our brief bit of easy trail along the floor of Cliff Canyon came to an end abruptly when Merritt led a column right up a narrow defile known as Redbud Pass. 'The redbud trees were in bloom at the time, so we could not question that part of the name. But as a pass, it certainly strained the imagination. In our experience, we had come to consider that trails should have at least a speaking resemblance to a ramp. 'This supposition was rudely shattered by Redbud Pass, which takes its cue from stairsteps. The mules negotiate these stairways with a disdainful sangfroid, but the RAINBOW BRIDGE, NEAR THE COLORADO RIVER, UTAH 164 effect in the vista dome may well be left to the reader's imagination. T the foot of the stairs we were in Bridge Canyon, but still miles from our destination. We relaxed as best we could to the smoother travel, but to the saddlenumbed, the distance stretched on interminably, and the glory of the multicolored towering walls that lined the chasm was largely lost upon our souls. Rainbow Bridge better be good after all this, was our grumbling thought, the moment before we caught our first glimpse of its tremendous arch to our left down the canyon. Suddenly, we were new people. As soon as we reached camp there was a frenzied unpacking of cameras, tripods, and light meters. The afternoon sun was fast dropping behind the high canyon walls. We must not waste any of that precious light. A brisk walk down the trail soon erased saddle stiffness, left the mind free for the task at hand. Nearing the great structure, for the first time we really sensed its enormous proportions, aS we realized that no picture of Rainbow Bridge can ever convey its amazing trinity of enormous bulk, graceful flowing lines, and rich, red colors. No picture will ever let you see Rainbow Bridge as it really is; you must vision it with your own eyes, feel its majesty as it arches proudly over the deep canyon, with ample room to house the National Capitol Building. Then, and then only, can you grasp its living beauty against the backdrop of towering walls around it. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 Many men have tried to describe Rainbow Bridge, but words are even more futile than photographic film. J. B. Priestly accounted it "A kind of a symphony, no more to be completely explained by geology than Beethoven is by acoustics." Zane Grey, writer of many words, inscribed the register simply after his fifth visitation, ""Nonnenozhe! Nothing as fine." (And turning from the sublime to the ridiculous, one saddle-scatred visitor wrote, "Speechless and seatless."') In the morning we were up early to set our cameras downstream and catch completely new aspects of the bridge blazoned salmon pink by the | sunrise. 'There was time to study the details of its architecture, the manner of its building. There was time to browse through the reg- -ister, with its many pages inscribed in ink, pencil, and even in mercurochrome, that called the roll of those who had been there before us. But soon, all too soon, the saddled mules in the corral told us that it was time for the streamliner to start the homeward journey. The stairway over Redbud must be renegotiated. Then the long climb to the top of Cliff Canyon. We knew the return trip would take longer, but we stopped at the vantage point where we had first glimpsed the bridge we had come so far to see. Then we left it there, lonely and beautiful in its remote canyon habitat, though each of us will carry it with us in our memories to the last day of life. The simple Indian symbolism tells the true story: Nonnenozhe! The Rainbow Turned to Stone. Deflated Dollar Frances C. Yost COLD, January wind was A clawing around the corners of the Bruce Camden home. Inside, Flora Camden sat before the fireplace with her mending basket on her lap, but she was not in the mood for mending. Usually the flames lent the Camden living room a cheerful glow. Tonight, Flora saw only grotesque pictures leaping from the hearth, their weird shapes adding to her fears. If only I had not let Marty go on that strange baby-tending job, Flora thought. Surely, I could have used the excuse that Bruce was out - of town on business for the week end, and pleaded loneliness. Marty is too young to have such responsibility, and, anyway, we don't need the money, Flora chided herself. "What on earth was I thinking of to let Marty go?" Flora spoke aloud, her eyes haunting the clock as it ticked into the night. Then, with emphasis, she added, "Marty is my only child! The most wonderful child that ever lived! Oh, why did I let her go off like this?" Flora pulled back the drapes and peered into the night. "If only | knew the people. What did Marty say their name was? I don't even know where they live." Kk eK eK HEN, as though it were flashed on television, Flora saw Marty again as she came through the front door from her music lesson. Marty who always had so many words to say they bubbled over one another.. "Mother! Mother! Something extra wonderful has happened!" Marty rushed in the house and slammed the big oak door to keep out the elements. 'Mother! Oh, Mother, where are you?" "Here in the kitchen, dear," Flora Camden answered. "I'm putting on a lunch for the two of us. Daddy's out of town, you know. What wonderful thing has happened, Marty dear?" Flora paused in her salad making, with the paring knife in her hand. She came to the living room door to see Marty. "Oh, Mother!" Marty bubbled, flinging her coat on the green platform rocker, and laying her portfolio on the piano bench. "Mother, Mrs. Larsen stopped me on the street and wants a baby sitter. Isn't it wonderful?" "But you're only a child yourself, Marty, just eleven," Flora expostulated. "Mrs. Larsen thinks I'm _ big enough, and she said she knew I was capable. She said she watches me going to and from school, and she says she hopes her little baby grows up to be just like me." Marty's large, soft, childish mouth curved up at the corners, and her dimples winked becomingly. Her light brown eyes had flecks of black in them, and her soft brown hair bobbed gaily in ringlets on her shoulders. Marty was like a breath of springtime in winter. "T must say this Mrs. Larsen has high ideals, if she wants her little daughter to be as nice as mine." Flora winked at Marty, and they Page 165 166 both giggled. "We'll stop by her house sometime and get acquainted," Flora added. "But, Mother, Mrs. Larsen wants me tonight. She wants me to stay with her baby. Baby Roene, her name is." Marty's eyes became pools of pleading. "All right, dear, if you and Mrs. Larsen think you are old enough, why, I'm sure you are. I'll drive you over, after supper." Flora turned back to her salad making. "But they just live a little ways, I can easily skip over myself, save you getting the car out. The roads are slick as mirrors, and, Mother, I won't have time to eat, they are almost ready to leave now. Mrs. Larsen said I could eat there, and, anyway, Mother, I just came home to tell you." Marty's voice seemed to rise like a crescendo and gained speed with every syllable. "I just have time for a big kiss, and then I must run." Marty kissed her mother on the cheek, and before Flora could untangle the flow of words, she had slipped into her coat and was gone. EK Ok OK LORA picked up the mending and industriously started sewing on buttons. I'm just an old worrier, she thought. I'll make myself sew on buttons and darn socks: and act like a grown woman. Why, when I was Marty's age, I walked blocks and blocks, night after night, tending children and doing all sorts of work. Believe me, they didn't call them sitters in those days. A girl never got a chance to know what a chair was. The past rose up like a storm at sea and engulfed Flora. She felt RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 herself returning to a scene that time itself had laid aside and graciously forgotten. LORA Hoppe was fourteen, fourteen with a teen-age need for money in a world deflated with» depression. Flora lifted her eyes from her eighth-grade reader and glanced nervously at the schoolroom clock. The hands were moving swiftly to 3:30. That was the time Mrs. Miser had wanted her to come to work, yet Flora hadn't found the courage all day to speak to Miss Thompson about leaving early. Flora fidgeted in her seat. "Flora Hoppe, will you come to my desk?" Miss Thompson didn't seem angry, but one could never tell about teachers. Flora slid out of her seat, and the eyes of the entire class left their books and followed her the length of the aisle. Flora stood by Miss Thompson's desk until the teacher finished correcting a paper and looked up. "Flora, you've been watching the clock all afternoon. Is something wrong?" Miss 'Thompson inquired. Flora found it hard to ask for favors. "Miss Thompson, may I be excused at 3:30? I mean now. I, I promised I would tend children." Flora felt a lump in her throat. "You may be excused, Flora, but be sure and take your arithmetic and do all thirty problems." Miss Thompson turned back to the papers she was correcting. Flora mumbled her thanks and went to the cloakroom for her coat. It was a long way to the Misers. Flora picked a loping gait. If she went faster, she might fall on the icy sidewalk. A slower walk was uncomfortably cold in January, and, DEFLATED DOLLAR anyway, she was late. A_ brisk wind stung Flora's fingers. She made a muff of her sleeves to protect the gloveless hands from the biting cold. As Flora stepped upon the Miser porch, the door opened. Emma Miser held it ajar. She was a buxom woman, with red hair and freckles, which she tried to camouflage with an overabundance of makeup. "I thought you would never get here, Flora. We're ready to leave." "It's quite a ways from school," Flora murmured. "That's quite all right," Emma Miser replied, her mind on the events of the afternoon ahead. "Mr. Miser is backing the car out now. We're running into Salt Lake City to do some shopping and maybe _ see a show. We won't be late, I'm sure. Things are pretty well done up. I washed this morning. Just watch the little ones and feed them supper. You can find something to fix. Bake the bread, too. It's ready to put in the pans. And you know how Beth Ann likes your stories. Spend a lot of time with Beth Ann. She's your age, Flora, but the poor dear...." Emma wiped a tear from her eyes. Thinking of poor, crippled Beth Ann was reason enough to make anyone cry. "Well, we best go." Emma Miser carefully let her weight down the icy steps. Ron Miser swung the car door open for her, and she eased herself into the front seat. Flora watched them drive off. She was glad for Emma Miser to have an afternoon free. Life at the Misers was an endless chore of dishes, cooking, caring for little chil- 167 dren, and lifting crippled Beth Ann. And always there were eggs to wash and case. FLORA worked her way through the noon dishes piled high in the sink. As she polished the glasses to a gleam, she glanced at fouryear-old Tommy piling blocks up for baby Susan to knock over. If they will only entertain themselves until I get these dishes and the washroom cleaned up, Flora thought. "Sing a song," 'Tommy begged, as if he had read Flora's thoughts. His red hair and freckles blended, as if the sunshine had sprinkled both with the same brush. "What song do you want, Tommy?" Flora liked 'Tommy, though he was as mischievous as a fox. "I Play Horsey." 'Tommy's eyes sparkled. "Well, here goes," Flora chanted merrily. "I play horsey down the street with my broom, down the street. When somebody moves the street, I fall down and go boom." Flora sang the song with all the flourish and all the actions. "Ha! Hal" Tommy clapped with glee, and baby Susan cooed and giggled. "Do it again," Tommy shouted. "Not now, Tommy. Flora has to clean up the washroom and mix out the bread and bring in clothes from the line, and if there's time before I fix' supper, I want to read to Beth Ann." Flora bent over the tasks, one after another, her body useful and graceful at the same time. When the blocks were put away and the floor nice and clean, and while the bread finished baking, 168 Flora said, "Let's go in with Beth Ann and listen to a story." She smiled at Tommy, and he took baby Susan's hand to follow lovingly behind her. Inwardly Flora dreaded being in the same room with the invalid. Beth Ann had grown in body to Flora's height, but never had she known the use of her dangling legs or seen the inside of a school or church. Flora had started reading Uncle Tom's Cabin to her sometime ago, and now Beth Ann looked forward to her coming as a child looks forward to Christmas, clenching the beloved book constantly in her small hands. Finally the sun was setting, as a warm, crimson light fell on the windows. Flora, remembering the many eggs to be cleaned and cased, closed the book. "More story," Beth Ann pleaded, her words oddly formed. Flora read on and on, yet the twilight shadows could not dim the _ piercing stare as Beth Ann peered at Flora, drinking in her every word for which her mind and _ spirit thirsted. It was so late when Flora stopped that she decided to scramble eggs for supper. They were quick and there were always lots of cracked ones. It was good she had thought of stirring up a rice pudding to bake along with the bread! There wouldn't be time now to case the eggs. They would havé to wait until the supper dishes were washed and all three children undressed and put into bed. After the eggs, there would be those thirty arithmetic problems Miss Thompson said must be done. Flora's shoulders ached from the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 day's activities, yet the worst was ahead, the undressing and lifting Beth Ann into her bed. So much work remained to be done, and time was running out like the sands in the hourglass on Miss Thompson's desk at school. FLORA heaved a sigh of relief "when Tommy, baby Susan, and Beth Ann were quietly sleeping in their rooms. She got out the large buckets of eggs from the washroom and started casing them, making a sort of game of it. She tried to see how many were good eggs and how many were bad eggs. The bad eggs being the dirty eggs which needed extra attention before they could go in the large cases. Flora wondered if God worked with people the same way, having to cleanse and polish some before they were fit for the kingdom. Some people said that if one kept the chicken coops clean with new straw, the eggs didn't get dirty and broken. She thought Mr. Miser's coops must be awfully dirty because there surely were lots of dirty and cracked eggs. Flora wished her folks had chickens. Eggs helped out a lot, and then some to sell would be nice. Times were extra hard for Flora's folks. Poppa's pay check never covered expenses and back debts, never kept the wolf from the door. The old wolf had a clever way of sneaking in and parking himself on Momma's lap to worry her. Flora usually took eggs for pay when she worked for the Misers, because she liked to see Momma's face light up.: It was hard for Momma to cook without eggs. It took eggs for DEFLATED DOLLAR cakes and pies and puddings and most everything. The whole family was happy, too, after Flora stayed at the Misers, because Momma always cooked eggs for breakfast. Yes, she liked to take eggs home, but it was a bigger sacrifice than any of the family would ever. Know. A girl Flora's age needed money for clothes and shows, and treats like the other girls. Flora kept on casing eggs, and her mind kept thinking about money and eggs, eggs and money. Which was the more important? She must decide before the Misers came home. The clock moved on, the eggs, one after another, took their places in Flora's tired hands to be washed, dried, and dropped into the case. Flora came to with a start. Her fingers were parched and dry. The cloth with which she had been washing the eggs fell from her stiff fingers. She glanced at the egg case. It was full, and the buckets were empty. She had completed her work. But she must have gone to sleep before she did the arithmetic. Was someone speaking? Flora looked up to find two pairs of eyes upon her. It was the Misers. It must be awfully late. She tried to see the clock, but her tired eyes wouldn't focus. At length she was alert. Mrs. Miser was wearing a new linen dress. Why had she chosen red? It didn't go with her hair. But the sepia china buttons down the front were pretty. "What do we owe you?" Mr. Miser asked. He always asked that. The Misers knew what work there was to do. Mrs. Miser did the same work every day. Why didn't he just pay her? 169 The work of the past ten hours raced through Flora's mind: dishes, bread to bake, chasing Tommy, lifting Beth Ann, changing Susan, and constantly tidying up the house, and always. There were eggs to case. Surely all this work was worth ten cents an hour. Mr. Miser repeated his question: "What do we owe you, Flora?" She must answer Mr. Miser. Flora heard herself speak, yet she hardly recognized her own voice. It was pitched unusually high. "A dollar, Mr. Miser, minus the price of two dozen eggs." A heavy tense hush followed. Flora realized she should have explained the troubles, the extra work, the song she sang, the stories that took time, Tommy's pranks, but she couldn't tattle on Tommy. Flora felt an aching pain across her shoulders. What was Mr. Miser saying? "Two dozen eggs, with eggs at twenty-five cents." Ron Miser emphasized the word cents, as though each cent was a gold piece. Slowly he withdrew his wallet, letting the dollars roll into his open hand. Finally, he found a fifty-cent piece among the silver. He laid it on the table as though to hand it directly to Flora was too painful a parting. Flora pulled on her faded coat, picked up the sack of eggs, the money, and the arithmetic book. As she let herself out of the door the Misers murmured, "Good night." Flora said the words, too, but it was more morning than night. Closing the door behind her, she knew, with the intuition of an adult, that 170 the Misers wouldn't be needing her again. January's chill met Flora at the open door and walked with her all the way home. 'The cold penetrated through her thin coat and pained her tired bones. The four blocks of newly fallen snow loomed like an ocean before Flora. Her weary legs, urged on by the fear of lurking shadows and dark clouds, picked up speed. Then, remembering the eggs, Flora settled her pace to a steady walk. She must not break a single egg. There wouldn't be any more eggs, not from the Misers, anyway. Flora used the sleeve of the faded coat to wipe away a persistent tear. She rested the sack of eggs on the arithmetic book under her arm. She clenched the fifty-cent piece in her other cold hand. Together they made a deflated dollar. Ok ok ok ok LORA Camden finished the mending and the darning. She even started crocheting on the pillowcases she was making for the Relief Society bazaar. Her shoulder felt more tired than she had known for years and years, as she squirmed to relieve the pain. Then she set aside the pillowcases. I can't sit here any longer not knowing where my Marty is, Flora thought. Larsens, that's the name Marty said. Now if they lived close enough for her to skip over—Marty did say she passed their house on her way to and from school.... I have it, I'll look up all the Larsens in the telephone directory, the one in this section of town will no doubt be the right one. Flora searched for the telephone book. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 -Just then the front door opened, and there stood Marty and a strange young man. Marty was wearing an even broader smile than usual, and both dimples were winking mischievously. "Mother, this is Mr. Larsen, Mr. Bill Larsen. They just live in the next block, but he insisted on driving me home." Flora and young Mr. Larsen acknowledged the _ introduction, and he was gone. "Oh, Marty, I'm so glad you are homel" Flora threw her arms around Marty's waist and held her close. "How did you get along?" "Oh, just grand, Mother. I didn't have to do a single thing. Baby Roene was asleep when I got there. I watched a television show, then I looked at their Book of Knowledge, and then I just went to sleep. "I'm glad you had your sleep. Schoolgirls need sleep to do arithmetic." Flora felt a boundless joy in just having Marty in the room and safe. What was she saying? "Mother, and guess what? I told Bill, I mean Mr. Larsen, that fifty cents was plenty, but do you know what he said?" Marty laughed luxuriously. "What did he say?" Flora smiled in response, a thrill of motherhood coursing through her veins as she watched Marty. "Why, he said, 'My goodness, Marty girl, our baby is worth lots more than fifty cents.' And he squeezed this dollar, a brand, new dollar into my hand. He just made me take it, Mother." Marty's brown eyes were like saucers, and between her thumb and forefinger she held up a 1953 inflated dollar. Grant M. Haist SNAKE RIVER AND THE GRAND TETONS, WYOMING * How Shall J Say Your Name? Lael W. Hill How shall I say your name With its' full meaning? Once I stood by a stream Where an old tree, leaning bove a quiet place, caught And sifted its flowing Into cool syllables. But I stood unknowing... I walked slant, twisted trails Past red cliff-faces Where the blaze of noon spills Through time—sculptured spaces To green pines, and ferns That rustle and glisten. Warmth echoed down tall stones. I did not listen.... Somehow I even missed High, thin air singing Your name-song.... It is lost As the first bird's winging— Even now, in this breathless: time Of holding you nearest. How shall I Say your name, My dearest? Page 17] Sixty Years Ago Lixcerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1893 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL NATIONS" PASSING THOUGHTS: It has been a very long, tedious winter and one grows tired even of the cheery fire and the long evenings when the storm blows outside and we gather round the hearth, and eat pop-corn and molasses candy and tell stories and sing songs, for winter has trespassed so far onto the would be spring time that, in truth, the pop-corn is gone, the molasses jug is empty and the stocks of stories and songs are well nigh exhausted and we long for the spring and the return of the birds, that new songs may be sung, new stories learned, new crops raised to replenish the stores for another winter. —Camelia PRESIDENT WOODRUFF'S PARTY: The evening of the first of March was a red letter day in the family of President Woodruff on account of the celebration of his eighty-sixth anniversary. The party was made up of a few of his old-time companions and fellow laborers in the Gospel, some with whom he had traveled many thousands of miles on land and sea... For this and many other reasons he is very greatly reverenced by this people, as well as for the position he holds as President of the Church.... The day was also the anniversary of the birth of Sister Emma Woodruff, who shared with her husband the honors of this happy celebration. —Editorial BLESSED ARE THEY WHO SOW Blessed are they who dig and hew Foundation stone and beam, And build fair homes for spouses true, Where hearth-fires warmly gleam; Who blessings ask on plow and seed, On ox and furrowed plain, And call on One to give the mead Of sunshine and of rain. ITEMS FROM ST. GEORGE: I'll write you a short account of a tnp just taken by Mrs. Ann C. Woodbury, Julia H. Ivins, Clara C. Cannon, of Salt Lake, and myself. We... Visited five of the settlements on the Rio Vergin River and invited the other two small towns to meet with us... Thus we were able to meet with the... Associations (Relief Society, Mutual Improvement and Primary Associations)... And found them all doing a good work; and all showed an interest in contributing in every way possible to the World's Fair. From the river settlements we went via Bellevue to Harmony back to Bellevue and Leeds, meeting with same organizations in these places... We traveled one hundred and sixty-seven miles, held fourteen meetings in one week and returned home safely feeling well paid for our time and hard riding over "Dixie Roads." —Mollie Judd FAMILY RELATIONS: Now let the daughters of Zion who are the daughters of God, give heed to their ways that they be not found allied to any one only by virtue of an everlasting covenant, confirmed and sealed by an everlasting priesthood.... —S. W. Richards Page 172 | ALEXANDRINE, Queen Mother of Denmark, died in January 1953, at the age of seventy-three. Mother of the present monarch, Frederick, Alexandrine was queen from 1912 to 1947. N Egypt the movement for women's suffrage has taken a big step forward with the recognition, by the Ministry of Interior, of the Daughters of the Nile as a political party with its own political and social program. In Sweden the number of women in the Swedish Riksdag (Parliament), after the recent general elections, is thirty-three, or nearly one-tenth of the total membership. WO young American women won the top awards for sculpture and etching at a recent show for foreign artists in Rome, Italy. The prize winners were Cornelia B. Foss of Bloomington, Indiana, for her bronze sculptures, and Ynez Johnston of Berkeley, California, for her etchings. HE world's champion woman skater is Jeanette Altwegg, a British citizen, who is at present a children's nurse in Switzerland. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon BIRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Melissa Ann Wells Dial ninety-seven, Mrs. Caroline Wayman Newman, ninety-six, Mrs. Annie Peterson Brown, ninetyfour, Mrs. Nans S. Richardson, ninety-one, and Ann Barnes Layton and Karen Peterson Andersen, ninety. UEEN ELIZABETH II won the award of Woman of the Year for 1952. The choosing is done by the editors and the managing editors of the Associated Press. 'The women chose Mrs. Eisenhower, but the men were for the Queen. Their vote was preponderant. LL women of Lebanon with a primary education have recently - been given the right to vote. In fact, non-voters can be fined. MBP:. JOHN B. SULLIVAN, newly elected Democratic Congresswoman from Missouri, is the State's first woman member of CongTess. - [N Japan, South Africa, the British West Indies, and the Philippines, teen-age gitls are doing a splendid work collecting funds for community welfare drives, helping in hospitals, and performing various other tasks. Page 173 » EDET ORIAL —©9 VOL. 40 MARCH 1953 | Dwig At D. Gisenhower Gnaugurated President of the United States N Tuesday, January 20, 1953, Dwight D. Eisenhower became the thirty-fourth President of the United States. For the first time in history millions of people throughout the United States of America were enabled, through television, to see the inaugural ceremonies as they took place in Washington, D. C. It is a significant development, of far-reaching importance, that school children in distant cities, and even in remote villages throughout the country, were permitted to see the President take the oath of office, and to view at close range the ceremonies which gave our nation a new Chief Executive, elected by democratic processes and installed in his high office by ceremonies one hundred and sixty-four years old. Other millions in our own country and abroad, and even our soldiers in the Korean hills, heard the resolute and confident voice of President Eisenhower repeating the oath of office and the stirring call to duty expressed in his inaugural message. Early in the morning, before the momentous proceedings were televised, the future President and Vice-President, with their wives, cabinet members, and close associates, attended religious services in Washington's historic National Presbyterian Church, where many other Presidents have worshipped. There, solemn words from the Bible Page 174 were read, expressing the Savior's answer to a question on authority asked by the mother of James and John: | Ye know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and they that are great exercise authority upon them. But it shall not be so among you: but whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be = your servant (Matthew 20:25-27). After this reveverential service, the man who would that day assume the Presidency of the nation, accompanied by his wife, arrived at the White House. There, before an estimated 150, ooo persons massed on the approaches to the Capitol, the majestic ceremonies began. The day was beautifully clear, and a festive, yet reverent spirit pervaded the beloved city on the Potomac. Eager, upturned faces awaited the words of the man who had been called to the highest office in the nation. The forty-year-old Vice-President, Richard M. Nixon of California, was sworn into office by Senator Knowland. Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, Fred M. Vinson, in the black robes of his high office, administered the Presidential oath to President Eisenhower. Standing on the outdoor platform bearing the seal of the United States, with the dome of the EDITORIAL Capitol rising back of him, in reverence and devotion, Dwight David Eisenhower raised his right hand, and, placing his left hand upon a Bible, repeated the oath. Two Bibles lay upon the pulpit before the new President—one the _revered Bible which President Washington used—and the other the Eisenhower family Bible. Immediately following this ritual, sacred to generations of Americans, the new President stepped over and kissed his wife—Mamie Dowd Eisenhower, mother of their son, Major John Eisenhower, who had been granted leave from his post in Korea by President Truman to witness his father's inauguration. Before beginning his formal address, the President asked all those assembled to bow their heads while he petitioned the Heavenly Father to grant him a full and complete dedication to the service of the American people and "their fellow citizens everywhere." Thus Dwight D. Eisenhower prayed for guidance in his hour of destiny: Give us, we pray, the power to discern right from wrong and allow all our words and actions to be governed thereby and by the laws of this land.... That all may work for the good of our beloved country and thy glory. Although the President appeared in dignified and thoughtful mien throughout the ceremonies, in his address he spoke as the confident leader of a land which holds the hopes of all the free world. Since this century's beginning, a time of tempest has seemed to come upon the continents of the earth.... We bring all our wit and will to meet the question: How far have we come in man's long pilgrimage from darkness toward light? Are we nearing the light—a day of freedom and peace for all mankind? Or are 175 the shadows of another night closing in upon us? President Eisenhower outlined nine guiding principles which reflect not only the elements of compass and direction, but also a conviction that, by fervent effort, man can achieve his ideals. In closing, the President called upon the citizens. Of the United States to assume and fulfill their individual responsibilities and devote themselves to the welfare of the nation: Whatever America hopes to bring to pass in the world must first come to pass in the hearts of America. More than an escape from death, it is a way of life. More than a haven for the weary, it is a hope for the brave. This is the hope that beckons us onward in this century of trial. This is the work that awaits us all, to be done with bravery, with charity —and with prayer to Almighty God. It is a commentary on the democratic way of life that the two living ex-Presidents, Herbert Hoover and Harry S. Truman, sat near President Eisenhower at the front of the stand throughout the inauguration ceremonies. Many Latter-day Saints attended the inaugural ceremonies. Of particular interest was the attendance of President David O. McKay and Sister McKay, as guests of the new Secretary of Agriculture, Ezra Taft Benson, a member of the Council of the Twelve. President McKay commented: I thought the President's inaugural address was an outstanding presentation of the conditions. His introduction to the speech with a prayer typified the spirit of his administration. It demonstrates his sincerity and his fundamental honesty. This spirituality is what the world needs. I think it is the turning point in United States, if not in world history. —V. P. C. Vo TO THE FIELD Organizations and 'Reorganizations of Stake and Tlisston Reliof Socteties for 1952 Mission Central American Stakes Bountiful Detroit East Ogden East Sharon E] Paso Gooding Lorin Farr Mount Rubidoux Riverdale San Jose Tacoma Missions Argentine Australian Page 176 ORGANIZATIONS Formerly Part of Appointed President Mexican Mission Formerly Part of Elizabeth W. Romney Appointed President South Davis Stake Leila G. Eldredge Great Lakes Mission Lenore P. Dalley Canadian Mission Mount Ogden Stake Belva J. Petersen Ogden Stake Sharon Stake Jane B. Larsen Mount Graham Stake Della O. Taylor Western States Mission Spanish-American Mission Blaine Stake Ben Lomond Stake Geraldine Terry Emma L. Stephens San Bernardino Stake Lola H. Sedgwick Lake View Stake Weber Stake Palo Alto Stake Northern California Mission Seattle Stake Northwestern States Mission — Nona W. Slade Barbara D. Howell Luella C. Ricks REORGANIZATIONS Released President Appointed President Leanor J. Brown Amy Y. Valentine Myrtle J. Christensen Leah B. Liljenquist Date of Appointment October 4, 1952 Date of Appointment March 23, 1952 November.9, 1952 December 7, 1952 December 10, 1952 September 1, 1952 April 20, 1952 November 16, 1952 October 26, 1952 December 7, 1952 November 30, 1952 September 28, 1952 Date of Appointment November 5, 1952 November 6, 1952 NOTES TO THE FIELD Missions Bnitish Central Atlantic States © Danish Eastern States Netherlands Northern States Norwegian Samoan South African Southern States Swiss-Austrian Tahitian Stakes Alberta American Falls Ben Lomond Benson Chicago Cottonwood Garfield Gunnison Highland Juab Lake View Lethbridge Los Angeles Maricopa Millard Moapa Appointed President Released President Jane T. Richards Mabel A. Price Minnie B. Sorensen Helen Beth Henrichsen Lillian D. Lillywhite (died Dec. 22, 1951) Lucy T. Andersen Ges M. Gowans Myrtle L. Paul Jean D. Wright Rula W. Choules Lenora K. Bringhurst Muriel R. Mallory Released President Elizabeth B. Reiser Mabel M. Nalder Mary G. Sorensen Eva C. Taylor Ada S. VanDam Nettie P. Smoot Sigrid H. Andresen Rita H. Stone Nora C. Duncan Emily E. Ricks Johanna B. Perschon Vilate B. Pearce Appointed President Margaret N. Low Louise H. Woolley Ora Macfarlane Leona R. McCarrey Louise D, Williams Madeleine P. Stevens Daphne B. Smith Iva Dean Fieldsted Florence M. Holland Lyle C. Pratt Fern B. Fowers Gertrude F. Jensen - Alice A. Call Vida D. Brinton Faymetta S. Prows 'Emma B. Solomon Lenore S. McNaughton Vera Barkdull Eleanor T. Nielsen Mabel H. Pond Edith Y. Harris Elaine B. Curtis Alta S. Wiltshire Ruth P. Christiansen Hazel B. Tingey Martha C. Eager Esther (Beth) McEntire Amelia P. Johansen Marion N. Pinkston Esther Miller Laura S. Beckstrand Alice Alldredge 177 Date of Appointment June 13, 1952 January 11, 1952 July 16, 1952 February 28, 1952 April 16, 1952 December 23, 1952 May 23, 1952 December 15, 1952 November 7, 1952 February 28, 1952 November 21, 1952 March 25, 1952 Date of Appointment October 12, 1952 October 19, 1952 December 3, 1952 August 24, 1952 May 12, 1952 August 12, 1952 August 4, 1952 April 27, 1952 May 25, 1952 May 18, 1952 June 29, 1952 August 17, 1952 September 20, 1952 December 14, 1952 June 8, 1952 October 12, 1952 178 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 Stakes Released President | Appointed President Date of Appointment Morgan Margaret Thackeray Eva H. Jensen October 9, 1952 Moroni Anna P. Robertson Venice F. Anderson May 4, 1952 Mount Logan Mount Ogden Murray Esther K. Gunnell — Ida A. Gallagher October 14, 1952 Oahu Sadie Kamaile Miriam W. Knapp January 1, 1952 Kauhini Palmyra Twila A. Isaac Fern Brockbank September 3, 1952 Palo Alto © Ethel M. Beckstrand Agnes Farnsworth November 30, 1952 Lindsay Park Naomi W. Seaich Velma N. Glade December 14, 1952 Provo Mazie C. Knell Orah Van Wagoner June 29, 1952 St. Johns Mary H. Gibbons Mabel W. Shumway April 5, 1952 San Bernardino Lovisa H. Maughan Belva J. Petersen | Effie C. Tanner Mae E. Jenkins _ Cleone Rich Eccles Cambalena (Lena) Millett June 1, 1952 November 23, 1952 October 26, 1952 San Luis Lela M. Bailey Lettie S. Jensen July 27, 1952 Santa Rosa Vera Maude SorensenRuth M. Pell June 8, 1952 Sharon Jane B. Larsen Gwen J. Christenson December 1, 1952 South Davis Leila G. Eldredge Ilene S. Bagley March 23, 1952 Teton Sadie H. Harris Merle F. Sewell June 1, 1952 Woodruff Esther L. Warburton Charlotte M. Bur- | November 26, 1952 leigh + & &* & Official Costume for Singing Mothers | HE official costume of the Singing Mothers as recommended in the. Relief Society Handbook is a white blouse and dark skirt. This costume has given a distinctive uniformity to these choruses over the years and throughout many lands, and has received much favorable comment. In view of this recommendation and the fact that Singing Mothers' choruses are receiving ever-increasing recognition, only those pictures which portray the Singing Mothers in the official costume will be accepted hereafter in the Notes From the Field department of the Magazine. Announcing the Special April Short Story Gssue The April 1953 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, will be the special short story number, with four outstanding stories being presented. Look for these stories in April:. "The Bitter Cup," by Angelyn W. Wadley "Our Own," by Ruth Moody Ostegar "Pot-Head Kettle," by Velma D. Cloward "The Lasting Joys" by Sylvia Probst Young A * ¥. Answer the Call of the American Red Cross Louis C. Boochiver Director, Office of Public Relations, The American National Red Cross VERY month in the year thousands of people in need or distress reach out to the Red Cross for the help they must have, help that comes from the generous efforts and support of housewives, businessmen, industrial workers, school children, professional workers—your next door neighbors—and countless others who serve their fellow men through the Red Cross. - In a time of tension and cynicism it is well to be reminded of the inherent goodness of people, to call attention to their constant voluntary efforts to make life a little better for the men and women in the armed forces, for hospitalized veterans, for disaster sufferers, and for those in need in other lands. Although the heart and hands of the Red Cross are provided by hundreds of thousands of volunteers, money is also needed to collect blood; to provide financial assistance for servicemen, veterans, and their dependents; to furnish emergency aid and rehabilitation to disaster victims— services that can be provided only through the voluntary financial support of millions of Americans. Every March Red Cross volunteers turn to their neighbors and ask help in answering the call of those in need. Let us respond generously to this appeal so that we can answer the call of humanity through our Red Cross. S27 Sagi (33 Ass The most terribly damaging effect of alcohol upon this country and upon every European country, is the impairment of leadership. The people of America should face the truth, the truth undiluted by the vicious efforts of those having an economic interest in promoting the use of alcohol as a beverage. No total abstainer ever became an alcoholic. —From The Clipsheet Page 179 The Family Reunion THE FAMILY WAS SPLIT WIDE ASUNDER But MoM KNEW JUST THE TRICK TO BRING THEM TOGETHER Yvonne Child Hiss T all started when Uncle Henry got a letter from the central committee asking him to arrange a number from our branch of the family for the family reunion. Uncle Hen called a meeting at our house to discuss the matter. The family meetings were always held at our house, because the uncles and aunts found it much simpler to bring the meeting to us than to bring us to the meeting (there're ten, going on eleven, in our family). As soon as Uncle Hen announced hispurpose, Aunt Clara stood up and flatly declared that she wasn't going to sing. The last time Aunt Clara sang at a reunion there was a dog fight tight in the middle of her number. Everybody was so interested in the fight that they didn't even listen to Aunt Clara, and, adding injury to insult, one dog ran right up on the bandstand and knocked into her. Aunt Clara had left quickly. Then Uncle Clint declined to play his violin. He'd had his turn last year, and on the ending trill of his selection a string had popped, flipping him right in the eye, and he'd gone around like Dead-Eye Dick for a week. Aunt Grace said she couldn't give one of her activated readings, because her arm was broken, and Uncle Pete had got too fat to do Page 180 his sleight of hand tricks anymore (any eye could move faster than Uncle Pete). Everyone was tired of Uncle Charlie's jokes, so that just about settled it, there wouldn't be a number from this branch of the family this year. Nobody even asked us about doing anything because they didn't consider that Mom and Dad had any other talent except rearing children. Then Uncle Charles lifted his huge frame and made an announcement in his officious sounding voice. 'May I make a suggestion? It seems to me that these family reunions are becoming so crowded and long and boring that there's no time for fun anymore. All we do is sit there while one after another complete stranger stands up and says, "I'm so-and-so, from suchand-such a place, married to soand-so, son of so-and-so, from the so-and-so line.' It takes the whole reunion just for introductions!" Uncle Pete blinked his eyes. "Oh, I hadn't noticed that!" he said. (Uncle Pete always went to sleep at reunions, and he never knew a thing that went on.) "Well it does, it does," repeated Uncle Charlie, warming up as the others nodded in agreement, "and I move that we change the dividing line. Ebenezer Bunk, our grandfather, had twenty-eight children, and with all those twenty- THE FAMILY REUNION eight posterities coming to the same reunion, it makes a lot of people." "T'd say that was a lot of Bunk," said Dad, who was considered the family wit (or half-wit, as the case may be). Uncle Charlie gave him a withering look. (Charlie's the one who considers Dad the half-wit.) "I move that we change the dividing line to Ebenezer Bunk's sons and have separate reunions for each one." Everyone agreed, and Uncle Hen was instructed to write this sug-. Gestion to the central committee. Mom was a little disappointed, because she'd secretly written a skit that she hoped her children could put on, but, as usual, she said nothing.. Things stood still for over a month, when Uncle Hen got the letter back from the committee saying they thought the division was a good idea, and that we could try the plan and see how it worked out for this year. They said they'd inform all the sons of Ebenezer Bunk about the change in plans. Uncle Hen called a meeting at our house again to arrange where to hold our family reunion. As soon as he announced the purpose of the meeting, Aunt Clara stood up and declared that she couldn't have it at her house because her house was too small. Aunt Clara's house was a brand new cottage-type house, and I guess it was small all right, but the main reason why Aunt Clara never wanted any gatherings at her house was because of her housekeeping. She is so fussy that anybody that sets foot in her house is followed up by 181 her vacuum cleaner, for fear he'll drop a grain of dirt. Her walls are lined with doodads and knickknacks, and not one of them has a speck of dust. She dusts from attic to cellar every day! Aunt Clara always turns up her nose, sniffs, and steps lightly when she comes to our house, because sometimes we have other things beside dirt on our floor. But we all agree that if Clara had eight children, her house would look like a china shop after a bull had been in it! Our house does look better than that, really. "Well," Uncle Hen said, "there's no need for you to have the teunion at your house, Clara, because I've decided to have it at my house, being as I'm the eldest of the famil? "inde Charlie stood up and made a magnificent speech, stating that Hen might be the oldest, but his (Charles') house was the largest and finest, and he'd made all the plans to have the reunion at -his house. NCLE Pete blinked his eyes and said, "I don't know about that, but I think Milt and Edie in California should have it at their house, then we could have a nice trip." Aunt Grace remarked that she'd be glad to have it, but her arm was broken, so she couldn't; and, furthermore, she thought it would be terribly rude to write and tell Milt and Edie that the whole tribe was coming there for a reunion when Milt and Edie didn't know anything about all this and hadn't offered to have it. 182 - There was a heated discussion, which ended with everyone going home in a huff, saying they weren't going to come at all, which Dad said was an amazing deduction since there was no reunion at all to come to. No one spoke to anyone except Mom and Dad (who always stayed out of such arguments), then Mom got a letter from Aunt Edie saying that reunion or no reunion, they were coming, because they had arranged to have their vacation start the first of August (reunion day was always August second) and they couldn't change it now. Mom got us back to working on the skit, and for a week she baked cookies and fruitcakes and bread. Dad asked why all this furor, and Mom said she just had a feeling. We all knew better than to argue with Mom's feelings. The day before Uncle Milt and Aunt Edie were to arrive, Mom sent us out to carry watermelons into the milk house to chill. We carried in ten watermelons, and Mom said there ought to be fifteen. We made it fifteen, and Mom said she Prouget it ought to be twenty. Dad protested that HT was all foolishness, but Mom said. She just had a feeling. Dad said he had a feeling too, a feeling that there were bruises clear to his armpits from carrying watermelons. We carried in ten more watermelons; that made twenty-five. The next day Uncle Milt and Aunt Edie arrived on schedule. We young ones climbed and clamored and chattered and had a wonderful time. In a couple of hours Aunt Clara arrived with her usual sniff. "Just RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 ° thought I'd come over and say hello to Milt and Edie," she said. - Ten minutes later Uncle Charlie and Aunt Bertha knocked at the door, with their two sons and their wives, and their daughter and her husband, and all the grandchildren. "Just dropped over to see Milt and Edie," they said. Ten minutes after that it was Hen and Pearl, then Grace and George, Clint and Lola, and Pete and Margo, all with prolific posterity. Mom passed the stew and homemade bread, and somehow it seemed to go around. We were doing the dishes when someone else knocked at the door. "Who could that be?" asked Mom. She was sure all the uncles and aunts were here. GHE opened the door, and there stood second-cousin Leah and second cousin-in-law Phil, and their little Sherrie and Phil Jr., and GreatAunt Sade, all the way from Idaho! "Oh, Annie," said Leah, "we've been waiting in town at the park all morning. What's happened to the reunion?" Leah looked to be on the verge of tears, so Mom hurried them in to sit down. "They called off the big reunion," she explained, "each child of Ebenezer Bunk was to have a separate reunion. Didn't the central committee notify you?" "Not a word," said Phil. "They said they notified all the sons of Ebenezer Bunk," boomed - Uncle Charlie. "Well, I'm Ebenezer's daughter," croaked Great-Aunt Sade. "They THE FAMILY REUNION may have notified all his sons, but they didn't notify his daughters." "Well,. Make yourselves at home," comforted mother, "we're so glad to see you again." Within the next few hours ten carloads arrived, each bringing bewildered representatives from Ebenezer Bunk's ten unnotified daughters. The house bulged at the seams, so Mom set chairs out on the back lawn and even into the archard. "We don't have a planned program," she apologized, "but if you'll all co-operate, maybe we can work one up." Aunt Clara volunteered to sing first. We almost had another dog fight, but we children sat on the dogs. (I think Aunt Clara's voice infuriates them!) We heard poems and songs and readings, and everybody was in such a good mood that they even let Uncle Charlie tell a few old jokes. Mother finished the program with our skit. It was based on the Old Woman in the Shoe, and ended with us all getting soundly spanked. Needless to say, it was a howling success. Then we served cookies and cake and twenty-five chilled watermelons. The real problem arose when it came time to bed down all that mob. The uncles and aunts took home a load each to stay at their houses, even Aunt Clara, and Mom ~made beds all over our house. We children were going to sleep in the barn, with Dad as overseer. We were pretty excited, but I was worried because Mom wasn't look- ~ ink too well. 183 WE had all the company bedded down, when Aunt' Clara sneaked in, sniffing audibly. "I became so excited getting all those people settled in my little house that I forgot to leave a bed for myself," she moaned. Mom led her in. "You can have this bed," she said, "it's all ready for you." (It was Mom's bed.) Then Mom took my hand, and we started out to the barn where Dad was settling the brood. Suddenly Mom _ gripped my shoulder like a vise. "You run and bring your Father. Hurry!" she cried. Believe me, I ran, and when I told Dad you can bet he ran, tool When all those relatives heard the news the next morning, nothing would do but that they all had to go to the hospital to see the new baby! | "Goodness!" a nurse gasped as we poured in the north entrance. "Looks like an invasion from Mars," said the doctor grimly, as he marched toward us, looking for all the world as if he expected to be mowed down by a ray gun at any minute. "What. Is this," he demanded, "mass hysteria or poisoned picnic food?" "Neither," boomed Uncle Charlie, "it's a new baby." "Oh, really," said the doctor, "which one of you?" "None of us," explained Dad, "were here to see the Holden baby." "All of you?" "All of us." The doctor was not to be cowed. "You'll have to go two at a time, hospital rules." 184 "Did you plan on extending the visiting hours then?" asked Dad, eying the crowd with a lifted eyebrow. "Well," said the doctor, ''three at a time?" Dad lifted the other eyebrow. "Four at a time," said the doctor, "and that's all." Dad and I decided to let all the others take their turns first, so we waited in the hall. When most of them had finished, we headed down the hail to the nursery to see the baby. UNCLE Charlie was so proud you'd have thought it was his. "It's a fine boy," he boomed at Dad, "a fine boy!" "Boy?" sputtered Dad, "It's a girl, and don't anyone forget itl" (It was our first baby girl, since I was born, and the strain of seven boys in a row was plainly beginning to show.) The nurse came down the hall and smiled knowingly at all the eager relatives. "You're all so excited," she said, "this must be your first child." "No," beamed Dad, "this is our RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 Mom heaved a _ weary sigh. "Please tell this to the folks for me when you get them home," she said, "tell them, very tactfully, that it isn't right for families to split apart over such silly differences. The Lord sends us families, so we can have joy in being together. Why don't we go back to the big re ~ union, but cut out all the unimportant introductions; just introduce ourselves when the occasion demands as we talk together?" Then Mom whispered something in Dad's ear. "Use that for the crowning announcement," she said with a knowing smile. Well, we got all the relatives home all right, but we had such a lineup of cars that it stopped traffic. Dad collected the relatives all together on our back lawn and made Mom's suggestion, and they all happily agreed that that was the best solution after all. Then Dad announced, "In honor of the reuniting of the reunion, we've decided to name our new daughter Reunia Joy!" (Her name was an everlasting reninth." We went on down the hall minder, and we loved happily ever to see Mom. After! ) Crocus Ida Isaacson Brown clay around my step, Green of winter not awakened yet. But glowing for my sight this morn The crocus garden, newly born; Tonic touch of air and sand, Together with the fine moist land, Have wrought this miracle of life, To lift my soul from toilsome strife— This vivid orange'in a spring bouquet Spread at my feet this cold March day. PIONEER LOG HOUSE By &arly Candlelight 2. Bur~pinc A HoME IN THE VALLEY Bonnie A. Kesler Mlustrations by the Author HE journey by wagon from Nauvoo left Hyrum and Annie weary, but upon entering the valley, their spirits and hopes were high. Many of their friends lived temporarily in dugouts on the north bank of streams, and others lived in and by their covered wagons during the summer months; but by October, the nights were cold and uncomfortable to be sleeping in the open in this climate, so with axes, logchains, and ox teams, Hytum and some of his neighbors made daily trips into the canyons, working from early morning until late at night felling trees and trimming off branches. Then came the slow journey back to the valley, with the oxen dragging green pine logs. After a few days of logging, the men had sufficient material for a home. Then everyone turned to notching, lifting, and fitting the logs into their respective places. Hyrum's home was one large room with an inside measurement of sixteen by eighteen feet. There were one door and one window, a large fireplace, and a chimney. Rushes, found growing along the streams, were placed on the log rafters, on top of which was a layer of clay about a foot thick, spread Page 185 186 from the ridgepole to the eaves. This roof, though heavy, was quite adequate, except during a heavy rain storm, when leaks developed. Then every available bucket and pan was used by Annie and the gitls to catch the dripping water. The logs were chinked inside and out, and plastered inside with a mixture of mud. The walls were whitewashed whenever Annie housecleaned. 'The door swung. From strong wooden hinges. Glass for the window was not available, so greased factory cloth was substituted. The cloth prevented the entrance of cold air and allowed the passage of light. Hyrum's log house cost about forty dollars. An adobe house would have cost only half that amount. However, some of Hyrum's friends chose to build homes of adobe brick. Hyrum helped make M, bar « 7G -" " Sa. Gis ME. Ui oA "G3 "Wy 065 item ae" be (he's! LU Gai4 MG a= RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 adobes in exchange for the work on his own house. Each adobe, of sun-dried clay brick, was about twelve inches long, four inches high, and six inches wide, the color of the clay from which it was made. The clay and water mixture was poured into wooden frames or molds, then the wet bricks were unmolded and set in the sun to dry. When dry, the bricks were put together with clay mortar, to which a little sand was added because straight clay and water would be too dense and would crack easily. When it was available, straw was mixed into the adobe mixture to reinforce it. After making the adobes, Hyrum's friend used the pit from which the clay was taken for the cellar of his house, which had an outside entrance and a slanting cover built over the stairway. A ie La ' atc. Yg = PIONEER ADOBE HOUSE BY EARLY CANDLELIGHT - hinged door was lifted up to gain entrance. Hyrum extended a pole from the _eaves to hang the meat on and built a shelf by the door, outside, to hold the wooden wash bowl, towel, and soap. On the side of the house hung the washtub. Annie felt safer after the fence was built to keep the stock and other animals out of the yard. Very few had enough cash to build a home, so men and _ boys traded wotk to help one another build. A man might work for his neighbor in exchange for the use of his team to haul timber from the mill and rocks and sand from the hills for the foundation. Stonecutting and carpentry were often paid for by the owner or his sons by plowing ground, harvesting crops, or hauling wood. One man, Mr. Woodhouse, paid a mason to lay the foundation of his house by making him two pairs of pants. The adobes for the walls were paid for by furnishing the fabric and making a suit of clothes for the neighbor who made adobe brick. Mr. Woodhouse sheared sheep and earned wool from which his wife spun and wove the cloth for the suit. He hauled timber from the canyons and made sleepers for floors and plates and stringers for the roof. Men who owed him for work done the year before paid 187 him in lumber and shingles. He exchanged work with a neighbor by binding grain by hand for him in the forenoon and receiving his help in putting on the roof in the afternoon when the grain was too dry to bind. The shingle nails Mr. Woodhouse used were secondhand from _ Camp Floyd, and cost thirty cents a pound, while new nails cost seventy-five cents a pound. The lumber for casings and _ upstairs floors he bought in Salt Lake City, paying fifteen dollars down and promising to pay a fat pig, to weigh 200 pounds at killing time, for the balance. He-bought the lumber for the lower floors in Salt Lake City, agreeing to pay in geese, at the rate of one goose for fifty feet of lumber, the geese to be delivered in time for Christmas dinner. He delivered the geese on time, but he had to leave home in a blinding snowstorm to do it. His wagon was covered with a blanket of snow by the time he reached the city. He did his own lathing and exchanged work with two other men for plastering. Thus the family was able to move into the house, although it was not entirely finished. Best of all, there was no debt on the house. Such planning and hard work were not unusual. They constituted the spirit of home building in the pioneer days of the Utah Territory. —se = The terrible effects of drinking by drivers of automobiles are due to the fact that alcohol slows reactions, creates false confidence, is responsible for an increase in aggressive impulses, impairs concentration, delays judgment, seriously affects the power of vision. Whether you drink or not, every member of your family is endangered by the drinking of others, and the chance of mutilation to those you love is not a small chance.—From The Clipsheet. (Le Sound S; ring Frances P. Reid FE thought that spring had passed us by. Living within the crowded confines of an apartment, denied a bit of ground to call our own, we were becoming resigned to looking over fences at other folks' gardens, to sniffing the wonderful free air, laden with scent and the fragrance of bursting buds, ~ and to hoping that just one robin would perch on the window sill. Then our two small sons brought spring right inside our walls. Trudging up the draw straddled by this huge housing development where we live, and climbing the barren hills that hem us in, they found the eatly-blooming balsam root. Like miniature sunflowers couched in downy, cotton cups, they shed pure sunshine on our bleak thoughts. Moist little fists clutched stems of every length, and we scurried to find bowls and vases. In the circumscribed world of children they saw what we had missed, the first bright patches of wild beauty that would soon be scattered over every slope. Before the balsam root was gone, delicate desert phlox, like tightly bunched nosegays,- sprinkled the hillsides. Their fragile pinkness belied a tenuous grip on earth, their elusive perfume asked forgiveness for the prickly foliage. Deep azure larkspur and Scotch _ bluebells peeked between the patches of cheatgrass and candytuft of canary hue splotched the waste places. Filigreed snapdragons of palest yellow covered the Page 188 sagebrush. Wild slopes, and, at last, came the stately lupine. The foothills about us, bereft of anything taller than bitterbrush or tumbleweed, were claiming their brief. Moment of glory before the heat of summer parched them. We had mourned for shadowing elms, towering poplars, and graceful willows; we had looked at the distant peaks wearing snowy stoles fringed by pines, and had forgotten the beauty beneath our feet. Often our living room blossomed with flowers whose names we did not know. Anxiously we queried friends schooled in wild-flower lore, eager to learn more about the loveliness that warmed the cold spot of longing for a garden of our own. Over the long week ends we took to the hills, following the paths beaten by little feet and watching for the exquisite bitterroot and yellow bells that crouched on the very edges of snowdrifts high in the basins cupped by sheltering mountains. Dense banks of tall lungwort coaxed us to scramble over boulders, and at the lower levels, the tiny star-of-Bethlehem winked from rocky crevices. We found rolling meadows as soft as a down comforter and lay on our backs marking the undulations of the land rippling below us. Hugged close to earth, we glimpsed the smallest of blooms pushing through the sod, so minute as to be unobserved when standing. Our eyes, long used to seeing ordered beds and marching rows of tulips WE FOUND SPRING and daffodils, now sought the solitary spikes of wild onion and blue beardtongue. We stepped lightly to avoid crushing the buttercups, shooting stars, and violets. Now we have a garden as wide as all the outdoors. We've held the Fae Ny w => Jo 189 horizons in our grasp and lingered with infinity. As long as there is spring, we'll have beauty that no amount of crowded living can thwart—beauty so fleeting that every day must be held a precious thing. Travel Highlights FAMILY OUTINGS IN SWITZERLAND Elizabeth Williamson Illustration by the Author QE OUND Geneva, Switzerland, during fine weather, the family takes to the roads and highways for vacation outings. If there are not enough bicycles to go around, or if the children are too small to peddle, arrangements are made so that all are included in the trip. Boys' clubs, girls' clubs, mixed groups, couples, the lone cyclist, all start early for some favorite spot in the mountains or on the lakes. They usually carry on their back a rucksack, which may contain a lunch, books, fishing gear, baby's toys, or whatever their activities will demand at the destination. As your car whizzes past them on the highway, they seem to be having a wonderful time. They may not get as far as you do this holiday, but in all probability, they will have seen much more. Celebration Florence B. Dunford T was midafternoon, and I had been waiting impatiently all morning for mother to finish her baking so that I could take the cookies to grandma; yet now, when the telephone rang, I stood and listened. We had been penned in so long that even that much contact with the outside world was precious. And besides, since I was the oldest one at home, though I was only ten, I was mother's chief confidant. "It was your Aunt Ada," mother said, turning from the phone. She brushed a strand of dark brown hair off her brow. All of us—and there were eight children so far— were always aware of mother's prettiness. 'This came from our father, and besides, anyone with eyes and feelings could appreciate beauty. Mother was even pretty now, though her face was flushed from working, and she was about to have Richard. "What's the matter with Aunt Ada?" I asked, twirling the basket of cookies in my hand. Aunt Ada was the kind who always turns up her nose at everything. "Her Janet is coming down with the mumps," mother said. "She didn't know we got out of quarantine yesterday. Aunt Ada can't afford to miss work; she wondered if Janet couldn't come over here." My heart skipped a beat; we had been quarantined in for six whole weeks. Even then all of us had not had the mumps. Mother hadn't had them. Neither had my baby Page 190 brother had them, and neither had I. But it had been two weeks now, and no one had come down; and yesterday mother had washed and aired everything and fumigated; and at five last night the quarantine officer had taken the red flag off our gate and pronounced us free. "Aunt Ada doesn't want to miss the celebration tomorrow," I said. "Janet told me her mother had a beau." Mother looked at me as though I was too old for my years. "I think that's nice," she said. Father's brother had died young; Aunt Ada was still young herself. "Find out, if you can, if there is anything your grandmother wants," Mother called after me as I went out the door. "And don't stop too long at the square. I need you." It is always pleasant to be needed. But this trip to grandmother's was going to be sheer ecstasy. Tomorrow was the twenty-fourth of July; in our small western Mormon settlement it was celebrated with more fervor even than the Fourth of July. Even though our lot. Was rather large, about a third of a long country block, still the fact that we had been shut in for so long made everything look different. It had still been spring when we went in; it was late summer now. The leaves of the tall poplar trees that lined the canal bank in front of our place were heavy and quiet in the hot July sunlight. The sky was the CELEBRATION deep blue of the napkin covering the cookies. Everything was at its peak—the season, the summer, and our lives, too, what with our new freedom, and now the celebration tomorrow. I started toward town. Halfway there was the church square where the celebration was to be held. I would turn there, too, to go to my grandmother's. I passed Theodore's house. It was of brown frame; ours was white frame, with green trim, and taller. Theodore was our cousin; he was Uncle Silas' and Aunt Martha's oldest boy. He was my sister Jinny's and my favorite cousin. Mother and father adored him too. I had an older brother who was working in Yellowstone Park that summer. "But he isn't like Theodore," I said aloud, searching the yard and wide veranda with my eyes.: If I tried I couldn't tell of any special reason we all liked Theodore. He was nice looking, with his thick, smooth, tan-blonde hair. He looked sturdy and dependable; but that was only part of it. He always made an excuse for Jinny and stuck up for her. Jinny had red hair _ and lisped. And while we were quarantined in, when it seemed that almost everyone had forgotten us( even father had been away all that summer shearing sheep), Theodore never did. Several times he had visited us. And though it was always after dark, and though he always stood back from the fence, way over on the ditch bank, still he was there, and 191 even mother's eyes seemed to be brighter for it. I couldn't see Theodore about the place. Anyway, it's tomorrow that counts, I consoled myself. 'Tomorrow, though Theodore had plenty of family of his own, there were eight of them too, we could count on being near him most of the day. Crossing the wide, dusty street, I looked eagerly ahead toward the church square. Even from here among the trees that lined the wide front lawn, I could see the red, white, and blue banners. Clutching the basket, I quickened my steps. The whole churchyard was alive with color and movement. Our tall-spired church of native black stone was set far back in the lot. Directly in front of it a bandstand had been erected. The smell of the new lumber seemed to be almost painfully sweet and sharp. On every side booths were being set up. Men and women were scurrying here and there. Many of the booths were already trimmed, some of them were leafy bowers; all of them were garlanded with the red, white, and blue of our country's colors. My mind rushed ahead to the celebration tomorrow. Over on my right, a merry-go-round (Jinny called it Mary-going-around) was being set up. Some of the ponies had thick white manes and some black and some brown; their eyes glittered and their coats were the colors of the rainbow. Back of the church I knew the foot races would be held. Theodore always took part. But that would not be all. Before dawn there would be the cannon, tomor. 192 row night the fireworks display; -all day long the pop and sputter of firecrackers. Close to me a workman was unloading crates of soda pop. The excitement, the thought of the sweet, colored drink seemed to send a peculiar pain up my right jaw. I pressed my fingers against the spot. The pain reminded me of my errand. I must hurry along. Besides, I would have all day tomorrow. Theodore would be there and this time he would not need to stand off in the darkness. The pain crawled up my jaw again, into my ear. RANDMA'S was a couple of squares down. The tall, narrow house of shellacked logs was set far back on a green, tree-edged lawn. I knocked, and at grandfather's, "Come," I pushed open the door and entered. "Tf it isn't Cathy," my grandfather said, and touched his white moustache in a pleased way. I had not seen my grandparents all summer. I stood there, looking around the big, sunny room, with _ its bright-colored rag carpet, the couch where grandma took her nap; at the large dining-room table and the tall cupboard, with its glass doors, filled with blue and bonewhite dishes and shining glassware. I smiled at my grandfather. He was old, old, but even then he was _ very handsome. He sat there in his armchair by the front windows as straight as a ramrod. His short, white, Vandyke beard, and his piercing blue eyes made him look even RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 more dignified and unbending. My mother said he did not smoke or touch liquor or even use any slang; and he frowned on those who did and never allowed such practices in his presence. I had always been his favorite grandchild. Although I knew it was because I had been a twin and my sister had died, still I liked to think it was my light brown hair and green-brown eyes; and maybe my manner, which I hoped would be pretty and pleasant like my mother's. But I was not special to my grandmother. Grandmother had been __paralyzed several years from a stroke. But even that had not made her dignified nor taken the sparkle from her gray eyes. "Well, child, what are you standing there for?" she asked. "What have you got in that basket?" I swallowed. 'The pain crept up my jaw again. "Mother has been baking all day," I managed, a trifle breathlessly. "She says now we are out of quarantine she can start sending you things again." I lifted the blue napkin, showed the contents. Grandma leaned over and sampled one of the golden cookies. It was my father who was her son; still, did I see tears in the gray eyes? The pain came hard under my jaw. I gasped and clapped my hand on the afflicted place. "What's the matter, Cathy?" my grandfather asked. "Not getting the mumps, I hope?" Catastrophe swept through me. The peculiar feeling in my jaw CELEBRATION when I smelled the fresh lumber, the thought about the sweet soda water. And now! Tears crept into my throat. With an awful effort I pushed them back, tried to appear calm. "Oh, no," I said. "I couldn't get them now. It's past time." I-made myself giggle. "Did you see all the things they're doing in the square?" My grandfather did not answer. He was still staring at me, an odd, though sympathetic look in his blue eyes. The moment I could, I excused myself. '"'Mother has so much to do," I said. "She told me to hurry back." I was outside again, going once more in the direction of the church square. 'There was no longer any doubt in my mind. I was getting the mumps. The sky looked dark now. The leaves on the trees were beginning to flutter. "I hope it blows and blows and knocks the whole town over," I said aloud. The pain did not catch at my jaw again. I had not felt it since I was at grandpa's. I was just beginning to have the mumps. The square, with all its bright colored streamers, the new lumber of the stands, came in sight again. "It isn't right," I cried aloud, "that we should be quarantined in again. It isn't right that we shouldn't be allowed to go to the celebration. It isn't fair that we shouldn't be with Theodore tomorrow." | I did not cut through the square this time. In my present dark mood I could not bear to come close again to the torture and the music of tomorrow's preparations. 193 B* the time I had walked around the square a plan was beginning to take shape in my mind. My father was always telling my older brother and sometimes even Jinny and me, "Determination conquers every obstacle." Sometimes he was joking when he said it, and he nearly always smiled. But always I felt his seriousness. I did not know what tomorrow would bring. I tried to remember the course of the disease with Jinny and the others. Would I be really suffering tomorrow? Would my jaw be swollen up so that I could not eat or speak? I couldn't remember. And, besides, with everyone it was different. With Jinny's red hair and her disposition, everything hit her hardest. It came to me suddenly that if I was determined I could make father's words work for me in even this situation. Tonight at home everyone would be excited. Mother had been working hard, and in a family as big as ours, no one got much special attention. Tomorrow morming my jaw might be swollen a little, it might be really sore. But if I would be determined, I could conquer the obstacle. No one but me need know until the day after the celebration that I was coming down with the mumps! The music and the color of the square were behind me now, as | walked down the long section toward home. How many people would I give the mumps to tomortow? Would any of them be really ill? Did anyone ever die with the mumps? 194 What would grandma think of ine when, day after tomorrow, they learned we were quarantined in again. And more _ especially, grandfather? If he realized I had deliberately kept it from mother he would not love me any more. "But grandpa is old," I told myself. "He doesn't like celebrations anymore. Someone will have to stay with grandma. More than likely he won't even go. "No one will know it but me," I reassured myself. "No one but me.". I had crossed the dusty street. I went across the footbridge. Still | couldn't take my eyes from the clear sparkling water as it flowed merrily along. I couldn't forget Uncle Silas' words when he baptized me, the vows I had made to myself. Never to cheat nor lie nor do wrong. Because from then on I was accountable. "Well, who will hold me accountable?" I asked myself. Suddenly I knew. The Lord would hold me accountable. And I would not be the only one who knew I had done wrong. The Lord somehow had a way of knowing everything. I began to run. I passed Theodore's place, but this time I did not even look in that direction. Coming to our white picket gate, I jerked it open and ran toward the house. OTHER was on the telephone again. I stood there in much the same position as I had before. Only now the cookie basket was empty. And my heart was empty, too. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 "It was your Aunt Ada again," mother said. "Now Davey is getting the...." She broke off and stared at me.: I ran toward her, laid my hot face against her. "Oh, mother," I sobbed, "I'm getting the mumps. I'm getting the mumps, too." I had thought at least that mother would show some disappointment. But, instead, she just smoothed my hair with her hand, and an odd, contented look came into her gray eyes. "That means we can't go to the celebration tomorrow after all," she said. Jinny took that moment to come in through the kitchen. She hadn't heard what had happened. But something had happened to her, too, because her face was almost as red as her hair. "Theodore's mother sent me home," she lisped. "Theodore is coming down with the mumps." My mother lifted her apron as though she were wiping the perspiration from her brow. But somehow I got the notion it was to hide a smile. "Well, that changes things a little," she said, and turned back to the telephone. "O13-J3," she told the operator after she had rung. My heart lifted a little, knowing it was 'Theodore's number. "Martha," my mother was saying, "Jinny just came in and said Theodore is getting the mumps." She went on, "Cathy is getting them, too. I don't care much about going tomorrow, what with Steve away and all. How would you like to send 'Theodore over here and I'll send Jinny over to CELEBRATION you. The smaller youngsters can have their celebration here in the yard." BY the excited sparkle that came from the receiver, I knew mother's suggestion had prevented a major tragedy. And mother had spoken so quickly that even Jinny had had no time to squall. After she hung up, mother stood by the telephone as though she were considering. 'Then she called another number. "Ada," she said this time, "Cathy is coming down with the mumps, too. And Martha's Theodore. If you still want to you can send your two over for the duration. A couple more will just make things interesting." A~ couple more. My mind hummed the words. Three all together. Theodore, of course, the very most important. I stood there, feeling the stars in my eyes and did not even mind 195 when the pain etched itself along my jaw again. The next few hours were busy ones. Uncle Silas phoned. He was sending over some fireworks and soda water. I knew Aunt Ada would send something, too, because, even though she was always sticking up her nose at everything, she was not stingy. And she would want her own children to have a good time. "All of us kids will have a good time," I said aloud. When mother smiled I recalled again my father's words. But now things had changed; they were different. "Determination may conquer every obstacle," I told myself, "but right always triumphs in the end." They were big words and big thoughts for a ten-year-old. But when my father came home I would tell him. He had a right to know. Yellow Violets Ethel Jacobson The southern hill we lately scaled was brown, One blighted chestnut keeping sullen guard As unaccustomed sleet lashed at its crown. An angry gash of ancient lava scarred The hill's gaunt, wide-flayed face. No tuft of weed, No scrap of verdure softened that facade. No bird found shelter. Surely no root, no seed Endured within this winter-riven clod.... This is the hill! This is the very path We traced, before the ice was chipped away And sun pierced stony rifts, and the storm's wrath Subsided to this frivolous springtime play. Now here are yellow violets, thickly spread, _ And a lark's yellow throat loud overhead! MRS. VONDA RICHARDSON Arts and Crafts Appeal to a Young Mother Mrs. Vonda Richardson, Salt Lake City, Excels in Many Hobbies Crocheting, embroidery, shell work, textile painting, ceramics, and landscape painting are among the creative hobbies of Vonda Richardson of Salt Lake City, Utah. Among her choice possessions is the book Week End Painter, by Laurence Burton, a gift from her husband in the early stages of her artistic efforts. Also, Mrs. Richardson has studied many other books on the various arts. She secures additional information from department stores, craft shops, education centers, and from individual instructors. Claiming to have no special "knack" for creative work, Mrs. Richardson says, ""Anyone can do it." Many people who appreciate art and creative handicrafts visit the Richardson home, and Mrs. Richardson finds opportunities for selling as many articles as she can produce. Also, she makes her friends and relatives happy with exquisite gifts. Her five children, ranging in ages from eight months to eleven years, are being reared in a home where art and industry are combined to make life interesting and beautiful. Page 196 \ A Time to Forget CHAPTER 9 Fay Tarlock Synopsis: Serena Abbe, who had lost her fiance in the war, goes to live on a walnut farm which she inherited from her cousin Harriett Lester. There she meets Jeff Landeau, a widower who owns the adjoining acres, and who helps her in running her farm. Luis Trejeda, a Mexican, also assists in the work, and Serena is impressed by his wholesome and buoyant attitude towards life. Serena also makes friends with David, Jeff's son, and, after the first harvest, she feels at home in the San Vicente Valley. Soon after Christmas Serena and Jeff are married, but, upon their return from a honeymoon in Mexico, they find that Delia, who is a - cousin to Jeff's first wife, has persuaded David to live with her instead of going home with Jeff and Serena. However, with much love and tact, Serena is successful in persuading young David to live at home. Serena's friend, Mrs. Hale, * takes her to a party at the home of Constance and Martha Bates, elderly sisters, who were friends of Jeff's first wife. NSTANTLY the heavy door swung open. A thin elderly woman with tight lips and gray hair knotted fiercely on top of her head ushered them in. "She's the housekeeper, been with them forty years," Mrs. Hale whispered. Inside, Serena's soft brown eyes opened wide. From the high, nartow hallway, with steep stairs, she saw two long, high-ceilinged rooms connected by an arch and filled with so much furniture from past centuries it might have been an antique shop. In the front room were the women, seated fanwise. They were, as Jeff said, of mature age. Each face had been cut from its own mold, no city sameness in dress or visage. Here and there were younger matrons, daughters of the weathered ladies. Standing in the archway were the Bates sisters. Nothing Jeff had said prepared Serena for the sisters. 'They were tall and thin and fragile, all in one tone of gray. They wore their thin gray hair twisted high on_ their patrician heads. Under their dark dresses one could almost see the black woolen petticoats that warmed their thin joints. Identical collars of Irish crochet lace outlined their high collars. Each wore a cameo brooch, and each had ruby and emerald rings on her knotted fingers. 'Their voices were thin wisps of sound, wisps that caused them an effort to make. From under the arch they came forward in short, arthritic steps to welcome her. One wears a pince-nez, one has steel-rimmed glasses. Which is which? Serena's thoughts raced desperately. One has a gold band. That's Miss Constance—Mrs. Chadwick. "Sister and I," began Miss Constance, the wearer of the gold band. Her -tired voice wavered, and she looked at Miss Martha. "Sister and I," said Miss Martha, in a firmer wisp, "are happy to welcome you." They extended stiff, cold hands. Picking up her pince-nez, Miss Constance looked long at Serena. Then, turning to the waiting ladies, Page 197 198 said, "Sister and I haven't seen anyone so pretty in years." HE ladies tittered in appreciation, and Serena's face was warm. | "You tell Jeffery for me," Miss Martha patted Serena's firm arm with leaflike lightness, "that he's done well by himself. Now come meet the ladies before Mrs. Hale takes you upstairs to remove your coat.": With precision, they wheeled about, and Serena followed them into the room. Carefully, Serena repeated each name, hoping she could remember them, and feeling so young it was hard not to curtsy. Almost at the end she was introduced to a tall, aging woman with a nervous, dissatisfied face, and smartly dressed in a new spring suit. The name was McKellar, that would be Alice McKellar, of special interest. She put out her hand to the older woman in a quick, warm gesture, but abruptly she stopped. There was no outstretched hand. Mrs. McKellar nodded coldly and turned to the woman on her left. Jeff had said she was erratic. Maybe she meant nothing by her rudeness. Later, if there was a chance Serena would try again—if the chance came easily. She was enchanted with the house. She sat on a cherry rocker that was older than the Revolution, © so Miss Martha said. And the linen cover on the small drop-leaf table near her was woven before the Boston Tea Party. As she chatted with the ladies, feeling very much at home, and ate the luscious cakes, her eyes fell RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 on an ancient etagere filled with porcelain and jade figurines. At odds with the dainty figurines, was a big Bible on the lowest shelf, bound in worn, faded leather. She placed her plate carefully on the table and dropped to her knees, the better to examine the book. "That's really a museum Bible," Miss Constance spoke proudly from across the table. She pushed herself forward on her straight-backed chair. "We don't usually show this Bible," she said severely. "It's much safer under glass." "Today we will show the Bible, Sister," Miss Martha's wisp of a voice was authoritative. Her faded blue eyes, under the steel-rimmed glasses, beamed at Serena. "Sister always claimed the Bible was hers, because she is the oldest, but there's no sense keeping it in a cabinet if someone wants to see it." With shaking hands, she began turning the pages for Serena. "If you will carry it into my rooms in the Horn wing, I will show it to you." With determined and painful steps, she walked through the archway and dining room to her living room, a replica of the larger one. GERENA, treading a careful path through the clutter of furniture, followed her, bearing the Bible. Miss Martha's lips trembled, but she went on talking. "Constance thinks everything should stay in the family, go to our niece, but I don't,' Martha explained. "I think some of the things should be where school children can learn from them." A TIME TO FORGET She pointed to a spinning wheel in a crowded corner, and to a handwoven, blue plaid tablecloth. A crafty look came into her face. Leaning forward she whispered to Serena, "I have it fixed so that the things I want will go to our schools here, and I'm leaving money for the cabinets to hold them." The look vanished; she glanced at Serena as appealingly as a child. "Do you think I'm doing right?" she asked tremulously. "T think it is one of the nicest things you could possibly do," Serena spoke sincerely. Miss Martha closed the Bible and placed it on the table. "Would you like to see some of my pretties?" "I would love to. This is a real treat for me." "Move your chair close to the chest." She pointed to a huge oak chest, dark with age. "I think maybe you would like to see some of the dresses first." Serena pulled her rocker close to the chest. "It's like opening Pandora's box," she said, her eyes bright. "But no evil will come, only the rustle of memories." Miss Martha slowly raised the heavy lid. "You are a poet, aren't you?" Serena asked. "A frustrated poet," Miss Martha sighed. She lifted the muslin covering to show the first dress. "We don't have the entire collection." She held up a full-skirted gown of heavy, blue twilled silk. "When Cousin Will came out to the ranch to live, he was the brother who stayed in Boston, you know, he gave 199 most of the dresses away to a distant cousin. Of course, she had no tight to them, but she has them. What I have dates only from the beginning of the nineteenth century." _ The next dress was a stiff yellow taffeta. "My mother wore it to her first ball, the year before she came out to California to be married." She stroked the silk before she spread it on a tapestry-covered love seat. She held up a dress of golden brown silk. It had a tight bodice and an intricate bustle. She looked at it, then at Serena, with measuring eyes. I think you could wear it," she decided. "You're very slight. When you have an occasion to wear a costume, you may have the loan of it." "I'd never dare," Serena said in tender protest. "It's much too precious." "Not so precious that it can't be worn by the right person." Her tone indicated that some people had not been right for the dress. "Now, you just hold this skirt up to you." She handed the heavy folds of silk to Serena. "You must have the hat with the velvet roses. It goes with the dress. And the fan, you must see my China fan. Grandfather brought it home in a clipper ship. I'll go right down the hallway to my bedroom and get them." Talking excitedly to herself, she left the room by a rear door. Serena held the dress in front of her, looking in a _ mirror above the chest. The golden brown was the color of her eyes. It would be fun to wear the dress. Jeff would have to have a costume, too. 200 Suddenly the door to the dining room, which Serena had not closed tightly, swung open, forced by a draft from the other room. Before she could close it she heard her name spoken. Hesitating, she stood with her hand on the doorknob. RS. McKellar had just come into the dining room from the kitchen with another woman. "I don't 'care what anyone thinks," Serena heard her say in a high, agitated voice, "I'm not going to stay in this house with that woman. Mrs. Jeff Landeau," she accented each syllable with malice. "She has no right to that name." "T don't know where you get your information, Alice," a mild, elderly voice answered, "but according to mine she has every right— and you'd better keep your voice down or everyone in the living room will hear you." "I didn't go to the wedding," Mrs. McKellar's voice rose higher, "and I wouldn't be here today if I'd known she was coming." "T don't see how you could help knowing," the gentle voice persisted. "We all knew she was coming. We asked her to come. Harriet belonged, and Beth Landeau's mother was one of the first presidents." "That's just it!" Mrs. McKellar's voice rose to a shriek. Abruptly the happy hum of conversation in the front room stopped. "Elizabeth Henley was one of the founders when I was only a child. What right, I'd like to know, has this fortune hunter to worm her way into this group? She got Jeff Landeau and the Henley money. That ought to satisfy her." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 Serena's face was whiter than the muslin coverlet behind her. With trembling fingers, she put the yellow gown over the back of the love seat. Her mind was a whirlwind of confusion. Should she close the door before Miss Martha came back, to save that fragile lady from the ugly scene? Or should she confront the angry Mrs. McKellar. What would Jeff think? Would he feel she had been clumsy? It might be wiser to gently close the door and pretend she knew nothing. Would that be cowardice? She had a right to confront the woman. A voice from the living room delayed her. "I think it is time these newcomers were put in their place," the voice said. "I agree with Alice. She got Jeff Landeau, but we don't have to accept her." The quiet room crackled with antagonism. Interest in the scene lessened Serena's anger. If only she could throw the door wide open to see their faces. "THE deep-toned woman laughed, not without sarcasm. "I've often wished that this subject would come right out in the open," she chuckled, enjoying herself. "When I''d been living here five years, and that was more than twenty years ago, one of you women here—and don't give yourself away by blushing—you were only a girl then and you're much nicer now, gave some kind of a party, and I was one of the few women not invited. The reason was that I didn't belong to the old families." She laughed her throaty laugh again. "I felt a little " (Continued on page 206) | Joday Loretta P. Epperson Today, I will be happy! Today I will love much and hate no one. I will be kind and courteous to all with whom I come in contact, and will try to see their point of view. I will love and respect people for their fineness of character, be they rich or poor, humble or mighty. I will be charitable toward the mistakes and shortcomings of others, and appreciate their efforts toward betterment. Today, I will exercise to keep my body: beautiful and attractive. I will speak low, with sweet tones and a well-modulated voice. I will spend a few minutes reading something to improve my mind and give me a bigger and better outlook on life. Today I will think of my loved ones away, perhaps also of dear ones departed. I will remember the choice moments of the past and look forward to a bright and glorious future. I will try to make my home comfortable to all. Who enter the circle of my family life. Today I will sing a song of praise to my Creator, to him who gave me life, this life I love so well, perhaps a song in which the world may feel my handclasp. And in the late evening, may I recline, knowing that this day I have done the best I could. Today, I will be happy!; 'Health to the (Bones hd Maryann M. Ukropina I often think of Bill Larsen. A hundred other people often think of Bill Larsen, and a hundred more will think of him and remember. They will remember as I do, and for a minute they will smile and light up inside. When Bill was born someone must have said, "Here's one for laughs. Here's one for that gloomy afternoon, and for that old man around the comer, and for a little boy in overalls." In school he was the clown of auditorium assembly fame who brought down the house and was remembered longer than all the others. With twinkling eyes and a mouth ever ready to smile, he had a greeting for everyone he met. How many times I have met someone on the street and only nodded or said "Hello"? How many times after passing him I've thought, why didn't I take an extra minute to ask him about the family or friends? Why didn't I call him by his first name and add a cheery, ""How have you been?" How many times I've had regrets. Bill Larsen would have no regrets. He used those extra minutes in happiness that I spend regretting. I have seen old men beam and seem to walk a little straighter after Bill had stopped them for a minute, and it was not unusual to see ten or more little boys clamoring to sit beside him at the baseball games. Have you ever looked back, say to your high school days, to recall the people you remember? Among those that stand out, is there one long, sad face? Don't you recall some boy who could make you laugh, some friendly girl who spoke your name. We can't all be Bill Larsens; but there are a lot of them in this world, and I'm going to work a little harder on the things I remember him for, because as the Proverb says, "Pleasant words are as honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones" (Proverbs 16:24). Page 201 On rains Matia McClelland Burk 'WO things happened the other day that set me thinking about something that was a vivid part of my life for many years—the oldfashioned train. Out walking in the morning, I saw two boys watching, with intense interest, by the railroad tracks while the old black engine switched from one track to the other. Not until the train puffed away did the boys get on their bicycles and pedal down the street. That same evening I read a newspaper editorial regretting the passing of the small railroad. In this editorial it was stated that soon a man would have to take his children on a crack transcontinental line for them to have any experience with a train at all. How different were the days of my childhood! My mother had come to Tombstone from Houston as a bride, and had had to ride the last seven bumpy, lurching miles from Fairbanks in one of the old Modoc stages, but at last the railtoad was built between Fairbanks and Tombstone, shortly before I, her third child, was four years old. All my childhood was colored with reflected adventure and imagination that this strange and interesting machine brought to me. Several engines pulled the train at different times, and we knew the number of every one of them, and could identify most of them by the sound of their whistles. My favorite of them all was old "Number Four." Long after I was grown, I Page 202 First, as I was¢ chanced to see this same engine pulling ore cars at a mine. [I shall never forget how I felt. It seemed impossible that this small, dingy museum piece could be the' magnificent black giant of my childhood! Trains were associated with much of my life and many vital incidents have been connected with trains or railroads. The tracks cut through the corner of our ranch, and, more than once, we lost cattle through their stupidity in getting on the tracks at the wrong time. Probably the loss of the cattle was a great annoyance to our parents, as well as a considerable financial loss, because in that section of the country no one ever thought of suing the railroad for the loss of a cow. I didn't know it could be done until I was grown. But the very nearness of the tracks gave to us children a sense of possession which we loved. Although the railroad was only seven miles long, it was put through rough and rocky country. There were deep cuts in the hillsides, alternating with high bridges over gulches, which, though ordinarily filled with dry sand, became muddy torrents after the summer rains. For years the engineer, a friend of my father, threw off the daily paper between two cuts about half a mile from the ranch house. My older sister and I waited for the four-forty train so that we could get that paper. The engineer always blew the whistle and waved at us, while ON TRAINS we stood at a safe distance and felt the ground vibrate under us, and sensed the power and magnificence of that moving train. E watched to see who the people were on the train, for though we rarely knew them, it was a fascinating pastime to speculate about them. In fact, the train was a pretty good thermometer of the fortunes of the old mining camp. When Tombstone was booming, the one passenger coach would be filled with people. At the windows we could see the heads of many Mexicans going to work in the mines. 'There were also welldressed men, wearing big western hats, or derby hats, and in the summer a few flat-crowned straws. There were Mexican women in their mantillas, quietly dressed Jadies, and some very fine ladies, indeed, if we could judge by our glimpses of their bright satin shirtwaists, flashing breastpins, and big hats smothered under ostrich plumes. But when the camp was deserted and the mines closed, few people traveled in the passenger coach. There would be only occasional freight cars, and fewer trains each day. When the nine o'clock train went by, we lay in bed and listened for its whistle as it rounded the curve a mile away. For years I could recapture that strange thrill of those nights by hearing a distant train whistling at night. Once a year the circus came to town. It had its own engine, and there were many cars, and, as the long train moved slowly up the grade, we were in an ecstasy of an- 203 ticipation. I remember getting ready for the circus, dressing in our starched white lawns and our high shoes—shined by wetting the dauber in water and rubbing it on the under side of a stove lid to blacken our shoes, and then rubbing them to a high polish with an old wool rag. We went very early to town so as not to miss the parade, and, as we sat in the wagon, with my father driving old Nellie, we children were always very much afraid that we would get there too late to see everything. Finally, when I was fourteen, I got to ride on the train. I was a little disappointed in the wicker seats and the dim kerosene lights of the train to Fairbanks, because it did not look quite so wonderful from the inside as it had looked from the outside, but my dreams were more than gratified when we got on the big Texas-bound train. The seats were upholstered with red plush, and although I contracted a severe case of impetigo from the unprotected plush in that presanitary era, I lost no enthusiasm for railroad travel. In succeeding years I traveled back to Arizona, made several trips to California, and took shorter journeys. Always there was that sense of adventure when I started out on a train trip. There is something fascinating about a train; the miles of country you pass in the daytime, the trains that roar past in the night, the dimmed lights of the towns you pass through, that feeling that out there somewhere strange things are happening. And yet there is also a feeling of detachment, a feeling (Continued on page 208) Sricks Lith Bed Linen Leona Bammes Gardner A perennial problem with the housewife is how to make the bed linen wear a little longer. I find it economical to make pillowcases out of the worn sheets and buy new "hens with the money I would save on the purchase of new pillow cases. Here is how it is done. I always buy sheets of good quality muslin, size 81x108 inches. When the first split occurs, which is generally right down the middle of the sheet, I make no attempt to patch or sew it up, but tum the good parts into attractive pillow cases. Measure the top hem and divide it in half. Tear down the middle for thirty inches, and then tear off. Sew up the sides and across the bottom, leaving the top hem as the hem of the pillow case. Divide the bottom thirty inches of the sheet in the same way. Then there will be two strips down each side of the sheet that will be fairly good. Measure a piece from each strip 19x33 inches. Sew the two strips together on three sides and hem the end. If there are any very worn spots. A bit of iron-on patching material or a small patch of sheeting will take care of them. This will make five good pillow cases. I like to use one of the attractive iron-on designs that resemble fabric paints to give the pillow cases a bit of decoration. These designs can be purchased for ten cents, and they add a great deal to the attractiveness of the cases. This method always gives me a good supply of pillow cases, and it has been my experience that these cases wear extremely well. In fact, almost as well as new pillow cases. 402" 402" ee oe. Lewy 2,: z NY7] fe) Cem " Od a ee a al =: 19" | 19 Is: i Cal. Oe) o Material ready to make i pillowslip, showing design j stamped on the front of H the case, before side and c PSS SSSC Coe oC end seams are made. ° om | ee n°) Page 204 Supplication to Spring Ing Smith Beginning things beguile me! First flower and first leaf, Unfolding, reconcile me To Time, swift-running river, To Time, swift-running giver, Where no man may step twice— New buds, new life, wake! Quiver! Break through recurring ice! Roma ce Pansye H. Powell Sweet are the songs of the nightingale That the lover has never heard; Lovely are far-off continents; Enchanting, the stranger's word. Roaming the world in a weary search For the land where dreams belong, You may find your wish before your door In the lilt of a dancing song! Personnel for Sprin g Maryhale Woolsey Spring is March—a tomboy tot, Racing through her days Recklessly, and loud and wild In a thousand ways. Spring is April, venturing Shyly up a hill— Veiled with rain, and carrying Violets to spill. Spring is May—a dancing-girl Of bright and: nimble grace; Where her rhythmic slippers touch, Blossoms rise in place. Spring is eager, gay, and young— A woman-child who grows Through storms and sun to learn the charm Which lovely summer knows. BOOKS for the L. D. S. Ward ORGANIST 2 aw At the Console _..............0..20------------ $1.50 A Chancel Echoes -.............-........----------- 1.50 A Chapel Organist............--..-.-.---...---.-- 1.50 ee Devotional Organ Album—Asper...... 2.50 =e Music for the Consonata Organ— Na ea acme ececenonenne 1.50 _— Music for the Consonata Organ— Viole?) eens 1.50 = Organ Melodies—Landon.................. 1.50 ~_ Organ Musings.............----.-./.-.---------- 1.50 _— Organ Voluntaries—Vol. 1— Schreiner..............------.------eeeeeeeeeeeeeee 3.50 —_ Organ Voluntaries—Vo!. 2— Schreiner _.................-..-----00-eesseeeeeeceeee 3.50 WE PAY POSTAGE Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement on your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah!!! | Please send postpaid the music indicated | above. I C On Approval (1 Charge DD Money Enclosed \ | i \ | \ \ | 2 = < geo an - a J ® 206 SS rae Visit us while you are in Salt Lake City to attend April Conference. We have a large selection of markers and monuments. SALT LAKE MONUMENT COMPANY RONIE JOHNSON, Owner 186 "N" Street Salt Lake City, Utah a aah AR SR AIRENERERENENEA Join the Sociable Group Leaving For a Spring Tour to — HAWATI (Personally Conducted) Sail from Los Angeles on the LOVELY LURLINE May 4, 1953 Early Reservations Advisable For detailed information write or telePhone... VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone 4-2017 or 9-5388 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH. 1953 A Time to Forget (Continued from page 200) hurt, my family was as old as anyone's. But that girl grew up, and I thought the rest of us had, too." Taking advantage of the silent audience, the woman went on. "I've been here nearly thirty years, and even though my husband had to earn his money to buy his land instead of inheriting it, I feel as much a part of Meadtown as any of you. | And what's more," she said to the women who still sat in shocked silence, "unless we change, unless we keep up with what's happening to us here, we'll soon be nothing more than a set of odd characters. People will. Drive their friends past our places to point us out. And I can't say," she added with impish humor, "that I'll feel sorry for any of us." Serena's hand dropped from the door. To go out now would be an anticlimax. Miss Martha, thank goodness, was having a time to find the velvet roses and the China fan. Poor Miss Constance was in the thick of it, but perhaps she couldn't hear it all. "You can do what you want, Lucy Carson." Mrs. McKellar's voice was the first one to speak after this honest exposure. "I'll do. The same." Nothing could mollify Mrs. McKellar. "I'll repeat what I said," she flung at them. "This is the last time you'll ever see my face in this group if you take in Serena Landeau." Not knowing what she was going to do or say, Serena threw back the door and stepped into the dining room. A TIME TO FORGET The golden April sunlight fell upon her fair brown hair, turning it into a deep gold. In the center of the room she stopped, young, angry, frightened, with her head high and facing a mass of open-mouthed faces, spread before her like a grotesque fan. Not a sound came from the women. Even Myra Hale, who was rising in angry protest, was not able to speak. Alice McKellar's face dropped, fell apart. She was standing in the archway a few feet from Serena. Slowly the color drained from her fretful face. Something akin to shame was in her dark eyes. Miss Constance, who was far back in the circle, moved her chair stiffly forward. Her nostrils quivered and her thin, faded lips moved, unable to make a sound. To prolong the scene would be an awful thing for Miss Constance. It might even kill her. In quick contrition, Serena moved toward the old lady. "I'm so sorry, Mrs. Chadwick," she said, bending and taking the cold hands into her two hot ones. "IT wouldn't bring any unpleasantness into your home for anything in the world." She put Miss Constance's hands back into her lap. "If you'll excuse me, I'll go." (To be continued) -—_- Ki antasy Vesta N. Lukei Toeprints Of sandpipers Hemstitch the restless waves, Like lacy trimming, to the shore's Bright edge. 207 j SPECIAL ROSE OFFER No. 1 quality everblooming Reg. $1.25 ea. Roses in a brilliant array of ALL 10 FOR colors. One each — crimson, 8.9 0 scarlet, gold, cream, yellow, pink, rose, coral, copper —— orange... To brighten and perfume your garden. Fi ee nBiacs and packing. PORTER-WALTON CO. P. O. Box 1619 - = = Salt Lake City, Utah ee eee ee eee eee eee ee ee ee ee ee PORTER-WALTON CO. | P. O. Box 1619, Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me: [] Special Rose Offer for which I enclose [_] check or [_] money order for $8.90 — plus 60¢ postage and | [ | | Please send me [] Free P-W Spring Catalog 1953. 3 ancoossoage sondsO" pod ed ascoDSSOsOnoSRSoSHOcKeRGCOsKTs me eee ee ee Reliet Society Magazines For Reference Have your Relief Society Magazines bound into permanent yearly volumes. They are excellent for reference. Cost is small. Write or phone today for information. Deseret News Press 31 RICHARDS STREET 4-2581 Salt Lake City, Utah packing. | 208 an ELECTRIC HOME FREEZER Buy Frem Your Deoler Be Thrifty - Use Electricity UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY 4 ANS REGISTER NOW! Many business opportunities are now open with attractive salaries—if you are qualified. New classes in... @ Hy-Speed Longhand e@ Gregg Shorthand @ Simplified Accounting @ Typing @ Office Machines and many other interesting classes in day or evening school. For further information, call or write... Branch of Brigham Young University L, I). BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1953 On Trains (Continued from page 203) that once started on your journey, you go on without volition until your destination is reached. If we have money, and travel today, we may go on a sleek, streamlined train, modern, air-conditioned, and comfortable, or drive our own cars, or travel in buses. As for me, I prefer the old-time train, cinders, dust, and all. Yes, I'll admit I'm putting myself in the class of anachronisms. I smile at the lover of covered wagons, but maybe I am hunting the same thing he is—the romantic land that no longer exists, that perhaps never did exist at all, except in half-forgotten dreams, and longings of the human heart that can never be satisfied. Resonance Eva Willes Wangsgaard When this small organ known as I With music no more swells, I wish its melodies could ring On shining golden bells Wherever their small notes are caught Within a human heart, As this forsythia sends out Another living start To root in loam, wherever earth Has met a slender stem, And grows new chimes for distant springs My love could sing through them. ~S OO ™™! S STRENGTHEN YOUR TESTIMONY WITH PROFITABLE READING 1. THE FALLING AWAY By B. H. Roberts Subtitled ''The World's Loss of the Christian Religion and Church,'' this book traces the development of doctrines in the early Christian Church, the apostasy, the pagan influence on the church, the "'Reformation'' and the Restoration of the Gospel. Arranged for ease in preparing lessons. $2.50 2. STORY AND PHILOSOPHY OF MORMONISM By James E. Talmage An explanation of ''Mormonism" intended primarily for non-members, presenting in a highly understandable and interesting manner the 3. JOSEPH SMITH AS A TRANSLATOR By R. C. Webb A candid examination of Joseph Smith's claims to have translated ancient 4. READINGS IN L. D. S. CHURCH HISTORY—Vol. I By William E. Berrett and Alma P. Burton The first of a series of readings from the best authenticated sources of Church history. The best material from original diaries, documents and 5. VOICE OF ISRAEL'S PROPHETS By Dr. Sidney B. Sperry Dr. Sperry published his book, Twelve Minor Prophets, in 1939. Here he extends his studies to the major prophets of the Old Testament. Told here are the interesting and enlightening words and work of these 6. GREATER DIVIDENDS FROM RELIGION By Gerrit deJong _ Religion, sincerely believed and consistently lived, ''pays off'' in dividends of zest for living, motivation for accomplishment, and personal; 44 Fast Sourh "Temple § Salt Lake City. Utah ed ep) Ne) Oder RSS cern seeeerne: prtrett DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 E. South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Please send the following circled books: 1 2 3 4 5 6 for which I enclose check [] or money order [] for -Convenionlly. A Name ty Matl Address. FR oe_3 " City State Books Postpaid. Ee Residents of Utah add 2% sales tax. Sss ': «5 fl ann ne ER EN A ee ER te Ce ey a —sSs eS ee ee fundamental beliefs of our Church. Durable, plastic cover. Egyptian writings... Made in the light of today's knowledge. Durable, plastic cover. Journals. A valuable addition to every L. D. S. Library. Great prophets. Development, as detailed in this inspiring book. $.60 = $.75 $4.00 $3.50 $1.75 U. S. POSTAGE | 2¢ Paid | SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH | PERMIT No. 690 ee v: © MP ANY \ auarie BiUON Salt Lake City, Utah~ "DADDY SAYS, 'GREAT MEN AND | WISE PEOPLE LOOK AHEAD. ONE | SURE WAY TO LOOK AHEAD IS TO PUT SOME OF OUR PENNIES AND QUARTERS INTO LIFE INSURANCE.' | DADDY BOUGHT MY POLICY WHEN | WAS JUST A BABY!" Ov OF LIFE INSURANCE IN FORCE UoeF DO) MAGAZINE VOL 40 NO 4 Special Short Story Issue APRIL 1953 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - _ Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Lillie C. Adams Christine H. Robinson Mary G. Judd B'anche B. Stoddard Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Nellie W. Neal Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Josie B. Bay Mildred B. Eyring Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Alta J. Vance Helen W. Anderson RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - ~ - - < = - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - ~ - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 40 APRIL 1953 No. 4 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Christ's Visit to the Western Hemisphere Following His Resurrection.............. Delbert L. Stapley 211 The National Council of Women.......... Belle S. Spatford 216 Springville—Utah's Art City -22...20.0..2cceeeeeeceeeee a we Willard Luce 227 Delay Is Dangerous (Cancer Symptoms Require Immediate Attention)....... 235 Our April Short Story Writers 2.2.2... Cc cecccececeeceeceecneneecnenenesoeeeseeeseeseneeeseeeeees 278 FICTION — SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORIES The Bitter Cup 20... Eee ccceeet eee ececceececteceeceeeecneeeneeee i Angelyn W. Wadley 221... Ruth Moody Ostegar 230 Velma D. Cloward 241 Sylvia Probst Young 249 "Our Own"..... Pot-Head Kettle - The Lasting Joys... SERIAL A Time to Forget — Chapter 10 00000200... Ee ine Fay Tarlock 260 GENERAL FEATURE Sixty Years Ago o........ Cccccecececeeeeeeeceeeeees 236 Woman's Sphere. Ee. Daas seRamona W. Cannon 237 Editorial: Spiritualizing Our Homes. Velma N. Simonsen 238 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Act Margaret C. Pickering 269 From Near and Far............. 280 s FEATURES FOR THE HOME Martha Ann Walker Has Made Six Hundred Quilts —..000000.... 240 Easter Bunny Review 246 Gardening at Seven Thousand Feet <2... Eee cece ee teen eececennneeneneneeneneeeeeeC. W. McCullough 254 _ Bonnie A. Kesler 257 aEva Willes Wangs geen 264 Recipe for Chocolate Fudge...........:; Eva Carter 274 Those Yesterdays nell, Grace M. Candland 276 Bathroom Tricks (Matching Washcloths).2222222..2.-.2c2cecccescseseecoceeeeesseeeseveseseneeee-esElizabeth Williamson 277 POETRY "Blind Woman,'' by Gene Romolo, 215; "If You Would Remember,'' by Alberta H. Christensen, 220; ''April Aspens,"' by Lizabeth Wall, 226; 'Small Girl With a Flower,'' by Genevieve Groen, 229; ''Frock of April,'' by Ora Lee Parthesius, 229; ''Awakening,'' by Alice Whitson Norton, 229; "Wings of Time,' by Marian Schroder Crothers, 239; "April Returns,'' by Mabel Law Atkinson, 245: ''Message,'' by Zera Wilde Earl, 253; ''Our Thanks,'' by Isadora Price, 256; 'For David at Easter,' by Ouida Johns Pedersen, 268; ''Through a Window,'' by Evelyn Fijeldsted, 268; "Spring Riddle,'' by Lydia Bennett Egbert, 275; ''Green Interim,'' by Lael. Hill, 275; "Communique," by Iris W. Schow, 275; 'Night Fashions,'' by Grace Barker Wilson, 277; ''Plea,"' by Catherine E. Berry, 277; ''Day Fades," by Olive McHugh, b79. THE COVER: Tulips, Photograph by Ward Linton. FRONTISPIECE: 'Christ and the Samaritan Woman,"' Photograph from a Painting by Carl Bloch, Camera Clix, New York. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 38, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. By Early Candlelight — Ill. A Pioneer Kitch Your Outdoor Living Room... - DOWNSTAIRS FINEST NYLON TRICOT Pe LADY GAY lingerie SLIP 4.98 PETTICOAT SB OB Beautiful white lingerie of 40 denier nylon tricot that washes so easily, needs no ironing. Lace trimmed ruffles are long-wearing nylon, too. Slip has gathered bodice, V-shaped yoke in back for perfect fit. Sizes 32-42 in medium and tall lengths.. Petticoat comes in S-M-L sizes. Exclusive at ZCMI! ZCMI LINGERIE—Downstairs Store ORDER BY MAIL Z. C. M. I. Salt Lake City, Utah Send 15¢ postage for first item ordered; 5¢ for each additional item. Utah residents add 2% sales tax. * |. But the water that I shall give bim shall bein bim a well of water springing up into everlasting life" (Jobn 414). Christ's Visit to the Western Hemisphere Following His Resurrection Elder Delbert L. Stapley Of the Council of the Twelve And when they had all gone forth and had witnessed for themselves, they did cry out with one accord, saying: Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God! And they did fall down at the feet of Jesus and did worship him (3 Nephi 11:16-17). HE Easter season causes us to meditate the great sacrifice of the Son of God, his resurrection to glory, which accomplishes the resurrection of all mankind. The appearance of the resurrected Savior to the Nephites on this continent, following his ascension into heaven with his body of flesh and bone, brought great joy and happiness to the Nephites, also hope and assurance of eternal life. His glorious manifestation, his divine teachings,. The great miracles performed, and the visitation of heavenly hosts led to the conversion and complete faithfulness of both Nephites and Lamanites. The God of heaven provided evidences of the Savior's crucifixion and death with signs, accompanied by powerful destructive forces of nature, in order that his covenant people would know,. Understand, and never forget the time or events of his infinite sacrifice and atonement. The Lamanite prophet, Samuel, had earlier announced from the walls of Zarahemla the signs which would occur on this the American continent at Christ's death, for which prophecy the wicked sought his life. The great happenings prophesied of, took place during the three hours the Savior was on the cross— the unforgettable scenes of destruction and sorrow, with darkness continuing for the space of three days. When this period of terror and destruction had ended, all the inhabitants of the land heard the voice of God speaking from the heavens, explaining the reason for the destruction of cities and multitudes of people. Later, the Book of Mormon account records 2500 people were gathered together about the temple in the land of Bountiful discussing the phenomenal changes and signs that had taken place among them, when they again heard a voice from heaven. The voice spoke three times before they determined its source. 'Then they heard these words, "Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name— hear ye him" (3 Nephi 11:7). Looking toward the heavens, they beheld a man descending earthward Page 21] 212 clothed in a white robe, who presently stood in their midst. 'The people were amazed and frightened, supposing the heavenly Being to be an angel of God. We can imagine their astonishment and joy when he stretched forth his hand and announced to them this startling information: Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall come into the world. And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning (3 Nephi 11:10-11). What a glorious pronouncement! Here, standing before them in the flesh, was the crucified, resurrected. Lord, of whom their. Prophets had spoken. What a marvelous privilege and blessing for them! 'They had been promised this visit, for they were part of the other sheep, referred to by the Savior while ministering in Jerusalem, whom he must visit, and who were to hear his voice, that there might be one fold and one shepherd. 'THIS glorious appearance of the Savior supports scriptures that God is no respecter of persons, but in every nation whosoever serves him in righteousness is accepted of him. This assembled group were faithful people of the Lord, called together by their leader Nephi in anticipation of this honored visit by the Son of God. They were actual individual witnesses of the Lord in his resurrected, glorified state, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 thus qualified to bear witness not only among the Nephite and Lamanite people, but also to all people of the world to whom The Book of Mormon testifies. He had such great love for them that he gave them a testimony of himself in such an impressive manner that they would always remember his marvelous appearance with great joy and faith, and be convinced that he was the resurrected Christ, their Redeemer and God. To leave no doubt in their minds he invited them thus: Arise and come forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints of the nails in my hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the God of Israel, and the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for the sins of the world (3 Nephi 11:14). Mormon considered this majestic visit of the Savior important to the sacred record he was abridging to speak from the dust to the Jews and Gentiles of the latter days. The story is beautifully written and given great emphasis. After the Savior's invitation for the people to know for themselves, Mormon records: And it came to pass that the multitude went forth, and thrust their hands into his side, and did feel the prints of the nails in his hands and in his feet; and this they did do, going forth one by one until they had all gone forth, and did see with their eyes and did feel with their hands, and did know of a surety and did bear record, that it was he, of whom it was written by the prophets, that should come (3 Nephi 11:15). The testimony of these New World witnesses supports and confirms the New Testament account of the Savior's crucifixion and resurrection. The privilege of these 2500 people's individual experience of thrusting their hands into his side and feeling the print of the nails in his hands and feet, was added, convincing proof that the holy personage before them was their risen Lord. This same privilege the Lord had previously granted to Thomas, one of his chosen apostles in Jerusalem. 'Thomas doubted that the risen Lord had visited the Twelve while he was absent from them. Christ gave him convincing proof of his actual resurrection, and then Thomas became a living witness to the world of this great event. Mormon expresses the exquisite joy of the people who beheld the glorious personage of the Savior by saying: And when they had all gone forth and had witnessed for themselves, they did cry out with one accord, saying: Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God! And they did fall down at the feet of Jesus, and did worship him (3 Nephi 11:16-17). HE effects of this and subsequent visits of the risen Lord resulted in the entire Nephite and Lamanite nation accepting the gospel and being baptized into the Church, and afterwards living together in peace and happiness for many generations. It would seem impossible for any group of people, or nation, to deny the testimony. Of 2500 individual faithful and devoted witnesses to the appearance of such a glorious and hallowed resurrected personage as the Son of God. In all sacred history no other group has been so favored. In Jerusalem, Christ, following his resurrection and before his final ascension into heaven, appeared to about 500 brethren at once. However, in this the promised land of America, Christ not only appeared this one time but many times, and to multitudes of men, women, and children. His second appearance was to a much larger group than on the occasion of his first visit, for the first group had spread the word generally among the people of Christ's promised visit to them the following day. After teaching them many things and commissioning Twelve Apostles, he said to the multitude: Blessed are ye if ye shall give heed unto the words of these twelve whom I have chosen from among you to minister unto you, and to be your servants; and unto them I have given power that they may baptize you with water; and after that ye are baptized with water, behold, I will baptize you with fire and with the Holy Ghost; therefore blessed are ye if ye' shall believe in me and be baptized, after that ye have seen me and know that I am. And again, more blessed are they who shall believe in your words because that ye shall testify that ye have seen me, and that ye know that I am. Yea, blessed are they who shall believe in your words, and come down into the depths of humility and be baptized, for they shall be visited with fire and with the Holy Ghost, and shall receive a remission of their sins (3 Nephi 12:1, 2). He perceived their desire for him to heal their sick, even as he had done for the people of Jerusalem. At his request people brought forth their sick, blind, deaf, lepers, or those with withered limbs and, because of their great faith and his compassion for them, he healed all brought to him. He then comCHRIST'S VISIT TO THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE 213 214 manded that their little children should be brought unto him and required the multitude to kneel. He also knelt upon the earth with them and prayed so great and marvelous things to the Father that the tongue of man could not speak his words nor could men write them, nor had man heard before so great and marvelous things as the Savior spoke to the Father. THe people were overcome with joy and happiness. HE Savior then took the children one by one and blessed them and prayed unto the Father for them. Then he said to the multitude, "Behold your little ones." And as they looked to behold they cast their eyes towards heaven, and they saw the heavens open, and they saw angels descending out of heaven as it were in the midst of fire; and they came down and encircled those little ones about, and they were encircled about with fire; and the angels did minister unto them. And the multitude did see and hear and bear record; and they know that their record is true for they all of them did see and hear, every man for himself; and they were in number about two thousand and five hundred souls; and they did consist of men, women, and children (3 Nephi 17:24, ge The Savior was touched by the great faith of the people, for Mormon observes: And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end of praying he came again to the disciples, and said unto them: So great faith have I never seen among all the Jews wherefore I could not show unto them so great miracles, because of their unbelief (3 Nephi 19:35). Mormon also records the following interesting information of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 Lord's teachings and among the Nephites: activities Therefore, I would that ye should behold that the Lord truly did teach the people, for the space of three days; and after that he did show himself unto them oft, and did break bread oft, and bless it, and give it unto them (3 Nephi 26:13). And he did expound all things, even from the beginning until the time that he should come in his glory—yea, even all things which should come upon the face of the earth, even until the elements should melt with fervent heat, and the earth should be wrapt together as a scroll, and the heavens and the earth should pass away (3 Nephi 26:3). When Samuel, the Lamanite prophet, prophesied of the risen Lord's visit to the people of the Western Hemisphere, he announced this glorious event would also take place: And many graves shall be opened, and shall yield up many of their dead; and many saints shall appear unto many (Helaman 14:25). With all these great and marvelous things accomplished by the risen, resurrected Lord among the Nephite people, it is no wonder that the fourth book of Nephi records: And it came to pass that the thirty and fourth year passed away, and also the thirty and fifth, and behold the disciples of Jesus had formed a church of Christ in all the lands round about. And as many as did come unto them, and did truly repent of their sins, were baptized in the name of Jesus; and they did also receive the Holy Ghost. And it came to pass in the thirty and sixth year, the people were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the face of the land, both Nephites and Lamanites, and there were no contentions and disputa- tions among them, and every man did deal justly one with another. And they had all things common among them; therefore there were not rich and poor, bond and free, but they were all made free, and partakers of the heavenly gift. And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of lasciviousness; and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God (4 Nephi 1:1-3, 16). EPHI'S powerful and convincing teachings before the fulfillment of the prophecies of Christ's death converted and brought many people into the Church, and prepared them against the destructive elements and convulsive forces of nature, and also prepared them to receive and accept the Savior when he did appear. Because of their faith he performed mighty miracles among them. His kingdom was wholeheartedly received and honored. It was not so in Jerusalem. He was not accepted there as the Son of God, the Savior of the world, nor did his many appearances among the Jews as the risen, resurrected Lord, produce such a glorious state of faithfulness and devotion as obtained among the Ne phites and the Lamanites on this continent. For the multitude of the Nephite people to see the risen Lord often, to hear him speak and pray—such great and marvelous things never before heard by man, and to have the heavens opened to them—must have been impressive and of tremendous moral and spiritual uplift to the people. Of all that was written concerning his visit, Mormon has only given us a small abridgment or account, but how glorious and inspirational it is! This Easter time the world, if willing to heed the counsel of God through his servants, can find hope, comfort, and faith in the atonement of Christ and also in the actuality of his resurrection, the reuniting of body and spirit. Christ is the first fruits of the resurrection and establishes the pattern for all mankind. One reading Mormon's account of the risen Lord's visit to the Western Hemisphere cannot help but be impressed not only with the beauty of the story, but also with the profound truthfulness of it. Blind Woman Gene Romolo She cannot see the stars... Her eyes are blind; The lilting voice of birds, she does not hear. She cannot sing because her lips are mute, But from the treasure hidden in her mind Is penned rare wisdom to diminish fear. Beyond her curtained eyes her soul must see The qualities of courage, faith, and cheer, And loveliness of life's immensity. CHRIST'S VISIT TO THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE 215 The National Council of Women President Belle S. Spafford review of the history of Relief Society leaves one deeply impressed with the foresight, the courage, the judgment, and the progressive action of our early-day leaders. Imbued with the spirit of the gospel, eager to bring about righteousness and the well-being of their fellows, counseled and directed in their activities by the Priesthood, they not only advanced the cause of Relief Society, but they stepped to the fore in such fields as nursing, medicine, industry, and the arts, winning for themselves a_ place among the noteworthy. They early identified themselves with national movements among women of the United States, foremost of which was the suffrage movement. The women of Utah, having been granted the right to vote in 1870, and having enjoyed the religious vote from the founding of the Church, had deep-seated feelings with regard to national suffrage. As early as 1879 they sent delegates East to attend a women's convention. From that time Latter-day Saint women regularly attended the national suffrage conventions. In 1888 a council was called at Washington, D. C. By the National Woman's Suffrage Association to represent all nationally organized work by women in this and other lands. Relief Society was represented. This meeting adopted the plan of forming a permanent International Council of Women and a permanent National Council of Women. Three years later, in 1891, at the first triennial meeting of the Page 216 National Council of Women of the United States, with the advice of ~ President Wilford Woodruff, Relief Society became a charter member of the National Council of Women. This affiliation, entered into by our early-day leaders, has continued through the years, and the society is active today in the affairs of the Council. While national suffrage has long since: been won, other worthy causes have held the interest and enlisted the support of the Council, perpetuating it for more than sixty years. Since its inception, the Council has conducted biennial meetings (except during the war years), to which member organizations have sent delegates. The most recent biennial meeting was held in New York City on October 16, 17, and 18, 1952. President Belle S. Spafford and Counselor Velma N: Si- | monsen represented Relief Society. At the opening session, Mrs. Helen Evans, Council President, spoke warmly of the Council, its purposes and accomplishments. She expressed a strong faith in its potential for good in the present-day world. She referred to it as a glorious ideal and declared the ideal of organized women uniting for the common good would always persist and prove a mighty bulwark for defense of Christian ideals and the Golden Rule. ~ The Preamble of the Constitution of the Council, written by its founders in 1888, is the active principle which guides the work today: THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN We, women of the United States, sincerely believing that the best good of our homes and nation will be advanced by our own greater unity of thought, sympathy and purpose, and that an organized movement of women will best conserve the highest good of the family and the State, do hereby band ourselves together in a confederation of workers committed to the overthrow of all forms of ignorance and injustice, and to the application of the Golden Rule to society, custom and law. The 1952 meetings brought together trained, widely-experienced, serious-minded women whose desire to work toward a better world, and whose courage in attacking what they regarded as evil were very evident. A spiritual quality pervaded the meetings. President Spafford gave the opening prayer, and each session thereafter of the three-day meet, including each luncheon session, was begun with prayer. "THE general problems with which the women were concerned were: declining moral standards; the breakdown in home and family life; the lack of religion and fundamental knowledge of truths in the family; the need to strengthen the spiritual life of the nation with less emphasis upon material things; the need for the educational system to be more effective in the training of children; and the failure of society in its responsibility to youth. Problems such as the need for better programs for the aged and the mentally ill were considered. Throughout the entire conference, there was evidence of pronounced concern over the devastating and spreading influence of Communism and the growing strength of Communist women's organizations. The morning sessions were busi- 217 ness sessions at which such matters as the financial program of the Council and its need for more adequate offices were considered. A most enlightening report, showing the wide scope of interests and varied activities of the Council during the preceding two-year period was given by President Evans. Reports were also given by standing committees and member organizations. It was with a deep sense of appreciation for the accomplishments of the sisters of Relief Society that President Spafford reported the work of Relief Society. Following is the slate of officers elected for the biennium 1952-54: President—Mrs. Charlotte Leyden ist Vice-President—Mrs. C. Fred Rau 2d Vice-President—Mrs. Belle Spafford 3d Vice-President—Mrs. Geneva Valentine 4th Vice-President—Miss Helen Estelle Corresponding Secretary—Mrs. Helen M. Fowler Assistant Corresponding Secretary— Mrs. Carlos Sandoval Recording Secretary—Mrs. Luella S. Laudin Assistant Recording Secretary— Mrs. W. C. Best Treasurer—Mrs. Bessie Payne Assistant Treasurer—Mrs. Evelyn Rafter The first luncheon meeting was addressed by Mr. Laird Archer, Foreign Director of the Near East Foundation in Athens. Mr. Archer made a brilliant analysis of the present situation in Iraq, Iran, Syria, and Turkey. The second luncheon meeting, conducted by President Spafford, was addressed by Dr. George N. Shuster, President of Hunter College. His subject was "National Issues in a World in Turmoil." He 218 pointed out that the United States represents one pole of the world, and the other is represented by the Russians. He said this is a time when intellectual freedom is constantly under inspection and interrogation. America needs women to give courage and support to those leading the intellectual hand of this country; women have begun to capture the intellectual leadership and a great deal is expected of them. The third luncheon meeting honored pioneers of the Council, among them our own beloved former president, Amy Brown Lyman. Mrs. Anita Pollitzer paid tribute to Mrs.. Lyman as a distinguished representative of Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints and as an able leader in promoting the work of the Council in early days. She cited many facets of the life of Mrs. Lyman, referring to her as a "gifted" woman. AFTERNOON sessions were in the form of round-table discussions. Eminent authorities participated on the panels. In the first round-table, '""The Defense of Moral and Social Values," the premise was accepted that moral right is that which is true, ethically good and proper and in conformity with Christian moral law. They declared that what was morally right must remain right regardless of changing times and circumstances— right is immutable. 'They deplored the growing moral lassitude on the part of people generally; the increasing tendency to accept as expedient in public life things we personally condemn in private life, such as slander, graft, dishonesty, and abuse RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 of confidence and trust. 'They declared that national sensitiveness appears to have been dulled into a calm acceptance of such evils without a seeming awareness of the demoralizing effect upon the nation. There was a feeling that permeating through our entire social strata is a growing disregard for the fundamental virtue of integrity. Sex immorality and the increasing use of narcotics by the youth of the nation evoked a strong plea for preventive measures as well as corrective measures in dealing with these evils. In the second round-table, "The Defense of Physical and Environmental Values," panel members decided that "social consciousness with well-directed action" seems the way to meet the physical and environmental values in a world in turmoil, Our aging population, the increase in mental health disorders, and other such growing community problems were considered in detail, with concrete examples given of what could and should be done. It was agreed that there is no arbitrary chronological age at which people become old and unfit to work; and a program which would involve persuading employers to give work to people as long as they have productive capacity would be worthwhile. In the field of mental health, "mental parolees" and a program for their benefit were discussed. It was recognized that housing is a universal problem since the home is the nucleus of good family life. The International Council of Women has already taken a strong stand on this subject. The importance of music, literature, and art in the development of children THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN and as hobbies for older people, affording opportunity for creation and expression, was brought out forcibly in this round-table. The third round-table, "The Defense of Socio-Economic Values," was keynoted by Miss Helen Estelle of the Women's Christian 'Temperance Union, pointing out that "it is not the world that is in turmoil, but the. People in it." The challenge to women today is: What can they do as women to stabilize social and economic principles? Social values of the past were con-. Trasted with those of today. It was pointed out that when the nation was young and human beings themselves were the sole instruments of communication, selfreliance was a necessity and teamwork, alone, made it possible for people to obtain the things in which they believed. This in turn demanded good human relations for the common welfare. The home was related to world human relations. It was the opinion of panel members that no home is good unless its human relations are good. First comes a good husbandand-wife relationship; next, a good parent-and-child relationship. The good home was declared to be the "key" to a good society. The economic status of the family as it affects its well-being was also considered in this round-table. Women were urged to concern themselves about private and public debt, about taxes, and about "spending binges," particularly of young couples who buy on time payments, thus inviting many problems and creating for themselves many unnecessary difficulties. ' fundamental human 219 HE need for women's organizations in the United States to be alert to propaganda of the European Communist's women's organizations was shown in reports of both standing committees and member organizations. Impressive indeed were the remarks of the representatives of the Free Ukranian Women of the United States and the Free Czechoslovakian Women of the United States, both new member organizations of the Council. Council delegates were given a vivid picture of conditions behind the Iron Curtain. Speakers deplored the fact that in the Twentieth Century women behind the Iron Curtain are subject to terror and slavery that break up homes and violate every tight. The Council remembered with gratitude and admiration the many years of service and co-operation of the now abolished National Council of Women of Czechoslovakia and other countries behind the Iron Curtain. Many special courtesies were extended the Relief Society delegates both during and outside meeting hours. That Relief Society is held in high esteem by members of the Council, there is no doubt. That the work of the women of our Church is appreciated is acknowledged without question. Our many years of identification with the Council have brought understanding and friendship. Relief Society women have been able to contribute to the Council and benefit from it. The affiliation entered into by our early-day leaders more than sixty years ago continues today a fruitful association. Ward Linton Page 220 FREESIAS Gf You Would Remember Alberta H. Christensen Old-fashioned flowers keep love's memories Too close for comfort, if the heart would fling Its dreaming to the wind. Around them cling Forgotten words; a trysting shadow flees Evasively but leaves its fragrant breath. So do not near the budding four-o'clocks Or touch the larkspur bed; the stalwart phlox Know lovers' vows that should be kept till death. But if you would remember—bare your grief Within a garden when the moonflower closes. Remembrance wakens here where yellow roses Lift to the wind, with healing past belief; The laggard pulse will quicken at the sight Of the sweet-scented freesia, waxen-white! The Bitter Cup Angelyn W. Wadley UTSIDE, the rain had settled QO into a dismal gray drizzle. Inside, was warmth and comfort. It was an afternoon when a woman could relax over a good book or a bit of handwork, if she didn't have more pressing duties. But Valerie didn't feel like reading or sewing. She sat by the window, nervously drumming her fingers on the chair arm. She glanced across the room at her mother, quietly busy over the mending basket. Even her fouryear-old daughter Pamela seemed to have accepted the fact of a rainy day, and was happily occupied at her little table. Valerie wondered why, in such a pleasant atmosphere, she felt so irritable and discontented. She had planned on visiting Suzanne this afternoon and had decided that she would go on the bus— alone. That decision had required a good bit of determination. Perhaps this restlessness was caused by her conscience, lashing at her for her weakness in feeling glad the weather provided such a good excuse to postpone going to see Suzanne. It was difficult to put a mental finger on the exact reason for her dread of this visit. Was it the effort of getting there, or the emotional strain of seeing someone else in trouble? Or was this shrinking from anything out of her usual routine merely a mental habit developed by staying at home so long? Her friends kept telling her she should get out more, and she resented it. They didn't know what it was like to feel so conspicuously different. Valerie didn't know quite how, but she felt she could help Suzanne a little. Surely out of her own experience, she should have distilled some essence of philosophy worth sharing with Suzanne. Suddenly Valerie picked up her crutches and started for her room. Walking was awkward and difficult, with the metal brace on her right leg adding both weight and ungainliness. But by now she could walk well enough to take her reasonable distances. "IT don't see why this little rain should change my plans. I'm going to get ready and catch the next bus," Valerie suddenly resolved aloud. Her mother looked up, a little startled. "The sidewalk is wet and might be slippery. Wouldn't it be best to wait? I'm sure they won't expect you on such a gloomy day." "Perhaps, on such a gloomy day, it will do more good for me to go," Valerie answered, but she didn't explain that she was thinking of good for herself, not Suzanne, nor that the gloom she was trying to conquer was not that caused by the - weather, but by this growing, gnawing, restlessness inside herself. Her mother put down her mending and followed to offer any assistance she might need. "IT don't think Suzanne will care particularly about seeing me. I Page 22] 222 hardly know her," Valerie explained. "But I'm sure her mother will appreciate my coming, and I've loved Mrs. Montrose ever since I was a little girl and she was my Sunday School teacher." "My heart aches for both of them," her mother replied. "Please give them my best wishes. Are you sure you don't want me to go with you? We could take Pam." "Don't worry about me, |'ll manage fine. It's high time I began to develop some independence again." Her mother didn't try further to dissuade her, but a little later, held the door open while she kissed Pam goodbye and started down the path. At the sidewalk, Valerie turned and waved at the two in the doorway. Dear Mom, she thought, she's so sweet and understanding. She has so much to do for Dick and Pam and me. I shouldn't burden her further with my blue moods. Why must the things that hurt us, hurt so many other people we love? X KOK K VALERIE, with baby Pam, had come home to stay with her mother when Dick had been sent overseas for occupation duty. And then a year later, when he sent for her to bring Pam and join him, she had been in a train accident. She still shuddered as she thought of it. She had been lucky to get out of it with only a crushed leg. Many of the passengers were less fortunate, and she knew she should never complain because little Pamela hadn't been hurt seriously. Valerie had both longed for and dreaded Dick's homecoming. When he had gone into the army they had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 both faced the possibility of his being injured, but it had never occurred to either of them that he might come home safe and well, only to find her injured. But he had been wonderful about it, and she frequently thought that anyone blessed with such love and care as she had, should at least keep cheerful. Nevertheless, it had been a long, slow road from bed to wheel chair, through surgery; finally, a few steps at a time with leg brace and crutches, gradually walking a little more, and a little better. X eK K T was less than a block to the bus stop, but that seemed a long way now. Yet Valerie felt exhilarated to feel the rain on her face, as she carefully placed her crutches for each step—slowly but surely conquering the distance—conquering more than distance, step by step, triumphantly overcoming the insecurity and helplessness that had held her captive for so long. In almost three years, this was her first venture away from home, alone. The bus stopped. She handed her crutches up to the driver and pulled herself up the steps. A man on the front seat gently touched her elbow and guided her to his place, and then moved to the back. Self-consciousness gripped her again. She avoided looking around at the other passengers, lest she see in their faces that mixture of curiosity and sympathy that hurt her so. She sat down and tried to think what she could say to Suzanne. Valerie hadn't seen Suzanne recently, but she had talked to Mrs. Montrose. It was rheumatic fever, THE BITTER CUP and the doctors were encouraging about it. There was a good chance of complete recovery, if she would co-operate, but they advised spending a whole year in bed. To Valerie, now, that didn't seem so bad, but Mrs. Montrose had said that to Suzanne it meant the skies had fallen, and Valerie knew that when she was eighteen, having a wonderful time in her senior year at high school, it would have seemed the same to her. HALF an hour later, when Mrs. Montrose opened the door in answer to Valerie's ring, she looked surprised. "Valerie, dear, let me take off your wet things. I didn't dream you'd come on such a day, so I didn't even tell Suzanne. Poor dear! She's so blue." She led Valerie to the dinette, which had been converted to a bedroom so Suzanne could be with the family and near a front window. By now, the rain was slanting against the windowpane by the bed as if the very skies were weeping with compassion for Suzanne's tears, which rolled down her white cheeks and soaked into her white pillow. "Here is. Valerie Corwin to see you, dear," Mrs. Montrose said gently. Suzanne grabbed a tissue and began dabbing at her eyes in embarrassment. "Don't be ashamed of your tears," Valerie said as she sat down. "Remember, I've spilled my share." Words of sympathy loosed a fresh torrent, and Suzanne buried her face in her pillow. After awhile 223 she sobbed, "I've already cried bucketfuls, but I'm so discouraged." "Yes, I know, and discouragement is like a nine-headed dragon. We think we've laid it low and then, when we least expect it, there it rears up to attack us again. But you'll conquer it in time." "Oh, Valerie, what can I do? A year in bed looks like forever. My class will graduate without me, and all my friends are out having good times while I'm here in bed, just like—like an old lady." Valerie hardly knew how to answer that. Would it be convincing to say, "I know how you feel'? Could eighteen possible believe that at twenty-six it was still hard to give up dancing and skiing and joining in the fun of your crowd? Finally she said, "Well, for one thing, you can still pray. But, of course, I needn't suggest that to you." She hadn't intended to say that, and she wasn't prepared for the reply. "Pray!" Suzanne said angrily. "What's the use? If you get what you want, people say your prayers are answered. If you don't, they say it wasn't supposed to be. There's always an explanation. But I've decided that whatever happens would have happened anyway. What's the use of thinking our prayers can change anything?" "T did pray awfully hard at first," she continued bitterly. "I was going to have the lead in the school play and they postponed rehearsals when I took sick. I prayed that I'd get better soon, so they wouldn't have to give my part to someone else. 'Then, when they said I'd have to go to the hospital for some 224 tests, I prayed that they wouldn't find anything serious the matter— and I meant it, I believed in prayer then, but you can see it didn't do any good. I suppose this shocks you." "No, I'm not shocked at all," Valerie answered quietly. ""There were times when I, too, wondered if my prayers were effective. But I've had more time to think about it now, and I'm developing some new attitudes about prayer. Are you sure yours aren't being answered?" ELL, I didn't get what I prayed for. And, Valerie, surely you prayed that you would be able to walk again—I mean without crutches. I'm sorry, I guess I shouldn't have said that." "That's all nght, Suzanne, perhaps some people think I didn't have enough faith, or I wouldn't have had to use these crutches, and 'maybe that's true. But I might have lost my leg—the doctors were afraid at first. Another thing, a strong, healthy body is important, of course, but so is a healthy spirit, and, surely, we should be grateful for spiritual as for physical blessings." Valerie was a little surprised at her own words, she hadn't thought of it like that before. "What do you mean?" Suzanne asked. _ "This may sound like a sermon, but I'm saying it for myself as well as for you. Do you recall the account in the Bible of the night Jesus spent in the garden of Gethsemane, and of how he prayed aloud saying, 'O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt'? Jesus had known that he would have to die and he understood why. And he had the courage to face suffering without flinching. Why then did he pray, 'if it be possible, let this cup pass'? "I wonder if he didn't, in that incident, give us one of our most important lessons about prayer. He knew. How frequently people like us would cry out to our Father in heaven, 'Please don't let this happen to me! Let the trials pass me by.' Surely Jesus knew far better than we, how to pray and what is right to pray for, and we would expect his prayers would be answered. Yet even for him the bitter cup could not pass. But he was blessed with the strength to endure his trial, and remember, he was able to say, "Thy will be done. We have to look beyond what happened to him to what his sacrifice did for the world." Suzanne's tears had stopped now. "Of course, what happened to Jesus had a purpose and was necessary, but I can't see that my being sick can do any good in the world." "No, that's always hard for us to see, but if we think of our earth life as a schooling and an opportunity for spiritual development, then we can see that the many problems and troubles we face do serve a purpose. They help to mellow our personalities; they make us more understanding and kind, and they motivate great minds to study and do research to try to eliminate some of the causes of sorrow." "So you think we should pray for endurance. Well, I don't want to be a cheerful invalid. I want to get THE BITTER CUP up and live like other people," Suzanne answered rebelliously. "No, I don't mean at all that we should pray only for patience. You and I want—what everyone else wants—happiness. I think we have a right to pray for that whatever our circumstances." Just then Mrs. Montrose came in carrying a tray. "I've been fixing us some refreshments, but I've lis- -tened to your conversation," she said, "and thanks, Valerie, for what you've been saying. It will help me as well as Suzanne." "T think,' Valerie answered, "that I've been trying to give back to Suzanne some of the faith you gave me when you were my teacher." Then she laughed, "I remember, though, how you used to remind us about the works that must go with our faith. I'm sure there are lots of things both Suzanne and I can do to help earn our own happiness, but maybe we'll both have to think more about that." ee K RK LATER, on the way home and for the next few days, Valerie did do a great deal more thinking about earning happiness. She called two of Suzanne's girl friends, and together they planned some things they could ask Suzanne to do at home that would keep her feeling that she was in on the doings of her crowd. | All she needs, Valerie told herself, is to get so busy doing interesting things for others, that she doesn't have time to think about what she's missing. Suddenly she realized that was exactly the prescription for her own troubles, too. She began to wrack her brain for 225 things to suggest that Suzanne could do from. Her bed that wouldn't be physically taxing, but would really help and be appreciated by someone else. She found every idea she had for Suzanne was something she could very well do herself. She went to see Suzanne several times in the next few weeks. Then, one day she decided to go to Relief Society with her mother, and was given such a warm, cordial welcome she wondered why she hadn't gone before. She began going to Church regularly with Dick, and, finally, she even accepted the Sunday School superintendent's request that she help to teach a class. About five months after her first visit, a much happier, more selfconfident Valerie went again to visit Suzanne. Now, it didn't bother her at all to go on the bus by herself. People still looked at her, but she saw the kindness and friendly interest in their faces and she could flash friendly smiles back at them. She felt like saying, "Don't feel sorry for me because of these. My brace and crutches aren't tragic, they're wonderful. They let me get out of a wheelchair and move around independently." As she rode along, she was thinking about how much better she felt than on that other occasion. With a sudden flash of insight, she knew why. T first, she had tried to regard her accident merely as an interruption in her normal way of living. She had clung tenaciously to the hope that faith and determination 226 were all she needed for complete recovery. 'Then, when gradually, but finally, she had realized that this was not an interlude but a permanent state, there had been a period of rebellion when she had tried to build a wall around herself to protect her feelings from more bruises. Now she could see that since her first visit to Suzanne, she had taken another important step toward happiness. She had learned not to shut people out of her life, and she had found something in herself to give in return. It was as if she had been wandering alone through a desolate land, but had at last again found the clearly matked road to happiness. When she reached the Montrose home, she found Suzanne busy painting place cards for a banquet. She was jubilant over her doctor's last report. She was improving faster than he had expected, and he said her co-operation and fine acceptance of her restrictions were factors in restoring her health. "IT was so blue that first day you RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 came," Suzanne remembered, "I thought I'd never be happy again. But you've helped me so much." "No, it's the other way about, you have helped me," Valerie answered. "Physically I was recovered enough to begin crawling out of my cocoon—that comfortable protective shell I had woven of isolation and self-concern. But I hadn't been able to push myself into doing it, until that day I made myself think you needed me." "I did need you, but I didn't know then, what I needed," Suzanne replied. "I guess there are lots of ways for people to help each other, but you have helped me to learn a very important truth," Valerie said quietly. "If we can accept the adversities that come to us in this life with a good grace and undaunted faith —if we can pick up the cup and say, 'Thy will be done,' I believe we'll find it's only bitter on the top. Underneath, there is a sweetness we would never otherwise have known." April Aspens Lizabeth Wall When any April sings across the land, Let me be near enough to seek a place Upon a hill where slender aspens stand, Like dryads dressed in green and silver lace. It is a magic time to keep a tryst When April comes, for dancing dryads wear The fragile sunlight on them, pale as mist, The thin, sweet winds of heaven in their hair. And where the pallid breath of winter lay, I shall find tendrils quickening and curled. Oh, never let me be too far away, When spring is waking in a wooded world, To journey high above the town until I, too, become a dryad on a hill! Springville Utah s Art City Willard Luce F you are an art lover touring Utah during April, the Springville Art Exhibit will be a must on your list. And even if you don't get there in April, Springville and the Springville High School Art Gallery will add greatly to the pleasure of your visit. Known as the Art City, Springville is located in the central part of the State, between the lofty, rugged Wasatch Mountains and the Willard Luce tranquil, blue waters of Utah Lake. It's like a hub with U. S. Highways 6, 50, 91, 89, and 189 converging on it from all directions. To the east are the mountains with their cool trout streams and canyon picnic spots. To the west there is boating on Utah Lake and beyond it the historic mining towns of Fureka, Mercur, and Ophir. To the north is a State and a Federal fish and game hatchery, Timpanogos THE SPRINGVILLE ART BUILDING This building, completed in 1937, contains five galleries and houses the permanent art exhibit valued at half a million dollars. Page 227 228 Willard Luce ONE OF THE GALLERIES IN THE SPRINGVILLE ART BUILDING Cave, and Salt Lake City. To the south, the vast area of Southern Utah's scenic national parks. Springville itself is a quiet town, with wide streets, a restful park, beautiful homes and gardens. Cool, crystal water bubbles from its drinking fountains; and it boasts the greatest concentration of road contractors in the world. But it's the annual Springville Art Exhibit of which it is most proud! Each spring, as the leaves come back to the trees and living things commence stirring in the soil, the exhibit attracts an average of 50,000 visitors. The country's most prominent artists, as well as many from abroad, send paintings to be hung. And each year the Springville Art Association purchases additional paintings from the exhibit to add to its already outstanding collection. This collection, which is hung permanently in one of the downstairs galleries of the Art Building, contains over 450 pieces of art valRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 ued at half a million dollars. Besides representing the works of outstanding contemporary artists, the collection contains pieces by such old masters as Gainsborough, Turner, Monticelli, and others. HE annual April exhibit and the Springville High School Gallery are rated as equal to or better than any others west of the Mississippi. Springville has also produced outstanding artists and sculptors. Most noted, perhaps, is Springville-born. Cyrus E. Dallin. As a child, Dallin was small and shy, and often ran away from school to model in the native clays along the shores of nearby Utah Lake. Fortunately he had a wise and understanding teacher, wise and understanding enough to bring both Dallin and his clay back into the schoolroom. In this way Dallin continued his sculpturing and education at the same time. In the Springville park is Dallin's Pioneer Mother. Atop the Latterday Saint Temple in Salt Lake City SPRINGVILLE—UTAH'S ART CITY is his statue of the Angel Moroni. At the intersection of South Temple and Main Streets in Salt Lake City stands his Brigham Young Monument. In the rotunda of the State Capitol Building and on Coles Hill overlooking Plymouth Bay are the plaster and bronze figures of Massasoit. In an 1882 competition with America's finest sculptors, Dallin was commissioned to execuate a statue of Paul Revere. Fifty-eight years later, January 1940, the commission was finally approved by the city council of Boston. The original model can still be seen in the Springville Gallery. John Hafen, one of Utah's out- 229 standing painters, was reared in Springville. It was a gift of one of Hafen's paintings to the Springville High School which started the movement among the students that has grown into the annual exhibit. Until 1937, the exhibit was held in © the regular high school building. At that time the Works Progress Administration co-operated with the school district and civic agencies in constructing the Art Building, which has five galleries and houses the permanent collection. This permanent collection can be seen during the annual exhibit and throughout the summer without charge. ~~~ Small Girl With a Flower Genevieve Groen The yellow of the curled petal Matches the twining tendrils of her hair. The gold of their twin-shining, Repeats the sun-warm perfection of the air. The leaf and stem are green-envy For the sky-color of her wondering eyes, When she finds the scented hilltop Where the heaven-designed daffodil lies. The mated softness of cheek and blossom Becomes a born-belonging no thought can undo, When her small nose presses gently, And one innocent kiss of fragrance weds the two. Frock of April Ora Lee Parthesius A teen-age girl comes running, Frocked in green-leaf lace, With a rainbow in each raindrop Upon her April face. A wakening Alice Whitson Norton April tapped upon my window With a spear of silver rain, And suddenly I realized— To man and mountain, earth and skies, Springtime had come again. "Our Own"' Ruth Moody Ostegar HE house would never be called a "vine-covered cottage." It was a rock house, big, old, ugly, tired, and a little Shabby. Yet it was a proud house, for had it not been the first permanent residence in all the little Idaho valley? And had it not weathered the storms, the torrential rains, the devastating winds, the heavy blankets of snow for almost one hundred years? Nor could the lady within be called "a sweet, little, old lady." Grandma Neal was tall, homely, angular, serious, and old. Yet there was a competent look about her, for all of her almost eighty years, a look of understanding, comfort, efficiency, and the lines of her face proclaimed that she had loved deeply, known sorrow, work, hardships, faith, and had met the storms of life bravely and well. Today she sat rocking slowly back and forth. Her gray dress was, as usual, topped with a neat kitchen apron tied firmly about the waist. Her white hair was, as usual, wound into a bun on the top of her head, with three small combs holding up the ends, one here, and here, and here, just so. But there was something unusual about Grandma—her hands were idle, and her mouth was drawn into a straight, determined line. She seemed to be pondering over some important decision. So intent was she on her problem that she failed to see Mabel Harris, her next-door neighbor, coming up Page 230 the walk, and was really startled as she heard the rap on her door. "Come in!" she called as she started to rise, and Mabel's smiling face came around the opening door. "Hello, Grandma! How are you today?" "Oh, I feel pretty good, thank you." "T've got a letter for you." "Hm-m, I was afraid of that." "Jake sent it over,' Mabel explained as she handed it to the old lady and seated herself. "He said you get so little mail nowadays that you almost never call for it, and he thought this might be something important." "It's from Effie, my niece who lives down in Salt Lake. As soon as this cold snap came on, I said to myself, 'Sarah Neal, you'll be getting a letter from Effie one of these days.' " She opened the envelope and quickly perused its contents, "She says she's going to take me down to Salt Lake City again for the winter. She's coming tomorrow." A worried sigh escaped her lips, as she laid the letter on her lap. "Well that's right nice of her, isn't it?" "Maybe so, but I don't want to go." "Why not, Grandma? You enjoyed the two months you spent there last winter," and, as she saw the frown on Grandma's face deepen, she added, "Didn't you?" "OUR OWN" '6 NO" Emphatically came the decisive answer. "Why not, for goodness sake? I wish I could go down there for a few months, where they have steam heat and all those conveniences." "Well, when a body gets as old as I am, it isn't easy to make new friends, learn new ways, and—and all. Old people like to stay at home. Besides, there's nothing for me to do down there." "Now, Grandma, I'd just like to see you with nothing to do for a change. I'll bet Effie leaves half the housework for you. Or, perhaps I should say, you just take it over." "No, that's just the trouble, she won't let me do anything! Why, you know, when I first went down there, she wasn't even going to let me make my own bed. She said something about mitered corners, or some such folderol. But I put my foot down. I said, 'Listen, Effie, I make my own bed! Do you understand?' And that was that." "Well, after all," said Mabel, smiling, "you've waited on people all your life, why shouldn't you be waited on once in a while?" "But I don't want to feel that I'm not needed, that there's nothing left for me to live for. Oh, I appreciate her good intentions, but I just feel that I'm in the way and a burden rather than a help. I don't want to live any more when I come to the time that I'm just a nuisance to folks." "Now, Grandma, you'll never be a nuisance to anyone, I'm sure of that. But don't you really think its the sensible thing to do? After all, a woman almost eighty years old can't be left alone all winter." 231 "But 'm—I'm not alone. I've got all—all these...." The arc inscribed by Grandma Neal's hands seemed to include her friends and neighbors, the old house, the graves in the cemetery on the hill, and all her memories back over the years. "Perhaps you're right, Grandma." Mabel was serious now. "I'll have to see if I can think of something." She arose. "Well, I've got to run along, my ironing is waiting for me. [ll see you before Effie comes. Goodbye, now." After a light luncheon at which she toyed with her food and stared gloomily off into space, Mrs. Neal tried to rest, as was her wont to do, for, "I'm just not so young as I once was," she told herself. But as soon as she closed her eyes, visions of Salt Lake City's cold, unfamiliar streets haunted her. She turned over and tried to think of something nice, like — like Christmas, or something; but, at once her thoughts strayed to an unfamiliar Christmas in the big city, and she remembered how homesick and lonesome she had been for old familiar faces and friends. Finally, after a few moments of uneasy restlessness, she arose and chided herself, ""When a body gets as old as you are, Sarah Neal, she should have learned long ago that there are lots of things you have to do in this world that you don't like. So you just as well climb those stairs first as last, and get the old suitcase down and get to packing." Slowly she ascended the steep, railless stairway, aiding herself by pushing with her hand flat against the wall, and resting every few 232 steps. She rarely saw this upper section of the house now, as the climb was almost too much for her, and, breathing heavily, she sank into a chair by the window. At once her attention was attracted by the Harris car which was just leaving. Now that's queer, she thought, Mabel said as how she was going to iron this afternoon. I wonder where she's headed for, not for town, she added, as her neighbor took the road to the right. My, my! I hope there isn't anyone sick! Perhaps it's just some Relief Society business she has to see Bishop Landguard or her counselor, Tillie Raymond, about. Mabel's a mighty good Relief Society president, and folks love her, which is her just desserts. 'Then, with a sigh, she thought, I guess there isn't anyone I'm going to miss so much as Mabel. HEN the car was out of sight, Grandma gazed at the mountains, those "everlasting hills" which had always brought her strength and courage. 'The trees, the rocks, the streams, the canyons, she knew them all, and each poured golden memories into the deep coffers of her heart. A tear was in her eye, and she brushed it hastily away with the back of her hand, for she always built up an armor around her true feelings with the words, "I'm just not the crying type." Her reverie was broken by another car which, this time, stopped at her gate. Slowly she arose, and when the knock sounded at her door, she called down the stairway. Her unheard "Come in" was not necessary, however, for Helen SumRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 merfield was already pushing the door open and asking, "Are you here, Grandma?" "Come in. I'm up here. I'll be down in just a minute, as soon as I can get this old suitcase down the stairs." "Let me help you," Helen volunteered, and quickly running up, she took the ancient, leather suitcase, with its long straps, which Mrs. Neal was trying to get down from the shelf. Then, carrying it in one hand, she lovingly helped the old lady down with the other. "You're not going to leave us are you, Grandma?" she asked, when they were once more in the sitting room. "Well I'm not right certain, but one thing I do know, I'm not going because I want to." "T hope not. I could never be second counselor in Relief Society without you." "T saw that you had the children — in the car. Want me to mind them for you, while you go teaching?" she hastened to change the subject. "Not teaching today, Grandma. Mabel phoned me to meet her at Raymond's. She's got something important to discuss that won't wait." Then she continued, "The baby is asleep, and the two little girls should take a nap. I hope they won't be a burden to you." "Since when have these youngsters been a burden to me? I'll be glad to keep them. Makes me feel like I'm some use around here." Helen went back to the car and returned with a basket which held her sleeping infant. She was followed by two little girls, holding hands. "OUR OWN" "May we stay with you, Grandma? May we?" the older girl asked. "You surely may, and I have a cookie for two little girls who'll promise to go in, climb up on the bed, and go right to sleep." When the children were at rest, Mrs. Neal -began to lay out the things which would be necessary for her to pack. But her heart wasn't in it, and once again she sat down, slowly rocking back and forth. Now, if I just put my foot down, Pll bet Effie nor anyone else couldn't get me away from here, she said to herself, as she again drew her mouth into the straight, stubborn line. But a moment or two later she relaxed with a sigh. Once more her thoughts were disturbed by a knock on the door, and, to her usual salutation, little Johnny Crawford came into the room, with a package in his hands. 6ST TERE'S some spareribs for you, Grandma. Mom sent them, and she wants to know if she can have your recipe for Christmas fruitcake. She says you gave it to her once, but she can't find it." "Thanks a lot," Grandma answered, as she took the outstretched package, "and would you like a cookie or two while I write out the recipe for you?" "Oh, sure, Grandma, thanks. You make the best cookies in town." After a moment he asked, more slowly, "Grandma, you aren't going down to Utah when that Effie woman comes tomorrow, are you?" "Mercy me! News gets around fast, doesn't it?" "My Mom, when she heard about it, she said, 'It's a shame, that's 233 what it is, to drag that old lady way off down to Utah when she doesn't want to go, and Dad said, 'It isn't right, we've got to do something about it.'". "Hm-m," Grandma mused to herself. "Mabel said she was going to try to think of something. I just wonder what she's up to," and for a moment her spirits soared. "But I guess there's just nothing she can do. There isn't anything anyone can do." That night when Mrs. Neal was ready for bed, she looked out at the? Lights twinkling in the little town, each one a warm, friendly glow, where she knew she had friends. Could this be my last night? Will I ever stand here in the evening and see them again? She wondered. Then, with heavy heart, she prayed: "Oh, Father, I have always tried to withstand the trials of life bravely. If this be another trial ll do my best, but, oh, Father, if there's any way out, I don't want to go." She remained kneeling for a few moments, then calmly arose and climbed into bed, mumbling, "I can be brave if I have to be. God will help me somehow." Effie arrived shortly before noon the next day. "I hope you're all ready, Aunt Sarah," she said. "I want to get back as early as possible this afternoon." "There's my bag," answered Mrs. Neal, pointing to the old suitcase now piled full. "But we must have a bite to eat first. It'll only take a minute. I have everything nearly ready." Grandma was perfectly calm. Mabel had said she'd see her before Effie came, but she'd driven off a 234 while ago without even saying goodbye. Probably forgot all about me, Grandma thought. Still she looked down the street. It wasn't like Mabel to do that. It-wasn't like her at all. Could something happen to save her yet? Slowly she walked to the kitchen and had scarcely begun preparations for lunch when she heard Effie's voice. é "WEL. It looks like you're going to have company, Aunt Sarah, ere comes a group of your friends to tell you goodbye." Although outwardly calm, Grandma Neal's eyes shone as she quickly wiped her hands on her apron and hastened to open the door. Her heart beat rapidly, until she could scarcely speak. But she was surprised when she saw the large group at the door. There were Mabel, the bishop, and many others; lastly came little Johnny Crawford, representing the deacons. "Come right in, come right in," she greeted them. "My, isn't it tight nice and thoughtful of you all to come and see me before I go away?" "But you're not going away, Grandma. That's what we came to tell you. We've decided we need you here with us this winter." Mabel's face was wreathed in smiles as she broke the good news. Then the bishop began, ""That's tight, we've got everything figured out. We're going to take just as good care of you here as Effie could in Salt Lake. Make it sort of a ward project to see to it that Grandma Neal is the happiest old lady in Idaho this winter." Then to Effie, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 "You know Grandma gets kind of homesick down there." "Well, that's very kind of you, I'm sure," Effie answered. "But, after all, Aunt Sarah is my relative, not yours, and its my duty to look after her." Grandma's spirits fell. A very determined woman. "1 don't know about that, Effie," Bishop Landguard was just as determined. "There are a few things that I don't think you realize. You know the Neals had two little girls who died in infancy, and were buried up on the hill. Later, they had a son, Richard, who meant more to them than life itself. When he was killed in the war, the light went out for them, but they never faltered. With open arms, they adopted the entire town. When anyone, rich, poor, young or old, was sick, in need or in trouble, there you'd find the Neals. They helped the old and widowed...." "Tll say they did," John Craw- | ford broke in. "When I was a kid I used to work for Grandpa Neal, and you know what he did? Every spring he used to send me around with a little pig for each widow, then, in the fall he made me go around and butcher them all." Everyone laughed. Effie was O one will ever know," the Bishop resumed, "how much good they did, how many young men and women they helped on missions or through college, or how many people they guided, helped, or comforted over therough spots of life. And, Grandma, I']] bet there isn't a home in this town where she hasn't nursed someone!" "OUR OWN" "She nursed me through double pneumonia," said Tillie Raymond. "She took care of my poor old mother for months when she was so sick before she died," another contributed. "And I'll never forget the summer my mother fell off the ladder and broke her leg," Mabel took up the narrative. "We children were all standing around crying, scared to death. We felt it an awful calamity, and didn't know what to do. Then we saw Grandma Neal coming in at the gate, and we knew that everything would be all right. And it was, too! She got the doctor in no time, got mother into bed, and looked after us all and cared for us all summer." "So you see, Effie," the bishop spoke again, "we all owe Grandma a debt of gratitude we can never re- 235 pay. But we're not doing this because we owe her a debt, you understand. We love Grandmother Neal, and need her to cheer, help, and advise us. And, after all, does she not belong to us?" "Well," Effie slowly consented, "if you really feel that way about ities. 2" "Oh, we do, we dol" several voices chimed in. "Then JI guess it's all settled. You'll stay here this winter, Grandma!" and Mabel threw both arms around the old lady and hugged her joyfully. "Mercy me!" The tears were frankly running down her face. "I never heard so many good things. For a minute I just wondered if I was listening in at my own funeral," and Grandma Neal sighed happily. Delay Js Dangerous CANCER SYMPTOMS REQUIRE IMMEDIATE ATTENTION Information Furnished by the American Cancer Society EAR after year, progress is made towards bringing the number of people saved from cancer death more nearly up to the medical potential. Yet the problem of getting people to their doctors for prompt diagnosis and treatment still remains a formidable one. Our year-round educational program strives to create a knowledge of cancer so complete and well-founded that, by heeding danger signals and through regular examinations, the stricken will seek medical attention in time. Some of the objectives of the American Cancer Society are: 1. To urge every man and particularly those over 45 to have a chest X-ray periodically, to arrest the alarming increase of lung cancer in men. 2. To instruct women in the lifesaving technique of breast self-examination, to avert the tragedy of unnecessary deaths from breast cancer. 3. To teach the seven danger signals of cancer to all Americans and help them safeguard against dangerous delay. An all-out effort by all of us will help direct the curve of cancer deaths downward. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts. From the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1893 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" THE UTAH ROOM AT THE WOMEN'S CONGRESS IN CHICAGO: Fine needle work is a most beautiful art, and how forcibly this thought is brought to mind while gazing at the many articles the women of Utah have been preparing for their room in the Utah building in Chicago. It would take a great many pages to describe them all, for there are so many lunch cloths, doilies, and scarfs in exquisite drawn work, there are so many pieces of rich and rare embroidery, there are such wonderful combinations of historic silks made into beautiful spreads.... One can scarcely imagine anything more exquisite than the pale cream silk curtains embroidered in sego lilies, under which all who visit the Woman's Building will pass, and imagine the surprise, when told that they are made of Utah silk —Editorial OUR CHILDREN: Our Father's words and works are for the "immortality and eternal life of man." Man is the child of God, partaking of his spiritual and eternal nature, and how fearful the responsibility of those to whom they are entrusted for their education and development; that they may be able to dwell in His presence and abide in His glory. All such will have power to do for their children, what God the Father has done for His. The consummation of sublimest thought—of heaven's grand design. —S. W. Richards IN THE VALLEY OF THE TEMPLE In the valley of the Temple Where God's works in beauty gleam, From the snow-capped peak or meadow, Rose-blown hedge or rippling stream.... In the music of the temple Swelling sweet with power and praise, Came a thought of joys unmeasured That we knew in other days.... OPINIONS ABOUT NAMES: There is always a greater pleasure to me in seeing a letter bearing my husband's name than those which come simply addressed to ELLA WHEELER WILCOX. One thing is certain: personally I always prefer to have letters addressed to me as, MRS. HENRY WARD BEECHER. —Selected PERSONAL REMINISCENCES: My first babe was born the 7th day of July 1848. Through my illness (which was protracted) I had no bread; for the last few days I had managed to make a pancake, but I had got to the last ounce of flour. The midwife kindly brought me a piece of bread.... On Monday the 10th my husband went early in the morning, sickle in hand, cut a little wheat here and there where it had ripened, threshed it with a flail, and wagon cover, took it on his shoulder to Brother Neff's mill, had it ground, brought it home, had a big loaf baked in a bake kettle, and the whole family sat down to dinner in the room where I was, so that I might enjoy it with them. Just think what a feast! —Gatha Page 236 NAM! SAUNDERS FARR and MELBA JUNE EGBERT sang -the soprano and contralto roles, respectively, in Dr. Leroy J. Robertson's "Oratorio From The Book of Mormon," whose world premier was held in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, in February 1953. The oratorio, with combined choruses and the Utah Symphony Orchestra, was conducted by Maurice Abravanel. The music is hailed as a work of true genius and inspiration. Mrs. Farr has studied in Paris, where she often took part in Latter-day Saint Church functions, and is singing leading roles in University of Utah musical productions. Miss Egbert will be graduated from the University of Utah this June and has sung roles with the Utah Opera Theater. RS. J. K. (ANNA THOMAS) PIERCEY died recently in Salt Lake City at the age of eightysix years. She was the author of the bills in the Utah legislature which gave women the right to sit on juries, and brought about the eighthour law for women. BIRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Matilda Huish, ninety-eight, of Spring Lake, Utah; Edith Simons Steadman of West Jordan, Utah, ninety-two; Sarah Smith Boren, Salt Lake City, and Emma J. Jesperson, Duchesne, Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Utah, ninety-one; and Amelia O. Cushing of Sandy, Utah, and Matilda Stowel Butler of Salt Lake City, both ninety. LARE BOOTHE LUCE, playwright, who has served two terms as Congresswoman from Connecticut, has been appointed Ambassador to Italy by President Eisenhower. Mrs. Luce, wife of Henry R. Luce, publisher of Time, Life, and Fortune magazines, has long been active in politics. ERTHA A. KLEINMAN, Mesa, Arizona, dearly loved Latter-day Saint poet and song writer, has been commissioned to write the libretto of the pageant for the Diamond Jubilee of Mesa, Arizona. {ss JENNIE CAMPBELL has been appointed associate professor of elementary education at the Brigham Young University, Provo. She was formerly international president of Childhood Education. RUTH PAINTER RANDALL has written a biography of Mary Lincoln, which has been acclaimed by historians and literary critics as an excellent piece of research, beautifully written. The publishers are Little, Brown and Company of Boston. Page 237 Q—> EDITORIAL SO VOL. 40 APRIL 1953 | Spiritualizing Our Homes. Having been born of goodly parents, therefore I was taught somewhat in all the learning of my father.. OW much which went into making Nephi what he was, was born in him; how much was put into him by his teachings and environment? No one can answer this question definitely, but certainly we have enough data to indicate that environment is important. Children accept in early years family standards, tastes, vocabulary, and emotional responses. The world in which our children are growing up is a disturbed and confused one with its changing social and moral conditions, its unrest, its wars, and bloodshed. Since the children of today become the citizens of tomorrow, in whose hands our nation will go on, and since what a child becomes is determined so largely by his home environment, Latter-day Saint parents must analyze the cause of the world's condition and make a greater effort than ever before to create a home environment that will counterbalance the world's condition, and which will develop true Latter-day Saint citizens. Thinkers in all walks of life tell us that the world's troubles result from our material progress outstripping our spiritual development, which has thrown us off balance. Woodrow Wilson said: "If the world does not revive spiritually it cannot survive materially." As home is the cornerstone of every civilization, parents must create homes Page 238." (I Nephi 1:1). Where virtue, morality, and spirituality are lived and taught. What are some of the things we can do to create such homes? Certainly the first step is for parents to set the proper example. This yields more influence than all the preaching that may be done, and is the greatest assurance parents have that their children will grow into upright citizens. If parents will continually set before their children examples worthy of their imitation and the approval of our Father in Heaven, they will turn the current, and the tide of feelings of their children, and they eventually will desire righteousness more than evil (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 322). We must be convinced that spirituality in the home is a primary thing to be desired and sought after. We must lead emphasis away from the thought that money and the possession of material things will lead to happiness. How many times have we heard children say, "The Smiths have a television set. Why can't we have one?" Wanting more goods and services than our money can buy, leads to insecurity. How many times have we heard a parent say, "I want my son to get a job that will pay big money?" Oh, how. Wrong! Parents must stress the spiritual activities in the home. All members of the family, regardless of the age, should unite in prayer both morn- EDITORIAL ing and night, thus teaching them the necessity of constant communication with their Father in heaven which will inculcate into their hearts a love of him and a. Faith in his word. This will bring a desire to know and to live his word. In order for them to do this, every Latter-day Saint home should be supplied with the books of the Lord: the Bible, The Book of Mormon, The Doctrine and Covenants, and The Pearl of Great Price. In addition, there should be available the writings of inspired men. Children should be encouraged to read from these books. Much concern has been _ expressed over the low taste in reading many children are developing through reading the flood of trashy periodicals and so-called "funny" books that are so widely sold. The reading of such material can be obviated by home guidance in the proper selection of reading material. We want our children to know and associate with the "best people." They may do this through the reading of good literature. Our recreation and pleasures, the music to which we listen, the dra- 239 mas, the radio, and television programs which we enjoy, and the people whom we invite into our homes should be an index by which the world would judge us as true Latter-day Saints. We must set the example by loving the Lord, one another, and our neighbors. Let no evil word be spoken in the home against anyone. Especially should we refrain from any criticism of Church authorities. The members of our families should radiate harmony and love within the walls of our homes, whether they be mansions or humble cottages.. Men and women developed in such an environment may usually be counted on to be substantial citizens, radiating harmony and love among their fellow men and their community, their state, their nation, and their world. Let us build true Latter-day Saint homes, carrying forward the proper example and program of instruction. Then will our homes be a light and an ensign to the world, then will our children declare: "... Having been born of goodly parents, therefore I was taught somewhat in all the learning Of mysfather.. (I Neéephi"1:1). —V. N. S. <> Wings of clime Marian Schroder Crothers Across the wide and undulating field, Came myriad voices of the grass, Loud in the immeasurable loneliness Of earth and sky. With hands firm-gripped to guide the plow, He watched the sod yield, And the rich, black earth appear, The grass recoiling from the searching blade. Sweet on the wind, came song of meadow lark, sublime, In awed humility he stood at furrow's end, And heard the beating of the wings of time. Photograph courtesy Don Blair MARTHA ANN EYRE WALKER, MURRAY, UTAH Martha Ann Walker Has Weal ix Hundred Quilts Martha Ann Eyre Walker, eighty-two, has made at least six hundred quilts. These quilts have been made in nearly all the well-known patterns, as well as in intricate and difficult designs, Some of her recent quilts are appliqued in delicate patterns and lovely colors. An exacting "'stitcher," Mrs. Walker takes great pride in the handwork displayed in her quilting and in the bindings as well. As a child in Minersville, Beaver County, Utah, Martha Ann carried water a half block to fill a forty-gallon barrel each day to supply the stagecoach station. She gleaned in the fields, performed all kinds of household tasks, and at the age of sixteen became a schoolteacher. Many years of her life were spent as a practical nurse in the care of the sick. She is the mother of eight children, grandmother to sixteen, greatgrandmother to thirty-seven, and great-great-grandmother to ten. For sixty-four years she has been a member of Relief Society, serving faithfully in many capacities and holding every office from visiting teacher to ward president. For the past twenty-five years she has served on the sewing committee of the Murray First Ward, and for the past fifteen years has been chairman of the sewing and quilting committee. For many years she has made fifteen or more quilts a year, as well as making many aprons and assisting in welfare sewing. Page 240 Pot-Head Kettle Velma D. Cloward HEN Aunt Minnie came in- \¢ to the room with a great armfull of bright colored asters, Granny pulled herself up in the bed, twisting the corners of her mouth up into a tight pucker at the twitches of pain the movement caused her. Aunt Minnie dropped the Howers in a heap that looked like curly clouds on the table beside the bed. Holding Granny's frail shoulders with one hand, she skillfully adjusted the pillows behind her back with the other. Granny lay back against their soft comfort with a sigh, the lines of pain around her mouth smoothing out into a smile. "Land of Goshen, Minnie, did you bring the entire border of asters?" she asked, nodding at the flowers on the table. "Not quite,' Aunt Minnie smiled. "There are a lot more asters in that border. It is lovely this year." 7 "Ann," Granny said, turning her head on the pillow so that she could see me, "run and see if you can find something large enough to hold this fine bouquet. Look in the attic, there may be a vase or a bowl." As' I went out of the door, I heard her say, "You raise the most gorgeous flowers, Minnie. You surely have a green thumb, which reminds me of a woman I knew when I lived back in England...." I knew Granny was going to tell one of her wonderful stories, and I loved her stories, especially the ones she told about the early days in Utah. Granny had come to Utah with one of the handcart companies. I stopped on the stairs to listen, but Granny had a quick ear still, and she called, "Ann! Are you going after that vase?" "T am going," I called, dragging my feet slowly up the stairs. I was still wondering about the woman with the green thumb, when I found the brass kettle. It, too, was green with age. It was the only thing I could see large enough to hold the asters. I picked it up and rubbed its side with the corner of my pinafore. There was a bright shining streak where the green tarnish had rubbed off, a streak that looked almost like gold. Just like Aladdin's thought. Getting some old rags, I began to polish the kettle, but the tarnish was heavy, and it was a hard job, so I decided to take it down to the kitchen sink and use the metal polish. I knew what kettle it was, and how much store Granny set by it. I decided to shine it into a gleaming ball and surprise her. I became so ~ interested in bringing out the golden lights and soft, carved designs along the ridged top that I forgot my hurry to get back and hear about the woman with the green thumb. J was sure if Granny was pleased with the scouring job, she would tell me the story of the brass kettle again. 'Though I had heard it so Page 24] lamp, I 242 often I could almost repeat it word. For word, I loved to hear Granny tell it. Her face would light up and look almost young, and she made me feel as if I were right there listening to that Indian sliding slowly up over the dirt roof. WHEN I took the gleaming kettle into Granny's room, she raised straight up and looked at it in a most loving way. Her mouth twitched, and there was moisture in her eyes when she lay back on the pillows. I sat very still, waiting. When Granny started remembering, she usually had to share that memory, that was what made Granny so much fun to care for. It was just like hearing a story from a book, like the "Knights of the Round Table," and, to me in this modern age, almost as unbelievable. Granny lay there so long and so still, I just about decided she was asleep. Aunt Minnie stood putting the asters, one at a time, into the kettle, stepping back each time to survey her work. I wished Granny would wake up and start talking before the last flowers were put in place. There were just five more left, and I knew that when they were in the kettle, Aunt Minnie would look over at Granny and put her finger to her lips for silence, and we would have to tiptoe out of the room. There were, finally, three flowers, then two, and then, just as Aunt Minnie was placing the last flower in the kettle, Granny opened her eyes and smiled. "Beautiful and just as bright as the day I first saw it there among a lot of black pots and pans. That RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 was the very day I married your grandfather, and the day after the handcart company arrived in Salt Lake City," she said. I relaxed and gave a sigh of relief, I was going to hear my favorite story again. Kok ek KO met William when he came back East with a wagon train to meet the handcart company. I had walked a long way and took my turn pushing a handcart, which held all of our earthly belongings. We were surely glad to see that wagon train sent out by President Young to meet us. Among the drivers was a tall, shy young man, with snapping black eyes. I fell in love with him right away. It took me some time to make him notice me, but I did, and before we reached Salt Lake he had popped the question, and needless to say, I accepted. We were married the day after we arrived in Utah. William's people had settled in Cedar City, so we began loading our wagon right away with provisions and staple goods to. Take with us South. It was then I saw the bright brass kettle, so proud among the other goods. I fell in love with it at once and wanted it so badly that, though it took more than we could afford to pay, your grandfather bought it for me. Had we only known how much that kettle would mean to us we would gladly have paid double the price, but at the time I felt just a little extravagant in buying it. | wrapped it snugly in a piece of factory cloth and put it ina box with my other most precious belongings. There it stayed during the next three years, which we spent in POT-HEAD KETTLE Cedar City, living with William's folks. George was born there, and was two years old when we had a call to go North and settle what is now known as Kanosh, but it was then called Corn Creek. We did not have lumber for a house, but your grandfather dug a cellar and with quaking aspen poles built the walls, and a roof, over which he piled layers of clay mud. We had a home! The only windows were small square openings at the back, and a hole at the top of the door, which was made of handsawed planks. The Indians under Chief Kanosh seemed friendly enough, and we were happy, owning our own land and building a new country. I'll admit I was always nervous about being left alone, though neighbors were not too far away, but, anyway, the men had to go to the city for goods, to the gristmill for flour, or to the mountains for firewood. Pioneer women learned to hide their fears and to protect themselves in time of danger. I was not thinking of danger that morning when I unpacked the brass kettle and placed it on a shelf beside the door. Your grandfather had gone for a grist of white flour and graham cereal and bran. I knew it might be late when he returned, as the mill was fifteen miles away, and if he had to wait he might not - return until the next day. So: when it became dark, I put the heavy bar across the door and closed the back window. Little George was sleeping on the bunk against the wall. I lit the candle and sat down at the slab table to read. I had borrowed a book from 243 Emma Watts that day and was anxious to finish it. I was so interested that I wasn't sure when I first heard the creeping sound. It was not loud, and I thought it might be a snake crawling up over the roof. I looked up at the cracks between the poles and shuddered. I had a horror of snakes. Then there was a louder sound, too heavy for the body of a snake to make. Chunks of dry clay made a rumbling sound as they slid down the roof. I knew, then, it was either an animal or a human. I thought of all the stories I had heard of mountain lions or panthers attacking people. I knew no animal could get into the dugout, but it might lie and wait for your grandfather, and I wondered how I could warn -him, if he came into the yard while it was still there. I decided to blow out the candle and keep very still. Perhaps it would go away, if it was an animal. I sat there scarcely breathing until the noise came again. It was a heavy body all right, and it was edging its way up to the front of the roof to the place above the hole over the door. I held my breath, praying as I had never prayed before. As I prayed, the fear left me, and a courage to fight took its place, a determination to win against any harm that threatened me and my baby. I glanced at the opening. A hand came down over the roof, reached through the hole in the door, feeling, feeling, trying to find the heavy bar that held the front door shut. I held my breath as the long fingers moved nearer and nearer. They. Were just above the bar—two inches, 244 then one inch, and they would soon reach that precious piece of iron that stood between me and the horror out there. I picked up the first thing I could put my hands on with which to strike and crush those groping fingers. It was the shining brass kettle! The Indian must have heard me, for the hand was quickly withdrawn —then there was silence. We were both listening—the Indian and I— both holding our breaths. Minutes passed, which seemed like hours. Baby George whined in his sleep. I did not dare desert my post at the door to go over to the bunk against the back wall where he slept. How long I stood there I do not know, but all of the time I was silently praying for help, for your grandfather to come, or even a neighbor. I did not dare to scream or make a noise for fear the Indian would know that I was alone, and then he might throw an axe, or even an arrow, through that hole in the door. I was tired, for early sleep had become a habit, and, frightened as I was, sleep began creeping up on me. I fought to keep awake and. Clear-headed, for if I went to sleep he might reach in, unseen, and open the door. Then I jerked wide awake. The hand was again coming down through the hole in the door. This time it groped about as before, — then, being unable to locate the bar, it withdrew, and a head came down over the roof and slowly, noiselessly, began to edge through that hole. ORROR gripped me. The hole was narrow but long, running entirely across the top of the door. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 If his head could come through, no doubt he could get his shoulders through, that is if he was a slender Indian, and most of them were. He had to turn his head sidewise and work it about, but, finally, it slid in. Then he was trying to press one shoulder through. It was then I raised the kettle and struck! I] put a lot of force behind that blow. I was fighting for my life and the life of my baby. But in my fear I struck not with the bottom of the kettle, which would have crushed his skull, but with the open mouth of the kettle. It went over and down around his head like a helmet and stuck, the heavy ridge edge keeping the head from being pulled out without help. Every time he reached in a hand to help, I cracked it with a heavy rolling pin, until he had to jerk back the hand in pain. He fought and flopped about, beating his hands on the door, and his feet on the roof, but the kettle held, and I had him a prisoner. But then he had me a prisoner, too, for he was blocking the door. For long minutes there would be comparative silence, as though he was waiting for me to tire and go away from the door. But there I stood, rolling pin in hand. It was almost morning when | heard the crushing of gravel as the wagon wheels rolled along the dirt toad; then, the wagon came closer. I heard the creaking of tires and hubs and the flap of leather. Then I heard your grandfather whistling, _as he always did to let me know he was returning home. The Indian heard him, too, and fought silently, except for grunts, POT-HEAD KETTLE to free himself. I was too weak with the reaction from having help at hand to have stopped him, had the kettle let go. I had let the rolling pin drop to the floor at the sound of that dear, familiar whistle, and my legs gave way and I sat in a crumpled heap beside it, and cried. The Indian was unable to pull his head from the kettle or the kettle through the small hole in the door, and when your grandfather drove into the yard, he found the Indian still there, head in the door and body on the roof. In no time your grandfather had aroused the neighbors. They pried off a board, making room for the kettle-helmeted head to be released. Then they took the Indian to his camp and left him with his chief for punishment — after the kettle had been removed by means of a lot of grease and jerks. I do not know what happened at the chief's council that night, but, the next day, the Indian appeared among the others with his head 245 painted a bright, brassy color, and he was given the name of Pot-Head. From then on everyone called my bright brass kettle the Pot-Head Kettle. But there was a lot of good came out of that night. Never again was I afraid to stay alone, for I had learned that no one is alone who prays, and my Heavenly Father surely heard me that night. You see, your grandfather had decided to wait until the next day to come home, as he was so tired, and it was late when he had his grist loaded. But, in the night, he awoke with the feeling that I was in great danger. The feeling was so strong that he was compelled to get up and dress and start for home, not sparing the horses. Ae Ke K Granny lay back on the pillows and closed her eyes. Aunt Minnie looked over at her and put a finger on her lips for silence, and we both tiptoed out of the room, leaving Granny to her dreams. April Returns Mabel Law Atkinson Warm April fingers tap my window pane, And April footsteps patter on my roof Bright golden goblets fill with crystal rain. The merry horsemen ride! Each magic hoof Sends silver music echoing to the hills Whose emerald carpets are retrimmed with dock. Ecstatically, a joyous lark-flute spills A fount of splashing stars, but not to mock The phoebe's gentle flare, but to express A lilting rapture that cannot be stilled. Ripples of youth, of springtime tenderness Flow from my heart again. My dreams fulfilled, I walk evermore through valleys, lily-fair And hear the call of beauty everywhere. Gaster Bunny Review Courtesy Dennison Manufacturing Company An Easter party the day before Easter Sunday will make your children happy, and assisting in party plans will appeal to their creative interests and abilities. Look at Lancelot and Hepzibah Bunny strutting across the party table, which is set up especially for your Easter party... Could be a breakfast, luncheon, or dinner. We know you'll want to make Lancelot and Hepzibah, so get out your scissors, paste, cotton batting, mailing tubes, tissue paper, and some white and some blue mat stock, white, red, green, blue, and light pink crepe paper, white writing paper, blue notarial seals, No. 15 wire, common pins, spool wire, cardboard, and water colors. TO MAKE BUNNIES: Both Lancelot and Hepzibah are made the same way. Pad tissue paper around a 12-inch tall mailing tube, to form 3 balls. (Fig. A)—one large for lower body, medium for upper body, and smaller for head. Pad in front to shape nose. Cut a piece of white crepe paper the full width of the fold and long enough to go around padded body. Stretch this piece snugly around body and -paste at seam (Fig. B). Tie spool wire tightly between each ball. Trim off excess paper at top and bottom and paste down (Fig. C). | Cut off an 18-inch long piece of wire for arms. Attach it to body with spool wire, tying criss-cross over chest (Fig. D). Pad arms with tissue. Page 246 EASTER BUNNY REVIEW 247 Cover entire rabbit, head, body, and arms, with cotton batting. To do this, apply paste to tissue and wire arms, then press cotton over it. Legs: Cut two legs of correct size from white mat stock. Cover outside with cotton. Paste in place, holding until dry with common pins. Ears: Cut ears from white mat stock. Apply paste to one side and smooth pink crepe paper over it. Trim off excess crepe. Cover other side with cotton. Punch holes in head with ice pick. Coat ends of ears with paste and force them into holes in head. Cover pasting with cotton. Tail: A ball of cotton pasted and pinned in place. Eyes: Cut from white writing paper, centers from blue notarial seals. Outline with black water color. Eyelashes: Square of black paper slashed to a fine fringe. Paste to back of eye. Nose: Cut from black paper. TO DRESS LANCELOT: Vest: Cut a piece, shaped as in diagram (Fig. E), from yellow duplex crepe paper, Pin in place with common pins. Buttons are small gold notarial seals. Collar: Cut strip from white writing paper, long enough to go around neck. Shape as in Fig. F. Turn winged collar down. Tie: Blue crepe paper, design cut from a flower seal. Jacket: First we put on the sleeves. Cut two pieces of red crepe paper across the grain, long enough to cover length of arm and 2% inches to spare, wide enough to form tube to fit around arm and overlap for seam. Turn back a 1% inch deep cuff at bottom. Slit at top and slip onto arm, pasting at shoulder. Cut main part of jacket same shape as shown in Fig. G. Put on Lancelot and paste shoulder seams. Cut collar as shown in Fig. F from writing paper, covered on both sides with red crepe paper. Paste around edge of jacket. Watch chain is from five and ten cent store. Hat: Cut an oval 5% inches long by 4% inches wide from blue mat stock. Cut an oval from the center, leaving a 1% inch wide brim. Cut a strip of writing paper 3% inches wide and long enough to overlap for crown of hat. Insert into brim and paste. Ie 248 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 TO DRESS HEPZIBAH: A "dickie" is cut from white crepe paper to serve as a blouse. Skirt: Cut a strip of dark pink crepe paper 4% inches across the fold (Fig. L). Gather along one long end. Paste around waist. Jacket: From light blue crepe paper, cut piece for. Sleeves, as you did for Lancelot's. Cut her bolero as shown in diagram (Fig. M). Trim cuff and around edge of bolero with a lace border cut from a paper lace doily. Cut collar from white crepe paper. Stick blue ribbon bow at neck and tie ribbon around waist. * Hat: Cut a strip of blue mat stock 1% inches wide. Paste to form cylinder of correct headsize. Cut circle to fit top and paste in place. Paste pink ribbon band around hat. Trim with double bow at back. Decorate with tiny flowers and piece of veiling. The Hyacinth-bordered pathway down which the Bunnies stroll is a fold of spring-green crepe paper, slashed to a fine fringe along both edges (Fig. N), and spread diagonally across table. (see photo.) TO MAKE HYACINTHS—Materials: Medium pink, light blue, white, springgreen and leaf-green crepe paper; leaf-green duplex paper; no. 9 wire; small paper cups (size 4); brown mat board. Cut 2% inch wide strips of medium pink, light blue, and white crepe paper across the fold (Fig. L). Before unfolding any of the strips, cut 1-inch deep slashes, 1 inch apart, along one side (Fig. O). Round off "petals" (Fig. P). Twist each petal by twisting one half forward and one-half backward over thumbs and forefingers of each ~ hand (Fig. R). Cut off 12-inch lengths of wire. Bend each in half. Wind 3 inches with this twisted petal strip, pasting as you wind. Cut leaves from green duplex crepe paper. Wind rest of stem with a '%-inch wide strip of leaf-green crepe paper which has been cut across the fold, adding leaves as you wind. Cover a sheet of writing paper with a smooth coat of library paste. Lay a piece of spring-green crepe paper over it, rubbing gently with fingertips, making sure it is well stuck, Cover paper cup with this.; Cut circles of brown mat board to just fit into top of cup. Punch tiny hole in center of each circle and set hyacinth into it. Line these "plants" along the pathway. The Lasting Joys Sylvia Probst Young AURA looked around the spacious, beautifully decorated living room with a little sigh of envy. It was perfect in every - detail, the kind of room she had seen pictured in magazines, the kind she had dreamed of having—a row of picture windows overlooking a garden, a mirror fit for a queen covering most of one wall, a big, woodburning fireplace, thick velvet carpet, custom-made furniture. "It's beautiful," she said. Maurine Whitney smiled. "I'm glad you like it," she said lightly. "It's nice, but I did like my Chicago house better. 'That, Laura, was really a dream." Laura looked at her cousin and said nothing. Life had been so good to Maurine. She had never known what it was to go without anything. We have always been poor relations, Laura thought. She recalled her own living room, about half this size, with its worn rug and shabby furniture. The boys were so hard on things. Sometimes when the four of them were playing cowboys, she wondered if there would be any furniture left. But they had to play someplace, and a four-roomed house didn't leave much choice. There were times when she felt she would like to push the walls out to make more room. Maurine was an only child, and Uncle Willis Maxfield had been about the richest man in Dayton County. Laura remembered asking -her mother, more than once, why they couldn't have just a few of the things the Maxfields had. After high school, Maurine had gone East to school. It was there she had met Lew Whitney, a physician. He came from a wealthy family, too, and so his wife Maurine never lacked for anything. With Laura it was different. Bill's folks had been as poor as her own, and Bill had been overseas when Douglas was born. Bill had had two more years of college to get his degree, and with the help of the G. I. Bill, they had struggled and pinched pennies so that he had been able to finish college. Laura hadn't been anxious to go and see Maurine when she had met her in town a week before. "I guess it's because I'm envious," she had told Bill. Bill had laughed at that, but she knew he wasn't unsympathetic. She knew that it made him unhappy when she had to go without things, things a woman wanted—a new hat or dress, some little luxury for the house—a rose bowl, maybe new lamp shades or a figurine. More than once he had said, "Next month you take ten dollars and buy yourself something, something you would like to have." But the ten dollars was always needed for other things—overalls or shoes or a bill that hadn't been paid. Laura had wondered what to do with the boys while she went to see Maurine, because Douglas was too young to be left in charge of the younger children for long. Page 249 250 RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE Appi 1953 "Well, you plan on going and enly. Want to see the Test of the | house, Laura?" that she leave the boys with her, soe Kitchen js really big, too," aurine exclaimed. But La ura, looking round the al]. Di electric kitchen, wondered jf there I] en they all sat down t somewhat of a tomboy herself, and sma y € boys never seemed to bother eat here was hardly room t "Go enjoy yourself," she had said, a dining 700m," Bill had Promised, as Laura drove off, "and on' - d. Ty about the boys, they'll be fine." "vig Toom you Want, too, and But Laura couldn't help wonder. A big Playroom for the boys, tells me you have fou; boys. Good. ~Maurine's house had bedrooms ness, Laura, how on earth do you anda bath upstairs, The basement manage?" Was all finis ed, 00, with a bath "Tt is quite a problem at times," and Study. Playroom was as aura affirmed, "bu Suess I'd be 1§ as the livin Toom, al] done in Ost without them," notty Pine, with Fe fireplace, a din "An Bill, what does he do?" Ng corner and a built-in television.: teaches School in the set. Winter. He's science teacher IN Our How her boys would love a room high school. Of course, he has to hke this Laura thought—the tele- THE LASTING JOYS they could meet €ach month, with the house mortgage, From the basement Maurine led Laura to the patio, and Maurine's stood tall and Proud against the Picket fence. The dahlia Toots cost fifty cents €ach, Laura knew, she had afforded four of them. And there were shrubs of every EF was four o'clock when Laura got home, and she felt guilty for hay. Ing left. The boys with Sue SO long, and rang the bel] Opened, a small gtay-haired lady greeted her. 251 before. [t¢ was Mrs. Howarth, Sue's mother, station wagon, 59 she and I drove out here to show Sue. Minutes ago, but they'll be back in _ Won't you come in?" "'T'd better not, Mrs. Howarth. Pll go get my Supper started," Lay. La told her, "J guess they'll be home k, ominous cloud tiding in She could run Over to Sue's. At 252 ing and worrying alone. All at once the rain stopped, almost as quickly as it had come, but the wind was still roaring as Laura ran across the yard. Mrs. Howarth let her in. She understood Laura's anxiety at once, for she herself was anxious. "Only thing I can think of is they must have gone up Willow Creek Canyon. It isn't so far, you know, and Mary's husband has an aunt living up there this summer. Maybe they went up there to show her the Cx." Willow Creek Canyon — there might have been a flood up there. It made Laura sick to think of it. When Bill got home, at ten minutes after six, she was almost frantic. "Something's happened to them," she told him. Bill put a reassuring arm around her. "They're all right, honey, I'm sure, but we'll get in the car and go up Willow Creek way if you want to." Bill was such a comfort, just having him near eased Laura's fears. "Tl go back the car out, and you close the door," he told her. "Boy, this has been a storm," Bill decided as they rode along. "Glad you got home before it came, Laura. By the way, how did you enjoy your visit with Maurine?" Laura looked a little surprised. "Why, I hadn't even remembered I had been there until you mentioned it just now." "Guess there isn't anything she doesn't have." "Yes, she has everything money can buy, but—Bill! Look, coming down the road—a station wagon! RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 Bill, it's Sue and the boys. I can see them!" "Good enough. I'll drive up to the next turn here and follow them back.". In a few minutes they were all back in Sue's yard, Laura was holding Tommy in her arms, with Douglas and Paul and Alan around her, all trying to talk at once. "I'm so sorry, Mrs. Clayson," Mary was saying, "we had no idea it was going to rain. When we started up Willow Creek the sun was still shining. I've never seen a storm come so fast. We got to Aunt Emily's just in time, and we were lucky. It was furious." "Well, we're all mighty glad you're here and safe," Mrs. Howarth said. "Of course, Mary's a good driver, but we were worried just the same." "If we could have phoned or something. But anyway, Laura, they're back all safe and sound," Sue assured her. Back in their own little house, Laura set out supper for her family. They crowded around the kitchen table to eat, but, somehow, it didn't seem so crowded. "Gee, Mom, that's a swell station wagon," Douglas said. "Wish we had one." "What did you boys do while it rained?" Bill asked. "We looked at books. That lady had a lot of them. And we watched the lightning. It was fun," Alan spoke up. "It surely was," Paul agreed. "But I was wishing I was home with Mama." Tommy's dark eyes, full of warmth and love, were turned on Laura. THE LASTING JOYS A lump rose in her throat. "I was wishing it, too," she said. FTER supper was over they went into the living room. Bill turned on a lamp and settled down to read the newspaper. 'Tommy climbed on Laura's lap, his curly head resting against her. 'The other boys were occupied with toys and books on the floor. It's small, but it's such a peaceful room, Laura thought as she looked about her. Softly she began to hum a song to the tired little son in her arms. "Mom!" Alan sat up. "Mom, sing that song—that funny one, about the little man and his little dairy—o." "Oh, yes," cried Paul. "You know, about the little dog pulling the squealing piggy by the tailie —o." The boys all gathered around her while she sang the nonsense song, with Bill giving her an occasional 253 grin.' When the song was finished, Tommy was asleep. Looking at her boys and Bill, a sweet peace filled Laura's heart. Here weare all together, she thought. She would remember this night—this night and other nights in the companionship of these she loved. Long after houses and furniture were forgotten, she would keep the memory of eager young faces looking up to her—the warmth of boyish arms. Long after gardens were faded and dead, the love of her boys would be ever close to her heart. These were the lasting joys—all these priceless things within the shining circle of her home. Not Maurine nor anyone else could ever really have more. Bill looked up from his paper and smiled at her. "Everything okay, Mama?" Laura returned his smile, "Everything's wonderful," she said. Message Zera Wilde Earl I knew this morning spring must soon be here When I heard that first reed-like "O-ka-lee." I hurried out; dozens of blackbirds perched On the topmost twigs of the naked poplar tree. They hushed a moment as I came; this tardy Listener had disturbed their chorus; then, Glad promise to our winter-chastened world, Triumphant and sweet, the music came again. 1 wonder why my tears came. Was it joy That they were past, those months so bleak and long? Or did my thoughts yearn back, remembering Another spring, another blackbird's song? Gardening at Seven Thousand Feet CL. WwW. McCullough HE garden is just outside our bedroom window. Every morning when my feet touch the floor, my first sight in summer is of long rows of growing things. In winter I see a garden asleep, snug beneath a white blanket two to three feet deep; a blanket that grows holey and threadbare when spring is near. And then there comes that dawn of promise, after the land has been plowed, harrowed, and planted, when the first brave seedlings appear. Shivering in the chilly mornings, they await their lingering-in-bed comrades before the magic of: growth whips them into soldierly, straight lines. I see the first white blossoms unfurl their sails among the peas, the brash growth of onion sets, the tall cabbage and cauliflower plants, with their head start in a hot bed, lording it over the slower seedlings. 1 ° begin to look for the first robin in the strawberries, cocking his head disapprovingly at the slowness of ripening. And rounding out the calendar, I see the garden sear and yellow in the fall, its work done for the year, its rest well earned, with — our shelves full in the cellar, vegetables in the bin, and the deepfreeze a well-stocked treasure chest. The sight of a garden is a goodly _ beans. The corn decided this was way to start the day. Our garden, now ten years old, was born a black-sheep child. My neighbors warned us it would come to no good. Silas, who first plowed * and harrowed the ground for me, set himself as an arch-obstructionist to my miniature back-to-the-soil movement. J had practically to Page 254 drag him and his equipment up to the place. "Plumb waste of time, eNeighbor," he'd protest, "'tain't no gardenin' country in these altitudes. Late springs, summer frosts, early falls; nature contrary all around. Cheaper to buy what truck you need, if you ask me. Giddap, nags!" I wasn't asking,, I was telling him. I wanted a garden. —_ How many times in the years to come was I to realize that Silas' baleful predictions were redolent with prophecy. Cold rainy springs, with frosty nights that lingered almost into June, passed their cue on to summerand sent fall and its icy breath to visit us on Labor Day. D we'll never forget the year when the insects held their nationwide convention in our garden patch. Grudging hostse that we were, none of them gan say that we did not feed them well. But that first year was the one most calculated to try my soul. Due to Silas' procrastinations, I got a late start. Perhaps I planted things too deep—in these altitudes there is no time for seeds to be dilly-dallying in the Soil. By my own admission it was a sorry looking garden patch, scarcely improved by a July frost that took most of the one of the seven lean yedrs. The potatoes never grew beyond the marble stage.; "Told you so!" Silas cackled." "Next year," I promised, "you'll plow this ground before Decoration Day and then I'll show you." That second year my garden still GARDENING AT SEVEN THOUSAND FEET left much to be desired, but I managed to keep Silas' table well supplied along with our own. The third year I cut down on such doubtfully popular items as turnips and rutabagas, and added asparagus, cauliflower, tomatoes, and pole beans, taking the seedsman's recommendations as to hardy varieties. A word of caution there! At seven thousand feet, one can lose plenty of arguments with a seed catalogue's claims. But I lived. And learned and gradually achieved a reasonably fool-proof set of ways and means of outwitting the pitfalls that beset the unwary gardener. Mountain valley loam leaves little to be desired as a soil medium, but one often finds spots that tend to puddle and harden whenever water is added. Liberal additions of sand to these spots will loosen the soil. With strawberries, a load of sand worked into the soil every year or two pays rich dividends and greatly simplifies cultivation. I like to apply manure in the fall and plow it under in the spring. The hardy vegetables, such as radishes, onions, peas, carrots, cabbage, and cauliflower can usually be depended upon to do well in high altitudes. Cool nights and rich mountain soil impart a color and flavor that garden stuff lacks in lower altitudes. Head lettuce does particularly well, but the plants require plenty of elbow room — at least twelve inches between plants. By transplanting groups every ten days after they have made two leaves, one can always have fresh lettuce coming on. Everyone warned us that we could not raise corn, but year after 255 year, we manage to mature a satisfactory crop of roasting ears. We beat its long season for growth by planting it early; in fact, corn is one of the first crops planted. The young shoots are more frost resistant than most folks imagine, and should we lose the first crop, replanting entails very little work. While discussing corn, it might be well to consider its freezing qualities. Cut off the cob, we find corm from the deep freeze as tasty as when fresh, but our experience with freezing it on the cob after cooking has been consistently bad. Now we freeze it on the cob uncooked. The husks are left on after peeling them down part way to remove the silks and to check that they are worm free. Preferably the knobby end of the ear is clipped off, the husks smoothed back and a rubber band is snipped over the end. Frozen in this manner, they come to the table like fresh ears. The cobs are firm and there is no objectionable cob taste. Strawberries are easily our best fruit crop, and once a patch is properly established they require very little attention. Five years ago we planted fifty Centennial everbearing plants. New rows were added each year from the runners. After three years of bearing, two rows of the oldest plants are dug up and burned and replaced with runners. In this way, we have young plants always coming on. By keeping the rows sixteen inches apart and free of runners, proper cultivation can be maintained. Two or three times a season, I sprinkle commercial fertilizer along the rows and give the patch a thorough wetting down 256 with the lawn sprinkler to put the fertilizer into solution and into the soil. The results are immediate and amazing. The size of the berries will be double within a week after such treatment. The patch will yield three to four crates a week from the middle of June until September and we usually get enough for table use well into October. Raspberries also do well, and they are our favorite fruit for the freezer. Owing to our heavy winter snows, it is necessary to drive stakes along the rows and tie up groups of the bushes. Otherwise, the plants are crushed flat and many of the bearing canes are lost for the next season. I started gardening for the fun of it, and in all the years I have studiously avoided trying to turn it into a commercial project. The minute one begins to sell garden stuff, the joy of raising it is gone. As soon as you install a cash register, you begin to count the costs. We like to keep the debit side of our garden ledger obscure and the credit side specific. The latter includes a bounteous table of ultra fresh vegetables and fruits all summer; a burgeoned cellar, and a full deep freeze for winter; and generous entertaining that never strains the budget. We like to tuck a box of stuff into our city friends' cars when they visit us. We like to send berries to the sick. And RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 we like to have something to brag about! Then, too, our garden produces a currency not stamped in a mint. So many times someone will do us a favor. In return, they will gladly accept a head of cabbage, an armload of carrots, or a few boxes of strawberries when you would insult them if you offered money. But still gardening at seven thousand feet is quite a gamble. To sandwich in a growing season between late spring frosts and those of an early fall requires no little judgment—and a lot of luck. It was several years before I learned the real reason why my neighbor Silas complained so much about first plowing my _ garden patch. By then he had a garden, too, and I could depend upon his displays giving mine the stiffest kind of competition at the county fair. I saw him hoeing weeds one afternoon and dropped over for a chat, complimented him on his garden, and reminded him about fhe time he was so reluctant to break up my ground. "I don't think you'd have a garden today, if I hadn't put the idea in your head," I told him. He scowled at me as he mopped his forehead. '"That-was just what I was 'fraid of," he confessed. "TI knew if anybody started gardnin' in this country, the Missus wouldn't rest unit] we had one. You're a pest—a downright pest," he added. Our Gar Isadore Price We thank thee, Lord, for blessings rare, For homes upon this land so fair, For clear-eyed children, free of fear; We thank thee, Lord, for blessings here. al oye UTS \ N CHARCOAL IRON FLUTING IRON FLAT IRON By Garly Candlelight Ill. A Pioneer KITCHEN Bonnie A. Kesler Illustrations by the Author ANNE and Hyrum were the vy of their friends when they oeed with their stove, although it was only seventeen inches high and the door for the fuel was six and one-fourth by four inches high. This stove was so tiny and toy-like that a friend questioned its usefulness the first time she saw it; but it had been used in Hyrum's wagon crossing the plains during bad weather, and had always been a comfort, especially to the aged and little children. A warm fire glowed on Annie's smooth, stone hearth, and the aroma of good food came from the kettle on its hook hanging over the flames. She had fire-dogs, brought across the plains, to hold up the backlog and throw the heat farther out into the room, and a Dutch oven, covered with coals, was used for baking her bread, pies, cookies, meats, vegetables, and other food. A few three-legged stools were placed around the table which was made of pine boards, whose top was nearly white from being scrubbed with Annie's homemade lye soap. On the table stood her frog lamp made of iron, with a lid which turned back about halfway across the frog's back. It held a cup of grease or tallow, and the wick pro truded from the mouth of the cord Annie was proud of the dish cupboard she had and the variety of treasured chinaware on_ the shelves, such as the platter which had been in their family for over two hundred years. The washstand stood against the wall near the fireplace or stove. On the washstand was a pitcher of water, a soap dish, and bowl. The water barrel, which had been tied to the side of the wagon while crossing the plains, was sawed in half horizontally, and used for a washtub, then for a bathtub. The other half served as a watering trough for the animals in the corral. A flour bin in the corner held one of the most basic of all supplies— flour. One neighbor, with a large family, near Annie's home, kept a Page 257 DISH CUPBOARD year's supply of flour. Their breadbox was large enough to hold sixteen to eighteen loaves at a time. When the father went to conference, in the spring and fall, he brought home the flour, oats, sugar, salt, and other supplies in quantities. When the family returned home they would come to Annie's home to borrow a start of yeast and hot coals to start their fire. Generally, they banked their fires with ashes so that a bed of hot coals was kept smoldering for hours. A cradle and a "mother chair" to go with it—a low rocker—unexcelled for comfort, were kept in the kitchen where it was warm. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 One of Annie's friends had a copper teakettle which was brought from Wales before 1850. The teakettle was the only source of hot water in the house, and that one kettle had to heat water for many jobs. At the time of childbirth, the first thing done was to put the teakettle on to boil. Some of the children thought the water was only heated so that grandfather could make himself a cup of ginger tea t quiet his nerves. Doing the family laundry meant rubbing on a board, wringing out the heavy clothes by hand, and bleaching the white pieces in hot lye suds over a fire outdoors. The clothes were dried in the kitchen in wet weather. Annie had two flatirons, and she had the girls carrying them back and forth from the stove or fireplace to the ironing board as each iron cooled off. 'There was an iron flatiron heater with a handle on each end. It held three irons and replaced a section of the stove top so that the flat irons could be = Waa ae ce Peg PIONEER FIREPLACE — BY EARLY CANDLELIGHT PIONEER STOVE lowered nearer the coals. The ironing board was placed over the backs of two chairs. When Hyrum went to purchase a new pocketknife, he first tested it to see if the blade was good enough steel to strike fire on flint. If it did not, he would not buy it. Always within handy reach were the steelyards (commonly _ pronounced "'stilliards") which Hyrum used to weigh his produce, the medium of exchange. Not only did the pioneer trade goods with his neigh- 259 bor, but he took produce into town to do his bartering or trading. Annie did not speak of going shopping, but of doing her trading. The pay- _ ing of tithing and admission to socials, dances, and plays, were so many pounds of fowl, vegetables, butter, molasses, wheat, wool, or whatever the family had. Annie had a spice mill to grind her pepper and other spices and soda, or saleratus, found in thin, white crusts on land that needed draining. The saleratus was used in making hot bread and cakes. The saleratus was put in water, and the settlings sank to the bottom. Then the soda solution was used to raise the bread and cakes. Annie and Hyrum and their children took the time to do any job well, and in their humble kitchen the family worked in an atmosphere of cheerfulness and industry. The struggle to construct comfortable homes was proving successful. MOTHER CHAIR AND CRADLE A Time to Forget CHAPTER 10 Fay Tarlock Synopsis: Serena Abbe, who lost her fiance in the war, goes to live on a walnut farm, which she inherited from her cousin Harriett Lester. There she meets Jeff Landeau, a widower who owns the adjoining acres, and who helps her in running her farm. Luis Trejeda, a Mexican, also assists in the work, and Serena ls impressed with his wholesome and buoyant attitude towards life. Serena also makes friends with David, Jeff's son, and, after Christmas, Serena and Jeff are married, but, upon their return from a honeymoon in Mexico, they find that Delia, who is a cousin to Jeff's first wife, Beth Henley, has persuaded David to live with her. Serena, however, persuades the boy to go home with his father, and she finally wins the friendship of Delia. Serena goes with her friend Mrs. Hale to a party at the home of Constance and Martha Bates, elderly sisters, who were friends of Beth Henley Landeau. Alice McKellar tries to persuade the women of Meadtown to refuse to admit Serena to their group, but the elderly sisters defend her. ERENA'S head was floating S away from her, the women's faces swirling before her, but she was thinking clearly. Should she stop upstairs to get her jacket with all the eyes watching her, or should she just walk out of the door. "No, no!" the old lady shook her head with unwonted vigor. "Wait. Where is Martha? Will some one get Martha for me, quick." The sound of a dry cough came from the door Serena had so lately wrenched open. Martha stood there, the little bonnet of velvet roses tipped rakishly over one eye, the carved ivory fan dangling in her frail hand. Pushing her rheumatic Page 260 joints hard, she came into the expectant room. Like Constance, every muscle in her face seemed aquiver, but high on each wrinkled gray cheek was a spot of color. Her pale blue eyes under the steelrimmed glasses burned with a steady flame. "T heard you, Alice McKellar," she accused, pointing the fan hard against the jewelled button on that lady's modish blouse. "I know what you are trying to do. Fifty years ago, when you were going to school to me, you were always stirring up trouble because you couldn't be the center of attention." She pushed the fan harder against the jewelled button. "And you need some discipline inflicted upon you, just as you did then." Drawing back the fan and closing it with a little jerk of her wrist, she turned to the women. "I'm sorry I didn't inflict more then.» It might have saved a lot of trouble." Then, ignoring Mrs. McKellar, she gave the bonnet an upward push and moved to Serena, laying a hand on the girl's arm. "Don't let us hear you talk about going." She spoke with mock severity. "And don't think a second time about what Alice said. Alice will come round." From under the velvet roses, she looked at the women. They all nodded as one. From most of them came sighs of relief. Serena, who had been immobile, moved swiftly and helped Miss A TIME TO FORGET Martha into a Windsor chair. 'Don't say anything more, Miss Martha," she pleaded. "Just sit here while I get you a drink." BEF ORE she was halfway across the room a glass of water was handed her by the housekeeper. "Tt's been too much for you," Serena insisted, as Miss Martha sipped the water.: "Maybe it was." She handed back the glass, the roses on the hat perilously close to her eyes. For a second, Serena was sure she saw a wicked glint behind the steel rims. "Maybe it was, but it was worth it." Perhaps the day would not end in disaster after all. Hiding her desire to smile, Serena looked speculatively at Miss Constance. That lady was pushing forward again. She linked her arm in Serena's. "We all know Alice," she said and looked squarely at Mrs. McKellar. "We know your bark is worse than your bite. I suggest that we forget what you've said today, really forget, and tell Mrs. Landeau how you feel." Her hand*on Serena's arm was like a vise. "We want her to know how proud we are to have her join us." "That's what I wanted to say to you, Alice," Miss Martha cut in. "We can't have this pretty child sorry she ever married and had to live by a nest of old hornets." - Serena would gladly have gone through the floor. She watched her accuser come forward. "T suppose it is too much, Mrs. Landeau, to ask you to forgive me." Her voice was thick and the hand she held out was limp. "Maybe 261 when you get to know me better you can be tolerant of me." - Impulsively, Serena took her hand and turned to the women. "I didn't want to come today," she said in her soft voice. "I told Jeff I was frightened to meet you. I know I'm a newcomer," she hurried over the word, "and taking the place of someone you loved, but I'm glad I came, truly lam. I know you just a little bit and I'm not afraid of you any more." Swift tears were coming, and she withdrew her hand to use her handkerchief. "T'm such a fool." Mrs. McKellar was using her handkerchief. The women pressed forward. Some shook her hand. Others kissed her. It was good, they said, to have her. N the confusion, Miss Constance made it to her feet. Standing very erect and holding her pincenez, she compelled attention. "Sister and I," the fluty voice was so light that Serena leaned forward to hear it, "want you and Jeff to come to dinner tomorrow night. Isn't that so, Sister?" "Yes," beamed Miss Martha, showing plainly that she thought Serena very special. "Sister and I want to tell him how fortunate he is.' She took off the bonnet and stroked the velvet roses. "So sad," she murmured, "so sad if he had not remarried." Late afternoon shadows were darkening the valley when Mrs. Hale started her car. "My," she sighed long and hard, "that was an afternoon I wouldn't want to repeat." Serena gave a backward glance at 262 the big white house with the Horn wing. "I didn't think it would be like that... Inside." Mrs. Hale smiled in understanding. After she had joined the speeding cars on the main highway, she spoke. "If you wanted to talk about what happened today, I couldn't blame you, but a lot of trouble and heartaches could come if you did. I've forgotten what happened. 1 hope you can." Serena knew her decision was made. She would not tell Jeff, there were so many things that might hurt him. And no one else had the right to know. She could see a time, down through the years, when it might make a good story, but not now. "T''ve forgotten already," she said. She would always remember that Saturday afternoon in September. LL summer had been on the cool side. Now the fog hung in a translucent pearl mist over the valley in early morning, floating away later in the warm brightness of the sun. In response, the walnuts burst from their hulls and popped onto the ground like so many firecrackers. She and David were clearing the nuts along the driveway. The sky, through the green of the leaves, was a deep blue and freshly washed. Back in the redwood grove a bird was trilling. Serena's mind was as tranquil as the morning—save for one slight perturbation. The potluck dinner to open scout season was only as far away as Monday. "I just can't understand, David, why you don't want to be a boy scout." Stooping, she picked up a handful of nuts and tossed them inRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 to her basket. "You've been evading me all summer." "Well... Gee...." He twisted a nut in his hand, his blue eyes evading her. "It's like I tell you, Mom.... Gee, I got nothing against the scouts, I just don't want to be one." Serena bit her lips, then ashamed for showing so much concern, she smiled up at him. "Your father's going to be awfully disappointed. He thinks scouting is important." She popped another nut into the basket. "Well, gee." David was wriggling inside and out. "I can learn to do anything a scout can do, can't I?" He seemed very sure. "It's not quite the same." She rested on her heels, cracked a nut, and admired the sound white meat so different from the sunburned nuts of last year. "If you'll only tell me why you don't want to join, I'll understand and not be puzzled all the time." It was David's turn to bite his lips. "I think you ought to tell me." She scooped up another handful of the golden-tinged nuts. "Then, if you have a good reason, we can forget the subject, I promise." "I don't think you will think it's a good reason." David accented the you. "But it is." "You might try me and see." "Will you promise not to get angry?" He looked straight into her. Eyes. "TIl try not to show it if I do.... It is something to do with Johnny Talbot, isn't it?" David nodded, his face tight. "Johnny's my best friend." A TIME TO FORGET "T know, and I like Johnny; so I'm sure there's a good reason." Planting his* feet firmly on the gravel and thrusting his hands into his pockets, he searched her face. "Both you and dad have told me not to tell tales out of school." He said it with stern deliberation. "That's right." Her heart gave a quick jump. Here was something more difficult than she had imagined. She sat on the gravel, hugging her knees and meeting his stern look. "Well, this is Johnny's business." He was manlike and firm. "Seems to me you've made it your business." Her eyes were intent on his. "And in this family we all like to share." AVID frowned. "John didn't want me to tell, but I didn't promise I wouldn't." Serena was silent, looking at him. David wriggled his feet in the gravel, his eyes down. "There's a man in scouting that Johnny's dad doesn't like." "And what?" She was firm, but not eager. There was hesitation, even a look of pain on his fresh, young face. "Johnny doesn't like this man," he said at last, asking her to understand something he did not quite understand himself. "But that shouldn't keep you and Johnny out of scouting." Now David had something he could explain. "He's something on the scout committee, and Johnny says he won't go to meetings because the man will be there.... And I won't go either. I promised." 263 So that was it. Not as bad as her unknown fears. "T couldn't say until I know something more about it, but from what you've told me, maybe John can't be blamed." She was carefully impersonal. "You see how it is, and I hope you can get dad to understand." David was smiling at his easy victory. "Oh, your father will understand, but it still leaves you out of scouting, doesn't it?" She arose, lifting the basket with her. "Get along, and feed your pigeons," she dismissed him gaily, knowing she would get no more help from him this morning. She also needed to be alone. Jeff could force him to join the scouts, but she doubted if Jeff would take that course. She carried her basket to a drying tray in the rear. Jeff, a length of rope in his hand, came out of the barn. She told him the story. Jeff's eyes widened. "So that's it. I know the man," he said cheerfully, "it was a mistake putting him in scouting—the new people don't know their way around yet—though he's a good man in his work." Thoughtfully, he coiled the rope. "I admire David's sticking with Johnny. We can't do anything about that." "No, it wouldn't be wise." With the rope neatly coiled, he turned to go, mischief in his blue eyes. "There's a neat problem for you. Find the solution for getting Johnny in the scouts and you'll have David also. I leave it in your capable hands." (To be continued) Your Outdoor Living Room Eva Willes Wangsgaard Ward Linton DUTCH IRIS F you are planning to landscape that new yard, or to re-landscape an unsatisfactory arrangement, here are a few suggestions that may help you achieve the maximum teturns in beauty, comfort, and satisfaction through the years. In landscaping a small plot, as in preparing a speech, the smaller it is the more carefully it must be planned. Though happy accidents may occur by the trial and error method, intelligent planning and planting bring happier results, with less trial and fewer errors. A near-perfect outdoor _ living room has been achieved by one of my friends, whose plan may be easily adapted to your garden space, whatPage 264 ever it may be. You may profit by her experience and so save precious plants and years, because, while an error in an indoor decorating color might be changed overnight with a gallon of new paint, mistakes in a garden take at least one and sometimes several years to correct, as nature paints but once a year and begins on a small scale. The first consideration in our planning will be privacy, and the walls we build will be of shrubs around the fence or the boundary line, shrubs that will bloom in season and grow tall enough to ensure. Seclusion, but not so high as to deny us the grandeur of our mountains or the glory of sunrise and sunset. The shrubs may be chosen all of one kind and color, which will make one glorious season of colorful beauty and a background of cool greenness the rest of the year, or they may be selected and arranged so that one kind complements another, one blooming as the other fades, so that there is always a flash of color among the green. Even so, enough of each kind should be planted so as to balance the color during each blooming season. We have such a_ wonderful choice of shrubbery now, and such improved specimens, that we can choose and plant for color and fragrance from lilac time to the last althea petal. With our walls of green well visualized, the planning of shape and design of our garden floor is in or- YOUR OUTDOOR LIVING ROOM der. Let us bear in mind that an outdoor living room should be a place of rest and recreation and not one of constant labor, because even a labor of love like gardening can defeat itself if it becomes too complicated. So let's take a tip from my neighbor and plan a sweep of lawn mainly circular, but with pleasing variations in dips and curves. The curves are most easily achieved by arranging a hose along the form we plan and using it as a guide for the spade. We shall start with a mind picture of a perfect circle, but we aren't going to be formal enough to keep that rigid border, just suggest it enough so that the eye follows it even when the spade has left off. Down through the middle of the lawn space we might lay a flagstone path leading to an arbor of lattice work. ITH our main theme in mind, we can begin a plan for plants and their arrangement. We - shall plan one side at a time. Remember, our walls are shrubbery. In front of Castle Murphy 265 the shrubs let's be generous with perennials, because they will assure us some beauty even in those years when illness or a new baby may keep us out of the garden until too late for annual planting time. Tall perennials in the background, such as delphiniums, may be arranged in interesting groupings rather than in rigid rows. Phlox and tall chrysanthemums make excellent color spots, lifted high on tall stems for background color. Arrange them so that the blooming seasons are well represented throughout the garden, so that in any one season no spot is wholly empty of color. Phlox are generous, long-season bloomers, are fragrant, and can be obtained in a wide variety of colors. Oriental poppies are flamboyant short-season bloomers, but the colors must be carefully studied to prevent any clash that detracts from the whole. The great scarlet ones offend bright pink neighbors, but stand out strikingly against the giant, bushy type of Shasta daisy's shaggy white profusion. AN OUTDOOR LIVING ROOM FOR REST AND BEAUTY 266 Warren Lee DAISIES In front of these, and sometimes weaving "in and out and roundabout," we shall tuck some less tallgrowing perennials to thicken the pattern, such as moonlight Anthemis, an ivory-toned everblooming marguerite-like daisy, heliotrope, the several varieties of Shasta daisies, and tall carnation pinks. Get a catalogue, visit your nursery, and familiarize yourself with the many lovely perennials available. For the foreground we shall choose groupings of low-growing plants with their almost continual bloom—violas and dwarf pinks. Having a general plan for one side of our garden living room, let us look for particulars. The gorgeous, indispensable peony must be planted in our pattern. Peonies require full sun, so we should plant a few for the center of attraction, one in each bulge of our curved section, away from the shade of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 shrubs, and we shall choose name varieties of at least a "nine'' rating, or plant only those gifts from fellow gardeners which we have seen in bloom and have found full and large flowered. Our shadier spots we shall reserve for columbines and other shade-loving plants. If we have one particularly well-shaded area, we might prepare extra rich and spongy soil and plant a bed of tuberous begonias. These beauties are a study -in themselves, too intricate to cover in an article aimed only on the plans for an outdoor living room. To our garden, now mainly perennials, we shall add a few colorful annuals: asters naturalized into the pattern to display their wealth of color among the spent perennials, large ruffled and double petunias to catch the summer sun and show their gratitude in generous bursts of color, and small dwarf petunias to cover an otherwise barren foreground. Keith Nebeker REGAL LILY YOUR OUTDOOR LIVING ROOM Castle Murphy NE essential is still missing from our garden. Come autumn we shall tuck in our bulbs—crocuses, daffodils, hyacinths, and tulips— stategically placed among the perennials to capture the first fragrance and color of spring, while the perennial plants are just getting their heads sunned and the annuals are maturing their first leaves in the seedbox. One side of our garden is planned, and we move on to the arbor. We shall plant June roses to embrace the arbor, or we may choose wisteria, ivy, trumpet, lace vines, or Virginia creepers, depending on whether we want a picture of green coolness or a display of color. On either side of the arbor, we shall confine our planting to low-growing specimens, foliage plants to keep the arbor the center of interest. 267 A BORDER OF HARMONIOUS COLOR The third side may be a rose garden, with as many varieties as our hearts and our purses dictate, and we shall curve it around to give the illusion of the other half of the circle, using a grouping of floribunda roses in one gorgeous variety to screen off the driveway, the garage wall, or any open space. We may also choose a few choice irises and tuck them in for May's sake. In one triangular corner we shall plan to set flagstones for foot-dryness and garden furniture space, where we can spend quiet reading hours, visit, or entertain the whole literature class on a lovely summer afternoon. Before we buy a plant, however, we must prepare the soil. Gardens are like babies, the better fed they are, the lovelier they look, and the less trouble they give us with various ills. We shall spade well-rotted 268 barnyard fertilizer and peat moss' generously into the soil, and add sand, if the natural soil is too heavy, or add heavier soils, if it is too sandy. We shall pulverize and level it well. We shall buy healthy plants, and we shall feed and water the garden wisely and regularly and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 learn all we can about plants, soils, and pest controls. There is magic in a garden, but it is not conjured up by waving a wand. It must be well-planned and made to respond by the vigorous application of spade, hoe, rake, hose, and pruning hooks. Still, magic at any price is wonderful! Sor David at Gaster Ouida Johns Pedersen We turned the south field back to use today.... Your thin-hipped son, in some elusive way, Resembled you, although folks often said He favored me. The turing of his head As he drove harrow discs through the dark soil May have been all. The cutting blades would toil Across the earth and back. The chuming field Having lain empty as regret, its bitter yield Reproaching me, is now fulfilled again. How fitting that across the winter's pain, The son you never lived to see has grown To trace life-giving furrows once your own, And waves of earth should lift once more to lave With vital promise, springtime and the grave. Shrough a Window Evelyn Fjeldsted Nodding blossoms drip perfume Against a misty windowpane Robins flute their evening song Through the listless, tired rain. Then clouds of snow cling to the trees That wait in vernal finery; And snow and blossom blend as one Till sun-warmth brings reality. Through a window may be seen Joy and sorrow side by side— A kinship this must seem to be Till windows closed are opened wide. From The Field General Secretary-Treas urer Margaret C. Pickering All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES «ee e ¥ del eh Se * Photograph 5 j ' submitted by Laura M. Hawkes NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION, LAKE DISTRICT, DULUTH BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY AND DISTRICT AID Seated, left to right: Ruth J. Peterson, District Aid; Marjorie Gorney, President, Duluth Branch Relief Society. Standing, left to right: Olga M. Hanson, First Counselor; Velda L. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer; Elizabeth Blalock, Second Counselor. The co-operative spirit of this branch is exemplified in the following report: "As another year comes to a close, we pause to take an inventory of our accomplishments. We realize they may seem small to those who belong to the larger organizations, elsewhere, but the benefits that each of our fourteen members has received are very numerous. The Lord has truly blessed us collectively as well as individually. We love our association, each week working together for a great cause in the service of the Lord. We go on to fulfill more fully the supreme purpose of the organization— that of spiritually upbuilding our members, through visiting teaching and strengthening our membership, and through compassionate service." Laura M. Hawkes is president of the North Central States Mission Relief Society. Page 269 270 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 Photograph submitted by Surelda C. Ralphs EMERY STAKE (UTAH), CASTLE DALE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY AWARDED PRIZES FOR "FEED BAG" EXHIBIT This exhibit was awarded first place at the Emery County Fair, and first prize at the Utah State Fair in 1952. As a prize, the Castle Dale Ward Relief Society received an electric Singer sewing machine. _ Myrle B. Johansen, President, Castle Dale Ward Relief Society, reports that the organization has ninety-eight members, and "seventy-seven members participated in the contest. One hundred eight articles were entered. They were judged according to variety, originality, workmanship, cleanliness, and method of display. We are proud of this accomplishment and are grateful for the splendid efforts of our work committee and the fine co-operation of our sisters. Hedwig Behling is chairman of the work committee." Surelda C. Ralphs is president of Emery Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Anona O. Miles MOON LAKE STAKE (UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION October 21, 1952 Front row, seated, left to right: Zella Goodrich and Sylvia Goodricn, who have achieved 100 per cent records in visiting teaching for thirty-five years; M. Verona NOTES FROM THE FIELD 271 Winkler, a visiting teacher for forty years; Mina Goodrich, who has made a record of 100 per cent visiting teaching for thirty-five years; Anona O. Miles, Stake President; Lois B. Goodrich, Second Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Lydia Hancock, an honored visiting teacher; Agnes Larsen, chorister; Mae Jackson; Alice C. Miles, Secretary-Treasurer; Clara Burton, Magazine representative; Loretta Murray, theology class leader; Edith Burton, First Counselor; Elda Pearson, social science class leader; Fannie Hill, literature class leader. Sister Anona O. Miles, Stake Relief Society President, in commenting upon the accomplishments of the visiting teachers in her stake, remarks: "Considering the distances traveled in our communities, and the hard winters we have, we feel justly proud of these sisters, and also many others who have been very faithful and have made some fine records in our stake." Photograph submitted by Thora-Halgren SAN DIEGO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) VALENCIA PARK WARD BAZAAR October 1952 Left to right: Alice Trim, work meeting leader; Sarah Todd, Work Director Counselor. Special features of this unusually successful bazaar were the many beautifully made dresses for children in various sizes, and the attractive toys. Pillowslips and luncheon sets, as well as many crocheted doilies were also displayed. Thora Halgren is president of San Diego Stake Relief Society. 272 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 Photograph submitted by Inez B. Tingey CACHE STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, November 2, 1952 Standing, back of piano, at left: Barbara F. Leatham, chorister; right, Maurine J. Turley, accompanist. This large chorus consisted of representatives from every ward in the stake, and the music was carefully selected and beautifully presented. Inez B. Tingey is president of Cache Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Lauretta Perry CEDAR STAKE (UTAH), COLLEGE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HOBBY SHOW The picture shows only a portion of the very successful hobby show. "An idea which evolved from showing the women some of the many arts and crafts that can be made, and to stimulate an interest in learning to do them, resulted in a display equal to that of a small fair. Included in the exhibit were numerous quilts, rugs, afghans, hand-painted pictures, hairpin lace, tatting, machine sewing, embroidery, and all types NOTES FROM THE FIELD 273 of hand-sewn articles. In fact, the display surpassed all of our fondest hopes in its extent, beauty, and array of talent to be found in so small a ward. "The result has been threefold: 1. The hobby show has stimulated interest in our work meetings. 2. It has given us a record of the women who may be called. Upon to teach the different arts and crafts. 3. It has given us numerous interesting things to teach in our future work meetings. "In charge of the show was ArrNita Webb, Work Director Counselor, assisted by a committee consisting of Irissa Nelson, LaVern Esplin, Velta Bentley, and Grace Yergensen." Afton P. Parry is president of Cedar Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Orah —_ Wegener - PROVO STAKE (UTAH), PROVO FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS. ELDERLY MEMBERS, September 30, 1952 Seated, left to right: Sylvia Roylance Blair, eighty-four, noted for making beautiful handwork, has served forty-five years as a visiting teacher and quilting chairman; she was greeted by her daughter-in-law, Nadine Roylance. Augusta Sward, ninety-four, eldest member present of the First Ward Relief Society, honored by her daughter, Elna Hixon; Sister Sward has served as a visiting teacher for many years. Mary Buttle, eighty-four, whose history was read by her granddaughter Alair Buttle; Sister Buttle has been counselor and president of Relief Society, each, for two different periods, and has given fifty years of service as a visiting teacher. Standing, left to right: Martha Jones, eighty-five, honored by Clara Wilson; Sister Jones served as a class leader twenty-two years and many years as a visiting teacher; she is also noted for her beautiful quilts and handwork. Mary A. Allman, eighty-two, whose history was read by her daughter Edna Bowles; Sister Allman served as a visiting teacher for many years., President Lucile Ahlander was in charge of the social, which consisted of a musical program, a special song composed by Adelene Knight, a reception, and refreshments. Four elderly sisters were not in attendance: Harriet Carter, eighty-five; Julia Anderson, ninety-one; Petrea Daniels, eighty-four; and Lenore G. Tavlor, ninety-five. Fiftysix Relief Society members were present at the social. Orah Van Wagoner is president of Provo Stake Relief Society. 274 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1953 Photograph submitted by Alice Alldredge MOAPA STAKE (NEVADA), LAS VEGAS FIFTH WARD OFFICERS AND SINGING MOTHERS AT OPENING SOCIAL, 1952 Front row, left to right: Dorothy Goshen, Magazine representative; Iva May Nullward, organist; Erma Stewart, chorister; Mary Higbee, Secretary-Treasurer; Grace Cox, Second Counselor; Emma Hayes, First Counselor; Anna Stewart, President. Back row, left to right: Marco Callister, literature class leader; Bernice Pursel; Marion Bunker; Anita DeMille; Mildred Ashworth; Earlene Isom; Ethel Davenport; Mary Ashworth, work meeting leader; Leah Huntsman, social science class leader; Winifred Plewe. The theme of this delightful opening social was "The Best Things of Life Are Free," and the program was very much enjoyed by a large number of members of this newly created ward. Alice Alldredge is president of Moapa Stake Relief Society. Recipe for Chocolate St udge Eva Carter HEE is a recipe for a large batch of chocolate fudge. It is suitable for making candy for Relief Society bazaars, or for any occasion requiring several pounds of candy. Place in a large bowl: Place in a large pot: 3 pkgs. Chocolate chips 5 cups white sugar 1 pint marshmallow whip 2 cubes butter or margarine 2 tsp. Vanilla 1 tall can milk Add nuts, if desired dab of salt Bring the second mixture (in pot) to slow boil and cook for eight minutes. Pour over first mixture (in bowl), stir quickly, and then pour into previously buttered pans. Let stand until cool. Spring Riddle Lydia Bennett Egbert A little wind, a little rain, The robins winging home again; Gay streamlets rippling through the glen, A flood of sunshine now and then; The crocus budding on the hills, A row of golden daffodils— For gardening an eager zest. My riddle, no, I think you've guessed Yes, April! > Communique Iris W. Schow I rub the soap on Kathryn's palm With cleanly zeal, but she, Thinking I clasp her hand from love, Squeezes right back to me. Now in her net of clasping hand, Tossed curls, and lifted eyes, She captures all my tenderness; I am her willing prize. Though many grand and gracious words Her curly head may yet command, Will these give her the eloquence Possessed by her small clasping hand? _- G. Reen Ynterim Lael W. Hill The green ferns curl from the skeleton leaves All warm with sun; Only the wintered spirit grieves With spring begun. The green ferns rise into warmth and light Of April dawn— Only the lost heart seeks a night Already gone. TWO PART SACRED CHORUSES for RELIEF SOCIETY SINGERS _— Beside Still Waters—Hamblen _.........$.16 a. Bless This House—Brahe.....................16 —_ Children's Friend—Adams..................15 a= Father, We Thank Thee—Hurlburt......20 a3 God Is Ever Beside Me—DeRose.......20 —_ God Painted A Picture—DeRose......20 ». It Was For Me—Frisby....................15 = On the Highway to Galilee— Dulmage.........--.----.--------00--eeeeeeeeeee 15 = Rest For the Weary—Hamblen.........18 = When Children Pray—Fenner............18 WE PAY POSTAGE Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement on your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah ' i] | Please send postpaid the music indicated | above. H [1 On Approval OJ Charge t 0 Money Enclosed \ \ Da FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY nes MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Page 275 Shose Yesterdays Grace M. Candland se the twilight of life approaches, we may desire to turn back the pages of time to our earlier years, as we scan the pieces of tapestry we have woven. We may emphasize the mistakes, the disappointments, stress the unfulfilled dreams and _ plans, and then allow the sly elf of regret to cast its shadow over the whole scene. This is sheer folly, for we cannot change the past. To brood over it only robs us of that peace of mind that should be ours now, and which can be if we will it to be true, if we live each day as we wish we had lived in past days. We may immerse ourselves in the business at hand and make each day a profitable and pleasant unit of the program we have planned. Home and family duties were once our chief concern. Many of us had little time for the cultural arts or the wonders of nature just outside our door and beyond.. Now, many of those home tasks have been lifted from our shoulders, and we may cultivate a new, clearer vision to watch the glory of a summer sunset, the majesty of a gull in flight, the graceful curve of the plowshare as it turns the brown earth for seedtime, the craftmanship of the oriole's nest, the message of a ripening cornfield, and the beauty of a frosted pane. These individual and personal appreciations enrich our own lives, but it is the more practical side of life that gives a woman real joy—the chance to serve humanity according to her strength and abilities and according to the opportunities afforded by her environment. - There are countless ways in which an older or middle-aged woman can render valuable help. Her field of service may well reach beyond her own home and family, her personal friends and associates. Her "neighbors," are those who need her and-whom she can serve. One woman made herself indispensable to an aged couple by writing letters for them to their native land, assisting them in business matters which they could not 'solve. She wrote the story of their lives and prepared genealogical sheets and family records. An hour of reading for an invalid brought a rich reward in gratitude to her. Loaves of homemade bread for the family of a stricken mother won a place in their hearts. In nearly every community there are young mothers trying to care for their small children without the help or advice of an older woman. "Substitute" mothers and grandmothers would be welcome visitors in many homes, where their experience and their kindness might help to lift some of the burdens that young mothers carry. A voluntary baby tender might occasionally bring needed rest or relaxation to a tired mother kept too close to her numerous responsibilities. Now, as spring and summer bring their garden gifts to us, there is a wide field for sharing. Someone has asked, "How can there be loneliness or sadness in a garden?" Last summer a neighbor of mine made corsages for all the Relief Society visiting teachers for their convention. The corsages were made of different flowers, as exquisite and perfect in design as those a florist might arrange. A background of matching ribbon completed the lovely creations. Forever wide is the field of service, unlimited the need for attention and love. And who is better qualified to make others happy than the woman who has known problems and has solved many of them, and whose hands know the ways of tender care? Page 276 Bathroom Sricks MATCHING Elizabeth W ASHCLOTHS Williamson Embroider washcloths to match design motifs of your bathroom accessories. For example: A small flower motif from the wallpaper, a shell from the shower curtain, a leaf from the drapes. This ties together the design and color scheme of your bathroom, making a more pleasing all-over effect. Night Fashions Grace Barker Wilson Night comes in formal gown Of chiffon darkness, Trimmed with silver lace of clouds; And over all a mantle Of star-spangled mist. Ae Plea Catherine E. Berry Oh, let the spring come late this year, I cannot bear to see The loveliness that April wears When you're not here with me. How can I face each twilight's silver glow The sweet awakening of earth, When I can never go Down lilac fragrant lanes and find You waiting by the gate; My lonely heart is winter-walled.... Oh, let the spring come late. <i THE HAMMOND ORGAN "MUSIC'S MOST GLORIOUS VOICE" If you love beautiful music— would like to play it yourself, we urge you to call at our stere and receive the surprise of your life, when you find how easy it is to learn on this marvelous organ. It is Equally Lovely in the @ Home @ Church @ School FULL INFORMATION ON REQUEST Write to Seldon N. Heaps GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. SALT LAKE 74 So. Main Page 277 OGDEN PROVO Learn To Sew! 16 hours $800 instruction New classes begin each week. Phone Miss Williams, or visit Sears Sewing Center on the second floor — arrange to enroll right away. Eight 2-hour classes. Ay PHONE 5-6651 =' Ext. 248 SEARS, 754 So. State Salt Lake City PEEBLES DPE BPE OES DEES DER Join the Sociable Group Leaving For a Spring Tour to HAWAII (Personally Conducted) Sail From Los Angeles May 4, 1953 THE LOVELIEST MONTH IN THE ISLANDS Early Reservations Important also HISTORIC TRAIN which leaves July 31st for The Great Pageant at the Hill Cumorah and other Church Shrines For detailed information write or telephone... VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone 4-2017 or 5-9388 PHS BPESOPHIS OPES OPES BPE OPH Page 278 Our April Short Story Writers Angelyn W. Wadley, Providence, Utah, tells us that "The Bitter Cup," page 221, is pure fiction, "but is an attempt to portray a little of the emotional adjustment of active people who must suddenly learn to live with a physical handicap. It was an attack of polio four years ago which drastically changed the course of my own life and greatly reduced my activity, but this has given me time I would not have had otherwise to make a hobby of writing. I particularly enjoy writing stories and verse for children, since I have such an appreciative young audience at home. My husband, Dr. Bryce N. Wadley, is Associate Plant Pathologist with the Utah State Agricul- | tural Experiment Station, Logan, Utah. Before my marriage I was director of homemaking education with the Utah State Department of Education." Several of Mrs. Wadley's stories have appeared in The Relief Society Magazine. Ruth M. Ostegar, author of "Our Own," page 230, expresses her love for Relief Society and tells us about her writing and her family: "First of all, I love the Relief Society and have served in almost every capacity of it, over the years. At present, I am teaching the theology lessons, which, to me, is the best job of all. When it comes to writing—I have inherited the urge to write from my mother, and I keep plugging along. I was born in Arizona and educated as a schoolteacher. I decided to make marriage a career, however, when I became the wife of Oliver C. Ostegar, who is now F. H. A. Valuator for the Nevada District. Our marriage has been one of great happiness, and we recently fulfilled a fulltime mission to Denmark, after which we toured Northem Europe." Velma D. Cloward, Turlock, California, author of "Pot-Head Kettle," page 241, was born in Kanosh, Utah, where her parents were pioneers of the region. She was married at the age of fifteen and is the mother of seven children and grandmother to twenty. Her life has been beset by many problems, but OUR APRIL SHORT STORY WRITERS crowned with much happiness. "Fifteen years ago," she writes, "nty husband was crippled in an accident which has kept him in a wheelchair or on crutches until the last five years. Faced with a crippled husband and a family to support, and being deaf myself, well, it was not easy.... We started a store in our home. With his ears and my legs, we made one good clerk. The novel I started long ago as a hobby has been accepted for publication, provided I can revise it to suit the publishers. I expect to have it out this coming year." Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, author of ""The Lasting Joys," page 249, is the wife of Reid W. Young, and the | mother of four sons, ranging in age, she says, "from a Cub Scout to a toddler." Although she is a comparatively new writer, Mrs. Young is already well known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine, who have enjoyed her stories: "We Are So Busy," (March 1949); "That Monson Kid" (April 1950); "A Star Is Shining" (November 1950); "Polly Played for Keeps" (June 1951); "A Vacation for Mother" (July 1951); and "A Tribute to Miss Tracy" (May 1952). Her poem "Shine Softly Stars" was awarded first prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest last year, and her poem "Goodbye to Her Son," was awarded second prize in this year's contest. She is an active member of the League of Utah Writers. Mrs. Young writes: "I love Relief Society, and I teach the social science lessons in our ward (Gardenview) in the East Jordan Stake. I write for the joy it brings me. But if anything I have written has afforded enjoyment ot happiness to anyone, I am deeply grateful." Day Fades Olive McHugh Frail flower of dusk, Wan, yet so softly light, You tempt my groping hand To grasp and hold you tight; But as I reach, Your beauty to possess, Color and witchery alike Evanesce. 279 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos KNABE The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built ——— All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Preserve Your Relief Society Magazines For Reference Have your Relief Society Magazines bound into permanent yearly volumes. They are excellent for reference. Cost is small. Write or phone today for information. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. 7-70) Salt Lake City, Utah 4-2581 From lear and Shar.. The February Relief Society Magazine has refreshed my mind and spirit many times. A school of nursing classmate (who became a member of your Church) sends me the Magazine. I read and enjoy its pages a few days, then send it to a young mother in Idaho. In the February issue I am made more universal in heart, looking into the face of the Taos Indian photograph by Hal Rumel. Because I make rugs, I am especially tender towards Ethel Hoppers "My Hearth Rug" (page 88). Thank Grace Sayre for the beauty of her "Old Couple" (page 115). You women know the gracious charm of living in a radiant present. While my name will never be on your ecclesiastical lists, I am always with you in spirit, as you work for better people and a better world. —Winnogene Penney Harpold Placerville, California I would like to express how much I enjoy the Magazine and look forward to it every month. There are so many wonderful lessons and stories. I: love the beautiful poems. —Mrs. Dale E. Lincoln Sunnyvale, California It is impossible for Relief Society workers not to be friends, Magazine workers included. I do enjoy our little Magazine. One big reason I do enjoy it so much is because it is small and easy to handle, and not too heavy for a tired, sick person to handle, and therefore enjoy over and over again. I am not particular about which article or story—each is best in its turn, though I do especially enjoy the visits of others on the last page —'From Near and Far." I cannot remember when my mother did not have the Magazine. She served as an agent for many years and sent the Magazine to me soon after my marriage and I, in turn, made a birthday gift of it to my married daughter. My boys enjoy every issue of the Magazine, and to me it is a true friend in a lonely time when I must spend most of my time in bed with a heart ailment. —Mrs. Thomas Menlove Payson, Utah Page 280 I have received many letters and phone calls regarding my story "The Summer Kitchen" (January 1953), telling me how many memories it brought to people of the things that used to be. I am glad it brought enjoyment and seemed so true, for, while I made up the plot, the pictures were true. I love the Magazine and am always happy to read. —Mary C. Martineau Pocatello, Idaho Something nice to pass on. Our boy Jimmy, eleven years old, memorized and recited today before his reading class Sylvia Probst Young's poem '"'Goodbye to Her Son" (January 1953, second prize poem, page 16). His teacher was so impressed that she had him recite it in five different classes. She stated that it was the most beautiful Lincoln poem she had ever heard. These are my sentiments also. All the teachers requested a copy. Could -you please pass this lovely praise and good news on to Sister Young. I'm sure it would make her very happy. Oh, the joy and good things that come to us through The Relief Society Magazine. It is priceless. Jimmy is the only Latterday Saint boy in his school. —Florence N. Shaffer Cedar Rapids, Iowa I wish to express the very great pleasure I obtain from reading the Magazine. I find many things which give me pleasure and inspiration and the material is a fine source for spiritual talks that all of us are often called upon to make. I hope that I shall be able to bring these fine messages into more homes in our ward through my work as Magazine representative. —Emma Jane Clark La Crescenta, California I hate to miss even one of the Magazine. It is so wonderful and has been an inspiration to me ever since I joined the Relief Society when I was only twenty vears old, forty-four years ago. —Mrs. Mary C. Evans Monticello, Utah A BETTER HOME = GARDEN ——~© CAN BE YOURS. =< >. Better Homes & Gardens Cook Book Lae world's most popular looseleaf recipe book, containing over 2500 recipes, with sections on table decoration, nutrition, meal-planning, and food economy techniques. Regular edition $2.95 $3 95 2. Better Homes & Gardens Garden Book Here is a year-round guide to practical home gardening. Fully illustrated with step-by-step pictures and_ sketches, it contains 20 sections covering such topics as Pe? Lot planning, care of annuals and perennials, and shade trees, to name a few. $3 95 3. Better Homes & Gardens Baby Book Fully illustrated and indexed for easy reference, this valuable book details prenatal care for mother, child-care guidance through the sixth year, and how to solve $2 95 training and behavior problems.. 4. The Wise Handbook of Knitting and Crocheting Miriam M. Peake Simple, easy-to-follow instructions and '"'how-todo-it" illustrations show you how to knit and crochet myriad items of wearing apparel and handicraft. Complete details for 85 major pattern stitches. $2.98 os New Joy of Cooking Irma Rombauer and Marion Becker Contains 400 recipes, 150 drawings. The allpurpose cook book. $3 95 6. Popular Home Decoration Mary Davis Gillies Be your own decorator with this handy guide yocigned for homes from $5,000 to $25, 000 $4.95 DESERET BOOK COMPANY, Dept. RSA 44 East South Temple, Sait Lake City, Utah Please send me the following books: 1 2 3 4 5 6 for which {i enclose check [] or money order [] for Order a Conveniently a City... State Please enclose 12c postage for first book, 4c for each by Mal | a U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 Why change — the milk they thrive on? It is a wise mother who knows as her physician knows — that Sego Evaporated Milk, the same good milk that nourishes her child in infancy, is good milk to drink all through life! Your children who have grown strong and sturdy on Sego Milk are accustomed to this good milk... To its taste and nutriment... And they readily accept it as a delicious milk to drink! And it's easy to prepare! Just pour a tall can of Sego Milk into a quart jar, add water to almost full, and chill to refreshing beverage temperature. Yes, Sego Milk is so good for your children after weaning because of its unfailing sterility, easy digestibility, and low cost. FREE TO YOU! A handy, 64-page book that makes it easier to care for and train your baby. WOMOceN Approved by a well-known doctor. Send for your free copy today. LK. | Address: Sego Milk Co., Dept. R-1, Salt Lake City, Utah 10 a! Taw 9 IWCREASED,, its wy 'Reomasmutie quae! # ° SY waar senens. « NOU VOL 40 NO 5 MAY 1953," A Place Apart Dorothy ]. Roberts I have seen blossoms—billows of blossoms; and high White ceilings of them in the palaces of May; I have walked their undulant carpets beneath the boughs And watched petals depart on their leisurely way. I have known their soaring burst of glory in the wood; I have seen spring's blossoms... And understood. Blooming orchards hang, an arras in my thought— Seas and seasons of them, repeated in design On the filmy fabric of memory; flowing streamers Of blossoms; acred slopes in diagonal line; Polkadotted valleys of them; and one single tree; A million-stamened, shimmering Pottawattamie. Spring's blossoms on a branch, in love and child, These in their pristine purity were mine. The. Scented breakers of their glory roll Upon the desert reaches, over steepest stone, To strew celestial emblems on a place apart And print their samite promise in my heart. The Cover: "Yucca Blossoms," Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece: "'Blossomtime Near Los Altos, California," Photograph by Jeff Thomson Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Near and Sar I express my thanks and appreciation for the high quality material offered in. Our Relief Society Magazine. I live in the mission field and am so proud to display our Magazine and talk with non-member friends about it. I have very much enjoyed the series of articles on early American Glass (by Alberta H. Christensen). Both the history and the pictures are most interesting. Please publish more articles of this sort to help educate the sisters to appreciate more fully this art. I also want to thank you for the wonderful lessons. —Mrs. Warren F. Wilhite North Little Rock, Arkansas This morning I read the fine editorial in the March number of The Relief Society Magazine (Dwight D. Eisenhower Inaugurated President of the United. States) and am very thrilled with it. You have said the very things I wanted to say, and given the exact information I need to have, to enter in our Stake Relief Society History. —Clara Home Park San Mateo, California After reading the article "Fisher Towers" in The Relief Society Magazine for August 1952, by Celia Luce, I visited the area which she so vividly described and found a remarkable example of nature's sculpture work in colors of great beauty, and turrets and towers of majestic height, revealing more of the wonders of the Colorado River country. —Victor J. Nelson Holladay, Utah The entire May Magazine is packed with beauty and worth from the daffodils (frontispiece photograph) — symbols of the resurrection of spring, to the last page. My heart sings its gratitude. I must also mention the beauty of concept and imagery in "A Tribute to Visiting Teachers" (frontispiece poem by Alberta H. Christensen). In review, on the film of my mind, I saw my own sainted mother driving her horse and buggy. I remembered all of the women who have left their blessing in my home. —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho Page 282 The Magazine is simply wonderful. I love every issue. Whenever it arrives I put it on my bedside table and read it as my time and strength will permit each night until I have read it from cover to cover. When we visited my grandmother, Mrs. Emma J. Jesperson, in Duchesne, Utah, last year, we found her reading The Relief Society Magazine. She was then ninety years old. —Mrs. Eugene K. Mangum, Casa Grande, Arizona I have just started receiving The Reliet Society Magazine and enjoy it very much. My mother subscribed to it for me, and I certainly appreciate and enjoy it very much, The articles on homemaking are very helpful to me, since I have not been married very long and just have a new son. —Moena Stonehocker Moscow, Idaho It took missing one number to awaken me to how much the Magazine means in our home. We are lost without it. I enjoy the poetry and the wholesome fiction as well as the messages of our leaders and the lesson material. With six small children, and living eight miles from meetings, on a road not used often and not in good repair, the Magazine often has to substitute for Relief Society meetings. I need and use the household helps in trying to be a better wife and mother. May God bless you in your continued good work of putting out such a fine Magazine. —Rachel Woodruff Grassy Lake, Alberta, Canada The series of articles on "Adventure in Glass" by Alberta H. Christensen were a fine contribution to The Relief Society Magazine. This came home definitely when I heard a talk on "Old Glass" at the University. This talk was more interesting and meant much more after reading the articles by Mrs. Christensen. I appreciate such informative articles and would like to see more of this type. —Alice T. Nelson Salt Lake City, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First-Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - _ Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Blanche B. Stoddar Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Josie B. Ba Mary S. Boyer Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Edith S. Elliott Mary J. Wilson Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Florence J. Madsen Lillie C. Adams Nellie W. Neal Winniefred S. Leone G. Layton Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring Elna P. Haymond: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - = - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 40 MAY 1953 No. 5 Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES Ten Conditions Which Contribute to a Happy Home: David O. McKay 284 The Purposefulness of Life W. Cleon Skousen 286 The Coronation of a Beloved Queen oii. CsoessoecuesseesseeseeeseececeneeseesoeeseesseesneeeeRamona W. Cannon 291 Travel Highlights—Highway in Venezuela onic eececccscccecceeseesceeeeeseeeseesees eee. Elizabeth Williamson 321]. FICTION Sweetpeas Lois E. Forkner 298 A Time to Forget—Chapter 11 Fay Tarlock 306 Lucky Two Shoes Frances C. Yost 316 Karren Blanche M. Hollingsworth 320 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 282 Sixty Years Ago 300 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 301 Editorial: ''The Song. Of the Righteous'' Marianne C. Sharp 302 In Memoriam—Emma Adams Empey Magazine Subscriptions for 1952 Marianne C. Sharp 322 The Magazine Honor Roll for 1952 326 FEATURES FOR THE HOME The Stranger in My Garden Alice Whitson Norton 310 By Early Candlelight—IV. A Pioneer Bedroom Bonnie A. Kesler 313 Tricks With Flour Sacks Leona Bammes Gardner 319 POETRY A Place Apart—Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts 281 After the Feast Iris W. Schow 289 Insight Marjorie L. Hafen 297 My Monier Mary Hess Hackney 303 The Pepper Tree Alice Morrey Bailey 304 One Shining Day: Josephine J. Harvey 305 A Mother's Debt Christie Lund Coles 312 The Little Gray Horse Katherine F. Larsen 315 Web of Words Margery S. Stewart 319 My Wish for You Bernice T. Clayton 358 Mother Emily Carey Alleman 358 About Flowers Elaine Swain 358 A Humming Bird Evelyn Fijeldsted 359 Sea Call Catherine E. Berry 359 Silenced Eva Willes Wangsgaard 360 Spring Bride = Hannah C. Ashby 360 Gift Divine Maxine H. Holbrook 360 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Courtesy Deseret News PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY AND SISTER EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY Jen Conditions Which Contribute to a Happy Home President David O. McKay (From an Address Delivered at the Dedication of the South Idaho Falls Stake and Eighth Ward Chapel, at Idaho Falls, Idaho, December 7, 1952) 1. Ever keep in mind you begin to lay the foundation of a happy home in your pre-marital lives. While in courtship you should learn to be loyal and true to your future husband or wife. Keep yourselves clean and pure. Cherish the highest ideals of chastity and purity. Do not be deceived. Page 284 2. Choose your mate by judgment and inspiration, as well as by physical attraction. Intellect and breeding are vital and important in the human family.. 3. Approach marriage with the lofty view it merits. Marriage is ordained of God. It is not something to be entered into lightly or to be dissolved at the first difficulty that arises. We have in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the highest concept of marriage that exists in the world—the eternal nature of the marriage covenant. 4. Remember that the noblest purpose of marriage is procreation. Home is children's natural nursery. Happiness in the home is enhanced by having children at the fweside. 5. Let the spirit of reverence pervade the home. Have your home such that if the Savior called unexpectedly he could be invited to stay and not feel out of his element. Pray in the home. 6. Let husband or wife never speak in loud tones to each other. 7. Learn the value of self-control. We are never sorry for the word unspoken. Lack of self-control is the greatest source of unhappiness in the home. Children should be taught selfcontrol, self-respect, and respect for others. 8. Fasten home ties by continued companionship. Companionship fosters love. Do everything to cement love for all eternity. 9. Make accessible to children, proper literature and music. 10. By example and precept, encourage participation in Church activity. This is fundamental in developing a true character. Church activity should be led, not directed by parents. Page 285 The Purposefulness of Life W. Cleon Skousen Director of Alumni and Public Services, Brigham Young University [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 1, 1952] here this morning and to catch the spirit of this occasion. I think that in this coming year, as we approach the subjects which Brother Joseph Fielding Smith has set forth in his book The Progress of Man, we will find that the social science lessons will give additional purposefulness to our lives. In fact, I believe the main objective of these lessons is to help us understand that we are part of a great program. 'These are days in which there are many voices abroad in the earth, and the ones we listen to are the ones we will probably follow. We have to discriminate not only in what we read, but in what we are willing to listen to and accept. Our objective is to find out those things which will make for longrange enjoyment, understanding, and appreciation. It is most important that every member of the Relief Society understands the purposefulness of what the Church is trying to do. Up in Idaho, down on some lonely farm in Nevada, out in the glamor capital of California, here in Utah, or back in the shadows of the skyscrapers of New York, you may become very discouraged. You may forget that there is purposefulness in it all. You may feel overwhelmed by what you are asked to do—to rear children, to be a loving companion to a husband, to Page 286 Ay HIS is a great privilege to be mend overalls, nurse the sick, cut hair, bathe a flock of little people, go Relief Society teaching, teach in Primary, put up some fruit, do the housework, and then have somebody say, "Won't you take a little time out and read some good literature?" But there is purposefulness in all of this, and we must not get so overwhelmed that we begin to feel within ourselves that it is just too big for us to handle; because it isn't. All of you here are to be congratulated because you are in the graduate school of the Church. It is not just anyone who can be a Relief Society officer. Only those who have learned how to gear their thinking and their living and their personal discipline to a very high order, are able to take on the responsibilities of service and love and devotion which typify our Relief Society officers. _ When the early saints moved from New York to Kirtland, Ohio, they were instructed to build a temple in their poverty. They succeeded because they knew the Lord had said that this was the thing to do. Purposefulness gave them courage. When the saints went from Kirtland down into Missouri where only the fringes of civilization existed, those people went there with courage and happy expectation, because the Lord had said this was to be the future center stake of Zion. THE PURPOSEFULNESS OF LIFE Purposefulness was in every brick they put in every wall, and every spadeful of dirt they turned over. But then, when the glory of Zion was postponed temporarily, and these saints went back to Nauvoo, the Lord guided them with purposefulness again. What those faithful men and women accomplished in Nauvoo remains a monument to this day. Later, when Brigham Young started West with the saints, there were some who did not really believe, so they stayed behind and left the kingdom. Why? They had lost the vision of purposefulness in the Church. But Brigham Young was not discouraged. When they started for the Rocky Mountains, he knew the voice of prophecy was in it (Widtsoe, John A., Evidences and Reconciliations, page 300). He had a vision concerning it which verified the words of Joseph Smith when he said the saints would "become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains" (Teachings of Joseph Smith, page 255). WHEN the pioneers got out here they started building this world-famous: Tabernacle and a. Magnificent Temple. There was purposefulness in every hammerstroke on every chisel. Each and every hour of labor that was put into these structures had design and purposefulness behind it. There was not anything temporary about it— there was design. And so it is today, there is no single act of virtue, industry, or goodness that we do in building the kingdom of our day that does not 287 have its place in developing that plan which our Heavenly Father anticipated, foreordained, and _prescribed before the foundations of this earth were laid. That is why Nephi could say: "The Lord knoweth all things from the beginning" (I Nephi 9:6) and that is why Enoch could be shown "All the inhabitants of the earth" even before they lived (Moses 7:21-67). That is why the vision of Adam could be opened so that he might see our day and generation, as well as every age from the time of Adam until the very end of the earth (See D. & C. 107:56). There is engineering back of it all. There are some people who say it is impossible for God to so plan, that he could not know what people are going to do; that he could not know what nations are going to do. But our Heavenly Father might reply: Will you have confidence in me? I do know what you are going to do—just as any parent comes to know what his children will do. I know you better than you know yourselves. You have forgotten who you are, but I know who you are. I have lived with you and loved you and nurtured you through the eons of the past. That is why I can anticipate and predict what you will do. He might also add: Some of my children will struggle against me and will try to build inferior bridges across the chasms of earth life; they must learn their lessons. Their bridges will crash into the abyss below. But some of my other children will follow me in building a superstructure which will be a bridge between the second estate and a glorious kingdom of eternal life. These are my Priesthood, these are my saints, these are they who possess the light I 288 have set upon the hill to give inspiration to all the earth. Up to now everything that I told you was going to happen has happened. There was a flood. In the meridian of time my Son did come. On this, the American Continent, I did establish my kingdom and had my Son visit these "other sheep"; and for two hundred years there was a golden age of peace and prosperity. I told Nephi nearly six hundred years before the birth of my Son that there would be a great Gentile nation raised up on this land in the last days, and I told him that it would become the greatest nation on the face of the earth in its day and time. (See 1 Nephi 22:7; also 3 Nephi, chapters 27 and 29). That prophecy was only fulfilled in recent years. Nevertheless, it was fulfilled. Today this nation stands with over half of the world's developed wealth. Of all nations that exist, it is the richest and the one that enjoys the things that all of the rest of the world would like to have. NOW: paraphrasing the scripture, the Lord has this to say to the people of America: I want to warn you. I can only have freedom in this land if you live for it. I want you to understand that you have two choices, and the people in this land will choose one road or the other. If you will sustain righteousness in my kingdom, if you will remain morally clean, if you will acknowledge my existence, if you will kneel on your knees and ask me to bless you, if you will not cheat nor lie, nor steal, and if you will rear your children to be righteous citizens before me, you will live on this land forever, which is the land given unto Joseph and his seed. And, my children, I warn you that if you will allow crime, murder, and deceit, immorality, and degeneracy to come into your midst, I will scourge you with the same people by whom I scourged the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Nephites. And if it becomes so bad that you are ripened in iniquity, you will be cut off from the face of this land as were the ancient peoples who desecrated this choice part of the earth which I set apart for those who would live truth and righteousness and freedom. (See 2 Nephi, chapter 1.) In our social science course, Brother Joseph Fielding Smith has brought these scriptures together so that we might understand that we are part of a great plan, that we are in the last days, that we are in the closing part of the sixth act in a seven-act drama. And everything we do every day is important. Every act of service, every word we speak to our children, every meeting we attend is important. And the members of the Priesthood beyond the veil—the angels of the living God— are watching this congregation today. They are watching us for that spark of inspiration, initiative, and drive that will go out and do the work that God has to have done to accomplish his purposes and his objectives in these the last days. There are going to be days of stress, and our Heavenly Father says when it happens, that we should not allow ourselves to be frightened. His purposes will not fail. To his modern children he throws out this challenge: "Will you speak up for right, will you speak up for truth, will you speak up for freedom?" Some of our people say, "Is it really necessary to speak up? Why not just mind our own business and let the world take care of itself?" Let me quote from the 6oth section of the Doctrine and Covenants, where the Lord says: But with some I am not well pleased, for they will not open their mouths, but THE PURPOSEFULNESS OF LIFE they hide the talent which I have given unto them, because of the fear of man. Wo unto such, for mine anger is kindled against them. And it shall come to pass, if they are not more faithful unto me, it shall be taken away, even that which they have. For I, the Lord, rule in the heavens above, and among the armies of the earth; and in the day when I shall make up my jewels, all men shall know what it is that bespeaketh the power of God (D. & C. 60:2-4). To you teachers, may I pass that on as a word of comfort. When your heart trembles within you, your Heavenly Father says, "Speak up. Someone has to do it and, if you will try, then I will see what I can do to help you.": Great events are happening in the earth, nations will be crushed, and there will be circumstances to try our faith. To tell our people what 289 to expect is part of the responsibility of the teachers in the social science field. We must help our sisters and their husbands and their children to stand firm, and know that God is in his heaven and that his purposefulness will be effectively consummated here upon the earth. May God bless you all in your endeavors, whatever they may be, in this great society. The day will come when all humanity at the judgment bar of God will look upon you with affection and appreciation because you are those who are graduates in this course of human _ life and experience, and you are they who have learned to make your lives more profitable unto the many millions who have passed this way. So do not be discouraged. Be of good cheer and do a good work. God bless you to that end, I pray. >< After the Feast Iris W. Schow Some things that seem eternal cannot last: The shrill, exultant cries—"I climbed... I see. Why is the mother robin after me? I did not touch... Why do they eat so fast?" The yards of thread that were Arachne-cast In endless damming, underneath the tree The pillow turning done indulgently In time to treasured tales out of the past. After the feast, one must not call for more, Though well-loved tasks that paled on love a bit Are missed, once they have ceased to be diurnal. One has no key when time has locked the door And pointed onward toward that infinite Where life, that seemed so frail, shall prove eternal. eM Courtesy, British Information Services QUEEN ELIZABETH II Elizabeth is wearing the diamond and pearl circlet of Queen Victoria. The design incorporates the Tudor rose, Scotch thistle, and Irish shamrock. The Queen is also wearing the diamond necklace which was a wedding gift from the Nizam of Hyderabad, and a bracelet given her by her husband, the Duke of Edinburgh. The Coronation of a Beloved Queen Ramona W. Cannon O Latter-day Saints residing in the British Isles, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa, the crowning of Elizabeth II as Queen of England on June 2, 1953, holds deep signifcance. Since the coronation of a King or Queen of England consists of pageantry and rites dating back many centuries, people throughout the world are keenly interested in the observance; and in this day of emancipation for women, the crowning of a queen to rule such vast domains takes on added interest to women everywhere. The Coronation Day of Queen Elizabeth will be long remembered; on June 2d, an estimated two million people will line the procession route to Westminster Abbey, where the crown will be placed on the head of the lovely young Queen. There will be some noticeable differences, however, between this coronation and that of Elizabeth's father, George VI, and her grandfather, George V. The parade will be long and magnificent. The military might of empire will move in faultless precision, wearing colorful, varied uniforms: scarlet and white—the Beefeaters' neck ruffs and skirted coats—the tall bearskin headdresses of the Scots Guards, the kilts of the Queen's Own Cameron Highlanders. A forest of lances will gleam in the sunlight with great splendor and hidden threat. Lithe, clear-skinned Canadian Mounties will go by on their prancing steeds, and everyone will be stirred by the music of the bagpipes and the wonderful bands. All eyes will be centered on the elaborately decorated gold State Coach, drawn by eight handsome grays, which will convey Her Majesty to the Abbey. However, the years between the last three coronations have seen the changes of the march of time. There will be fewer crowned heads flashing their diadems, decorations, and jeweled sword scabbards, for royalty is diminishing. In the procession of George V, the potentates of India, with jewelstudded turbans and exquisite aigrettes, seated on horses with gemencrusted trappings, formed one of the most magnificent contingents. Spectators will never forget the beauty and the sleekness of the great numbers of horses in the sunshine, their arch-necked, high-stepping rhythm, so controlled that the creatures might have been sculptured. Horses were far fewer in George VI's procession, and for the Queen's procession, it was necessary to send out a special call to purchase more horses. In spite of this, more peers and civil servants will drive in cars than will ride in carriages. People will watch the long parade Page 29] 292 from upholstered seats, grandstands, or planks, built into every available space: among the grouped chimney pots on the roofs, in office and shop windows, and in all possible street spaces. Seats are selling at from $10 to $200 apiece. Lamp posts are being greased this time, so climbers may not nest in their upper reaches. Great numbers of spectators will stand most of the night or, if lucky, they will sit on newspapers on sidewalks, on bases of monuments, or on plots of grass. But before the parade commences, they will all be standing crowded against each other almost too close for breathing. Many will see only what their periscopes (small mitrors on the end of long sticks which are held high overhead) reflect. Yet, when the Queen passes, all will be bursting with enthusiasm and proud to the very core of their beings. S a part of the celebration of the crowning of King George V, June 22, 1911, on Coronation Eve, the great actor Sir Beerbohm Tree gave a remarkable performance in a London theater, as Cardinal Woolsey in Shakespeare's King Henry the Eighth. Inserted into the play was a scene in which he crowned Anne Boleyn, Henry's new wife, Queen of England in an exact replica of the coronation to take place in the Abbey on the morrow. By royal permission, part of the actual regalia was used, and the rest, even to the coronation robes of the peers, peeresses, and the Queen, were exact duplicates of the originals. This is the nearest a section of the public came to seeing the coronation ceremony at that time. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 However, when George VI was crowned, millions of Americans turned on their radios in the dead of night to hear an on-the-spot description of the procession to the Abbey and the solemn crowning ceremony itself. More marvelous still, on June 2, 1953, Americans and others who have access to television may be eyewitnesses to the unique and sacred ceremony of crowning an English sovereign, except for the anointing ceremony, which will not be televised because of its sacred character. A little pre-coronation knowledge will help us all the more to appreciate this symbolical and historic ceremony. Elizabeth will be the thirty-ninth British monarch to be crowned in Westminster Abbey, the building of which was begun in 1050 by Edward the Confessor, who lies buried there. Preparations for coronation week have been underway ever since February 8, 1952, when Elizabeth, called home from East Africa by the death of her father, arrived in London by air and was formally proclaimed Queen. A triple fanfare of trumpets signalled her accession. In a ceremony dating back to the days of chivalry, a medieval-clad figure read the proclamation from the balcony of St. James' Palace. The throngs sang "God Save the Queen"; artillery salutes boomed; and a clattering procession of heralds announced the news. To her councillors, Elizabeth, at that time, said.... I shall always work... To uphold constitutional government and to advance the happiness and prosperity of my THE CORONATION OF A BELOVED QUEEN Courtesy, British Information Services HISTORIC CROWN OF ST. EDWARD AND THE IMPERIAL STATE CROWN 293 The Crown of St. Edward (left) is made of "massy" gold, encrusted with diamonds, sapphires, emeralds, and pearls. And Independence. The two central arches symbolize Heredity The Imperial State Crown (right) with the arches slanting upwards, is an insigne of empire. In the center of the band is the 317-carat Culinan II diamond, the second largest diamond in the world. Above this diamond is the great ruby of the Black Prince. In the cross at the top of the monde (world) is Edward the Confessor's famous sapphire. The arches and clusters are diamond oak leaves and pearl acorns. Peoples.... I pray that God will hel me to discharge worthily this heavy tas which has been laid upon me so early in life. OR a coronation, the British crown jewels are removed, under heavy insurance, from the armored-glass enclosure in the Tower of London where they are kept, and are exhibited to the public. There are sixty or more pieces in the collection, which has been valued at $80,000,000. Preparing them for a coronation is a threemonths job. Every stone must be removed, cleaned, polished, and reset. Among the most important articles is the historic solid "massy" gold Crown of St. Edward encrusted with diamonds, sapphires, emeralds, and pearls so heavy that it is worn by the sovereign for a few moments only, and never again in life. The Imperial State Crown, made for Victoria's coronation, will probably be the one Elizabeth will use for the remainder of the ceremony. The priceless Koh-i-noor is also 294 a crown jewel, as are the rulers' scepters, the four jeweled swords, and 'the King's and Queen's Orbs, richly gemmed and topped by crosses, signifying Christianity surmounting the globe. The golden eagle ampulla, a two-handled vase for holy oil, will be used. The head of the eagle unscrews; then the oil is poured into a golden spoon for the anointing. This part of the ceremony is reminiscent of the anointing of the kings of Israel by prophets and priests. Seven thousand guests and participants will see the ceremony in the Abbey, the presence of the peers being commanded by the Queen. Galleries and blocks of seats have been built wherever possible, nineteen-inches of seating space being allowed for a peer, eighteen for a commoner. Naves and transepts will be filled, and with the coronets, tiaras, necklaces, coronation robes with ermine, the Abbey will appear as a great jewel-glittering, erminetrimmed cross. There is a raised platform for the monarch, with the chair of estate and footstool near the altar for the anointing, the coronation chair a little farther away, and in the center of the platform, an elevated throne for the enthronization. The first step of the ceremony is the Recognition. The sovereign, in coronation robe, with cape of ermine, and suitably accompanied, enters from an anteroom and is presented to the people in all four directions by the Archbishop of Canterbury. The people cry "Long live the Queen!" four times, amid a flourish of trumpets and the beating of drums. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 The Queen is then seated in the chair of estate near the altar, where the Archbishop administers the Oath to her, and, after promising to "govern according to the statutes in Parliament agreed on," to "cause law and justice, in mercy" to be executed, to maintain the laws of God and the Church, she goes to the altar, lays her hand on the open Holy Bible, and says, "The things which I have here before promised, I will perform and keep. So help me God." She kisses the Book and signs a copy of the Oath. "THE Queen will then step over to the ancient coronation chair in use since 1300, with the Stone of Scone directly under the seat. Then comes the anointing with the consecrated oil from the ampulla. The Dean of Westminster pours the oil into the golden spoon, dips his fingers in, and makes the sign of the cross on the Queen's forehead, breast, and the palms of her hands. The Archbishop prays O God, the Crown of the, Faithful, bless... And sanctify this Thy Servant... And as Thou dost this day set a Crown of pure gold upon her head, so enrich her royal heart with Thine abundant grace, and crown her with all queenly virtues. He poises the Crown of St. Edward above her head for a few moments, then deliberately and with reverence, places it on Her Majesty. Electric lights, switched on suddenly, set the jewels ablaze, flash following flash, like wordless echoes, throughout the Abbey, and the glory is further enhanced by a wave of golden glamor as the peers put on their coronets. THE CORONATION OF A BELOVED QUEEN Courtesy, British Information Services EAGLE AMPULLA, GOLDEN SPOON, AND TOP OF THE ROYAL SCEPTER 295 The eagle Ampulla and Golden Spoon are used in the sacred anointing ceremony. These articles are believed to be part of the regalia of St. Edward, 1042. At the top of the Royal Scepter (right) may be seen the Great Star of Africa, the world's largest diamond, 530 carats. Swung between golden clasps, it moves with myriad lights. The Scepter is used when a monarch is crowned and lies on his coffin in death. The Acclamation follows—thousands of voices calling "God Save the Queen!" to musical accompaniment. On the footstool, kneeling, near the coronation chair, the Queen receives the blessing of the Archbishop, also his Exhortation. The Queen will be lifted to the elevated throne (the Enthronization). Homage is paid by the Lords Spiritual, kneeling, and sealed with the Kiss of Fealty, then by the Princes of the Blood and the Lords Temporal. The music is a very important part of the service. Part of it dates back to the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. The words of "Zadok the Priest," the anthem for the anointing, go back to Saxon times. However, considerable music had been specially composed for this coronation: a motet by England's dean of composers, Ralph Courtesy British Information Service RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 QUEEN ELIZABETH, HER HUSBAND, THE DUKE OF EDINBURGH, AND THEIR CHILDREN, PRINCE CHARLES AND PRINCESS ANNE Vaughn Williams, eighty-one years old, and two coronation marches by Sir William Q. Walton and Sir Arnold Bax, to precede and close the ceremony. During the months of preparation for the coronation, probably $300,000,000 has been spent by government and private firms and individuals. Some streets will be decorated with arches supporting crowns thirty feet high, ablaze with multicolored lights. Stores will create false fronts—magnificent ones costing perhaps $20,000. London windows will blossom with beautiful flowering window boxes, and the humble flat will boast some special decorations. Wweyr all this pomp and circumstance? John Drinkwater suggests that Britons are a people with poetry in their blood, and for them the monarch is a poetic symbol. Not elected by the people, he is born "in a predestined line of succession" to be the symbol to the British of their worth and their potentialities. He is the "Accepted Apotheosis" (a glorified ideal) of all his subjects. Surely that is the answer. The monarch is symbolical of the dreams of each subject—all the strength and the depth—the beauty and the glory of life possible to attain. The coronation also represents continuity, an idea very important THE CORONATION OF A BELOVED QUEEN to the British. It is orderly, it is logical, the present growing out of the past, and the future from the past and the present. All must be preserved and fused into a glorious whole. The principle of identification is at work, too. For a moment every little shopgirl will be the lovely, glamorous Queen. The thinker will be not only the monarch—he will be Britain—the Britain of the Magna Charta, of common law, of constitutional government, of great industrial inventions, of fighting to the death against injustice and aggression. Apart from all coronation traditions, Elizabeth is loved for herself. She has fired the imagination of her peoples. A romantic figure, only twenty-six years old, she herself is glamorous; she has a handsome husband, popular in his own right, a devoted, wise, forward-looking man who can counsel the Queen; she is a loving mother with two children, one the heir-presumptive to the throne. Since her father became King, when Elizabeth was nine, and she was next in line to the throne, she has been carefully trained to be a 297 queen, a most demanding—physically as well as mentally taxing position. Her alert mind cuts through verbiage and gets to the heart of a matter at once. Her memory is prodigious. She plans and executes well. She is punctual. Her war training has made her understanding, sympathetic, more democratic than her predecessors. Yet she has the regal bearing and_ thinking which, to the British, are important in their sovereign. Among Elizabeth's devoted admirers are Latter-day Saints who owe allegiance to the Queen. In England, soon after the accession of Victoria, Heber C. Kimball, there with other missionaries to introduce the gospel, noted the inscription on a banner in a parade, "Truth will prevail." Aye, truth will prevail, he thought, applying this motto to the gospel. Surely this has come to pass. Much of the vigor which has kept the Church alive and healthy, strong and intelligent, growing in graces of the spirit and the arts, has flowed into it from the British Isles. At the present time Great Britain is still contributing converts to the Church at the rate of more than a thousand a year. + Insight Marjorie L. Hafen If you want to see a person's charm, Watch him. If you wish to know what fills hi. Mind, Listen to him. If you care to find a person's worth, Work with him. If you seek to sound the depths of his soul, Hear him pray. Sweetpeas Lois E. Forkner UNSET was the good time, S with all the vivid colors in the sky, and all around the air was cool and soft and fragrant from Mother's sweetpeas. Mother always had sweetpeas. In summertime they banked the porch where she and Daddy sat. At those times we played under the trees on the lawn, and Louise and Glenn went walking down the orchard road. I remember how the crickets sang. Our house was old and very large, and settled into the hillside with orchard all around. In spring, when the blossoms came, it looked and felt and was—like fairyland. I remember Daddy working in the orchard, with little Buster at his side, and Mother, her face red and steamy, fussing in the kitchen, canning something or baking bread. Sometimes Glenn came to see Louise, and waited in the kitchen to eat warm bread with jam, and talk to Mother. Louise was the oldest, and she and Glenn were going to be married soon. Everyone was happy, even Mother. Then one day it all began to end. Even the day was sad and graylooking. Mother had been sick all that day. The doctor came, and then they took Mother to the hospital. That day I was eight. It was my birthday, but no one even thought or cared. Not even myself. Louise cried most all day and didn't even braid my hair. [ just felt lost, and there was a big hurt inside of me. But I tried to play with Buster anyway, because he was Page 298 two years younger than I. It didn't seem right to be sad when you were only six. The next night Daddy came home, and his face made me cry, and I wanted to go to him, but the hurting inside choked me so that I only stared while he went into the bedroom and closed the door. And Louise put her arms around Buster and me and told us how our Father in heaven had taken our Mother, and tried to explain to us that she was living in another place. I remember the tears on all our faces, but mine didn't seem teal because I knew it wasn't really so. That night I dreamed my Mother was in the kitchen, and I slept happily. But when I awakened the next morning, everyone was still weeping and then I tried to understand. For Mother really wasn't there. Why did God leave us so alone? And then the tears came, and they were real, but they wouldn't melt the hurt inside of me. S the days and weeks went by, Buster lived within Daddy's embrace and sometimes I spent the evening there. Louise leaned on her love for Glenn, but there didn't seem to be any special place for me. Not until the morning I remembered to water the sweetpeas. Somehow Mother's shy and gentle ways seemed to linger near her beloved flowers, and I found solace there. In my heart it seemed that not all my SWEETPEAS Mother was gone as long as the flowers grew that she herself had planted there. I could even bear to go to school as long as the flowers bloomed, for when the hurt seemed to grow too big, I'd think of the sweetpeas growing around the porch, and I'd be comforted. But fall came, and it was cold. And one cruel morning I found the sweetpeas were completely withered and gone. Frantically, I searched for even one blossom, but there was none. I wept for hours. I couldn't eat or sleep. I withdrew into a little prison world. I couldn't even pray, for, you see, God had taken my last tie with Mother away. In vain, my sister, Daddy, and Buster tried to comfort me—tried to give me faith. But the hurt was all that was real. Sometimes it would seem to go away, and then some frightening moment I would remember, and it would sweep over me, seeming nearly to choke me. After awhile I didn't cry anymore, but I didn't want to eat. Sometimes I saw my Daddy's anxious face, and would go to Sunday School with him, but I scarcely seemed to be there. All that winter I lived in my own prison world. Then one day I knew that it was spring. I saw the sunshine slanting down the hill, and creeping on the floor up to my chair. When I looked out the window I saw the blossoms putting crowns on all the orchard trees. That very day Louise came home and placed some packages of seeds in my hands. There were pictures of sweetpeas on the front of them. What were they for? 299 Louise bundled me up and took me outside. She fixed the earth along the porch in the very place the sweetpeas had always grown. Then she helped me to plant the seeds. Down deep inside of me was a strange little feeling of excitement. Of course, I knew the seeds wouldn't really grow. The sweetpeas had been Mother's, and I felt that she alone could grow them. Just the same, every morning I had to look just to see and to satisfy the new feeling. And every time J went to look, I saw my Daddy smile. But nothing happened for so many days that I crept back into my prison. It was a lovely spring, and I shall never forget the evening Daddy led me out to the porch with a special air I could not define. He pointed to the new-turned soil near the porch, where I had planted the seeds. I couldn't believe it, but really, there they were—little marching rows of sweetpeas growing, just as they had grown every spring for Mother. In a moment I was down the steps, and I dropped to my knees to see the plants more closely, and when I touched them joy filled me. I could pray and give thanks, for suddenly was born the knowledge that we would someday have Mother again, just as we had the new sweetpeas. The hurt melted away and never came again. I sat down by Daddy with the new excitement still there, and looked out over the hills. And sure enough there was the sunset again, and I could hear the crickets sing. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1893 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN oF ALL Nations" PROMISE YOU WILL LOVE ME ALWAYS If your love to me is precious When each day with pleasure rings Oh, how much my heart will need it When old age unto me clings. When my steps are slow and feeble, Hushed the merry sound of glee, After years of life together Will you, can you still love me? —Caroline B. Pratt IDENTIFICATION OF SIGNATURE: The growing fashion of giving girl children but one name, as "Helen" or "Katherine" so that when they marry they may retain with their new signature, their full maiden name, is part of this subject of identification of signature. "Mollie Irene Brown" is not as euphonious nor as sensible as "Mollie Garfield Brown." This custom has the further advantage of securing the woman's immediate recognition not only as her husband's wife but also as her father's daughter. —Frances E. Livnigan MUSIC: During the temple dedication the people of Utah had a wonderful and beautiful revelation concerning the divine art. Did any of us really know before the talent of our musicians? From the morning of the first meeting, when the three hundred trained voices, under the baton of our admired Evan Stephens, pealed forth those beautiful anthems and hymns until the close of the three weeks during which not only the Salt Lake choir but also the choirs of Utah, Weber, Cache and Sanpete Counties sang for us there was a continual and delightful surprise... We learned that the beautiful words of one of the anthems were composed by Miss Donettie Smith, daughter of Prest. Joseph F. Smith, a young woman so modest of her talents that this is the first public use she has made of them. —Camelia BEAVER STAKE QUARTERLY RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: President Lucinda Howe, presiding. After the usual opening exercises the local Presidents reported their respective branches of the Relief Society as being in good condition and doing all they could to fulfill their mission. The statistical and financial reports were then read. The balance of the time was mostly occupied by Mrs. Elizabeth Howard and Mrs. Ardella Eardley. Such topics as: keeping minutes properly, punctuality, the necessity and efficacy of prayer, cleanliness, taking the EXPONENT, sustaining the Deseret Hospital, and teaching our children obedience to the priesthood and the law of tithing, Word of Wisdom, observance of the Sabbath and fast days, were treated by these sisters in a very pleasing and instructive manner. —Louisa Jones, Stake Sec. A MEMORY OF SPANISH FORK CANYON The same old cedars crown the steep, Where evening splendors flame in gold; But the sad winds that never sleep, Sing of some by-gone grief untold.... —Laura St. Vrain Page 300 iw Mé¢2Y, Dowager Queen of England, died March 24, 1953, at the age of eighty-five. She was the wife of George V, mother of George VI, and grandmother of the present Queen Elizabeth II. A well-beloved woman of much dignity and wisdom, she has long been revered as exemplifying the qualities of womanhood so greatly admired by her people. HICAGO'S Social Research Inc. Recently made public a report on sixty eminent women business executives. In the announcement it was stated: "An abiding femininity is characteristic of the successful group. They are women who are able to use their feminine skills of understanding, adapting to others, and comprehending emotional factors." ABBIE R. MADSEN, Brigham City, Utah, a well-known and well-loved contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, is the author of Friendly Echoes, recently off the press. 'The attractive volume is a collection of her inspirational poems, dealing, for the most part, with home and home life. At present, the only countries in the Western Hemisphere to withhold the vote from women are Mexico, Colombia, Haiti, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Paraguay. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon HE death of Miss Bertha Irvine, secretary to five Presidents of the Church, has brought a sense of personal loss to many in the Church, from the leaders down to the small boys of her Sunday School classes, who had a deep love for her. Her ability to recall, to remind, to find needed information quickly and quietly, made her a valuable help to the Presidents. Her unselfishness, devotion to others, and ability to teach, along with her great testimony of the gospel, have affected countless lives and given to many young people opportunities which would not otherwise have been theirs. HE Federated Women's Club of Canada recently presented a farm tractor to the Greek village of Masovouno, where every adult male was killed in World War II. HE marriage rate among air hostesses is so high that the airlines are now taking on men as replacements. NN DAVISON, wife of Frank Davison who was drowned at sea in 1949, has just completed a lone voyage across the Atlantic Ocean in a twenty-three foot sloop, the Felicity Ann. In February she dropped anchor at Portsmouth, Dominica, sixty-five days after she left Las Palmas in the Canary Islands. Page 30] Q— > EDITORIAL +9 VOL. 40 MAY 1953 'he Song of the Righteous ° INCE the Lord, in the present dispensation, has stated to the saints, "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads," music is an integral part of the gospel. The beautiful harmonies and attestation of faith which hymns and other sacted music contain, certainly had their beginnings in heaven. Brigham Young declared, "There is no music in hell." The great Church choirs today, notably the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir, with the soul inspiring organ music from Temple Square, have their place in proclaiming and entiching the gospel message. Through the instrumentality of the radio, the music of the Choir—an outpouring of testimony from righteous members of the Church—passes the barriers of time and space and may reach into the remotest home where a formal presentation of the gospel might not be accepted. Latter-day Saints are a singing people. It was in 1830, about three months after the organization of the Church, that Emma Smith was instructed by the Lord through a revelation given to her husband, the Prophet Joseph Smith, "'to make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in my Church" (D. & C. 25:11). Throughout the history of the Church in these the last days, the Page 302 singing of hymns has buoyed up the spirits of the saints and allowed them to express their devotion in words and music beyond the power of the individual to phrase for himself. Christmas carols which have come down through the centuries as written by men inspired by the spirit of the Lord, intensify and clarify our feelings toward the birth of the Savior. Barriers of language and customs melt away before the power of music and expression. Luther's "Cradle Hymn" ties together the believing hearts of devout Christians everywhere, no matter in what language the words may be couched. "Come, Come Ye Saints" has had a like power in welding together people of different lands in the oneness of the gospel. From whatever clime it be, from the frozen North to the islands of flowers, members of the Church live again the lonely trek across the parched lands of America to "the place," when they sing the words of that great song. Men, women, and children are united in feeling as they were in crossing the plains. This song brings alive that glorious but desperate journey as nothing else has the power to do. "Come, Come Ye Saints" also served as a: clarion call during the war. In haste the missionaries were to be gathered and returned home. Given a: railroad station teeming with harried individuals of different countries, with the necessity of gathering together EDITORIAL two or four from that great throng, and what but the whistling or singing of "Come, Come Ye Saints," could so easily have drawn the missionaries as a magnet to their presiding officer? It was the privilege of Eliza R. Snow to set down for Zion the great principle of a heavenly mother as given to her by the Prophet Joseph Smith: In the heavens are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare! Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there. How beautiful and soul-stirring is the singing of this hymn "O My Father" by the sons and daughters of God. Where else does a Latterday Saint learn this revealed truth? In the gospel the singing of praise and adoration to the Lord is not restricted to all-male choruses, nor even to mixed choruses. It is the privilege of the Relief Society to form Singing Mothers choruses wherein the daughters of Zion may unitedly express their testimonies in song. A great service is performed by the Singing Mothers. The songs which express great truths of the gospel do not influence merely the congregations before which they sing. As mothers in Zion they hum and sing the songs also in their homes, and so carry the influence 303 and power of reverent music into the lives of their children. What lovelier picture could there be in the sight of heaven, than a family being grouped around a musical instrument and uniting their voices and hearts in praising the Lord? The place of music in worshiping the Lord is made plain in holy writ. We may read of the song of Moses and the children of Israel after crossing the Red Sea, when they sang "I will sing unto the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously: the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the sea." Then we read "And Miriam... Took a timbrel in her hand; and all the women went out after her with timbrels and with dances. And Miriam answered them, Sing ye to the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously; the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the sea" (Exodus 15:1, 19-21). The sweet singing of David and the part music and choirs played in the temple ceremonies, all bear witness to the power of music in personal lives and sacred services of former days. In joy and in sorrow the saints of the Most High today may praise the Lord for his mercies and blessings and lift up their hearts and rejoice. The song of the righteous will be a prayer to the Lord and will be answered with a blessing on their heads. —M. C. S. My Mother Mary Hess Hackney The trenchant beauty of her mother soul Is ageless, and when one day she must leave, And crucibles have taken of their toll, I know that she will bid me not to grieve, For while she waits across the narrow sea Her guiding love will still envelop me. Jn Memoriam—Emma Adams Empey N Sunday, March 15, 1953, the mortal life of one of the choice daughters of our Heavenly Father, Sister Emma Adams Empey, came to a close at the age of ninety-two. For twenty-nine years Sister Empey was a devoted and capable member of the general board, endearing herself to her associates of the board and to her sisters in the stakes of Zion. She was a woman of superior endowments and will be especially remembered for her contribution to the burial clothes department of the general board, for her accurate and efficient work as general treasurer of the society, and for her many years of identification with the practical nurse program. Countless numbers of homes have been blessed through her service in this latter activity. Sister Empey had a sincere and unwavering testimony of the truth of the gospel and was loyal and devoted to the work of Relief Society to the end of her life. Her devotion to Relief Society was characterized by complete unselfishness. Regardless of her personal interests or advantage, she always placed first the work of the society. Her earth life has been a pronounced influence for good, bringing happiness, development, and encouragement, to her sisters. It will bring to her rich and eternal rewards. The general board is gratified to have had her as one of its own. > She P, epper Tree Alice Morrey Bailey The mocking-bird sings in the pepper tree And awakens my babes and their father and me. He splinters his throat On a silvery note, And filters his song Ever-changing and long Through the quiet green web of the pepper tree. The mother bird shuttles her wings endlessly To fill her small birdlings' wide-beaked hunger plea, And my babies look up From napkin and cup And their wee table laid In bud-earpeted shade Of the lacy green fringe of the pepper tree. The end of the day is a symphony When soft trade winds breathe from the Western Sea, And my babies are fed, « Sleeping sweetly in bed, And their father is there With his book and his chair, And the mocking bird sleeps in the pepper tree. Page 304 Kaight | | ALMOND ORCHARD NEAR OAKLEY, CALIFORNIA One Shining Day Josephine ]. Harvey Today I walk in happiness, heart-deep, Again the ancient earth has stirred From wintered sleep. Again the spring is on the land With newborn sounds, soft-heard. I hold one crimson blossom In my hand. The gentle winds of May Touch new and tender leaves This lilac-scented day. You will love the time of blossoming, The magic pattern springtime weaves; One shining day, calmly you will come. Joy will be a living thing, And where we walk, meadow larks will sing. Page 305 A Time to Forget CHAPTER 11 Fay Tarlock Synopsis: Serena Abbe, who lost her fiance in the war, goes to live on a walnut farm which she inherited from her cousin Harriett Lester. There she meets Jeff Landeau, a widower who owns the adjoining acres, and who helps her in running her farm. Luis Trejeda, a Mexican, also assists in the work, and Serena is impressed with his wholesome and buoyant attitude toward life. Serena also makes friends with David, Jeft's son, and, after the first harvest, she feels at home in the San Vicente Valley. Soon after Christmas Serena and Jeff are married. In assuming the duties of a stepmother, Serena finds many problems, among them David's refusal to become a boy scout. IT by bit she was learning some of the complexities of the masculine mind. Jeff was having his little joke. At the same time he was doing just what he said, presenting her with the problem. One fine morning he would expect her to say, "David has ordered his uniform." T'll go at it the way Jeff does, relaxed, she thought. By now there was a sparkling warmth in the air, far too nice to go indoors to the breakfast dishes and Saturday's baking. For just a moment, Serena decided to lie on the terrace glider, drenched in the golden warmth. She loved everything she saw, smelled, and heard, the faded red bricks of the terrace, the fragrance of the bed of mari- — golds, and the newness of the David wing, nestled beneath the walnut trees, all made one by the soft breeze that brought the distant sound of a tractor smoothing the already smooth ground beneath the Page 306 trees, a sound that, somehow, blended with the bird songs above her. She closed her eyes to the loved and familiar, in the sun's warmth, and thought of another morning.... It was a morning in Mexico when she and Jeff made the steep climb up the Sacred Mountain, past the stations of the cross. 'They were resting in the winter sun, looking over the red-tiled roofs of the village below them to the snowy slopes of Mt. Popo, just emerging from the swirling mists. Apropos of nothing, Jeff said, "David's mother and I never got together on religion. She was brought up in one church, I, in another. Naturally I leaned toward mine, but I wasn't the one to give him his religious training; so David went to Beth's church. I just let him keep on, but I'm not at home when I go with him, and I find myself going less and less." They were leaning against an ancient churchyard wall, and his shoulder touching hers was warm. "Families ought to go to church together, don't you think?" His eyes were on the mists, but he said, "I hope we can do something about - we Ke ek Xe UT now spring and summer had gone by in a race. September was passing and nothing had been done. Serena sat up in the glider just as Luis came around the corner A TIME TO FORGET of the house, carrying a basket of string beans and tomatoes red from the vines. Showing his white teeth in a broad smile, he set the basket down. "Meeses," he said as to a child, "'today too nice for trouble." She motioned him to sit on the bench facing her. "Troubles of the spirit come, no matter how beautiful the day," she said to him in Spanish. "But you seem to have banished all of yours." "Oh, no, Senora," his denial was passionate. "I am not yet that good, but someday...." He opened his hands expressively, then pressed them together and leaned forward. "Here with you, life has great meaning. I have," and he began counting on his lined fingers, "comfort, dignity, and beauty. It would be sinful not to be happy." Abruptly he stood up. "For me the best part of life is to be the last, I know." "How do you know, Luis?" He turned his eyes solemnly upward. "You, Senora, Don Jeff, and the young one have completed my life." Sitting down again, he flashed her an affectionate smile. "We are all of one family, is it not the truth? You can tell me your trouble." "In our family it is David who troubles us this morning." Luis was shocked. "David! It is not possible. That young one, there is no evil in him." After she had told him the story, she added, "It does not seem like much now, but in a few years it will mean that he has been deprived." Luis pulled himself up, straight and tall as he could make himself. "Senora," he cried, "if you and your 307 family were but of my Church the problem could be solved as easily as this." Dramatically he thrust out one clenched fist and cut through it with his other hand as if it were a knife. "See!'' He was triumphant. "It would be that simple." "T can see no connection," she told him, amused, yet impressed. "Ah, Senora, it is only that in my Church the scouts are trained in the organization of young people. If you belonged, David would go and take the other young one with him." "Is it necessary to belong in order for a boy to go?" She asked it more to please Luis, than with a real desire to know. Understanding lightened his dark, wrinkled face. "Ay, Senora, you have yourself cut the knot. David will go to the scouts. If necessary, I will myself take him." He sat down, happy and confident, bursting to talk over the details.. "It might work at that." Her forehead was a maze of concentration. If Jeff would consent. One of them must go first to see if it could be done and to see if David would be happy. "You're sure it would be all right, that he would be welcome... And do they have good men for leaders?" UIS drew himself up again, full of pride. "The district adviser of the scouts, the leader himself, is of the Mormon Church. I myself," and he seemed to swell another inch, "know this Brother Andrews personally. You may not believe it, Senora, but it was only last Sunday night that I sat by him, and 308 he inquired of my health. And the other scout leaders are of like caliber, that I can assure you." "When do they meet?" Going to Valley Oaks instead of Meadtown would present difficulties. "On a Tuesday night, Senora. It is the night of the young people. They meet," he spoke with modest pride, "in a scout room of their own, where I myself helped to lay the floor and arrange the bricks for the fireplace." "The scouts really have a place of their own? "She was impressed. In Meadtown, so Jeff had told her, they met one year in the high school, another in the Legion Hall. One year they had even used an old warehouse. Clapping his hands ecstatically, Luis described the place. "It is a large hall in the new church, Senora, a beautiful hall with two accessory rooms, one of them with a kitchen that has a place for everything a scout needs." Then, with the speed of quicksilver, his face grew sad. "Ay, if only I could have had such a place when I was a youth." Slowly he shook his head. "David must not be denied." He looked at her questioningly. "We won't deny him Luis. Which night is it?" "It is on a Tuesday night and often I go, for the activities, while for the young, are for all. I will make it a duty of pleasure to go with him each Tuesday night if you wish." Elated by her talk with Luis, she kept her plan a secret until Tuesday afternoon. She and Jeff were in town for some hurried shopping and to pick up David. ™ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 "T've no objection," Jeff said. "TI know a number of Mormons around here, and they're all fine men.... It's done something for Luis, we know that. If they'll take David," his tone brightened, "why don't you try it, and bring Johnny along, too." David was noncommittal. "T''ll have to talk with Johnny first," was his decision. After a long telephone call, broken by silence, while Johnny talked to his parents, he came back with his lower lip out. Johnny couldn't go tonight, but he would go next Tuesday, maybe, if David's report was good. David didn't want to go alone. GERENA persuaded him it would be fun to ride over with her and Luis and have a new experience. Jeff was no help this night. He had to be at the county seat to represent the farmers concerning a new zoning ordinance. "Can you make it without me?" Jeff asked the question, hat in hand. Serena was realizing that she would have to do many things alone. "We'll try it anyway, though I wish you could go." She was in a rush to wash the dishes, get herself ready, and see that David was properly washed and shined. Ruefully, she sighed, "Oh, for those summer evenings when we could all be home together." Jeff tilted her chin with his hand. "I heard a man over the radio tonight advocating that courtship should last at least two years. I'm glad I had the sense to get you quickly before you knew what was coming." Then he was gone. A TIME TO FORGET Luis, in the front seat beside her, was loquacity itself. He was dressed in a sport shirt and a sweater, talcum powder generous on his freshly shaved face. "Meeses," he insisted, "why don't you go to church more often?" "I've been taking the easy way, Luis." Her eyes were straight ahead as she guided the car down the lane, already dark under the walnut foliage. "You see, Jeff and I belong to different churches, and neither of us seems to go because we're afraid we might go different ways." "Too bad, too bad." He shook his head. * There was a probing silence as they rode along the tree-lined highway into Valley Oaks, the smells of early autumn, light in the air. Luis ended the silence by slapping a knee with his hand. "If the Senora will pardon me," he said in deferential Spanish, "may I speak of myself?" "You are always welcome to speak of yourself." "Then I speak. You must believe me, Senora, there was a time when I did not know this, but now I do know it of my own knowledge. My heart, the great hearts of you and Don Jeff, the hearts of all the world, they were meant for God. Until the heart finds him, it is forever seeking. The things of earth cease to satisfy. You believe me, Senora?" There was a fervent look in his dark eyes. ERENA saw but was silent. "If we do not find him, and as I have said, I know this of my own knowledge... It is not something I got out ofa book or heard a man 309 say, the soul is lost and sees no reason for man to live." He bowed his head, then raised it. The radiant light she had seen so often on his face was there, more intense. "But when one finds God, ay, Senora, then all life is different." He leaned back against the seat and spoke as one under compulsion. "With you it is not yet bad, Senora. You have not lost God. He is in your heart, as I well know, but you must find a way to worship together with Don Jeff and the young one." Her eyes on the road, she escaped his eyes, trying to shut him away from her thoughts. Why can't I be my own conscience? She asked herself, annoyed. "'What's he saying, Mom?" David asked it from the back seat, where he had been a long time silent. "He sounds awfully excited." "He thinks you and Dad and I should all go to church together." She kept her eyes on the traffic. "That's what I've been thinking for sometime." He was very serious. "I think you should go to church with me anyway... Lots of mothers go." Soon they were in town. "Thees way, meeses, thees way!" Excitedly, Luis directed her to a side street. "The new church, we will soon see it!" Luis' church, as David called it, was newly prominent against the brown hillside, its steeple white and clear in the evening light. About it still clung the fresh smell of new wood, plaster, and paint. The parking area was already filled with cars. Boys and girls in their teens were swooping down upon the entrance. (Continued on page 359) The Stranger in My Garden Alice Whitson Norton IX asters for blue, six marigolds for yellow, six assorted zinnias, for combination colors. With utmost care, I had spaded, raked to velvety smoothness, and tamped the soft fresh earth for this particular bed, fronting as it did the gate through which I always ushered any late afternoon guest into my garden.. With a critical eye I had selected the plants to go into the bed from a nearby greenhouse and made sure each specimen had good, strong roots. This was to be my show bed, something my friends would enjoy when they rested with me in my garden during the hot summer days. Carefully I spaced the plot, digging holes twelve inches apart, then began transplanting my newly acquired specimens into the fresh earth. Six—twelve—eighteen—I counted in the newly made plot. Each space was filled with a fresh green plant. In the bottom of the box lay a tragically withered plant—not an aster, not a marigold, not a zinnia— just a worthless discard. I lifted it to throw it away, and, suddenly, the well-remembered words of my father came to me, "As long as there is one green leaf, a plant has a chance to live." But where can I place it? I wondered halfheartedly, looking over the garden. I saw morning glories blanketing the east fence; honeysuckle ran riot over the north side, climbing roses claimed the west side, and privets hedged in the Page 310 INSTITUTE OF RELIGION 4602 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAP T LAKE CITY, UTAH 8410 south side; the border beds were filled. But my courage failed when it came to tossing it aside. Again I searched the garden, and, suddenly, my vision rested on a spot in the southwest corner, incidentally the most unattractive corner in the garden, except for a huge tree. For here, year after year, I had dumped the refuse from the garden, left it for a space of time, and returned the enriched earth to my beds. At the present moment, however, the corner was bare. For a moment I stood with the withered plant in my hand, undecided whether to toss it in the shady corner or give it a place in the sun. A puff of wind shook the withered plant, rattled its leaves and moved on, and my hesitancy ended. I reached for my spade, and didn't leave until the scraggly, withered roots were spread in a soft bed and the soil made firm above them. Then I pinched the withered top back to the sight of green in the stem. In pinching the top off, I discovered the plant was a stranger to me. It was not a Japanese sunflower, as I had supposed. The stem was hollow. Its identity, I decided, would come to light if the discarded thing survived, of which, at the moment, I had little hope. I was yet to learn the great and beautiful lesson that God works in mysterious ways his wonders to perform, for, shortly after the planting, I was called away from home, never dreaming the stay would be over THE STRANGER IN MY GARDEN ten days. However, I left instructions with Uncle Rastus to look after the eighteen annuals. 'These | wanted especially to live and blossom for my friends. Normal weather in Tennessee always results in wonderful crops of vegetables, grain, and flowers. But this particular year the weather conditions were not normal. Never had the oldest inhabitants of our community felt or seen such hot, dry weather. | WHEN I returned to my sunbaked fields and garden of Tennessee from Iowa's midsummer greenness, more than a mist of tears filled my eyes when I looked upon the bed I had planted with so much joyous anticipation. Six nearly dead asters, sagging beneath withered blossoms, six giant marigolds, minus leaf or bloom; and six zinnias, browned by the hot sun, stood drooping in the desolate garden. It was a disheartening experience. Here, where I had planned so much, I found so little. The goldenglow, the summer alder, and the cannas were standing up nobly, but my prized dahlias and purple phlox were drooping and withered. Suddenly, as I lifted a dried frond from a Japanese sunflower, my thoughts reverted to the last plant of my setting, and I turned my eyes toward the long-neglected corner. For a moment I stood blinking in the sun! Was my brain affected, or my vision bad? Something was wrong, for there in the corner I either saw or imagined I saw a plant rising some six feet into the air and 311 literally covered with the most gorgeous orange-red blossoms I had ever seen! Not sure that the whole was not an hallucination, I made my way to the corner, touched the slightly prickled leaves, and laid my cheek against one of the gorgeous blossoms. Just then the man who tended my garden came up. "Sorry, Miss Ellen," he said, apologetically, "but water got so scarce we had to let the flower garden go." "But this—this beautiful thing, Uncle Rastus," I queried, "what is it?" "I don't know, Miss Ellen," he answered, "but I think it muster been som'n right out'n heaven's own garden to have weathered the past weeks and kept a-bloomin'." "You are right, Uncle Rastus," I answered solemnly. "Since we don't know what it really is, we will call it the Heavenly Flower." "Heavenly Flower," I kept repeating over and over as I made my way to the house with some half a dozen brilliant blossoms in my hands, from the discarded plant—the plant I had placed in the ugliest spot in my garden! And here it was, the sole survivor of the longest drought Tennessee had ever known. Bur suddenly, I remembered that the previous year I had sunk a tub in the earth, slashed a few holes in its bottom, filled it with corn cobs and leaves to hold the moisture, covered the whole with dirt and planted a choice tomato over it. The dampness and 312 the shade had molded the tomato, but the tub had not been removed since. I decided the discarded plant had occupied the most auspicious space possible for this particular plant, which proved to be a Tithonia, more commonly called the Mexican sunflower. But the blossoms—how truly beautiful they were! And how grateful was I for having them. Few people around me had any flowers to speak of, hence I looked upon the discarded plant with a new and deeper appreciation. The first Sunday following my return, a large blue bow! Filled with orange-red Tithonias, decorated the pulpit at sacrament meeting, and later the whole was delivered to a convalescent home. The next day a gray bowl with a half dozen brilliant blossoms paid a visit to a polio sufferer. A few days later, three bright blossoms in a green bottle RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 went along with me to call on a newcomer to the community, and the flowers stayed to brighten the new home. Throughout the remainder of the summer my bright Tithonias carried silent messages of love, hope, and cheer to the sick, the sorrowing, and joy to festive occasions. Incidentally, the stately tree and the bright blossoms provided a place of beauty and rest for my friends. And rarely did a group gather under the tree without the story of the discarded plant being telated. Always I told the experience with joy in my heart, because I had given something cast off an opportunity to live. But to this day, it remains a flowet from heaven's own garden to Uncle Rastus, and when I sit alone in this secluded spot—it becomes to me a place for giving thanks for unexpected blessings. A Mothers Debt Christie Lund Coles One day I felt my child owed me a debt, And men say that it is true, and yet I cannot feel but that my life has gained A thousand joys for every hour pained, A hundred beauties for each moment spent In loneliness. The sacrifices lent A special sort of radiance to the hour.... Stitching by lamplight, binding up a flower Into a swift, makeshift corsage; each Said beside her sick-bed in a brief ayer espair, Made me the richer. When her small hand curled In mine in faith, I owned the entire world. Only through loving do we learn to serve, Through serving do we love. My days now curve More richly, have a purpose, constancy.... I'm sure I owe her more than she. - - Owes me. By Garly Candlelight IV. A PIONEER BEDROOM Bonnie A. Kesler Illustrations by the Author NNIE never forgot the day they added a second room to their home and knew the luxury of having a bedroom separate from the kitchen-living room area. They had not freighted a bedstead across the plains, so their first beds were hand-hewn from native pine and were built in the corner of the room so that the wall formed the head and one side of the bed. Later, Annie had beds which could stand alone. There were no springs as we know them today. That part of the bed was made of rope or rawhide (untanned cattle skin) in strips woven back and forth and up and down to form a lattice, and the ends were tied around wooden pegs in the side rails. My pert (" { rood In the early 1860's Annie visited a furniture store which supplied decorative sets of bedroom furniture. The set which she bought consisted of a bed with a headboard that reached nearly to the ceiling and was decorated with heavy hand carving. 'The washstand had a marble top, and high above the mirror, between the carvings, were delicate designs of tile inlay. The highboy had carving to match its companion piece. The entire set was made of pine, but there were a few in the store made of walnut, bird's-eye maple, and mahogany. The ticks for the beds were filled with straw, but Annie hoped she would be fortunate enough to have a feather tick over the straw tick, = mall Pe ae 37 =. BEDSTEAD Page 313 a ROCKING CHAIR although it was no simple task to make such a bed, because all the bedding had to be removed each morning in order to fluff the feather tick, before the bed could be made. Annie kept twelve or fifteen ducks on hand all the time, and sent the girls out to bring them in. One at a time, she would put the duck's head between her knees, hold its feet with one hand and pick the tiny feathers off the duck's breast with the other hand. What a racket the struggling things made until they were turned loose to grow more feathers! At last she had enough for a feather tick and pillows! Annie and the girls occasionally washed the feather pillows and tick, and it was the girls' duty to constantly fluff and turn them as they dried so that they would not be lumpy. Each spring, at housecleaning RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 time, they would empty the straw ticks (they buttoned down the middle), and on a day when there was a gentle breeze, they bounced the new straw in the wind to get the chaff out, then refilled the tick with fresh, clean straw. 'They stuffed the ticks so full that for about a week afterward, their mother would have to warn the children about falling off the bed while the ticks were so high. Soon they would flatten down to normal. In fact, it seemed too soon, for by the next spring they were padded down rather flat. © Annie and Hyrum's nightcaps and those of their children hung on the bedpost. They were needed as a protection in the unheated rooms and also in case anyone needed to sleep on beds on the floor. The trundle bed slid under the regular bed after the night's use. One of Annie's neighbors had a bedwarmer which she had received from her parents on her wedding day in Lincolnshire, England. In those unheated bedrooms, a bed warmer was a real comfort. It was 6 |___ —_— WASHSTAND BY EARLY CANDLELIGHT a flat metal vessel with a lid anda - handle three or four feet long. It was filled with hot coals and pushed up and down between the blankets of the beds until the bedding was warm, then it was set by the fireplace to cool off until morning. A large wardrobe held the clothes for all Annie's family. It was a portable piece of furniture with doors and drawers decorated with hand carving. Beside it stood their family trunk, holding the most precious of the precious articles, such as Annie's wedding clothes, baby's first clothes, a handsome spread, and other dear keepsakes. Usually Annie used the beautiful handmade quilt as her bedspread; but the one she treasured had a Pennsylvania Dutch pattern. 315 Familiar family portraits and samplers brightened the walls of the bedroom, and it was lighted by lamps and candles. Much lovely lace was made by Annie and her daughters, and they were proud of the exquisite results. Handmade lace curtains graced the bedroom windows, adding a touch of beauty and charm. Happy was Annie when a friend came to visit! No one waited for an invitation. A woman would gather up her family, get the horse and buggy ready, and go visiting. Hospitality was second nature to the pioneers, and Annie had a gracious way of making guests welcome, whether they were expected or not. BEDWARMER She Little Gray Horse Katherine F. Larsen The little gray horse with the red button eyes Was cast on the lawn amid leaves, where he lies Forgotten, forsaken, with desolate air— No small hands to clutch him, no small heart to care. The little gray horse with the red button eyes, Half-covered with leaves, when the early snow flies, Will lie, still forgotten, beneath the white cold, And springtime will find him quite sodden and old. The little gray horse with the red button eyes By springtime discovered, will feel no surprise That a small heart proved faithless, having outgrown old toys, And joined the parade of the tricycle boys. Lucky Two Shoes Frances C. Yost T was a beautiful morning in early spring. The maples and willows showed a tender new green, enriched now and then by the delicate gold of forsythia. Rabbits and ermine changed their winter coats of white to fawn and amber, and clouds of bluebirds swung | over the land migrating to their northern homes. Mary Crockett felt the heady tang of spring here on Oak Street as she walked with Carma and Reah to school. It was good to wear the new yellow sweater Granny had knit, instead of her dark winter coat. She scuffed at the brown, dormant grass near the sidewalk with her winter-worn shoes. Too bad Granny couldn't make shoes, too, she thought. Granny Crockett worked hard to keep Mary's brother Bill in college and Mary in grade school, and to keep them all fed and warm on her small resources. That she did it all was a sheer demonstration of mind over matter. Sometimes it almost seemed as though she took it out of herself, what didn't come out of the small monthly insurance check Mary's father had provided before the accident which took his life and Mary's mother. Since Bill had gone away to college, which necessitated two roofs over the little family, Granny had grown thinner, more concentrated—or consecrated. As Mary walked along with the girls, she thought how nice it would be when Bill came home for summer vacation. Granny wouldn't Page 316 have to skimp so hard, and maybe they could buy some new shoes for Mary. "Mary, you didn't hear. A word I said." Carma shook her. Head disgustedly. "T'm sorry, Carma. What did you" say?" Mary looked at her friend. "T said it's about the time of year when Miss Condie will announce who will be the valedictorian from our class," Carma stated. "T wouldn't mention it for the world to anyone but you two girls, but I figure that one of us will get it." Reah's voice was almost a whisper. "T don't mind saying I've had my fingers crossed all year, just hoping for the honor," Carma giggled. 'Just imagine hundreds of eyes glued on you as you stand on the platform in a shimmering dress of ruffles and lace, and all the other fine clothes to set it off." "T hope one of you girls is chosen," Mary said. "You mean you don't care? You don't want to be valedictorian!" Reah's voice registered bewilderment. "Why?" "Oh, reasons." Mary looked down at her shoes. "And anyway I'd be scared stiff." THE school day proceeded with its usual routine. Mary found it hard to concentrate on her studies. From the school window the air was crystal clear under the lid of the sky. She longed to be outside. Her mind wandered to Granny at LUCKY TWO SHOES home. She would be dropping seeds in the window boxes or puttering around outside in the flower beds. Finally the clock struck four and Miss Condie said, "Class dismissed," then added, "Mary, will you stay a few minutes?" Mary's heart gave a short upward lurch and paused. Then Miss Condie really had noticed her looking out of the window after all, she thought. She remained in her seat while the others filed out. Her heart took up its slow, heavy beat again until she heard Miss Condie's voice. "Mary, will you come to my desk?" Mary's legs felt like long toothpicks as she walked up the aisle. "I want to congratulate you, Mary. You have been chosen to be our valedictorian at the graduation exercises." Miss Condie smiled her approval. "Me!" There was a slight quiver in Marv's voice. She remembered the long, lovely lace dresses and pretty sandals the girls wore when they gave the valedictory address of other years. Granny would get thinner and more wrinkled if she had to worry about clothes for Mary right now. Mary bit her lip, feeling the rush of hot tears to her eyes. "Miss... Miss Condie, please choose someone else. I'll never tell anyone you asked me first, honestly. I can't do it." Mary's voice was high and unnatural. "Of course you can. I'll help you prepare the talk, Mary." Miss Condie's smile was just right—firm, yet understanding. Mary stood bleakly by the teacher's desk staring down at her old 317 brown shoes. Finally she spoke. "Carma or Reah would love to be chosen." "It isn't a matter of choosing, Mary. You have earned the honor. You have by far the best grades in the class. Your Grandmother and brother. Bill will be proud of you." Miss Condie laid her hand on Mary's slim shoulder a moment. No, they wouldn't, Mary thought. They would be embarrassed seeing her standing in the auditorium in a dark school dress and these hortid, old brown shoes. Yet Mary couldn't tell Miss Condie. It would sound beggarly. Mary left the school building, not on the floating footsteps of triumph, but crawling in the depths of despair. We oe ek HREE days later Mary found Granny sitting idly in the living room when she came from school. It seemed queer to Mary seeing her like that, for she always picked up her knitting or mending when she sat down to rest. "Congratulations, Mary!'' Granny spoke softly, yet warmly, as Mary took off her sweater and hung it in the hall. "Oh, Granny, did Miss Condie go and tell you?" Mary rushed to Granny and dropped on the floor, her head in Granny's lap, inside her being a blankness, a numb, plodding blankness. "Yes, Miss Condie called on me. She had a feeling something was out of focus. Why didn't you tell your old Granny?" she asked, as she stroked Mary's brown curls. "Oh, Granny, I couldn't bother you. It meant a new dress and... 318 and things. I knew we just couldn't afford it." She hid her face in Granny's gray apron. "When I was your age.... Mary knew a story was coming. She dried her eyes and listened. "We didn't have as many books to read, as we do now," Granny continued. "We mostly just had the Bible. When we got our work all done and had washed our hands, we were permitted to read it, if we handled it carefully. 'The best child each day had the privilege of reading to the family each evening. "I see we aren't reading the Good Book enough these days. You listen carefully, Mary, while I read a quotation." Granny opened the Bible at her elbow and read: "And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin... Yet... Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you?... Therefore take no thought... For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things.' " Granny closed the Bible. "Now, if you'll run up to my room, Mary, and look in the bottom of my trunk, you'll find a nice chartreuse taffeta dress. I've been saving it for an important occasion. I guess the time is ripe." Mary found the dress. It's good, clean cloth, she thought, and there're yards and yards for ruffles. Her eyes blurred. Maybe I can convince Granny I'm old enough 7 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 for my first formal. If it touches the floor, and if... If I walk real carefully maybe the old brown shoes won't show. PRING blossomed forth in all its glory for graduation. Soft yellow dandelions wove a carpet everywhere. Mary felt a queer excitement tingling in her veins as she looked at the clock on the dresser. She had just time to take a good warm bath and dress, then it would be time for her and Granny to leave for the exercises. She looked at her dress laid out on the bed. Mary looked at the clock as she re-entered her room. She had been a half hour. She hurried with her dressing, the shoes could wait until last. Mary looked in the mirror, the dress did look nice. Granny: had done a good job. She wriggled her foot under the bed to get the brown shoes. At sight of them her heart was filled to bursting. They were dyed and shined a sparkling black, and in the heel of each was a four-leaf clover! A fat tear rolled down Mary's cheek, and a lump hurt her throat. Granny had the biggest hug in the world coming. She had known about the ugly old shoes all the time and had done the very best she could with them. Mary rushed out of the room to go down the stairs. Holding the full skirt carefully in both hands to avoid brushing the steps, she noticed her old shoes peeping out. Even though shined they were still old, but it did not matter anymore who saw them. Why, they were the luckiest pair of shoes that would be at the exercises! Tricks With Flour Sacks Leona Bammes Gardner \ beautifully flowered prints that are used for flour and feed sacks tempt one to experiment in finding new uses for them. Feed sacks are easier to work with because they are larger than flour sacks. Recently I was fortunate in getting quite a number of flour sacks, and here are some of the things I made with them: With three fifty-pound flour sacks of the same pattern, I made a peasant skirt for my schoolgirl. I made a clothespin apron with one sack. For kitchen curtains, I used a white sack, and trimmed it with a ruffle of bright red print, and a strip of matching color bias tape. My teen-age daughter amused and confused her friends with a blouse I made of two sacks of the same pattern but different' color backgrounds—from the front the blouse was green, but from the back it looked blue. Then, of course, there are dresses and aprons for little girls. Also I made a dozen kitchen aprons. By using scraps of plain cloth for trim, and a simple pattern, I could make a good apron out of one sack. Fancy patterns required two or more. Striped sacks turned into a beach coat, white ones became dishtowels. Feed sacks were made up into luncheon cloths with matching napkins. For small girls, sacks can be turned into panties, slips, and nightgowns or pajamas. Small sugar or salt sacks can be hemmed for hankies. One of the new, iron-on designs adds to their attractiveness, and the cost is nominal, besides being quick and easy to do. If the housewife makes bread for her family, it takes but a short time to accumulate a number of these beautiful sacks, and with a little imagination and ingenuity, she can turn them into many beautiful and useful articles. Web of Words Margery S. Stewart Aunt Nora Lee was not the silent type, Words bubbled up from her like water From the spring. When she peeled ripe ' Apples in the fall, she would be sure to say, "I do declare, why just awhile ago, These were blossoms waving in the sun, I did wish April, this year, would be slow." Somehow in the pie or sauce would be The taste of Apmil's sun-stirred witchery. No child was ever shut out in the dark, The way some grownups do, giving no thought For loneliness. Aunt Nora would embark On all the family history... Knew it well, But never dreamed the magic that she spun All around herself. We followed everywhere, Enchanted. Her words were never done, The little phrases tumbling out to spin The web of love that drew us warmly in. Page 319 Karren Blanche M. Hollingsworth HE rain still beat against the windowpane. Only this morning she had said in her cute two-year-old way, ""What's 'at?" and I had answered, "It's the rain on the window. It looks like tears. I guess the sky is crying." Very seriously she had watched the drops of rain hit the top of the window and slowly trickle down the pane. Now, as I wandered alone through the house, I felt almost lost in my own home. Everything I looked at reminded me of her. In the living room four little finger marks were visible on the door just under the knob where plump fingers had held on, waiting to wave goodbye to Earl as he drove away to work this very morning. In the dining room, a few cookie crumbs were scattered on the rug in front of the fireplace. She had been sitting there eating as she played with her doll house and its miniature furniture. One little chair she thought pretty she had placed on the rug and then sat on it. We couldn't help laughing at her expression when she looked at it and found it all flattened out. When I walked into the kitchen, the first thing I saw was the plastic bib she wore when she ate. It was hanging on the rack where I kept fancy kitchen towels. She would come running for me to tie the bib on and climb into her high chair. We had to move fast if we got seated before she folded her arms, closed her eyes tightly, and asked the blessPage 320 ing on the food. I took the bib, folded it carefully, and put it in the cupboard on the top shelf. She wouldn't eat one meal without the little spoon, and there it was, right where she had left it. It had been part of a set, but the fork had been lost. I put the spoon high in the cabinet, too. On the floor in the hall I found a shoe for her dolly. It had been put on and off the doll's foot so many times it wasn't even shaped like a shoe. I carried it with me as I went into the bathroom, where a tiny tooth brush hung low enough for her to reach. We had to keep the tooth paste so she couldn't reach it. At first she'd say, "'Et me, 'et me." Then she would squeeze a lot of paste on the brush and eat it just like candy. A dozen times a day she would want to brush her tiny teeth. Finally, we suspected it was for the paste alone, so we had to hide it on the top shelf. Now, I put the paste back on the lower shelf. A fancy, Christmas card box was on the chair in the bedroom. To her it meant the same as a cedar chest does to an older girl who is saving all the nice things for a trousseau. I opened the box and found an old earring, a rhinestone pin, a picture of a cat playing with a ball of yarn, the head of a little girl cut from a funny paper, and a _ miniature clothespin. At the bottom of the box was a sheet of paper with writing and drawings typical of a two- KARREN year-old who talks and explains all the time she scribbles across the paper. We had enjoyed her so much, and I shouldn't complain, because we had had her longer than we thought we could keep her. Her mother was home from the hospital 321 now, with a new baby, and Karren was all excited about seeing her baby sister. Two weeks is a long time for a little girl to be away from home. In a reasonable length of time I'll ask them if she can come visit with her grandma and grandpa again. Sravel Highlights HIGHWAY IN VENEZUELA Elizabeth Williamson HE road from Caracas, the capital of Venezuela, to its largest seaport, Puerto Cabello on the Caribbean, takes roughly seven hours driving. The mountainous, winding road passes through green country—deep green jungles, blue green mountains, light green sugar-cane plantations. Up and down and around curves. Everyone seems to be an expert driver. He has to be. The villages and towns whiz by as we catch a glimpse of a cool tree-shaded plaza or a market place in the sun. The little huts straggle along the highway. There are a few trees near the huts, perhaps a pig or a cow if the people are lucky. There are chickens in almost every hut. In the distance we see an unusual tree, which seems to be full of white blooms. As we get closer, it looks as if it were lighted with hundreds of white globes. Then we see that the blossoms, or globes, are eggshells stuck on the branches of yucca trees. We stop to investigate these attractive trees, and are told by the owners who come out that many people stop to see their trees, and they seem quite proud to think we are interested. We are interested, because, after having travelled almost seven hours, it is the only original and creative thing we have seen from our car. It pleases us, somehow, to think that these people, instead of just tossing the shells on the ground, decided to put their empty eggshells on the points of the yucca trees and cause passersby to stop and exclaim at such an unusual sight. Magazine Subscriptions for 1952 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp REAT appreciation is felt by the general board to the stakes and missions of the Church for the large increase in the number of Relief Society Magazine subscriptions in 1953. The number rose from 104,210 as of December 31, 1951 to 113,401 as of December 1952. 'There were 9,191 more subscribers to the Magazine in 1952 than in the year 1951. The Relief Society Magazine is indispensable to the work of Relief Society, containing as it does all the lesson material, reports of Relief Society activities throughout the world, instructions to Relief Society officers, and records of historical importance. Distance is eliminated as a sister in a far country or on a distant farm in this country is enabled to keep pace with the great and enlightening work of Relief ~ Society. To reach this greatly increased total of subscriptions has required devoted service of stake and ward officers and Magazine representatives who have performed their arduous duties throughout the year to maintain and increase their subscription lists. It has also necessitated the loyalty of Relief Society members and many non-members in support of the Magazine. It is hoped that all subscribers will read this Magazine of the women of the Church, and be encouraged and uplifted by the words of counsel and inspiration contained therein. There were fifty-two stakes in 1952 which attained a goal of 100% or over. Eighteen other stakes made increases ranging from ten to thirty-three per cent. The stake with the greatest per cent of increase was Nyssa with an increase of seventy-one per cent. In 1952 there were three missions which achieved a goal of over 100% —a new all-time record. The general board wishes to express appreciation for the zeal of Magazine representatives, and the loyalty of Latter-day Saint women who have made it possible, in this day of rising costs, to continue the Magazine at its present subscription price. Ae Honors for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California) 210% Magazine Representative—Nancy M. Rupp Ward South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 284% Magazine Representative—Evelyn Ferrera Page 322 MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1952 Mission Texas-Louisiana, 112% Mission Relief Society President—Leone R. Bowring Mission District West Texas District, Texas-Louisiana Mission, 163% Mission Branch Alamo Branch, 320% South Texas District, Texas-Louisiana Mission Magazine Representative—Mae Pool Eleven Stakes Achieving Highest Percentages 323 South Los Angeles (California) nie ce210.... Nancy M. Rupp Nyssa (Oregon)......--..22-----200-----ce-o-ececeeeeeeecteeee207.... Mae A. Boyer San Joaquin (California) —.......---. E-148.... Wealtha Mendenhall Provo (Utah) ae. Ae,135.--- Flora Buggert Rexburg (Idaho)...........2..--------sccsceceeetoeeseees 130.... Martha J. Erickson Oquitth (Utah) -....2...-.-.-seee-cccecenceeeeseeeneneeee127.... Beatrice W. Dimond San Bernardino (California)..............--.--------- 125.... Evelyn Wilde Heath Shelley (Idaho) 123.... Merle Young Glendale (California ) = 122.... Elsie Weber Santa Monica (California)..........-.---------------+-122.... Lillie K. Whitehead Minidoka (Idaho) 122.... Myrtle C. Lloyd Eleven Missions Achieving Highest Percentages Texas-Louisiana...........2.22..1..1.220s--ceseeseeegeseeeees 112.... Leone R. Bowring, President Western States................-cc-2e---ceceececceeeeeeeeeeees 111.... Mildred Dillman, President Northern States........-.-.---.----------cseecssscesseeeeseeees104.... Lucy T. Andersen, President C5 aaa g5.--- LaPriel S. Bunker, President Central States 2.2.......2.......-sececseceeenseceneeeeneneee g5..-- Annie M. Ellsworth, President Western Canadian.................2s2ssssesesseeceseeeeeees 91.... Elizabeth H. Zimmerman, President North Central States..........-.....---------eeeee 87...- Laura M. Hawkes, President Northern California ~...............222...---+---2-00----+ 86.... Amelia P. Gardner, President West Central States.............2...1: c-cececeeeeeeeeees 86.... Ruby Bradshaw, President Northwestern States —.............-.--.-.-ssscsesseeeeeeees 84.... Mavil A. McMurmn, President Southern States -...............2-------0ce-esecsneceeeeeeeees 84.... Emily E. Ricks, President Eleven Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions South Los Angeles 1919 Moapa 821 Pocatello 943 Sevier 819 Blackfoot 939 Palmyra 813% Mount Ogden 894 Sugar House 800 Phoenix 893 Ensign 800 Glendale 829 Eleven Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions Texas-Louisiana 1228 Northwestern States 709 Ts a.: 1124 Central Atlantic 693 est Central States 10 —— GenellSiates ea Norther California 671 Western States 946 California 665 Great Lakes 847 Northern States 612 324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Stakes In Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or Above East Los Angeles...... Zelma Beck Rexburg..........-..-------Martha J. Erickson Glendale..............----Elsie Weber San Bernardino........ Evelyn Wilde Heath Granite.................--Clara Love San Fernando.......... Helen Yaple Grant «0.222220... Caroline R. Bennett San Joaquin.............. Wealtha Mendenhall Idaho —. Sosccteseceses = Shelley -..-2.-.--.-.-2---+- Merle Young Long Beach............-- thel Spongberg South Box Elder.... Edith E. Baddley North Idaho Falls.. Janet L. Landon Sra oay Ageless. Nib halle YSSA -... Eeeeeenecenenene Mae A. Boyer S H Alta W. Whitehead Ooquirth ooo. C. Ceonseseeees Beatrice W. Dimond 2U8aT House -........ Ta Wy. Vdhiteaea Pasadena..........-----+-- Blanche B. Calvert Union ~.--------eoLeana M. See Pocatello -.......-------+--Edna J. Drake West Pocatello........ Reta C. Austin PIOVO........2---.--2-seoe0ee+Flora Buggert Wilford................2+-Thora Hunter Si takes by Percentages South Los Angeles 210 Ogden 104 Nyssa 207. Highland 103 San. Joaquin 148 Rigby: 102 Provo 135 Boise 102 Rexburg 130 ©. San Juan 102 Oquirrh 127 Los Angeles 101 San Bemardino 125 'Taylor 101 Shelley 123 Bakersfield 101 Glendale 122 Mount Graham 100 Santa Monica 122 North Jordan 100 Minidoka 122 FPortneuf 100 East Los Angeles 121 St. George 99 East Long Beach 120 West Utah 99 Wilford 118 St. Joseph 99 San Fernando 118 South Idaho Falls 99 Union 116 Sharon 98 Idaho Falls 115 North Box Elder 98 West Pocatello 114 Wasatch 98 Pocatello 113. Phoenix 98 North Idaho Falls - 112 Sacramento 98 Burley 111 ~~ Seattle 97 Inglewood _ 110 Uvada 97 Sugar House 109 Tacoma 97 Bear River 109 ~=— Denver 7 Long Beach 108 East Riverside 97 Liberty 108 =Twin Falls 96 Granite 108 Malad 96 South Box Elder 107. East Mill Creek 95 East Provo 107 Blackfoot 95 Cassia 107. Cottonwood 95 Grant 106 Weber 95 Moapa 106 Orem 95 Zion Park 105 Gooding 94 Bannock 105 Ensign 94 Oakland 105 Carbon 94 Pasadena 105 Palmyra 94 Bonneville 105 Palo Alto 93 South Salt Lake 105 Kolob 93 Sevier 105 Humboldt g2 Nampa 104 North Rexburg g2 San Francisco 104 Park g2 MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1952 Uintah Mill Creek Maricopa Yellowstone Gridley Reno South Ogden University Teton Bountiful American Falls Santa Barbara Timpanogos East Rigby Mount Ogden Tooele Big Horn Alpine West Jordan Parowan Pioneer Southern Arizona Utah Washington Deseret, Emigration Portland Bear Lake Blaine Cache Smithfield Ben Lomond East Cache Mount Jordan Oneida Hillside Raft River Young Florida Lake View Wells East Jordan Hyrum New York Murray Nevada Weiser South Bear River Santa Rosa Duchesne Snowflake Monument Park Mesa North Carbon El Paso Farr West Riverside Mount Rubidoux Montpelier Idaho South Sevier Chicago Wayne Woodruff Franklin Alberta Berkeley Nebo North Davis Davis San Diego Panguitch Garfield Columbia River Benson Lost River North Weber Kanab North Sanpete San Luis Fresno Temple View Emery Lethbridge Lehi Cedar Star Valley Grantsville Salt Lake St. Johns Beaver Roosevelt Spokane ' East Lethbridge Lyman Juarez South Summit Juab Logan Richland Willamette Summit Millard South Sanpete Moon Lake Mount Logan North Sevier South Carolina South Davis Morgan Gunnison Santaquin-Tintic Moroni Oahu Relief Society Alberta Stake Aetna 660 19 Hartley 25 Alpine Stake Alpine American American American American American American American Highland American Aberdeen American Rockland 788 938 Fork First 79 Fork Third 88 Fork Fourth 65 Fork Fifth 85 Fork Sixth 8&3 Fork Seventh 82 Fork Eighth 2 Falls Stake 316 Sterling Bakersfield Stake Lancaster Taft No. 513 20 61 63 56 23 57 12 13 701 75 67 66 67 77 70 92 65 62 285 EnrollSubscriptions HONOR ROLL—1952 Magazine Representative Afton Remington Iris Jensen Mary Ann Olsen Annie Steed Martha Wilkinson Zina Jensen Eva Jacobs Rowayne Wolsey Agnes Sherman Sadie Meredith Rea Fae Carlton Edith B. Jones Fay Chipman Ann C. Hansen Lillie Shafter Sylvia Walker Marie Reimschussel Hannah C. Ashby Ruby B. Day Harriet Peterson Harriet Peterson Maida H. Olsen Lela Hartley Marie Thurston Annie Nelson Ethel Phillips Alfrieta B. Moyes Erma Tribolet Barbara Jones Cecila Heindel Juanita Davis Juanita Brooks Zella McDonald Relief Society Ben Lomond Stake Lorin Farr North Ogden First Ogden Seventh Ogden Twenty-first Ogden Twenty-ninth Pleasant View Benson Stake Cornish Cove Lewiston Second Lewiston Third Richmond Richmond South Trenton Berkeley Stake Berkeley First Berkeley Second Claremont East Richmond Richmond Big Horn Stake Basin Burlington Byron Cody Cowley Lovell Lovell West Penrose Powell Worland EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 761 664 104 119 Pct. 87 114 113 81 80 119 79 76 75 78 81 81 75 85 17 87 82 104 108 115 89 111 84 99 103 86 77 76 143 107 110 326 Magazine Representative Maude P. Close Zella M. Garrison Edith V. Judkins Lenora Poorte Doris V. Richards Mary Archibald Minnie G. Roylance Sarah Leavitt Florence Rich Mozell Boman Anna W. Mills Lois S. Austin Margaret A. Anderson Lydia Andrew Edna H. Brinton May Waldrum Adele Duncan Rose Gleason Lula Turner Vera Kellogg Elma S. Johnson Ona Scott Ida La Follette Margaret Winzenried Jaunita M. Barling Della Mathews Mable Cox Gladys M. Wilkerson Tilda Wasden Marie H. Jones Elizabeth Nielson RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Cardston First — Cardston Third Cardston Fourth Mountain View Taylorville Jefferson Branch Second Falls Springfield Bakersfield First Bakersfield Second Porterville Delano Branch Wasco Branch ment 65 80 68 66 16 15 17 45 30 84 46 25 12 18 Pct. Bannock Stake Cleveland Grace First Grace Second Lago Thatcher Williams Bear Lake Stake Bloomington Fish Haven Garden City Laketown Lanark Liberty Ovid Paris First Paris Second St. Charles Sharon Bear River Stake Beaver East Garland Fielding Garland First Garland Second Howell Park Valley Plymouth Riverside Snowville Stone Beaver Stake Beaver Second Beaver Third Milford Second 352 369 51 67 96 36 51 51 48 80 92 39 53 57 528 463 46 30 40 48 21 29 39 52 68 73 17 473 514 42 29 73 67 72 31 35 32 41 30 21 10 98 66 42 34 73 54 82 33 38 82 42 54 30 78 ii 53 Ida J. Sorenson Vera Adams La Dean Hendricks May Revoir Norma Mickelson Naomi Robbins Rosezella Hanson Millie Sprouse Bertha C. Thornock Ethel Perkins Helen P. Cook Montry Kearl Le Reva Findlay Laura Poulsen Hazel L. Peterson Rosa Grandy Beulah H. Bird Vidella Booth Hazel Long Rennis A. Larkin Hilda Johnson Essie Peterson Voylet Grover Ida Hartman Rhoda Christopherson Virginia Kotter Elizabeth Hirschi Eathel Estep Cleo Forsberg Cora Daley Alta Hickman Ireta Morris Kate Bowman Mildred Wilcock Belfry Branch 6 Deaver-Framie Branch 21 Iona Branch Meeteetsee Branch Blackfoot Stake Blackfoot First Blackfoot Second Blackfoot Third Blackfoot Fourth Blackfoot Fifth Groveland Moreland Pingree Riverside Riverton Rose Wapello Blaine Stake Carey Richfield Shoshone Dietrich Branch Sun Valley Branch Boise Stake Boise First Boise Second Boise Third Boise Fourth Boise Fifth Boise Sixth Boise Eighth Meridian Bruneau Branch Eagle Branch Grand View Branch Mountain Home Br. 9 17 Mary Youst Ellen Andrews Maggie Beal Alma Bennion Almira Clayton Edith. Belnap Floretta McCurdy Verda S. Clark Margaret Lamprecht Rose James Sarah J. Chapman Gladys W. Belnap Desa Cammack Faun Hansen Cassie Brown Donna Bishoff Virginia Rollinson Reta E. Orchard Merline Farnsworth Charlotte Reed Dellina Baumann Mary Cleaveland Clara Cope HONOR ROLL L. Emma Gordon Rinda Sudweeks Cora Fields Ida B. Cutler Leah Mihu Alice K. Francis. Phyliss Hanson LaMon Cheney Mae Fewkes Alta Cox Norma Marshall Alice M. Neilson Barbara Johns 327 Relief Society Bonneville Stake Bonneville Douglas Garden Park Thirty-third Yale Yale Second Yalecrest Bountiful Stake Bountiful First Bountiful Third Bountiful Sixth West Bountiful Burley Stake Burley First Burley Second Burley Third Burley Fourth Burley Fifth Burley Sixth Declo Pella Springdale Star Unity View Cache Stake Logan Third Logan Fourth 'Logan Ninth Logan Fifteenth Logan Sixteenth Logan. Seventeenth EnrollSubscriptions Pct. Ment 696 100 112 106 135 69 60 114 573 65 95 90 98 643 47 59 22 75 59 48 88 47 48 29 66 55 606 90 111 118 91 102 94 No. 729 109 114 116 118 72 70 130 520 65 101 110 110 712 47 59 19 86 92 48 93 58 56 36 74 44 531 85 90 111 74 91 80 105 109 102 109 87 104 117 114 91 100 106 122 112 111 100 100 86 115 156 100 106 123 pli 124 112 80 88 94 81 94 81 89 85 Magazine Representative Rhoda B. Carter Hannah Allen Mertie H. Richards Laura H. Clinger Delphia Marshall Chloe M. Jacobs Lottie Doering Josephine Sandberg Myrtle B. Hatch Dina M. Hansen Edith C. Clay Anna Bangerter Orla Hillhouse Leona Budge Theo Henderson Myrtle Higley Ethel Larsen Virginia Nichols Zelma Whittle Mary E. Tracy Gladys Darrington Jane Walker Josephine Manning Hannah Bowers Thelma E. Johnson Thelma Taylor Orilla J. Lucas Louise R. Rich Diana Willie Mabel L. Michaelsen Maye H. Thomas Clara Olsen Jeanette Bergerner Relief Society Vancouver Washougal Cottonwood Stake Big Cottonwood Cottonwood Holladay First Holladay Second Holladay Third Holladay Fourth South Cottonwood Davis Stake Centerville First Farmington Second Kaysville First Denver Stake Barnum Cheyenne Crestmore Denver First Denver Second Englewood Fort Collins Laramie Boulder Branch Spanish American Br. Deseret Stake Delta First Delta Second Delta Third Deseret ° Leamington Lynndyl Oak City © EnrolliSubscriptions ment 40 22 635 59 93 107 48 125 107 96 619 No. 38 19 603 48 75 89% Pet. 95 86 95 81 81 84 78% 164 97 113 102 78 106 106 Magazine Representative Emma Van Hovel Maud Dean Mildred A. Mollerup Gwen Lofgren Eudora Clements Violet W. Wimmer Mary Beth Gold Lillian F. Lamborn Virginia S. Pederson Elsa O. Fors Effie B. Miller Rosabelle Gwynn Katie E. Cunningham Myrtle Waite Bernice H. Brown Helen Bohn Verda Hatch Marian B. Lindsay Bernice H. Brown Lilly B. Williams Edell M. Quinn Katherine S. Staples M. M. Gibbs Bonnie Vandiviere Dorothy B. Villalabos Alpha Nielson Donna Sorenson LaPreal Justensen Leah Mortensen Inga Black Essie Anderson Alpha Nillson Adele Anderson 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Carbon Stake Dragerton 64 Price First T7 Price Third 83 Price Fourth 95 Sunnyside 48 Wellington First 40 Wellington Second 44 Cassia Stake Basin 19 Grouse Creek $2 Marion 28 Oakley First 46 Oakley Second 47 Oakley Third 28 Cedar Stake Cedar First 87 Cedar Second 68 Cedar Fourth 87 College 85 New Castle 20 New Harmony 29 Chicago Stake Milwaukee 55 North Shore 51 West Suburban 42 Batavia Branch 6 Milwaukee South Br. 22 Park Forest Branch 19 Racine Branch 20 South Shore Branch 21 Columbia River Stake 428 603 565% 94 Gertrude Edwards Vada Anderson Euphae Davis Louise Mabbutt Lucile Sillitoe Mae Self Myrtle Cook Ester Tidwell Jane R. Hale Ida Heiner Wilda Kimber Sarah Adams Ada L. Hale Jane R. Hale Irene B. Sutton Laura C. Nelson Ila Bawer Alba Hansen Florence Higbee Belle Hulet Millie Hall Florence G. Andrew Vivienne Hart Clara Force Helen Elkins Bertha Hayes Hertha Rathke Maurine Uzelloe Martha Hubert Amy Landeck Della V. Davis Nora West Mildred G. Anderson Lucy Kearsley Duchesne Stake Benson 89 Hyde Park 97 Logan Fifth 64 Logan Eighteenth 87 North Logan 68 College Hill Branch 73 East Midvale First 74 East Midvale Second 60 Garden View 112 Midvale First 66 East Lethbridge Stake Taber Second 60 Burdett Branch 12 Montey Branch 9 East Long Beach Stake 599 Bellflower 99 Fullerton 84 Garden Grove 34 Huntington Beach 27 Lakewood 51 Long Beach Third 27 Long Beach Fifth 29 29 197 538 146 Erma Skeen Lucille Ashby Nina Johnson Inez Tripp Ora N. Holgate Ida D. Horrocks Letta Meyers Pearl Turnbow Minnie Hamilton Ruth Broadhead Elsie P. Barker Chloe Ricks Gladys Hancey Abbey G. Jenson Mrs. D. A. Swenson Katie May Yost Carol Ewing Vida W. Fowles Louise P. Schmidt Ida Leafquist Hazel Anderson Leada Despain Lovenna S. Cook HONOR ROLL Norma Haseam Claire Ashton Ruth Bennett Margaret Bryan Susie Elsmore Elsie L. Phillips Elvira Bollschweiler Murl Fullmer Burnetta Ross Rene Gurich Alice Moffett 329 Hood River Laurelhurst St. Helens Oasis Sugarville Sutherland Callao Branch Arcadia Bridgeland Hanna Tabiona Utahn Branch East Cache Stake East Jordan Stake Union First 39 70 45 88 27 68 14 80 32 21 41 26 622 659 95 Relief Society East Los Angeles Stake 599 Alhambra 103 Belvedere 90 Eastmont 69 Mission Park 68 Rosemead 48 Whittier First 66 Whittier Second 51 East Mill Creek Stake 510 Canyon Rim 26 Evergreen 62 Garden Heights 136 Highland View 107 Provo Twelfth 50 Provo Fifteenth 59 Wymount Branch 70 East Rigby Stake 533 Garfield 33 Palisade 33 Rigby Second 53 No. 69 56 724 EnrollSubscriptions 100 80 121 108 114 104 110 122 127 125 173 127 100 95 135 101 105 83 87 100 107 105 121 102 120 131 123 89 121 145 100 127 Magazine Representative Marjorie Sly Losania Wilde Zelma Beck Martha J. Dreiser Alberta Milligan Jennie Reep Ha P. Johnson Grace Mauss Helen McEuen Dora Ellis Helen A. Perkes L. H. Bingham Lucia Garcia Mary T. Maxfield Bonnie Landvatter Thelma B. Dansie Zella Gygi Bernice Russell Virginia Martin Marie Basinger Sarah H. Passey La Relle Elliott Theresia H. Muhiestein Genevieve E. Knudsen Ruby W. Hawkins Martha Stumph Glynna D. Reinsch Dale Burtenshaw Anna §. Christensen Margaret Cole Dortha Radford © Relief Society Mound Fort Ogden Fifteenth Slaterville Florida Stake Axson _ Lake City Palatke Springfield Wesconnett Gainesville Branch Oak Grove Branch Sanderson Branch Franklin Stake Fairview Mapleton Preston First Preston Second Whitney Fresno Stake Chowchilla Fresno First Avenal Branch Dinuba Branch Exeter Branch Hanford Branch Los Banos Branch Garfield Stake Antimony Boulder Circleville Escalante North Kingston EnrollSubscriptions - Pct. Ment 73 71 38 415 36 30 37 76 30 12 8 19 77 69 30 170 82 55 15 56 No. 78 57 37 353 30 28 43 70 31 16 6 19 613 58 24 127 100 52 13 53 15 14 21 19 107 80 97 85 83 93 116 92 103 133 75 100 Magazine Representative Phyllis Hufstetler Lu Jean Taylor Amelia E. Holley Renie E. Tompkins Margaret Mizell Ora Lee Milton Hilda Anderson Essie Coleman Mrs. W. H. Jammes Harriet E. Pearson Iva Williams Daisy Dobson Gladys Bosen Erma G. Raulings Alene A. Porter Mary A. Moser Chloe Peterson Laura L. Kindley Sovinia Christoffersen Mary L. Petty Frances Van Buren Emerald C. Mentzel Carrie Whitney Juanita Henson Eunice Swearingen Golda C. Haws Betty Wiley Nina T. Moosman Rose Beebe Julia C. Barnes Gail Coates 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Norwalk Santa Ana Montebello First Montebello Second Dittman Branch East Mill Creek Rosecrest East Provo Stake Provo Eighth Provo Ninth Provo Thirteenth Ririe First ment 69 70 46 37 21 114 65 420 62 61 45 60 Pct. Ririe Second Shelton East Riverside Stake Fifteenth Sixteenth Twenty-eighth Thirty-fourth El Paso Stake El Paso First El Paso Second Las Cruces Silver City Deming Branch Truth or Consequences Branch Emery Stake Castle Dale Elmo Emery Orangeville Emigration Stake East Twenty-seventh North Twenty-first Twenty-first Twenty-seventh Ensign Stake North Eighteenth South Eighteenth North Twentieth East Ensign West Ensign Farr West Stake Farr West Marriott 66 49 465 121 85 133 126 267 30 63 19 36 11 14 96 30 87 113 422 85 84 82 90 75 38 449 122 94 135 98 216 32 61 19 32 10 12 89 31 66 95 371 87 12 78 75 800 152 188 105 120. 185 423 63 46 Alice Adamson Dale Burtenshaw Erma L. Haslam Johanna Barraclough Susan R. Earnshaw Eleanor Smith La Von H. Holgren Mary D. Pierce Winifred R. Turley Ruby S. Brown Mariam C. Johnson Rosetta Crowe Eva Moody Ina S. Peterson, Pres. Ione L. Kofford Lillian I. Oviatt Olene Andersen Pearl McCall Polly R. Griffin Viola L. Walton La Ver O. Nunley Sallie S. Keate Florence Murphy Susie Chase Winward Susanna F. Kruys Goldie Despain Lena May Venter Jane Tibbals Florence S. Simmons Bertha R. England Jessie Taylor Sarah H. Parry Glendale Stake Elysian Park Garvanza Glendale East Glendale West Highland Park La Canada Sunset Sunland Branch Gooding Stake Fairfield Glenns Ferry Gooding Jerome First Jerome Second Granite Stake Columbus Fairmont Forest Dale Lincoln Nibley Park Wells Grant Stake Hillcrest Lorraine Ridgedale Smith Smith West Spring Glen Springview Wandamere Wandamere Park Grantsville Stake Grantsville First Grantsville Second Wendover 122 109 171 119 123 126 114 110 129 94 91 118 111 101 106 108 153 100 101 101 100 110 106 100 123 100 104 113 105 107 107 100 76 at 81 Elsie Weber Frances Kelland Elizabeth Burnett Ellen Hudson Viola D. McIntire Henrietta Atkinson Emma Clark Alta Marie Posey Alberta Harris Vesta Blackburn Blanche Naser Leola Thurman Mary Roy Mary Coates Idella Walker Clara Love Toni Londvatter Lilly Soren Eloise Webb Margaret Walton Emma Armstrong Maize Roberts Caroline R. Bennett Belvereen Palmer Margaret Jones Helen B. Chamberlain Vivian Rice La Preal Ames Ellen Roberts | Estham Fort Iva Dell Holmberg Gladys M. Record HONOR ROLL Ione Cole Eva I. Worthington Frances Adams 331 Relief Society Gridley Stake Chico Grass Valley Oroville Yuba City Paradise Branch Gunnison Stake Axtell Gunnison Second Highland Stake Canyon Crest Crystal Heights East Stratford Highland Park Parleys Rosslyn Heights South Highland Park Stratford Hillside Stake Edgehill Mountain View South Edgehill Wasatch Humboldt Stake Carlin Elko Montello Winnemucca Ruby Valley Branch Hyrum Stake Hyrum First EnrollSubscriptions Pet. Ment 368 43 36 33 110 21 24 97 722 91 108 79 76 77 107 72 112 814 175 110 153 131 No. 335 91 48 112 35 8697 27 8682 114 104 25 119 18 75 74 6 745 103 80 88 108% 100 67 85 85 112 90 117 95 89 92 128 128 114 6981, 86 155 89 86 678 123 =80 158% 121 157 992 26 113 53 12 24 7 8 629 60 Magazine Representative Violet Gray Orvilla Graham Katie Carter Violet Gray Fay Sorenson Phebe Brill Rhoda Jensen Lillian Conder Lucy Harman Marie Gerritsen Ida Coulam Marie Larsen Julia Brighton Maude G. Neeley Carmen Brown Marie F. Miller Alda Anderson Emily S. Parker Ruth Shupe Ella Keddington Vera C. Hurley Malaone Mumford Charlotte S. Ferguson Charlotte S. Ferguson Vera Crissey Beth Sevy Mary Cowan Bessie Neff Zelda J. Howells Angelin Smith Relief Society Kanab Stake Moccasin Mt. Carmel Orderville Kolob Stake Mapleton Springville Springville Springville Springville Fifth Springville Sixth Springville Ninth First Second Fourth Lakeview Stake Clinton Hooper First Hooper Second Kanesville Lakeview Riverdale Roy Arsenal Villa Branch Lehi Lehi Stake First Lehi Fourth Lehi Fifth Lethbridge Stake Calgary First Claresholm Orton Picture Butte Stavely Champion Branch High River Branch EnrollSubscriptions ~ ment it 21 79 No, 16 145. 19 90 83 105 736 0 8=6—93 97 113 140 136 67 105 64 81 81 95 69 97 66 102 Pet. Magazine Representative Nora M. Heaton Mina Gardner Hester P. Heaton Ivy C. Anderson Ardilla Perry Addie Underwood Eudora Jensen Rose Roylance Venna A. Reese Sara R. Hyde Ellen Larson Allie K. Freestone Lyle Burnett Manita Suiter Margaret N. Vaughn Clara Fletcher Lyma B. Cook Pearl Champneys Ruby Olmstead Doris Royer Hazel May Bone Ada Allred Frances J. Comer Helen Faulkner Luella Rice Lilly Derricott Lucille Karren Ida L. Rodgers Carolyne M. Davies Dorothy Golightly 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Hyrum Second Hyrum Third Millville Paradise Wellsville First Wellsville Second Idaho Stake Bancroft Chesterfield Hatch Kelly-Toponce Lund Idaho Falls Stake Idaho Falls Second Idaho Falls Fifth Idaho Falls Ninth Iona Lincoln Inglewood Stake Centinela Inglewood Lawdale Lennox Morningside Park Redondo Torrance Westchester Juab Stake Nephi First Nephi Third Juarez Stake Dubian Juarez 44 65 38 53 86 82 Ann Anderson Vella N. Eliason Merle Jenson Zelda J. Howells Ethel Jones Catherine Myers Jennie S. Gilbert Grace Mickelson Buenta Muir Rosa Rindlisbaker Margaret Hebdon Edna Darlington Ila Stoddard Eva Holland Estella Salisbury Hazel Dixon Johanna Scorsby Amy Hansen Magdalen Lake Afton Broberg Carrie T. Ely Irene White Geraldine Lystrup Verna Edwards Marie B. Harden Hortense B. Smith Bernice Chapman Ireta Park May B. Petty Melvina Jones Maud J. Shetten Liberty Stake Eighth Harvard Liberty Liberty Park Ninth North Eighth Second South Harvard South Second Third Logan Stake College Long Beach Stake Compton First Compton Second Long Beach First Long Beach Second Long Beach Fourth Long Beach Sixth Lynwood San Pedro Wilmington Los Angeles Stake Adams Arlington Hollywood La Brea Westwood Wilshire Lost River Stake Leslie Lost River Salmon First Salmon Second 719 69 61 68 534 112 777 69 66 92 68 78 94 72 68 92% 78 48 Minerva F. Miller Desta Cope Carrie Spence Alice Russell Ruth Cummens Gertrude Waldo Janet O'Driscoll Stella D. Visarrage Elizabeth Wesman Mae Thompson Rachel D. Garff Nettie Abrams Ethel Spongberg Gladys R. Spence Annie L. Anderson Sails C. Boyle Geraldine Klaeger Mary E. McKinney Louisa Rich Isabella Myers Lila Lindegren Edith M. Harris Kathryn N. Appel Velma Shurley Clarissa Kopp Charlotte O'Connor Victoria H. Smith Jessie Furby Evelyn Anderson Ruth Olsen Evelyn Pearson Lucy Grufaz De Leath Rice HONOR ROLL 333 Relief Society Lyman Stake Lyman Manilla Mountain View Rawlins Rock Springs First Farson Branch Malad Stake Cherry Creek Holbrook Malad First Malad Second Malad Third Pleasant View Portage St. John Samaria Maricopa Stake Lehi Mesa First Mesa Fourth Mesa Sixth Mesa Tenth Mesa Twelfth Mesa Fourteenth Pine Tempe Mesa Stake Alma Gilbert Mesa Second Mesa Fifth Mesa Seventh EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 87 27 57 31 65 12 602 35 17 106 72 24 43 25 54 13 575 31 19 106 Pet. Magazine Representative Elva Oaks Etnelein Twitchell Cora Hamblin Lucille Butterfield Elizabeth Williams Olive Jones Mary B. Bush Maisie Williams Evelyn C. Nalder Pearl W. Thomas Beth B. Facer Tressa Swenson Mrs. Ralph R. Davis La Vell Parkinson Anna Lyle M. Jones Verla Hill Esther Miller Florabel Taylor Vera Lesueur Mabel Reed Mathonia Magnusson Thora Hamblin Mae Miner Freda Allred Chloe B. Randall Florence H. Bateman Lola White Nellie Stewart Lalone Farnsworth Violet Whipple Iris G. Miller Imogene Chapman Relief Society Las Vegas Sixth Mesquite Littlefield Overton Davis Dam Branch Pahrimp Branch Montpelier Stake Bern Cokeville Geneva Montpelier First Montpelier Second Montpelier Third Nounan Raymond Wardboro Monument Park Stake Beacon Beacon Second Hillside Indian Hills Monument Park Moon Lake Stake | Bluebell Boneta Mount Emmons Talmage Morgan Stake Croydon North Morgan Peterson Richville 65 76 11 62 10 68 79 12 63 10 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 105 104 109 102 100 100 80 96 87 94 99 103 89 89 121 100 82 87 100 101 136 90 83 113 82 77 83 83 77 85 Magazine Representative Marie Horsley Nelda Houston Vinda Reber Jane Jones Mary Lou S. Reeder Mary Christensen Mrs. O. T. Parker Myrtle Steckler Ella Hunsaker Barbara T. Tueller Marie Glauser Nina Rich Olive J. Michaelson Mary Minnig Donna Eschler Genevieve Kunz Hazel Swain Venice Rosevear Letha Hart Erma Williams Bessie Crandall Pearl Bills Sylvia Goodrich Jennie Brotherson Elviria Snow Alice B. Sorensen Faye London Julia Carrigan Althea Carrigan Anona Dickson 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Queen Creek Hayden Branch Superior Branch Millard Stake Flowell Meadow Millcreek Stake Millereek First Millereek Second Millcreek Third Valley Center First Valley Center Second Winder Minidoka Stake Acequia Emerson Hazelton Heyburn First Heyburn Second Paul Rupert First Rupert Second Rupert Third Hunt Branch Moapa Stake Boulder City Bunkerville Henderson Kingman Las Vegas First Las Vegas Second Las Vegas Third Las Vegas Fourth Las Vegas Fifth 43 19 17 36 71 437 91 64 57 71 77 ey 469 36 20 35 60 57 46 42 101 56 16 777 70 36 45 32 81 yi 80 32 50 44 20 19 32 54 402 78 64 66 72 59 63 572 36 26 74 78 49 69 65 98 61 16 821 72 35 47 36 85 78 74 63 60 Betty King Lettie Pratt Josephine Farley Rose Christensen Deneice Averett Ethel A. Smith Grace Park Dona Korons Joanne P. Orton Mathilde S. Breitling Clara Howlett Lola N. Taylor Myrtle C. Lloyd Ella Harrison Louie Mae Mecham Delilah J. Wickham Bessie Thaxton Mary B. Wilcox Veda Platts Lilith M. Hobbs Winifred Aston Eva O. Lowder Mary Lou Christionsen Florence A. Johnson Wilma Imlay Tamsen Adams Lucille Tweedie Minnie E. Stowell Belle Hall Luella B. Thornton Harriet Hicks Carrie G. Beatty Dorothy Goshen Mt. Graham Stake Duncan Franklin Layton First Layton Second Lordsburg Safford Solomonville Virden Animas Branch Gila Branch Lebanon Branch Mt. Jordan Stake Crescent Draper First Draper Second Granite Sandy First Sandy Fourth Mount Logan Stake Logan Thirteenth River Heights Mount Ogden Stake Highland Ogden Fifth Ogden Twelfth Ogden Twenty-third Ogden Twenty-fourth Ogden Thirty-third Mt. Rubidoux Stake Corona Elsinore Hemet Ontario Pomona Myrtle Tenney Jennie Johnson Marie Goodman May Bell Humphrey Clara Nelson Ruth B. Barnes Itha Booth Annie Larson Erma Lines Arminta Richens Carrie Lee Nina Uptain Bertha S. Powell Lydia M. Carroll Alice W. Stay Loe E. Gordan Kaye W. Morgan Beth Bateman La Preal Morris HONOR ROLL Emily H. Anderson Ila J. Wood Martha Tolman Jane Horner Doratha Shifflet Arminta Smith Bessie Adam Mary E. Shurtliff Hilda Peel Muriel E. Veach Lillian Pollan Reva Kribs Lucille Plumb Elizabeth Apgood 335 Relief Society Riverside Perris Branch Murray Stake Grant Murray First Murray Fourth Murray Fifth Murray Sixth Murray Seventh Nampa Stake Caldwell Homedale Kuna Melba Nampa First Nampa Second Nampa Third Nampa Fourth Black Canyon Branch Star Branch Nebo Stake Park Payson First Payson Second Payson Third Payson Fourth Payson Fifth Spring Lake West Nevada Stake Ely Second Lund McGill Ruth EnrollSubscriptions Pct. Ment 82 21 714 82 122 55 82 60 83 574 76 57 45 38 69 75 60 70 19 24 679 68 69 105 107 65 62 54 73 873 74 49 118 81 No. 69 24 84 114 593%, 83 82% 101 108 45 83 63 89 82 101 105 76 Magazine - Representative Blanche Wright Prissilla Smuin Clara M. Duffin Blanche S. Bradford Lucile C. Jones Faye Eustance Mary Ann Jensen Gertrude Smith Fawn S. Noren Isabell Svedin Esther Rush Rose Buck Idaho Hatch Ruby Johnson Blanche Woolard Virginia Hunter Annimay Zesiger Hanna Castagnets Esther Sweet Emily Kent Emma Wilson Ethel T. Hiatt Rhea C. Hone Mary Swain Clara B. Orton Nellie C. Kapple Fredericka Wyler Maxine Moore Zora Hurst Susan A. Mulliner Susan A. Mulliner Ella Faucett Ann Edwards Maud Mifflin Relief Society Idaho Falls Thirteenth Osgood Ucon North Jordan Stake Bennion Granger First Granger Second Granger Third Hunter Redwood Taylorsville First Taylorsville Second North Rexburg Stake Hibbard Newdale Plano Rexburg First Sugar City North Sanpete Stake Fairview South Milburn Mt. Pleasant Third Mountainville Spring City North Sevier Stake Salina First Vermillion North Weber Stake Ogden Third Taylor Wilson EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 100 64 113 672 76 83 90 70 110 60 73 73 626 64 37 57 138 157 Pet. 104 116 104 100 100 82 109 140 101 100 100 100 Magazine Representative Agnes J. Price Maurine Freeman Elva Andrus Elthura Mackay Blanche Parker Martha M. Stevens Louise W. Scott Malinda H. Christensen Ella M. Dean Louisa Skog Elsie Barker Rosalma Van Buskirk Arvilla Parkinson Mary Surey Zola Allen Arvilla Parkinson Eva Summers Pearl Hamilton Araminta Clement Clara Stewart Lucille R. Seely Vera Shelley Bergetta Jensen Donna Mae Jackson Henrietta Thalman Martha M. Burnett Melba Favero Sarah H. Holmes 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 New York Stake East Orange Manhattan Queens Uniondale North Box Elder Stake 578 Bear River City Brigham Third Brigham Fourth Brigham Seventh Brigham Eighth Corinne Harper Honeyville North Carbon Stake Carbonville Helper Storrs Clear Creek Branch Scofield Branch North Davis Stake Clearfield First Clearfield Second Layton Third Layton Fourth Sunset Syracuse No. Idaho Falls Stake Coltman Idaho Falls First Idaho Falls Fourth Idaho Falls Seventh Idaho Falls Tenth 221 184 46 42 28 30 41 42 32 24 565 74 4 81 @ 92 93 61 738 98 90 90 175 | 61 52 439 357 42 42 83 96 42 37 17 20 a 19 653 105 58 54 101 76 106 91 56 846 109 = 82 733 a 110 111 102 123 74 81 29 49 Glenette C. Jones Elizabeth M. Carpenter Mary Wittorf Grace F. Miller Anne Koenig Christina N. Bott Lorena Waddoups Fern Channel] Ivy O. Fuller La Vina S. Hansen Lavinia C. Clark Meltrude A. Nelson Barbara H. Jeppsen Daisy Duke Lydia Bendall Dale Johnson Estella B. Gale Florence J. Anderson Elsie Hansen Sarah Donaldson Ethel Holt Elsie Bennett Mary Banz Vera A. Adams Lola Durrant Luella Carver Iva Jensen Janet L. Landon Marion Judd Elizabeth Elg Anna Sibbett Florence Jensen Theresse Shore Nyssa Stake Nyssa First Nyssa Second Ontario Owyhee Parma Vale Oahu Stake Kailua Oakland Stake Alameda Castro Valley Dimond Elmhurst Hayward Maxwell Park Oakland San Leandro Centerville Branch Livermore Branch Ogden Stake Eden Huntsville Liberty Ogden Fourth Ogden Sixth Ogden Thirteenth Ogden Twentieth Ogden Thirty-first Ogden Thirty-fifth Ogden Thirty-sixth Oneida Stake Banida Dayton Glendale 365 207 200 149 216 206 261 225 89 105 100 114 101 110 116 93 100 114 104 100 104 100 108 113 104 116 106 120 86 145 112 86 81 80 113 Mae A. Boyer Edries Jones Gladys Feik Wanda Mortimer Edna Hartley Rena Weber Avis Belnap HONOR ROLL Eleanor Ludloff Agnes M. Nelson La Vina H. McRae Della L. Eck Lila F. Graham Essie Pollock Ann Livingston Francine De Vries Dorothy Hedges Agnes M. Nelson Marie Lindsay Della McLanglin Chloe F. Summerill Catherine Stalling Ann Johansen Florence S. Hill Theo G. Johansen Elizabeth Thompson Ramona P. Snow Ruth Williams Ada Egginton Madge Crawford Lucille Forsberg Leona P. Winger Ada Bell Tla Jones Eulalia W. Larsen 337 Relief Society Preston Third Preston Fourth Preston Seventh Riverdale Treasureton Winder Oquirrh Stake Garfield First Garfield Second Hercules Magna First Magna Second Pleasant Green First Pleasant Green Second Spencer Orem Stake Beverly Geneva Orem First Sharon Timp View Vermont Vineyard Windsor Palmyra Stake Birdseye Lake Shore Leland Palmyra Salem Spanish Fork First Spanish Fork Second Spanish Fork Third Spanish Fork Fourth EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 67 88 107 46 21 35 433 51 46 12 53 59 69 64 79 480 34 102 42 47 50 52 69 84 868 14 100 44 36 106 108 90 57 62 80 78 100 38 19 119 89 93 83 90 28 © 80 551 127 56% 111 52 113 16 133 67 126 72 122 82 119 92 144 113% 144 454 48 86 49 38 59 46 56 72 813% 94 Pct. Magazine Representative Amy S. Kern Anna F. Palmer Verneta Larson Dorothy H. Packer Vera Atkinson Leona P. Winger Beatrice W. Dimond Zelma Payne Earlean McGee Mary Coe Ida Beckstead Izella Jeppson Leatrus Turner Mabel Martin Florence Reid Alice Harris Eva Hulet Thelma Benson Eliza Anderson Fern Laudie Donna Pullman Mildred Jacobsen Mae Schroder Cora Hooley Juanita J. Howard Rachel Spencer Bessie Atwood Katheryn Huff Tressa Sorenson Dora H. Cloward Mable E. Wood Lucy Hill Mildred Houston Gladys Christmas Relief Society North, El Monte Pasadena South Pasadena Phoenix Stake Capitol Glendale Phoenix Phoenix Phoenix Phoenix Phoenix Phoenix Phoenix Eighth Phoenix Ninth Scottsdale Avondale Branch Buckeye Branch Pioneer Stake Cannon Edison Glendale Park First Glendale Park Second Jordan Park Riverview Twenty-fifth Thirty-second Thirty-fifth Pocatello Stake Fort Hall Inkom Pocatello Second Pocatello Fourth Pocatello Sixth Pocatello Seventh Pocatello Eighth First Second Fourth Fifth Sixth Seventh EnrollSubscriptions ment 52 57 77 894 86 66 113 75 41 70 72 80 40 49 60 No. 61 63 79 873 87 78 99 96 Pet. Lig 111 103 98 101 118 88 128 144 131 97 84 93 82 107 100 100 82 Magazine Representative Anna D. Hales Viola M. Bean Helen Baxter Florence M. Broberg Edna Pugh Smith Julia Kremer Alta Mathews Nancy Lou Harlenson Belle Herndon Ruth Helen Williams Ruby Palmer Edna Hoyte Chesta Campbell Ellen Owens Cornelia Worthen Maydell Comovaloff Ethel Gable Jessie Johnson Lillian Van Leuven Joyce Ferguson Elna Buehn Margaret Stoll Marie Taylor Elizabeth S. Warren Emma M. Jensen Anna Albertsen Edith Murry Edna J. Drake Zilla Hall Ada Hall Helga H. Pugmire Esther W. Johnson Eva B. Barrow Velma Bailey Gladys Dennis 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Spanish Fork Fifth Spanish Fork Sixth Spanish Fork Seventh Thistle Branch Palo Alto Stake Burlingame Naglee Park San Jose San Mateo Willow Glen Panguitch Stake Hatch Panguitch North Park Stake First Tenth Thirty-first Duncan Emigration Le Grand Princeton Webster Parowan Stake Enoch Paragonah Parowan First Parowan Second Parowan Third Summitt Pasadena Stake Baldwin Park East Pasadena El Monte Las Flores Monrovia 438 93 TT 14 40 111 50 109 95 144 61 117 284 76 38 90 118 = 885 710% 92 90 113 82 98 88 87 Alice Runolfson Flora Bell Davis Anna Hallam Ethel W. Anderson Sarah Avery Iris W. Pickering Eliza J. Horsfield Virginia Neeman Harriet S. Zeitschel Bessie Corbett Hazel Sevey Effie J. Deuel Thelma Orton Lillie S. Schricker Clara Dittman Lamecia W. Pierce Ellen J. Proctor Winifred Poulter E. La Vern Hauks Doris O. Higbee Afton C. Thomas Gertrude M. Halson Betty M. Sorenson Cora B. Murie Erma Lamoreaux Mildred Gilger Nina Taylor Vera Mortensen Clara Bryant Blanche B. Calvert Ardella Hackford Marie Doezie Edith B. Nelson Celeste Bridges, Pres. Gladys B. Johnson Pocatello Twelfth Pocatello Thirteenth Pocatello Fourteenth Pocatello Fifteenth Portland Stake Colonial Heights Moreland Oregon City Hillsboro Branch MeMinnville Branch Portneuf Stake Arimo Cambridge Downey Garden Creek Lava Hot Springs McCammon Swan Lake Virginia Provo Stake Manavu Provo First Provo Fifth Provo Seventh Provo Tenth Provo Sixteenth Raft River Stake Elba Malta Moulton Yost Sublett Branch Reno Stake Hawthorne Lovelock 60 153 407 443 100 461 Rachel Swisher Mary Davidson Erma Summers Veda Ranstrom Dolores Zabelle Dadny Schade Hattie W. Carlson Vanda Marchant Erma R. Fox Theresa F. Imlah Ada L. Parris Merle C. Tippets Vella Bloxham Margaret Yearsley Ethel Henderson Emma Rawsell Wynona M. Glass Marie Henderson Freda R. Hart Flora Buggert Flora Buggert Beatrice D. Black Ida C. Wolsey Mary Josie Eva Thorsen Edyth R. Maxfield Alice O. Neddo Inez Pettingill Alice O. Neddo Luella Nelson Viola Tracey Lois Anderson Louise L. Bell Ada M. Jensen Florence Nilich HONOR ROLL 339 Relief Society Mt. Rose Reno Sparks East Sparks West Westwood Carson City Branch Portola Branch Rexburg Stake Archer Burton Independence Lyman Rexburg Second Rexburg Third Rexburg Fourth Rexburg Fifth Rexburg Sixth Richland Stake Pasco-Kenniwick Toppenish Walla Walla Yakima Rigby Stake Annis Grant Hamer Lewisville Menan First Menan Second Rigby First Rigby Fourth Roberts Terreton Beaver Creek Branch EnrollSubscriptions No. Ment 51 39 53 49 33 23 21 590 76 56 42 63 70 13 719 68 63 57 30 57 51 35 23 29 766 117 69 42 73 83 96 99 97 90 43 20 52 35 703 60 54 33 113 68 73 a 69 52 69 35 Pct. 112 77 108 104 106 100 138 130 154 123 100 116 119 132 125 143 143 83 77 81 109 102 111 102 79 104 105 103 100 100 78 144 109 Magazine Representative Barbara B. Pace Fern Andriola Agnes Kenfield Florence B. Nelson Mary A. Young Ruth Meachan Leah D. Williams Martha J. Erickson Norah Grover Leone Beattie Margaret Barber Jessie Moulton Myrtle Bell Wanda Hunziker Sibyl J. Smith Vena Frost Mary N. Moore Nina B. Erickson Agnes B. Ferguson Irene D. Harrison Olga Paradis Sara Simmons Lucy Brown Ruby Pinnock Amelia Smuin Olive Cuthbert Alta Qualman Erma Gunderson Audra Peterson Ann W. Nielsen Ruth Marriott Maurine Peterson Deoine Thompson Relief Society St. Johns Stake Eagar First 69 St. Joseph Stake Pima Thatcher Salt Lake Stake Capitol Hill North Seventeenth San Bernardino Stake 308 Fontana 47 San Bernardino First 60 San Bernardino Second 53 San Bernardino Third 31 La Mesa 85 No. EnrollSubscriptions 89 88 96 144 Magazine Representative Jessie Jepson Arline N. Gibbons Clara B. Laney Ruby Rogers Nira P. Lee Nellie Dixon Winnie Smith Viola Colvin Hazel B. Bryce Veda Blain Ella Sims Zela McBride Sarah N. Hales Mary L. Fawcett Marie M. Hardwick Mary E. M. Jackson Lydia Westberg Clara Overson (Pres.) Evelyn Wilde Heath Artie Davis Alice S. Walker Elna Nickles Laura Lee Hilliker Susie E. Powell Dorothy H. Mumford Zetta Nielson Dora Tolman Sarah C. Bodily Beatrice I. Godbold Virginia B. Acheson Della Campbell 340 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Alpine Luna Nutrioso Bryce Central Eden Ft. Thomas Globe Miami Nineteenth Twenty-second Twenty-third Colton Redlands Victorville Yucaipa Branch San Diego Stake El Cajon Hillcrest ment 19 27 9 20 56 18 25 50 55 85 94 87 51 23 16 27 696 48 61 Pct. Riverside Stake Center Riverside Rose Park Second Rose Park Third Roosevelt Stake Ballard Bennett Ioka Roosevelt Second Whiterocks Sacramento Stake Carmichael Del Paso Fair Oaks Roseville Sacramento First Sacramento Third Sacramento Fourth Woodland Auburn Branch Placerville Branch St. George Stake Central Gunlock Ivins Leeds Mt. Trumbull Pine Valley St. George First St. George Second St. George Third St. George Fourth St. George Fifth St. George Sixth Santa Clara 457 82 367 64 86 45 75 45 11 25 94 19 614 77 43 36 72 116 86 Winnie B. Stevenson Pearl F. Jones Hillevi Daniels Agnes Ficklin Geraldine G. Hanni Myrtle Winn Mary E. Horrocks Ellen Timothy Adella Rowley Myrtle Hoops Martha Gattiker Myrle Bolls Minnie E. McQueen Eileen C. Levin Nida B. Morey Margherita Singleton Ella Haag Naomi Koford Vendla Gordon Alice Ursenbach Goldy T. Baker Agnes Pickett La Rue Cannon Maybell Hunt Fern M. Hafen Etta M. Mariger Rebecca Bundy Maude Gardner Edna Cunningham Dorothy Alldredge Ella B. Nielson Vilate Leavitt Alma Spendlove Leila K. Atkin Selina Hafen National City 43 North Park 81 Ocean Beach 42 Pacific Beach 58 North Hollywood First 91 North Hollywood Second 39 Sherman Oaks 58 Studio City 79 Van Nuys ' 68 Newhall Branch 14 Woodland Hills Branch 16 San Joaquin Stake 383 Modesto 82 Oakdale 29 Stockton First 74 Stockton Second 56 Tracy 29 Turlock 42 Brentwood Branch 22 Ione Branch 18 Lodi Branch 16 39 65 38 45 735 92 44 121 63 83 74 58 80 70 16 34 362 65 100 72 43 82 566 128 42 85 92 42 58 Al 24 30 24 394 99 119 91 80 90 18 118 102 102 133 162 134 119 100 101 103 114 213 104 112 156 77 77 106 148 156 145 115 164 145 138 186 133 188 160 102 108 124 Allagonda C. Lund Josephine Gallacher Virginia Blackwood Naomi P. Hodgson Helen Yaple Jane Reynolds Mable Tolley Elizabeth Jacobs Wanda Hibbard Leona Corum Margarite Britton Zelpha Nowlin Duella McCoomb Norma Nichols Helen Smith Rose Franklin Josephine T. Danford Beatrice Simister Gladys Parker Donna Hopkins Mary E. Spencer Alice M. Ray Wealtha Mendenhall Iva H. Allen Mary C. Rich Elva Wolfenbarger Ella J. Hart Sarah S. Dana Nora Cardon Alice Lewis Thodora Thomas Georgia Thomas Afton Hamilton Vivian W. Redd Neta Young Elizabeth Brown HONOR ROLL = San Fernando Stake Burbank Encino Reseda San Fernando San Francisco Stake Balboa Mission San Francisco San Rafael Sunset Manteca Branch San Juan Stake Blanding Grayson 622 90 43 62 62 349 58 64 94 56 77 15 388 92 96 Relief Society ment San Luis Stake Santa Barbara Stake 304 San Luis Obispo 34 Santa Maria 38 Santa Paula 25 Ventura 48 Brentwood 98 Mar Vista 73 Santa Monica 127 Westdale 64 Santaquin-Tintic Stake Santa Rosa 70 Ukiah 24 Fairfield Branch 82 Petaluma Branch 20 No. 75 93 82 79 EnrollSubscriptions Pct. 100 83 101 82 90 100 115 124 80 88 120 88 122 176 96 110 120 100 75 100 82 98 97 117 119 80 97 100 91 Magazine Representative Elma Dalton Nora Christensen Opal McDaniel Sarah Frederiksen Edith G. Swonger Zelpha P. Marengo Leah P. Godfrey Eleanor Danny Isabell Patch Jean Davis Thelma E. Lewis Elsie A. Bloomgren Lillie K. Whitehead Frances D. Kolarik Irene G. Olson Sylvia N. Petersen Nettie G. Smith Helen Hanson Elaine Kirk Harriet E. Barney Eva Southwick Adelaide B. Wigington Judith Lindelof Lucy Shupe Joy Gatting Virginia Terribilini Chelta D. Brown Maurine Robinson Beth Paskett Relief Society Goshen Jameston Kimball Shelley First Shelley Second Shelley Third Taylor Woodville Smithfield Stake Clarkston Newton Smithfield First Smithfield Second Smithfield Third Smithfield Fourth Snowflake Stake Claysprings Flagstaff Heber Holbrook Joseph City - Lakeside Pinedale Snowflake Snowflake Second Winslow Woodruff Linden Branch MeNary Branch So. Bear River Stake Elwood Penrose Tremonton First Tremonton Second EnrollSubscriptions ment 72 42 17 89 87 64 35 62 673 110 109 87 98 129 100 737 28 59 28 73 68 52 No. 80 54 24 132 95 73 36 70 590 83 114 78 76 129 87 602 25 49 31 65 70 42 pl 61 65 56 29 Pet. 111 129 141 148 109 114 103 113 88 75 105 90 78 100 87 82 89 83 111 89 103 81 113 87 82 89 116 89 83 82 93 85 100 100 Magazine Representative Ellen Dye Viola Hillman Florence Gifford Lottie Robinson Thelma Howell Arita Van Eps Pearl Clark Edna Kotter Althea Perkins Sadie Hansen Francis C. Rigby Jessie Littledike Florence Geary Addie Chambers Rebecca P. Larson Elizabeth S. Baldwin Aurelia Plum Martha W. Thomas Ruth S. Porter Maud J. DeWitt Gladys McLaws Gwenn Penrod Jane M. Jackson Nelda G. Hunt Wilmirth R. Gibson Ruby McHood Lorena Smithson Grace Wilson Laura B. Willis Marjorie Stenquest Jausine Peterson Lena M. Jensen Ruth Castleton Hazel Ramson 342 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Moab Monticello Alamosa La Jara Ojai Lompoc Branch Paso Robles Branch Santa Monica Stake La Cienega Goshen Elberta Branch Santa Rosa Stake Napa Seattle Stake Bellingham Everett 75 112 81 96 25 10 16 459 97 64 15 393 61 A485 42 44 Renton Seattle First Seattle Second Seattle Third Seattle Fourth Seattle Fifth Seattle Sixth Arlington Branch Monroe Branch Oak Harbor Branch Sedro Woolley Sevier Stake Glenwood Koosharem Richfield First Richfield Second Richfield Third Richfield Fourth Richfield Fifth Richfield Sixth Sigurd Venice Sharon Stake Edgemont First Edgemont Second Grand View Second Hill Crest Lake View Lincoln Oak Hills First Oak Hills Second Pleasant View Timpanogos Shelley Stake Basalt Firth Mabel McKilrath Elsye W. Knight Gwen Treadwell Arleta C. Calkins Vilma A. Hanson Addie Carlton Mary B. Glenn Una Carlson Fern Gall R. Louise Barnett Florence Reiter Beth V. Anderson Lois Sorenson Etta Crawford Myrtle C. Brown Edith T. Harward Pearl Farnsworth Ethel A. Dastrup Jane Y. Pollett Luceal Kramer Emily Nebeker Jennie Cowley Edna M. Hansen Florence G. Dalton Maxine W. Davis Mary Stephenson Zeda Emmons Minnie Nuttall Anna Millet Pearl J. Pharis Mary S. Bankhead Ruth C. Meldrum Amanda Bigelow Merle Young Thelma Hoskins Florence Hanny Tremonton Third Tremonton Fourth So. Box Elder Stake Brigham City First Brigham City Second Brigham City Fifth Brigham City Sixth Mantua Perry Willard South Carolina Stake Charleston Gaffney Augusta Branch South Davis Stake Val Verda, So. Idaho Falls Stake Ammon Idaho Falls Third Idaho Falls Sixth Idaho Falls Eighth Idaho Falls Eleventh Idaho Falls Twelfth So. Los Angeles Stake Downey First Downey Second Grant Huntington Park Manchester Matthews Maywood Miramonte South Gate Vermont Walnut Park 65 88 612 110 103 109 91 48 39 112 38 22 24 94 487 120 85 aig 112 31 62 914 44 (ic! 63 67 90 91 113 68 128 85 94 57 69 657 113 111 111 107 48 55 112 50 22 19 72 480 122 90 49 90 50 69° 1919 86 129 171 112 200 212 176 148 364 151 170 88 78 107: 103 108 102 118 100 141 100 132 100 79 17 99 102 106 77 80 161 111 210 195 182 271 167 222 233 156 218 284 178 181 Lillian Barfuss Eliza Woodruff Edith E. Baddley Artie Sessions Bernice H. Earl Myrtle Clifford Jayne W. Bergstrom Amy D. Larsen Ruth G. Hirschi Faye Lofthouse HONOR ROLL Edna Wells Ila Black Laverne Holley Edna L. Dastrup Valeria Blotter Lena Linewebber Azilea Johnson Jemima Asper Beth Hayes Carma Aird Wanda Johnson Nancy Rupp Kathern Clift Ora Elmer Alice Taylor Eldora Reeves Bernice Little Bertha Milius Avilda Kowalski Josie Newey Evelyn Ferrera Eva Miller Nellie Hunter 343 Relief Society South Ogden Stake Ogden Fourteenth Ogden Eighteenth Ogden Twenty-sixth Ogden Ogden Twenty-eighth Ogden Thirty-fourth South Weber South Salt Lake Stake Burton Central Park Eldredge Granite Park Haven Miller North Central Park Southgate South Sanpete Stake Ephraim North Ephraim South South Sevier Stake Annabella Central Elsinore Joseph Marysvale Monroe North Monroe South Sevier South Summit Stake Marion Peoa Woodland EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 803 107 93 106 Twenty-seventh 61 139 99 51 651 75 118 86 59 82 63 65 103 730 = 91 85 79 80 86 119 Pct. Magazine Representative Shirley R. Carter Addie T. Nelson Lura C. Wright Ellen N. Brewer Charlotte C. Langford Margie Yost Luella Brown Virginia Stanger Hedy T. Davies Martha Reinhold Ida Johnson Irene Urry Margaret Brown Anne Anderson Ada Prescott Evelyn Harrison Lillian Woolsey Dora Sparks Delta Breinholt Louise Christiansen Sylvia Davis Betty Hansen Myrtle Marquardson Lucina Parker Ruth Allred Grace M. Ashcroft Ruth Parsons Lillian Bridges Melba Beal Lorna Milliner Francell Gines Relief Society Tacoma First Tacoma Second Tacoma Third Auburn Branch Buckley Branch Port Orchard Branch Shelton Branch Taylor Stake Magrath First Magrath Second Raymond Second Raymond Third Raymond Fourth Stirling Welling Coutts Branch Tyrells Lake Branch Warner Branch Wrentham Branch Temple View Stake Fourth Sixth-Seventh McKinley Teton Stake Bates Cedron Chapin Clawson Darby Driggs First Driggs Second Jackson Pratt Tetonia Grovont Branch EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 84 37 34 12 18 19 23 615 99 89 77 65 55 69 36 17 z 18 20 95 75 121 457 27 21 17 31 22 56 45 43 27 43 15 66 40 47 16 25 20 23 622 108 86 60 77 57 78 39 18 16 17 20 87 84 112 414 25 24 19 Pet. 79 108 128 133 139 105 100 101 109 97 78 118 104 Magazine Representative Beth I. Chipman Wilma Brechbiel Irene Howell Elaine Krotzer Helen S. Smith Myra Eunis Bernadene Ramin H. Della Blumel Maizie Toomer Amy Fossey Rhoda Allred Esther J. Anderson Ruby Holland Elsie Perrett Mary Chipman Emily Collet Mary Hamling Etta Ellingson Eva Siewert Melinda A. Morris Helen R. Hemingway Edith Anderson Ruby F. Christiansen Marjorie Bates Leatha Kunz Annie Stone Marie Little Ruth Smith Hattie Salkield Thelma Jackson Ila Tanner Joyce Kaufman Hattie Hatch Shirley Moulton 344 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Southrn. Arizona Stake 492 433 Bisbee Douglas St. David Tucson First Tucson Second Tucson Third Whitewater Willcox Nogales Spokane Stake Coeur d'Alene North Spokane Pullman Sandpoint Star Valley Stake Bedford Etna Fairview Freedom Grover Smoot Thayne Sugar House Stake Bryan Emerson Hawthorne Marlborough Richards Sugar House Summit Stake Hoytsville Echo Branch Tacoma Stake Bremerton Olympia Puyallup 42 36 46 82 77 75 36 17 5 37 53 21 30 Edna B. Allred Bernice Wright Edna Huish Florence Bateman Louisa Done Mrs. A. O. Stephens E. Bernice Wells Ida Nelson Lucille M. Williams Camilla Smith (Pres.) Emma Masten Ruth E. Newport Ruth T. Harston Ruth Decker Clarice Wolfley Marjorie Ivie Maud K. Ranzenberg Alice Ivie Laura C. Astle Mable Bruce Martha V. McKim Alta W. Whitehead Catherine Sipkema Katie Fairbanks Mayme Stevens Gladys Isaacson Vera Schmitt Gene H. Pease Blanche Crittenden Almeda S. Richins Afton Dickson Alta Christensen Ella Carruth Bertha L. Fowler Timpanogos Stake Grove Lindon Manila 517 ed 91 69 Pleasant Grove First 105 Pleasant Grove Second 85 Pleasant Grove Third 76 Tooele Stake Lake View Stockton Tooele Second Tooele Fifth Tooele Sixth Tooele Seventh Tooele Eighth Tooele Ninth Vernon Deseret Branch East Tod Branch West Tod Branch Twin Falls Stake Buhl Second Kimberly Twin Falls First Twin Falls Second Twin Falls Third Twin Falls Fourth Castleford Branch Filer Branch Uintah Stake Ashley Davis Glines Lapoint Maeser First Maeser Second 790 38 34 87 67 45 58 48 34 27 16 14 16 646 | 60 80 68 89 105 100 24 34 704 43 48 54 54 40 58 463 76 71 53 106 92 65 706 30 30 87 71 Ora Thorne Fern Smith Ella Smith Reva Allen Ethel Fenton Alice Deveraux Angie Young Jennie A. Wallin Zella McBride La Rue Tabbert Orpha Sheehan Millie Tate Louise Tate Annie Gollaher Mary McKellar Jeanne Waldron Bessie Anderson Mary Carson Thelma Millard Mariam MclInelly Ruth Lanning Margaret Rosencrantz Betty C. Holmquist Lillian Tyler Mabel M. Judd Carrie Webb Bertha Bolton Velma Allred Bessie Cox Elsie M. Palmer Elva Ericksen Reva Watkins Sarah Workman Lillie Bigelow Marie Johnson Edna Pope HONOR ROLL 345 Relief Society Naples Vernal First Vernal Second Vernal Third Bonanza Branch Rangely Branch Union Stake Baker Elgin-Embler Enterprise Halfway La Grande First La Grande Second Pendleton Union Wallawa University Stake Eleventh West Twelfth North Thirteenth South Thirteenth EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 67 79 72 74 11 24 46 56 Stadium Village Branch 85 Utah Stake Park Provo Third Provo Fourth Provo Sixth Provo Fourteenth University Uvada Stake Alamo Panaca Pioche 451 54 140 59 57 50 91 293 39 47 50 56 717 68 77 11 22 Pct. Magazine Representative Eva Haws Arlean Chivers Pearl D. Winder Alice O. Billings Mir] Kendall Gladys Morgan Leana M. See Sadie Shelton Margaret Hopkins Amyrue Gent Wanda Bendixon Lydia Cantrell Leona M. See Lenora Blanchard Erma W. Badger Amy Lou Werst Etta B. Cowles Emmeline Jacobs Laretta McGee Emma Larsen Venice Anderson Raema H. Drake Bertha Memmott Anna Anderson Esther Hurst Cora Booth Jane Evans Nellie Diamond Leda Law Isadora Price Mary S. Lee Isadora Price Faye Chadburn Relief Society Washington Terrace Ist 38 Washington Terrace 8d 22 Washington Terrace 4th 30 Browning West Pocatello Stake 608 Pocatello Tenth 30 28 25 345 65 67 45 42 18 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 79 127 83 721% 84 110 97 105 85 102% 88 127 78 89 90 89 93 87 120 112 78 114 89 81 114 108 116 111 105 103 131 151 Magazine Representative Verda Walker Fern Kraus Evan Murry Fannie Chandler Rachel Cutler Ann Jensen Zola Chandler Rosella M. Sinclair Clara MecMurdie Mabel Wood Ragna M. Edman Della Riley Anna Sund: Fern B. Fronk Merle Wennhold Elma Johnson Frances Boren Phebe Johnson Agnes Dansie Eliza Reynolds Britt Park Violet Price Clara Beckstead Irene Gardner Reta C. Austin Emma Hurst Letha Stevenson Jean Henderson Ida Gregorson Flora Jensen Rhoda Dickerson Clarissa Haskell 346 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Weiser Stake Emmett First Letha New Plymouth Payette Cascade Branch Wells Stake Ivins McKay Waterloo Wilson West Jordan Stake Bingham Copperton Herriman Riverton First Riverton Second South Jordan West Jordan First West Jordan Second Pocatello First Pocatello Third Pocatello Fifth Pocatello Ninth Pocatello Eleventh Pocatello Sixteenth 418 69 65 49 40 18 858 114 117 143 87 854 67 78 56 69 95 125 137 96 838 17 95 106 94 89 Hiko Branch Ursine Branch Wasatch Stake Center Charleston Daniel Heber First Heber Second Heber Third Heber Fourth Midway First Midway Second Wallsburg Washington Stake Alexandria Arlington Baltimore Capitol Chevy Chase Fairview Richmond Washington Frederick Branch Wayne Stake Fremont Hanksville Loa Lyman Thurber Weber Stake Ogden First Ogden Eleventh Ogden Nineteenth Ogden Twenty-second Ogden Thirty-second 6 -] 5 9 662 647 29 43 Jewel S. Hansen Lydia Hollinger Atha J. Montgomery Ora Sweat Mae Jones Minnie McKenzie - Emily B. Conrad Margaret T. Felt Margaret Mc. Calister Ella Simmons La Neva Averett Norma Bollschweiler Malinda Ford Mary E. Stimpson Ruth Neeley Marjorie T. Reid June H. Ashwell Gertrude Reynolds Ruth Rasband Louise A. Funk Audrey Lund Naomi Blanch Taylor Emma B. Taylor Forsyth Delilah Albrecht Ethel Noyes Lillie Sorenson Zelda Okerlund Tamor Christensen Florence W. Wright Robenia Harris Sadie Masters Elva Craynor Ida Cook Florence Gardner West Utah Stake Pioneer Provo Second Provo Eleventh River Grove First River Grove Second Sunset Sunset Second Wilford Stake Cummings Grandview Imperial Imperial West Kenwood Valley View Valley View Second Wilford Willamette Stake Corvallis Eugene Dexter Branch Junction City Branch Lebanon Branch Sweet Home Branch Woodruff Stake Evanston First Evanston Second Hilliard Woodruff Almy Branch Yellowstone Stake Ashton Egin Bench Marysville Parker 530 89 105 98 65 65 66 42 532 526 90 82 98 71 66 73 46 629 97 78 39 97 87 59 92 80 38 61 12 15 18 12 419 69 92 36 43 15 592 80 46 49 71 Cleo L. Thatcher Edith Baum Helen Buckley Leah Patton Eva Warner Annie P. Tanner Alice D. Carter Bernice Baxter HONOR ROLL Thora Hunter Cora M. Bernards Sarah K. Pearson Lillian Kettle La Von B. Sansom Ruth H. Peterson Mary Neeley Maud C. Graham Mary A. Caldwell Mary Williams Mary Ann Lamoreaux Belva Ingram Edythe Davis Laura Osborne Verna Bell Naomi Harris Rowena Crook Delphia Barnes Naomi Harris Lenna Dean Edna Saxton Laura Hillam Mary Marsden Sara Mason Marjorie Gunter Chloe Rice 347 Relief Society St. Anthony First St. Anthony Third Wilford Kilgore Branch Young Stake Farmington First Farmington Second Kirtland Allison Branch Aztec Branch Durango Branch Jewett Branch Kline Branch Shiprock Zion Park Stake Hurricane North Hurricane South La Verkin Rockville Springdale Toquerville Virgin MISSIONS Australian Mission Enmore Glen Huon Hurstville Launceston Marooka Nambour Perth Ipswich 87 62 60 22 361 50 64 62 9 18 31 16 No. 103 57 55 21 308 50 54 60 8 ph 31 12 15 EnrollSubscriptions 118 92 92 95 85 100 84 97 89 94 100 75 167 150 105 104 103 103 123 118 100 83 Magazine Representative Almina Johnson Irene Pettingill Lilla Romrell Elsa Jensen Zetta Brimhall Zetta Brimhall Daphine Tooley Eva Noel Ruth Jack Louise Rogers Maud B. Jarvis C. Mae Hunt Loretta Slade Opal B. Jack Della Hardy Louise Jepson Vera Ballard Mildred Sanders Mary Hirschi Catherine Brockmeier Edythe Smith Edna J. Flanigan Mae Clarke Mrs. E. M. Walker Rita Pugh Mrs. E. J. Bell Mrs. A. R. Lyell Eunice Compton Annie Elsworth Relief Society London Oshawa Ottawa Sarnia Timmins Toronto Trenton Windsor Central Atlantic States Asheville Bluefield Burlington Colfax Dunn Durham Elizabeth City Fredericksburg Goldsboro Hoges Store Jacksonville Jackson Springs Kinston Martinsville Mount Zion Nahunta Newport News Norfolk Pearisburg Piney Green Portsmouth Raleigh Roanoke Rapids Roxboro Tarboro Wilmington Winston-Salem 14 16 24 10 15 83 8 17 No, 12 19 22 9 13 73 9 17 EnrollSubscriptions 86 119 92 90 87 88 113 100 117 114 Magazine Representative Edythe Davidson Gretta Houston Eva E. Musson Luella Allen Rosalind C. Nye M. H. Schulzke Phyllis Westfall Allie Halstead Katherine Brewington Alice Lawton Grace S. Rudd Margaret Wilson Kathleen Smith Georgia D. Bennett Bertha B. Cahoon Ruth P. Stoneman Edna Stuckey Sadie E. Marr Alicia Gilbert Ranell Thompson Estella Eubanks Sarah Armentrout Rebecca Hollingsworth Dorothy Maples Mae Dickens Sarah I. Hill Margurite Dowdy Bearnie Spell Katherine C. Cole Ruth Rogers Alma May Jones Gertrude Gentry Mary Frances Phelps Erotha Rogers Lillie B. Wyatt 348 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 ment Ellen Woolley ment Pct.. Pet. California Mission Arizona District Bagdad Chino Valley Prescott Wickenburg Colorado River District Blythe Parker Imperial Valley District Brawley El Centro Mount Whitney District Bishop Lone Pine Ridgecrest Trona Oak Creek District Williams San Gorgonio District Banning Beaumont Indio Palm Springs South Coast District Escondido Fallbrook Laguna Beach Vista Yuma District Ajo Wellton Yuma Canadian Mission Brantford Galt Kitchener 698 665 122 110 10 8 @ 7 G2 19 23 aT 26 «41 6 12 43 54 22 24 21 30 109 100 18 20 7 ii 33 «82 ie or 15 41 66 59 23 «23 14 183 im 19 12 10 125 116 17 26 26 23 «21 15 14 94 40 39 12 12 28 828 289 17 15 LaPriel S. Bunker Margaret Shults Jocosa A. Langford Avis R. Despain Ellen Richards Una Perry Vera M. Jackson Irene Wadell Nadine Christiansen Addie Smith Lura Birmingham Alpha Budke Ruth H. Corry Nilda Anderson Elizabeth A. Merwin Alice M. B. Muirhead Alice E. Higbee Nora McCuen Ruth Ainsworth Mae Kehlenbrink Fawn P. Wilcox Elenora Camphuysen Edna M. Jones Myrtle S. Scott Florence J. Reaney Myreel S. Lewis Barbara McElmury Beth B. Beecroft Eva N. McGovern Anna H. Toone Gladys Meek R. Wright Florrie Smith Central States Mission 1133 1077 Hot Springs 10 9 Central Kansas District 1386 1387 Chanute q uf Hutchinson 8 9 Manhattan 8 8 Parsons. 10 14 Salina q q East Oklahoma District 113 105 Eufaula q wf Gore 10 10 Locke q 9 Muskogee 6 q Seminole 8 6 Independence District 281 Armour Hills 27 Claytonville 6 8 Independence 44 Knob Noster 8 q Lawrence 5 q Annie M. Ellsworth Estelle Riley Tla Lovelace Mada F. Rogers Hattie Brady Dorothy C. Clay Donna E. White Edna West Reva F. Barnhill Nellie Meador Wilma Logan Shirley Simper Anna Belle Spencer Aileen Button May Brisbin Maryalice Stewart Ione Jones Ouida Buie Frances Sumpter Rose Robison Dorothy Boyd Jo Ann Cooper Almeda Barnum Gertrude A. Pearson Naomi Nelson Ada A. Fridell Jean Pope Margaret T. Beard Margaret Farnsworth Anna E. Bowen Stella Richards Louise King Thelma Higgins Margaret Courtney Grace Furnell Pauline Slight Vera Oscarson Nola Manire HONOR ROLL 349 Arkansas District El Dorado Little Rock Arkansas City Coffeyville East Wichita West Wichita Bartlesville Tulsa Leavenworth Northeast Rich Hill Riverview St. Joseph Sedalia Westport Missouri District Belleville 56 ~=©50 28 8=28 13 +#10 16 14 11 042611 82 35 23 «27 Diese wii 80 §@30 11 12 23-28 14 18 22) Bil 24 34 11 18 37 ~—Cs«AiL. 176 19 15 Relief Society ment Columbia 8 East St. Louis 20 Jefferson City 14 Mexico 8 St. Louis 52 Southeast Missouri Dist. 39 Hayti 13 Mountain View 3 Poplar Bluff 16 Winona q Southwest Missouri District 119 Bentonville 6 Fayetteville 6 Joplin 25 Miami 9 Pittsburg 9 Springfield 82 Webb City 22 West Kansas District 62 Dodge City 18 Larned 8 St. John 9 Seott City 12 Syracuse 5 Ulysses 10 West Oklahoma District 151 Anadarko 10 Ardmore 8 Blackwell 14 Duncan 13 Fort Sill 19 Midwest City 6 Oklahoma City Ponea City 9 Stillwater 20 No. 8 20 15 6 53 31 10 3 12 EnrollSubscriptions Pct. Magazine Representative Evelyn Wood Willie P. Kanipe Patsy Petershagen Emily McGee Margaretha Evans Pauline Britton Pauline Britton Marion Cornett Alta Wright Mollie Crotzer Lorene Tidlund Sarah C. Poor Diane B. Kitterman Ruth C. Wintle Thea Blessing Ada L. Harris Gladys Drummond Gertie Ohler Marie Moore Mary M. Shumard Elsa Webb Joan Jordan Eythel Hollingsworth Helen Thornburgh Alta Dew Grace G. Cullimore Ethelynde Roberson Laurine M. Nievar Betty Attebery Ruby Etheridge Grace R. Owen Mary H. McCain Mary Thompson Norma Wilkins Clara V. Nelson Relief Society ment Sunbury 7 Great Lakes Mission 1065 Central Indiana District 183 Anderson 10 Cambridge City 18 Columbus 18 Connersville 9 Muncie 29 Richmond 7 North Indiana District Fort Wayne 36 Marion 6 South Bend 15 Central Ohio District 112 No. 16 18 13 EnrollSubscriptions Pet. 94 75 93 78 125 200 85 91 75 125 82 119 88 86 100 100 110 96 80 79 100 89 la 100 83 100 81 83 87 oT 135 94 75 150 Magazine Representative Susie Christian Elizabeth C. Close Johanne Siebach Florence Fisher Edna F. Gray Every! Ketcham Tessa M. Udy Florence Bennett Orphie M. Mercer Pearl D. Yeager Helen E. Boas Vera Caulford Mildred Mattern Irene L. Hile Grace Downing Mary E. Chris Virginia Opfar Beatrice Stirland Ella C. Burton Ellen R. Clayton Esther Baker Bertha Lilly Mrs. Theodore King Delores Sullivan Florence Hoskins Mary Ellen Rudy Elsie Martin Thelma Archer Norma Winebrenner Martha Wise Emma Wolf Nellie A. Allen Ruth Ireland Wanda Puckett 350 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Erie © Germantown Gloversville Johnstown Kingston Meadville Niagara Falls Philadelphia Punxsutawney Reading Rochester Schenectady Scranton Syracuse Utica Wilson Wilmington Dayton Lima Marion Springfield 17 24 14 9 4 2 20 44 12 12 22 26 8 33 11 21 23 31 16 8 14 East Central States Mission Kentucky Central Dist. Lexington Sulphur Well Tomkinsville Winchester Kentucky West District Bowling Green Elkton Greenville Paducah Tennessee East District Chattanooga Kingsport Knoxville Oak Ridge Tennessee West District Memphis Nashville West Virginia N. Dist. Cumberland Franklin Parkersburg West Virginia S. Dist. Beckley Charleston 6 44 Eastern States Mission 736 Albany Alleghany Allentown Binghamton Buffalo Camden Cattaraguas Chester Elmira 16 5 11 12 22 16 6 7 8 514 397 Edna H. Matheson Grace Wells Katherine Seyfrit Grace Scott Elizabeth Shrout Edna H. Matheson Addie McGregor Nettie Lee Hooper Eunice A. Gossett Venice Emily Watson Edna H. Matheson Myrtle Low Ruby L. Monroe Veda Travis Mildred M. Payne Edna H. Matheson Tilda Davis Matilda Brunson Edna H. Matheson Ruby G. Landis Alice Hartman Alberta Mace Cleo Faye McHoney Emma Atkinson Eva C. Taylor Emma W. Barton Pauline Carr Alma A. Lang Lillian L. Gleason Louise C. Winspear Elinor R. Wright Elsa F. Tolman Julia T. Brown Margaret E. Kresge East Michigan District Toledo North Ohio District Alliance Canton Cleveland Warren South Indiana District Bloomington Linton South Ohio District Cincinnati Hamilton Middletown Portsmouth 14 14 9 13 8 14 16 aD 50 15 13 13 West Michigan District 160 Flint Grand Rapids Jackson Kalamazoo Lansing Midland Saginaw Hawaiian Mission Haiku Halaula Hanapepe Honokohua Honomakaa Keanae Waihee New England Mission Amherst Bar Harbor Bath Bridgeport 36 12 14 HO 6 XH E 0 00 Se] 318 LQ 09 10 re 14 9 6 CO OD & = es Oo N MO 1 re N = ri 157 79 144 123 113 121 100 100 116 100 85 77 101 117 142 114 88 96 200 120 75 100 75 75 100 133 75 79 87 100 120 100 Florence Schultz Mrs. Floyd Randall Hazel Currie Trelva Wilson Margaret Calkins HONOR ROLL Maud E. Young Nellie F, Centers Mildred Bang Rosa Bang Phyllis Laney Ola Napier Alice Mattingly Sophia B. Gordon Alphild Tracy Marian Wicks Millie Smith Olive Knibbs Venna Janes Audrey V. Bradd Albertine Hiltz Pearl Anakekea Lillian Cozimero Opal Ching Mae Kalama Agnes K. Aniu Emma Manoa Helen Akuna Hattie B. Maughan Lillian R. Norwood Lyolya Winsor Diane B. Weeks Elizabeth: Gardner w = Relief Society Burlington Fall River Foxboro Fredericton Monson New Bedford New Haven New London Pittsfield Plymouth Portland Portsmouth Presque Isle Providence St. John Springfield Worcester New Zealand Mission Pukehou Waihi EnrollSubscriptions ment et 6 4 No. California Mission 782 Alturas Arcata Ashland Corning Crescent City Etna Eureka Grants Pass Klamath Falls Lakeview Medford Orland Pacific Grove Salinas Sunnyvale 13 22 64 19 20 20 28 42 80 28 35 12 51 28 30 No. 10 Pet. 91 100 75 Magazine Representative Mildred Shortsleeve Laura West Edith Abbott Gladys V. Burtt Beatrice Blatchley Eleanor Rimmer Phyllis Cannon Aurla E. Mitchell Julia Chivers Gertrude V. Sears Sarah McCue Nellie Paisley Edith Griffin Beatrice Johnson Lena Cosman Genevieve Davis Isabelle E. Jacobson Polly Tarawhiti Polly Tarawhiti Amelia P. Gardner Mildred Jackson Ellen Brown Florence Conner Anna Glenn Margery Johnson Marie Johnson Maggie Poteit Bertha Brown Rosie Carlson Eva Manning Bertie McGraw Leola Jacobson Anna Monson Afton Ward Gertrude Rueckert Relief Society Peoria Rockford Tri-City South Illinois District Alton Bloomington Centralia Champaign Clinton Danville Decatur Farmer City Jacksonville Mattoon Murphysdale Quincy Springfield West Frankfort West Iowa District Ames Des Moines Winter Quarters Dist. Columbus Council Bluffs Omaha Sioux City Wisconsin District Appleton Eau Claire Lyndhurst Madison Manitowoc Mole Lake Oneida Rhinelander Wausau EnrollSubscriptions ment 13 5 44 150 No. 14 6 44 161 6 11 pt 18 8 12 18 12 6 4 13 7 26 9 60 Pct. 108 120 100 107 100 183 122 95 80 171 106 86 86 80 260 117 Magazine Representative Grace Deipenbrock Alma Busker Marilyn Baker Pearl B. Kelly Dolly Wheat Lula Paul Mary Katherine Ahlf Lanella Wrisk Lettie Crews Esther Englert Mabel L. Hank Viona Turpin Sophrona V. Seeman Della Orndorff Fannie Stomp Myrtle Tobias Anna M. Fehrhalz Betty Rauback Eleanor M. Bartholomew Audrey Fowler La Vee Peterson Afton H. Hardy Lennie Jones Ruby I. Wright Mrs. George McIntyre Emma Barnes Hazel M. Brasham Beth Neider Luella Schroeder Selma Hoffman Lenora Stuart Donna Warren La Vera Polar Estella Farmer Eva Dutcher Esther Waite 352 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Trail Tulelake Watsonville Willows Yreka North Central States Mission Austin Fargo Ft. Frances Gettysburg Grand Forks Mitchell Pipestone Lake District Duluth Superior Tower Virginia North Minnesota District 6 Brainerd Twin Cities District Hastings Minneapolis First 6 155 11 ia Minneapolis Second 25 Northern States Mis. East Iowa District Bonaparte Cedar Rapids Iowa City Muscatine Waterloo North Illinois District Freeport Galesburg Joliet 591 63 7 14 13 11 Genill Spruill Leora Swensen Laure Hellyer Martha M. Nelson Darlene Rowe Laura M. Hawkes Vera Peterson Agnes Gundrum Ethel C. Shine Mildred Sandberg Lottie Lehew Helen Nobis Eleanore Sumner Ruth Peterson Velda L. Peterson Hazel C. Welch Francis Louise Bruneau Clara M. Niemi Elaine Peterson Iris Nelson Nellie Bentson Betty Targhele Signe Sundberg Alma Maude Passow Lucy T. Andersen Florence Shaffer Nadra Grant Alice M. Schmidt Connie Bennion Shirley Hubble Edith Grappendorf Rena P. Custer May Mulnix Rena P. Custer Mrs. Warren Hoelzor Northwestern States Mission Bend District Bend John Day Madras Prineville Redmond Mid-Columbia District Goldendale Klickitat The Dalles White Salmon Mount Hood District Estacada Molalla Silverton Woodburn Pacific District Astoria Tillamook Vernonia Puget Sound District Grays Harbor Port Angeles Port Townsend Raymond Southern Oregon Dist. Bandon Lakeside Newport Wenatchee District Ellensburg Ephrata Moses Lake Quincy Wenatchee 847 709 181 127 24 20 14 32 26 63 8 13 27 15 44 11 7 i 19 80 19 21 15 40 16 11 29 22 55 10 Mavil A. McMurrin La Rue Earnest Lucie E. Howard Wavel M. Kellogg La Rue Earnest Beulah Murray Irene Butler Edna Wolsey Lena Shupe Mary Lou Greenfield Hazel Clark Nina Black Neva Hess Violet D. Pattie Florence Olds Annette Harris Leurilla Wilcox Opal Hudson Karen Hagnas Bertha Winfield Laura Carmichael Joyce C. Elzinga May D. Hale Joyce C. Elzinga Delores Curtis Bertha Zakel Alice Burnham Lois Asay Olive Hart Ella Hopper Naomi B. Monson Hazel Burns Anne Matheny Lanore S. Bowen Amy Anderson Pauline M. Baird HONOR ROLL 353 Relief Society Independent Branches Juneau 14 South African Mission Southern States Mis. 1343 Alabama District Bayou La Criox 6 Mobile 24 Pascagoula 9 Pensacola 19 Central Florida District 189 Bartow 12 Belleview 17 Bradentown 6 Daytona Beach 10 New Smyrna Beach 6 Orlando 29 Tampa 27 Winter Haven 15 Georgia District Athens q Atlanta First 56 Atlanta Second 12 Buchanan 15 Columbus 25 Empire 13 Gibson af Macon 35 Milledgeville 10 Montrose 10 Palmetto 8 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 154 100 114 94 110 84 130 80 88 Magazine Representative Susie O. Williams Arlene Reese Naomi F. Graf Ruby Eichert Jean D. Wright Emily E. Ricks Ellen E. Ladner Lavonia Bradford Edna L. Hewett Violet Odum E. Vernandy Mable Burnett Eleanor Pruitt Anita Humphrey Ethel V. Wright Lucy J. Michael Rose E. Gay Ethel Gainer Lillie Smith Caroline Willson Sue Roberts Joyce Ott Geneva Dubrawski Barbara McClure Bell Walden Myrtle Fordham Vera Thigpen Viola Land Ella Lee Taylor Lollie Jean Cooper Clovis Phillips Relief Society West Florida District West So. Carolina Dist. Aiken 11 Texas-Louisiana Mis. 1101 East Texas District 182 No. Central Texas Dist. 154 Dallas 51 Fort Worth 41 Sherman 19 Waco 30 Wichita Falls 13 No. Louisiana District 174 Alexandria 16 Coushatta 11 Level Hill 10 Many 22 Monroe 20 Natchitoches 20 Rosepine 9 Shreveport 42 Winnfield 16 Zulks 8 North Texas District 40 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 15 Pct. L. V. Adams Juanita Sims Myrtle Sweeney Audra Peacock Sallie Cooper Leone R. Bowring Azell Lloyd Grace Williams Sarah Chevalier Ella Edwards Leona Bell Mary Norris Lydia Swanson Minnie Curry Lillian L. Bull Hazel G. Blundell Margaret P. Jackson Olive Bamburg Mayme Rogers Mayo Hardy LaFaye Hudnall Clara Methvin Melva Henry Bertha Shaner Marjorie Lawrence Julia Avery Ruth M. Ray Alice Cumings Laura C. Horne Magazine ' Representative 354 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 Anchorage Fairbanks Kellogg Springs Bristol Marianna Olive Sink Creek Enoch Gilmer Kelsey Kilgore Tyler Amarillo Borger Lubbock 24 - ie 16 10 15 12 6 11 35 16 30 11 8 17 11 12 Georgia-Florida Dist. Cairo 9 Douglas 17 Fitzgerald 6 Genoa 5 Live Oak 9 Moultrie 12 Valdosta "ef Willacoochee 9 Mississippi District Columbia 17 MeNiel 8 Red Star 17 Sand Hill 8 Seminary 9 Vicksburg 4 North Alabama Dist. No. Mississippi District So. Carolina District Camden 15 Myrtle Beach 15 South Florida District 115 Ft. Lauderdale 11 Ft. Pierce 9 Miami First 48 Miami Second 19 South Georgia District 79 139 118 8 24 5 5 7 10 17 15 Tottie Brown Katie Butler Rachel Roberts Elizabeth Lott Florence Mitton Mrs. J. L. Dyals Mildred Barlow Cais L. Asbell Louise Griner Otilla K. Griner Otilla K. Griner Elma Spiers Arcola Brady Hettie McLain Betty Speed Pearl Smith Wanda Willingham Pauline Whitlock Mary L. Vining Lois Ingram Feral B. Wingo Lillie G. Floyd Eunice Rainwater Dorothy B. O'Neal Delores Anderson Violet A. Pettley Ida Lewis Delma Hurst Edna Slay Virginia C. Howell Alberta Clifton Marion Potter Vivian Lowther Alberta Beasley So. East Texas District 222 224 Bay City Baytown Beaumont Houston No. 1 Houston No. 2 Orange Silsbee Velasco Williamson So. Louisiana District Albany Baton Rouge Bogalusa Covington Gonzales Hammond Lake Charles New Orleans Pride Sun South Texas District Alamo Austin Center Point Corpus Christi Rio Grande Valley San Antonio Victoria West Texas District Abilene Monahans San Angelo West Central States Mission Alendale Belle Fourche Belgrade 5 4 17 16 45 33 16 29 16 41 173 5 63 6 6 14 8 16 33 15 3 192 16 39 Goldie Ashcraft Jean Lois Bullock Annie Lee McLanathan Hattie Harwell Violet Dickerson Alice Stockton Helen Hoke Judy Sanders Sadie Williamson HONOR ROLL Mrs. Luther Stewart Myrtle Raffray Thanie Dunaway Neola Jenkins Pansy Richardson Helen Crawford Evelyn Nope Mildred Clark Gertrude Aucoin Eunice Cooper Mae Pool Elsie Ann Fox Lena Tullis Farlina Atkinson Lorene Ricker Adda Lee Smith Othelia Schuchert Greta B. Long Muriel C. James Velva McCleery Reta F. Broadbent Ruby Bradshaw Donna Mae Baasgaard w Annella Barnes 55 Elkmont Huntsville McCalla Montgomery Columbus Senetobia Bennettsville Brunswick Ridgeland Savannah q 9 16 18 4 5 6 10 21 28 Relief Society Bismarck Bozeman Butte Bynum Casper Columbia Falls Conrad Cut Bank Dickinson Dillon Fort Benton Fort Washakie Golden Ridge Glendive Great Falls Hamilton Hardin Harlowton Helena Kalispell Lander Laurel Lewistown Libby Lima Livingston Miles City Minot Missoula Pavillion Polson Rapid City Riverton St. Ignatius Shelby Sheridan, Montana Sheridan, Wyoming EnrollSubscriptions ment 4 26 54 17 bl 25 11 20 4 36 10 6 11 10 15 46 6 8 42 32 18 9 19 13 13 No. 5 26 47 23 58 19 11 a7 4 87 10 i BE 8 75 39 8 6 38 32 19 7 15 12 12 16 12 5 63 15 Pet. 125 100 87 135 114 76 100 85 100 103 100 Magazine Representative Sadie Mickel Jessie Casper Eleanore Burt Ivy Stott Elizabeth Burnett Mary Harris Gladys C. Peterson Dorothy Ruhl Janyce U. Cox Irene R. Norris Berma M. Adamson Irtense Enos Armida Hanberg Mary Anderson Vera Nelson Ruby M. Davis Mary Leavitt Dorothy M. Bloomer Lucile Rossiter June H. Kesler Estelle Ririe Fern R. Hurzler Mable I. Sawyer Eunice S. Rotz Helen Rush Lucile Miller Dorothy S. Anderson Lois Ann Goutz Nellie Tuck Virginia Warstin Nora Kelley Mable Thomas Arva R. Orman Katherine Papenfuss Viola Carter Ruth V. Norton Lavina Kenison Relief Society Trail Vancouver District Vernon 12 112 6 Western States Mission 853 Denver District Brighton Greeley East New Mexico Dist Hobbs Roswell Tucumcari Pueblo District Canon City Colorado Springs La Junta San Luis District Del Norte Leadville Scottsbluff District Bridgeport Chadron Lance Creek Scottsbluff Sidney Torrington West Colorado Dist. Baggs Craig Delta Fruita Glenwood Springs Grand Junction Meeker Montrose Paonia 32 5 22 48 10 11 9 69 18 36 15 6 2 79 12 6 8 22 10 21 352 22 54 18 34 29 103 27 19 22 No. 12 106 80 10 6 8 22 14 20 408 22 54 21 40 56 114 27 21 27 EnrollSubscriptions 100 95 117 ouL 81 120 77 99 80 186 133 94 83 114 80 100 100 101 83 100 100 100 140 95 116 100 100 117 118 193 111 100 111 123 Magazine Representative Nellie Wilson Stella Rynhart Mary Lopaschuk Mildred Dillman Sadie Ord Thelma McDaniel Erma Edwards Jane Sims Grace Gardner Betty Pierce Ethel Quarles Pres. Schofield Vera Edding Maggie Nielson Bennis McKibben Alma Hamilton Irma Marie Chandler Elda Kennelly Florence Orchard Eva M. Pace Florence Smith Ethel Kelly Lula Dunsdon Sarah Monnahan Delphia Taylor Afton Holt Elizabeth Williams 356 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1953 ment Pet. Simms Sumatra Townsend Whitehall Williston Western Canadian Mis. 408 Cranbrook Creston Edmonton Medicine Hat Moose Jaw Nelson Port Alberni Penticton Pincher Creek 15 9 Nelda W. Gray Donna M. Edward Mary L. Christensen Loretta Taylor Barbara Jenkins Elizabeth H. Zimmerman Marie Atwood Idella Thomson Gwen Johnston Adelle Johnson Stella Larson Edith Little Ivy Ellis Dorothy BE. Rondelet Marie A. Smith West Nebraska District 31 Grand Island 16 Hastings 4 McCook 4 North Platte q West New Mexico Dist. 172 Los Alamos 25 Santa Fe 11 Independent Branches Glenda Richardson Susan Blogett Emma Mae Allen Minnie Stoddard E. M. Allen (Pres.) Dorothy McNeal HONOR ROLL Della Miller Helen Rowley Erma Rae Bingham Alta Jordan Irene Burbridge Dot Eades Louise Warren 357 Rifle Steamboat Springs Albuquerque Bluewater Nucla Paradox Uravan 15 9 113 23 12 19 q Beautiful THREE PART CHORUSES for MOTHERS DAY ae Little Mother of Mine—Burleigh........$.20 wesece Little Old Lady—Carmichael..............20 = Mother—Rubinstein.............................18 3 M-O-T-H-E-R—Morse...........................20 a Mother O'Mine—Tours........................20 4 Melodies My Mother Sang—Youse.....20 a. Mother Machree—Ball.......................15 = Thats What God Made Mothers For —Wood.20 a That Wonderful Mother of Mine— CTY | 15 - When Your Hair Has Turned to Silver—De Rose.20 WE PAY POSTAGE Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement on your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated above. \ 1!! 1 1 l - (1) On Approval O Charge ' ' ' \ j ' j \!! \ 0 Money Enclosed ae a ee ee ee a a a D FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY ( 6 45-47 SOUTH MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Page 358 Ng Wish fox Uer Bernice T. Clayton I would not wish you sunshine, dear, Without some blessed rain; I could not wish you happiness Devoid of grief and pain. For deserts form in sunny lands, Where rain can never fall,. But God, who hears our sorrowing, Can heal and comfort all. Deep love, compassion, tenderness, We buy at sorrow's cost; We know the joys of being found When we have once been lost. God give you strength to drain life's cup But still find sweetness there, For joy will come when once you learn The great release of prayer. <> Mother Emily Carey Alleman No longer does she run On eager dancing feet To greet the promise of dawn As it tiptoes down the street. Sedate, she goes, and slow, To meet the fullblown day; Her vibrant heartstrings muted, Her gold hair silver-gray. >< About Flowers Elaine Swain Some covet baskets of roses, Gardenias to twine in their hair; They long to pin on an orchid When they hear his step on the stair. But give me short-stemmed poppies, Plucked on a summer's day— Held tightly in a tiny fist Presented as "Mommie's bouquet." A Time to Forget (Continued from page 309) steps like a group of gay, homing birds. "Looks more like a party to me." David was plainly suspicious. "Tonight," Luis explained as he hopped out of the car and drew himself up tall as he opened the door for Serena, "tonight is like a patty, a school, and a church. It is the night for the young people." Grandly he ushered them through the bright new foyer into the pleasing formality of the chapel, impressive with its view windows and soft rose drapes against the light walls. Even as they sat down, the vivacious chatter stopped and the meeting began. There were scouts aplenty, and, as Luis had said, the scout executive was there in person. After the opening exercises, made vivid by the efforts of the young people, Serena followed Luis and David to the scout hall in the right wing. "Is it not, as I said, beautiful?" Luis spoke as if it was his special creation. "See, these are the floors I helped lay." (To be concluded) > She Humming Bird Evelyn Fjeldsted From heights of a leaf in the wind, A humming bird swings through the air And, sighting a twig once again, A little bronze statue is there. Speeding with summer, he brings A kiss for a flower at dawn; Then, with a swift whirring curve, Like a bobbin with wings, he is gone. THE HISTORIC TRAIN Leaves Salt Lake City JULY 31ST FOR THE GREAT PAGEANT at the Hill Cumorah as well as Denver, INDEPENDENCE, NAUVOO, CARTHAGE, Chicago, Cleveland, KIRTLAND TEMPLE, Niagara Falls, Palmyra, SHARON VERMONT, Boston, New York, Washington, and MOUNT VERNON, etc. For complete details write or phone... VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Telephone 4-2017 Sea Call Catherine E. Berry The prairies are wide and green today, The deep green of the sea, The waving grain is an ocean wave That calls the heart of me. The wind is a restless voice that sings Of distant strands of beach, Where palm trees dip on a golden shore, So far beyond my reach. The prairies are wide and green today, Last year and the year before In undulating waves they brought Sea-longing to my door. Page 359 HOT WATER WHEN YOU WANT IT! "our an EP AUTOMATIC We ELECTRIC K WATER HEATER « Be Thrifty - Use Electricity UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Preserve Your Relief Society Magazines For Reference Have your Relief Society Magazines bound into permanent yearly volumes. They are excellent for reference. Cost is small. Write or phone today for information. Deseret News Press G5 Salt Lake City, Utah 31 RICHARDS STREET 4-2581 Page 360 Silenced Eva Willes Wangsgaard I know we did not bury song; Song has immortal birth, And whether voiced or silenced long It is not bound by earth. But you for whom I sang my song Went out, and now the door Is locked and laced with grassy thongs, And I can sing no more. > Spring Bride Hannah C. Ashby A cherry tree by the garden path Is gleaming pearly white. She looks like a bride in veil and lace On her happy wedding night. Oh, let her dance with the sun and wind And toss her bride's bouquet While robins pipe a merry tune As April bows to May. On G ft Divine Maxine H. Holbrook As silently as starlight, Filtering through the trees; Thy love and holy spirit Bring me to my knees. It is a gift of beauty, A joyous thing to know, A guide, a light, a peace serene, That holds me in its glow. As silently as starlight, Falling on a flower, It can leave me, as it came, And mar this golden hour. The way that I can keep it? This treasure rare, sublime Is just to love my neighbor, And serve my Lord divine, \(eemeao6y < PASCIMATIN THESE BOOKS WILL SHOW YOU HOW TO ACHIEVE ITS REWARDS For preserving and classifying your genealogical recerds. 1. POST BINDER Covered in maroon imitation leather, this sturdy, heavy-duty binder holds 300 or more genealogical sheets. Sheets can be easily removed. $5.00 or $5.25 by mail 2. OUR FAMILY THROUGH THE YEARS Post Binder Salt Lake Temple enhance this binder which oa edition of this popular $1 Be is bound in durable, imitation Cordovan 9 vag lites Post Binder Authoritative information on the mos | $4.50 sheets. 4. BOOK OF REMEMBRANCE Binder: Flexible, cardboard binding. 35c F 5. BOOK OF REMEMBRANCE Binder With 40 assortments of sheets. $1.25 Deseret Mili Book Co. REFERENCE BOOKS FOR. GENEALOGICAL WORK - 44 East South Temple -- Salt Lake Citv. Utah og 6. THE WAY TO PERFECTION Joseph Fielding Smith This book discusses the doctrinal principles which are the foundation for genealogical and temple work. $2.00 7A PROGRESS OF MAN Joseph Fielding Smith The author pictures the ceaseless historical struggle between good and evil, culminating in the restoration of the Church. $2.50 Piease send me the following circled items and books: i} 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 for which I enclose check ( ) or money order (_ ) Address... City...: State... Residents of Utah add 2% sales tax. SEND FOR PRICE LIST ON ALL GENEALOGICAL SHEETS AND BINDERS. Sa eu SB Be eeeeenmaeeanaeaeane al ° a A bees meee en -sawoeoumnand bese we mee eee ewan me wees e ewe ee ween es Gold embossed title and cover decoration of leather. Holds up to 300 sheets. $3.00 or $3.25 by mail 3. OUR FAMILY THROUGH THE YEARS Same binder with 100 assorted genealogical = A rnlOy Baa OF —naininis pall F GUIDE FOR GENEALOGICAL RESEARCH Archibald Bennett modern methods of genealogical research. —_ U. S. POSTAGE _ 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 THERE'S NO ONE LIKE MOM! WHETHER THE DAYS ARE CLOU OR SUNNY WE KNOW THAT SHE WILL BE THERE BRINGING HAP NESS WITH HER. DADDY SAYS IT'S A WONDERFU: FEELING TO KNOW THAT OUR BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE IS PLANNED TO PROTECT ALL THE GOOD THINGS WE SHARE. Ae re gah i ae LET YOUR BENEFICIAL LIFE UNDERWRITER HELP YOU PLAT THE FINANCIAL FUTURE FOR ¥ AND YOUR LOVED ONES. Wee ~S 3. Ei a a David 0. McKay, Pres Salt tahe City, Utah; RON SS eee - REE Wea ' = EVAPORATED MILK N ern D INCREASED 10 Ca we oe mi aa ceo Sego Milk Helps Build Sturdy Bodies... After Weaning, Too! Hundreds of children today continue to thrive on Sego Milk long after weaning from bottle to cup. Wise mothers know that the same qualities recommend it — unfailing sterility, easy digestibility, retention of food values and economy! Sego Milk is so easy to prepare after infant bottle days, too... Just mix it with an equal amount of water, with no formula or any fuss. Keep your child on thrifty Sego Milk all through his growing years! Free To You A handy, 64-page book that makes it easier to care for and train your baby. Approved by a well-known doctor. Send for your free copy today. Address: Sego Milk Company Dept. R-2 Salt Lake City, Utah Washable, Permanently Pleated NYLON ACETATE | SKIRT perfect fit for ALL women... 22 to 30 waist 32 to 40 waist BY Choose Black, Brown or Navy a | Billowing pleats that KEEP their crispness. | Completely hand washable, needs no ironing. Popular basic colors. ZCMI SPORTSWEAR—Second Floor "Mail Orders to: MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI Salt Lake City 10, Utah Send me the following nylon acetate skirts: Quan. Size Color 2nd Color Cash LJ Charge () c.0. D. 0 Name occ cece ce cee ce ae ce eeencean sees enaraeeesenseneseeesens Include 15¢ postage for first skirt and 5¢ foreach additional. Utah residents add 2% sales tax. Address. City......... Soco. Co 0s Efyg9000000000 concn on coc BEBE EE OoE ESE SCSCOC Oa severe LONE... SHAKE She Sather in Fis Sield Ouida Johns Pedersen With gnarled and humble hands he sets the seed And trains with patient fingers the young shoot. He meets with constant care the spreading need Of breaking leaf, of dark and searching root. When winds are summer born against the flower He channels seeping water to sustain The growing, and awaits the stormy hour To fight the onslaught of too sudden rain, Until at last he holds within his palm The amber fruit. His shoulders bent and thin Are grown erect by visions of new birth. And now his silent lips will phrase a psalm Of gratitude. The cycle will begin Once more with kernels for the spring's brown earth. The Cover: Glacier Lilies, Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece: Mount Timpanogos, Utah, Photograph by Josef Muench Cover Design by Evan Jensen | From lear and Sar I thank Mrs. A. Rich of Ogden, Utah, who has paid my subscription to the Magazine yearly. It is a very inspiring Magazine in giving such wonderful addresses from -God's word. Also, I enjoy the beautiful poems. My uncle, John Cozzens, who was one of the pioneers to the West, and the father of Mrs. A. Rich, was my mother's eldest brother whom she loved very dearly. —Mary J. Bevan Burton, Neyland, Pembroke, Wales I look forward each month to receiving our very inspiring Magazine. Words fail to tell you of the good I receive. Mrs. Olive A. Isom Las Vegas, Nevada This is the place where summer spends the winter—and flowers grow. I have been a subscriber to the Magazine for many years. My husband, Charles Hallstrom, and I reared a family of twelve sons and daughters in Oakley, Utah, and I always had time to read the Magazine. My visiting teaching companion and ] made our calls by team and sleigh, as the homes were scattered, but the sisters always welcomed us and our message and were always glad to have us read from the Magazine to them. I am seventy-seven years old, but still love to go to Relief Society meetings. I remember when Sister Emmeline B. Wells came with other sisters to conduct Relief Society conference in Coalville, Utah. I have daughters who work in Relief Society, too. —Amelia Hallstrom Miami Beach, Florida While reading through The Relief Society Magazine, I appreciate more and more the stories that are published in each issue, with special mention going to Frances C. Yost. Her stories have impressed me a great deal. "Deflated Dollar' (March 1953) is so true to these times. It makes one realize just how fast the 'times are changing. I do hope you will publish many more of her stories. —Olga Y. Herzog Logan, Utah Page 364 Since its first issue I have read and enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine. Before that I read mother's treasured copies of the Woman's Exponent. But I do not recall one story that was quite so wholesomely entertaining as the story "The Family Reunion" (March 1953) by Yvonne Child Hiss. Success to an outstanding Magazine. —Emily J. Jewkes Orangeville, Utah I have enjoyed selling The Relief Society Magazine, as the sisters of our ward seem to feel that it is a necessity in their homes. I just remind them that their subscriptions have expired, and they always respond. The Magazine sells itself once it has been in the home. It is a privilege to place such an inspiring and wonderful Magazine in our Latter-day Saint homes. —Idella Walker Jerome, Idaho There are no Latter-day Saint services near here that we can find, so The Relief Society Magazine is my only contact with Relief Society. My sister renews the Magazine for my birthday, and it is one of the most valuable gifts I receive.. —Murs. J. C. Larson Ulm, Germany From the time I was a child in my parents' home until now, as mother of six, I've read The Relief Society Magazine from cover to cover. It has helped me to feel close to our leaders. It has never failed to give inspiration and satisfy my spiritual hunger. More than anything else, it keeps us young mothers aware of the real purpose of our existence and our opportunities in our Church and in our calling. —June B. Bartholomew Milford, Utah I want to thank you for the inspiring pages that are mine to read each month in The Relief Society Magazine. —Zelda Howard Bountiful, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford | - -. President Marianne C. Sharp - = - - -~._ First-Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Blanche B. Steddar Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Josie B. Ba Gladys S. Boyer Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Edith S. Elliott Mary J. Wilson Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Florence J. Madsen - Lillie C. Adams Nellie W. Neal Winniefred S. Leone G. Layton ~ Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring Elna P. Haymond RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE } Editor = - - = a - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - Vesta P. Crawtord General Manager - = = - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford a JUNE 1953., No. 6 Con tents No Wonder We Love Him! Oo... Cc cccecceeecaceseseececenecesececeesseeesesvacsseneescesecicseseeveseeesEdith Smith Elliott 366 Adam S. Bennion Appointed to the Council of the Twelve Henry D. Moyle 370 Five New Members Appointed to the Relief Society General Board Gladys Sessions Boyer oi... Cceccssecsessecsessesseesessecenesneenceeenesncsneeneeseeseeseesneevesneeee Leone G. Layton 374 Charlotte Anderson Larsem 2.0.0.0 0ccccccseeseseecescoeseeeeseeeseeee tee et tees ee eae Bernice L. Robbins 375 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest................ Relief Society Short Story Contest... Why Study Literature 000 Utah's Archland FICTION We Wished Aunt Ruth Would Marry oi. Ccccccccecccssccssessessneeseesse-c-ecisectscssesseevestieetteet eectsAmy Viau 394 A Time to Forget; Chapter 12— Conclusion |... Fay Tarlock 409: GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far ee 364 Siahy MCCS PAGO» i. EE Sa es... 388 Woman's Sphere ee aRamona W. Cannon 389 Editorial: The 123d Annual Church Conference i... O cccMarianne C. Sharp 390 Alta J. Vance Resigns From the General Bord o. Cceceo ec ee even eneoesevsttettttesce 391 Notes to the Field: Summer Work Meetings -. Eeccececcccc-ceceesecee--- 391 New Hymn of the Month Singing Project 0002.0... Ccc ccceseeceeceeeces cots tee serene 391 Notes from the Field: Relief Society Activities 0000 HOME FEATURES By Early Candlelight—V._ A Parlor of the Pioneer Home................:............ Bonnie A. Kesler 401 yone Can Make a Feather Quilt Marijane Morris 405 Fun for Children on the Trip 20... A ae ee. _. Ruth K. Kent 407 Ham-Pineapple Brochettes 220i eeeee eee, = nll 08 PREVIEWS OF LESSONS FOR 1953-54 AND TEACHING AIDS Theology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon.................... Leland H. Monson 420 Visiting Teacher Messages—Book of Mormon Gems of Truth.................... Leone O. Jacobs 421 al.. Rhea H. Gardner 422 Social Science—The Constitution of the United States.......... Albert R. Bowen 426 Suggestions on Teaching Aids for 1953-54 Lessons........ Leone G. Layton 418 Notes on the Author of the Lessons -2..... Ccccssccsescssecsoscccessceescesessteee tees posttest eee ooo 2 POETRY The Father in His Field—Frontispiece 20... Eeseceecccstee ee eeeeeeeeevssssvvse--Ouida Johns Pedersen 363 "Summer Morning,' Py. Luella N. Adams, 369; "June Lure,'' by Leone O. McCune, 369; "Beyond the Strength of Rock,' by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 373; "To My Children," by Louise Nicholes, 379; 'The Token,'' by Grace Sayre, 382; ''Beauty,'' by Catherine E. Berr, 387; "A Mother's Prayer,'' by Elsie Scott, 392; ''Let Me Take Time for These,'' by Vilate R. \icAllister, 393; ''Oasis of Home,'' by Mabel Law Atkinson, 400; 'Forest Foxgloves,"' by Vesta Nickerson Lukei, 408; "Long Ago,'' by Wanda G. Nielson, 419; ''Crows,'' by Ethel Jacobson, 429; ''With a Page of Poetry,'' by Dorothy J. Roberts, 429; 'To My Daughter,' by Grace B. Wilson, 430; 'Meditation,' by Emily Carey Alleman, 430. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. No Wonder We Love Him Edith Smith Elliott Member, Relief Society General Board HEN we contemplate the \¢ widespread meaning of the six-letter word father, we are somewhat astonished. Aside from the dictionary definition, its use has encompassed conditions, movements, and institutions. In feudal times the lords and barons had paternalistic authority over their vassals. Many religious groups use the word father for those who teach or counsel their members. The term founding fathers has been used for those whose contributions form the framework of institutions whether political, economic, or religious. We refer to George Washington as the "Father of our Country." We honor him for his foresight in establishing democratic principles that have lasted in our country since its infancy. Thomas Jefferson was the "Father of the Declaration of Independence," and James Madison the "Father of the United States Constitution." To the Negro, Abraham Lincoln is the "Father of Freedom." Simon Bolivar and Jose de San Martin were the "Revolutionary Fathers" of South America who were responsible for freeing their countries from Europe. Most political groups have a filial feeling toward their founders and organizers. The different inventors are given the title of father of their invention. Examples are the Wright Brothers, fathers. Of the airplane; Alexander Graham Bell, father of the telePage 366 phone; and Eli Whitney, father of the cotton gin. Eminent scientists such as Pythagoras, Louis Pasteur, Einstein, and Lister, all bear the name of father of their particular contributions. As individuals, however, our first experience with the word father is a very personal one—our own dear father. For each of us he holds a very special place. 'To me my Father had all of the attributes that endear a father to his daughter. He fulfilled all of my expectations of fatherhood. We were not a large family. There were only three children. If each of us could write a biography of him separately, I am sure that the reader would be convinced that we all shared the same love and appreciation for him. As tiny children we looked upon him as our protector. He was tall in stature, confident, and forceful. We felt the safety of his being between us and any fear, harm, or danger. He lifted us into his arms at the approach of a barking dog. He barricaded us against crowds. He took us by the hand and led us safely through traffic and confusion. He carried us over the rough and rocky places. Walking by his side in the darkness of the night, we felt his strength and had faith in his decisions. All eerieness disappeared, and shadows were really only shadows. What a comfort it was to have [Daughter of President George Albert Smith]; NO WONDER WE LOVE HIM Father in the garden when the big boys passed by. Then they didn't 'stop to tease, shout, or threaten. The knowledge of being within ear or eyeshot of Father gave us a feeling of security and confidence in trying out new experiences. If Papa approved of our activities, we knew we could succeed. He never lost an opportunity to encourage us at least to try new and wholesome endeavors. He looked upon experience as a great teacher and taught us to profit by each. He forewarned us of hazardous activity, but would always help us out of our difficulties, even if we stubbornly persisted in finding out by the hard way that he was right. E continually counseled us about our behavior, emphasizing honesty and fairness. I remember one day when on my way home from my piano lesson, the streetcar conductor overlooked collecting my fare. This was before the days of dropping a coin into a box upon entry. Instead, the conductor used to come into the car, collect, and ring up the fares. Somehow he passed me by, and I reached my destination still holding my nickel in my hand, and frankly quite elated that I had made the trip free. I did not realize that I had done something wrong until I ran gleefully to Father to tell him about my good fortune. He listened to my story patiently. I was beginning to think I was a great success. A point that I thought was so important was that I was sure that the conductor did not know I had not paid for the ride, and therefore all was well. When I had finished my tale, 367 Father said, "But, darling, even if the conductor doesn't know about this, you know and I know and your Heavenly Father knows. So, there are still three of us who must be satisfied in seeing that you pay in full for value received." That was all I needed. I stood out on the corner and waited for the return trip of the streetcar, explained my plight to the conductor, paid my fare, and learned a valuable lesson that I shall never forget. I am indeed thankful for a Father who was wise enough to kindly point out the error to me, because if it had been overlooked, I could have thought that he approved, and I might have tried something similar another time. Repetition of misdeeds tends to dull one's senses to wrongdoing and they can easily become a habit. Once the Prophet Joseph Smith was asked for his plan of government, his reply was, that he taught the people correct principles, and they governed themselves. Father chose to apply. This same principle to the rearing of children. He believed that it is the responsibility of parents to outline a pattern of good conduct for their children, continually pointing out the benefits which come with disciplined deportment. He tried to teach us not to spend a lot of time grieving over our mistakes. He regarded it an unnecessary waste of time, and to him time was important. His premise was that sincere repentance includes recognizing the mistake, profiting by the experience, plus the determination never to commit the same error again. 368 Father was a wonderful playmate and companion. He liked to combine learning with recreation. He had a knack for making large and colorful kites that he sent into the sky on windy days. All of the children in the neighborhood and some of the grownups would meet for the launching. It was great fun to watch the kite rise, dip, and flutter. Father knew how to make it dive and then level off, with the tail forming all kinds of contortions. We watched with suspense when he reeled the kite in, missing power lines and treetops. By this simple maneuvering of just a toy he taught us that skill and knowledge make performance of most endeavors sure and easy. Because he could not afford the money to buy manufactured ball bats for our games, he carved remarkable ones for us out of scrap pieces of lumber. He mace them fairly long, wide, and flat, with a cut-out tapered place for the handle. They were used for years. By this demonstration he proved to us that many times by patient effort we can make things ourselves, thus using our time and talents for self-development while furthering our desires. He encouraged us to see beauty and joy in the simple things of life. Walks along the beach with him were always exciting. The roar of the ocean and threatening waves had no terror for us. Instead, he pointed out the beat and rhythm of the surf, the beautiful color of the water, and the ruffled breakers as they danced gaily toward us. He loved the ocean. Its activity was restful to him, He had a wealth of wonRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 derful stories about the sea that he would share with us while we built our famous sand houses in which to picnic. Father's affection and consideration for mother were beautiful. He never lost an opportunity to show his appreciation of her. Everything they did, they did together, after well-laid plans and teamwork. She was precious to him. He was proud of the way she accepted the many responsibilities that fell to her, so that he could carry on his Church work. She knew and understood the importance of his great mission and never spared herself in trying to help him magnify it. While we all adored Mother, I am sure that his thoughtfulness and tenderness toward her made her even more beloved by us children. After she died he would occasionally say, "No woman could ever have done more for a man than she has done for me. It would be so nice to be able to talk things over with Mother. She had such rare good judgment." Papa's popularity as an entertainer carried over into many happy hours of fun at home. He used to sing for us, accompanying himself on his guitar or the piano. His repertoire of humorous songs has amused us for years. A sense of humor is a_ handy safety valve that helps one through some rather worrisome times. Father had a pleasingly substantial amount of it. He relieved many a tense moment by some wry remark, witty saying, or appropriate joke. He was always good company. Life was never dull near him. Father had implicit faith in prayer, both individual and family NO WONDER WE LOVE HIM prayer. He admonished us to live righteous lives so that we would have the right to ask for divine help. Another of his oft-repeated quotations was: "When you have done all you can on your own, then give the Lord a chance." To Father happiness was a goal reached only by following the rules laid down by the Master. Many of his sermons included this statement: ""The highway to happiness is the pathway of righteousness." He found good in everyone and believed in magnifying one's virtues. 369 A well-known saying of his was: "We are all our Heavenly Father's children." During his last illness I used to sit by him often. Our conversations are a precious memory to me. A particularly choice statement that he made was: "Darling, I have never met anyone that I couldn't love." His beautiful life has taught us many lessons, the most important of which is that he proved, without a doubt, that it is possible to live the gospel of Jesus Christ right here on this earth. No wonder we love him! X A J % Guuner Mlorning Luella N. Adams On the mountain light is creeping, Silvery glow in eastern sky.: Over the valley quietly sleeping The splendor of the sky unfolds. There's freshness in the morning air As it's wafted from the height; Nature stirs to greet the morning, With wings of birds against the light. The jewelled grass and flowers bend In fronds of glistening dew That melt and quickly vanish As the sun comes smiling through. Dawn has shared this magic moment With the few who rise to see Beauty far too frail to linger— Glories past reality. X * x iy Yune Lure Leone O. McCune Not a regret for the season's turning, Never at all do I really mind If I can leave the ice-bound valleys, Snow, and the bitter winds behind. Gaze on a lupine-covered mountain, Trees with their bright green leaves unfurled, June, with her display of scarlet roses, There on the blue rim of the world. Adam 8S. Bennion Appointed to the Council of the Twelve Elder Henry D. Moyle Of the Council of the Twelve publicly acclaimed as an educator, executive, public speaker, and churchman. By a host of friends throughout the nation he is known as "Ad." 'This rather intimate abbreviation of his name carries with it an element of intimate friendship, but more than that, of great respect. Those whose lives he has touched in the great service which he has rendered his friends, have in every instance been inspired to greater works, better lives, and above all, to a greater respect for their friend Adam. No one challenges his integrity, his devotion to that which is right. Although he has risen to heights, great heights, indeed, in the educational, business, civic, and social world, and to the most exalted position to which the Church can call him, he has never lost the sense of value and appreciation for the humbler things of life. In this respect he has retained the virtues of his humble beginning, of which he is justly very proud. In his acceptance of the high call which has come to him, he said: A DAM S. Bennion. Has been Often during the last twenty-five years I have had opportunity to brng eastern people to Temple Square. I always take them to the log cabin in the southeast comer of the Square. I show them the little log cabin and ask them to behold it, and then turn from the cabin to the temple. I want them to understand the Page 370 ELDER ADAM S. BENNION poverty of the pioneers who lived in log cabins, but still dreamed dreams of a temple. Elder Bennion lived early enough in the history of the state to know from his own experience some of the problems of the pioneers. He was born in Taylorsville in Salt Lake County, during the lifetime of many of the original settlers. He learned keenly to appreciate the hardships the pioneers suffered. He loved to hear the stories of their forced exodus from Nauvoo, their journey ADAM S. BENNION across the plains, and their settlement in the valleys of the mountains. Among these pioneers were his forebears. His father died when he was but a year and a half old. Two of the other children died in their infancy while the family were living in Rush Valley, where medical attention was not available. Adam was one of five children raised to maturity by their widowed mother, through her own efforts. From the standpoint of the Relief Society, it is interesting to note that although Ad's mother had this great responsibility of rearing her family alone, nevertheless she found time to serve for thirty years as a Relief Society worker and teacher in her ward. The service rendered others during this long period can never be fully appraised. She always had time to help a neighbor. She lived to enjoy her family and her friends until after she was seventyeight years of age. _ Ad recognized and appreciated the help of his mother during the twenty-five years he lived under her roof. No doubt in Ad's life of accomplishment is seen the reflection of his mother's teachings, culture, and ideals exemplified in her life, her devotion to duty, her love of family, her faith in God. From his family, community, and Church, Elder Bennion received the most wonderful heritage of all: faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Wit these priceless endowments Adam began life. We look now for a moment at his accomplishments, comparable in a way with the comparison he himself drew between the log cabin as the beginning, and the temple as the 371 ultimate achievement. Adam earned a degree of Doctor of Philosophy conferred upon him by the University of California, culminating years of study and teaching. He received high recognition in his appointment to the Executive Committee of the Brigham Young University, the Church Board of Education, and as a member of the Board of Regents of the University of Utah. Were he asked what his choicest service had been, he would instantly say, thirty-eight years of intensive effort as a member of the general board of the Deseret Sunday School Union. This is work which has brought him close to the hearts of thousands of young people whom he has wisely counseled and helped. His intimate association with young men and women continued throughout the years during which. He served the Church as Commissioner of Education, in charge of all the Church seminaries and institutes and colleges. From the field of education he was called into another great field of public service, a business service upon which the welfare of the city and state depends. His efforts in business have now added to his previous host of friends, the patrons served, the -stockholders, the management, and fellow employees with whom he has been associated. Indeed, he has assisted since 1934 in building a great public service corporation. Herein he has gained the respect, admiration, confidence, and affection of all with whom he has worked. They have consistently bestowed high honors upon him. He has risen to the office of vice-president of the Utah Power and Light ELDER ADAM S. BENNION AND SOME OF HIS FAMILY Elder Bennion is seated at the left, and with him, left to right, are some of his children and grandchildren: Edmund Y. Bennion and his wife Betty Jean Lusty Bennion; Marian Bennion Rogers; Richard Y. Bennion and his wife, Lucy Jensen Bennion, holding their son, William Farr Bennion; Elder Bennion's wife, Minerva Young Bennion; Mrs. Richard W. Young, mother of Mrs. Bennion. The grandchildren in front, at the right, are: Ann Bennion, Adam Scott Bennion, and Richard Bennion. 'Two other children, Phyllis Bennion Stohl, of Arlington, Virginia, and Adam Y. Bennion, Los Angeles, California, and others of the eighteen grandchildren were not present when this photograph was taken. Company. The recognition accorded him is national in its scope, and his influence has been extended likeWise. Among his other accomplishments, he is a musician. He loves music. For fifteen years he has taken time out from his business and his other activities, to preside over the Salt Lake Oratorio Society. 'Tens of thousands have appreciated the society's rendition of the Messiah on New Year's Day during all of this period of his leadership. He has unselfishly played his part - politically. He is a great patriot with the highest ideals. In his latest publie utterance he proclaimed: "I love this country, its inspired institutions and its great Constitution." This declaration has been made to thousands by Adam S. Bennion in practically every state in the Union. His profound faith has accompanied him in his loveliest accomplishment of all—his family. Blessed with the wife of his choice, a beautiful daughter of a most dis- 372 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 ADAM S. BENNION tinguished family, Minerva Young; three manly sons and two lovely daughters. The sons are pursuing in their father's footsteps, succeeding in their chosen callings, the daughters establishing homes for themselves and their worthy husbands, following the pattern set by their mother. Into this home came the inspiration and blessings of the homes from which Adam and Minerva came. What could be more fitting than the lovely compliment he paid his family—""Three lovely women who have enriched. My life, my mother, my wife, and my wife's mother." These quotations from Elder Bennion's acceptance of his high call indicate eloquently his innermost thoughts and feelings and emotions, and point unerring! Y to the interests which have been paramount throughout his life. With all these and many unmentioned achievements in life, he brings to his present calling a most 373 unusual background of rich experience, a life of devoted service. He is a true son of a noble mother. To Adam the Church comes first. The testimony he bore when accepting his call to the Apostleship bears eloquent testimony of the depths of his rich spiritual life: If these brethren think I can respond to this call, I will give it my heart and my energy. My life is anchored. With the testimony I have that God lives and that Jesus Christ is his Son. I know that this Church was instituted by revelation, and that Joseph Smith and all his successors were men of God, inspired to build this great institution. President McKay, I give you my life, my service. I will go where you want me to go, I will give my best in an attempt to do what you and he would want me to do. I dedicate myself to this service. The numerous friends of Adam S. Bennion now come forward as one to acclaim their approval of the high calling which is now his— a special witness to the world of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Beyond the Streagth of Rock Eva Willes Wangsgaard The mystery of summer found a seed Not only under earth, but stone-encased Where men had laid a walk and feet had paced Upon their busy way. No one gave heed To what might lie beneath. An inner need Demanded light and all else was effaced By that desire for growth. A course was traced, A dungeon door gave way, and life was freed. A blade of grass has forced an ancient lock. Although more frail than any flesh or bone It used a strength beyond the strength of rock. Here is a triumph marked and plainly shown, A miracle the doubting cannot mock, For fragile-fingered grass has rent a stone. Five New Members Appointed to the Relief Society General Board Gladys Sessions Boyer Leone G. Layton Member, General Board of Relief Society GLADYS S. BOYER THE appointment of Gladys Sessions Boyer to the _ general board of Relief Society, March 18, 1953, will be welcomed by all who have worked with her. Sister Boyer has a most pleasing personality. She is a woman of great spiritual strength, trusting implicitly in the power of the Master to sustain those who accept the call to serve him. Sister Boyer was born in Woods Cross, Utah, a daughter of Jedediah Sessions and Mary Ellen Moss. She was introduced to Relief Society early in life, attending with her Page 374 mother before she entered school. At fourteen years of age she was secretary of the Primary in Kaysville. Upon her marriage to Selvoy J. Boyer in 1919, she made her home in Springville, Utah, where she served as a counselor in the Second Ward Primary and as a member of the Kolob Stake Primary Board. She was active in Relief Society work and had given twenty years' service as a visiting teacher and three years as first counselor in the Kolob Stake Relief Society presidency when her husband was called to preside over the British Mission. During her presidency of the British mission Relief Society many new societies were organized. Sister Boyer frequently expresses her admiration for the faith and diligence of the British sisters and her great love for them. Upon her return to Springville, she was made president of the Kolob Stake Relief Society and had served one year when Brother Boyer's business necessitated removal to Salt Lake City. Here she was made visiting teacher message leader in Monument Park Ward, and was serving as first counselor in the presidency of that ward when she was called to the general board. The Boyers have five children: Keith S., LaMar S., Phyllis (Mrs. RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Don Humphrey), John Carl, and Jerrol M., and five grandchildren. Although the children are all martied, the Boyer home is seldom empty, for some of the children, grandchildren, or missionaries are usually with her. Ae Sister Boyer has always loved Relief Society. She brings to her new position the love, faith, and strength of testimony which will demonstrate her ability to serve the organization well through her new calling. Charlotte Anderson Larsen Bernice L. Robbins HARLOTTE Anderson Larsen, appointed to the general board of Relief Society, March 25, 1953, was born in Logan, Utah, to John H. And Annie E. Anderson. Being reared in a religious and devout home, her love of the gospel developed early, and at an early age she was called to teach in the Primary, and soon to a Primary stake board. Educated at Brigham Young College and the Utah State Agricultural College in Logan, where she majored in dramatic art and literature, she has thrilled many with her inspiting literary and dramatic presentations in Relief Society and elsewhere. These talents and training, coupled with her willingness to serve, her love of the gospel, and her devotion to her friends, have made her beloved by all who know her. Her testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel has developed over the years through her work and devotion to the Church, assisted by right-living and right-thinking parents and family. Her father, prominent in Cache Valley business circles, was bishop for many years, stake high councilman, and _ president of the Swedish Mission. Married in the Logan Temple to CHARLOTTE A. LARSEN Joseph Reuben Larsen, she is proud to be called mother by three fine sons, Dr. Louis C., John A., Joseph Reuben, Jr., and one daughter, Bernice Robbins, all of whom are active in the Church. Sister Larsen has fourteen grandchildren. Love, devotion, and unity have characterized the Larsen home, and friends and acquaintances alike have found joy and pleasure in her presence. Active in various Church organizations, she has served in many 376 capacities. While living in Ogden, she served in the Mutual presidency of her ward, and on the Primary stake board. Moving to Salt Lake City in the early 1930's, she became active in Mutual in the Yale Ward, and then in the Yalecrest Ward. Her appointment to the general board of Relief Society culminates a long service in Relief Society as literature class leader, social science RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 class leader, and seven years in the presidency of the Yalecrest Ward Relief Society, where her outstanding contributions to the various phases of the work have endeared her to all who know her. News of Sister Larsen's appointment will be received with joy and approval by friends and acquaintances alike. Edith Price Backman Blanche B. Stoddard Member, General Board of Relief Society THe appointment of Edith Price Backman, on March 25, 1953, brings to the general board of Relief Society a woman with a wealth of experience and a rich spiritual background. Her life has been devoted to the work of the Lord, and her testimony of the gospel is staunch and firm. She was born in Goshen, Utah, EDITH P. BACKMAN the daughter of Bishop William Price and Mary Ann Gardner. After completing her schooling in Goshen, she attended the Brigham Young University, where she received her teaching certificate. She taught for several years in Goshen and Draper, Utah. At this time, LeGrand P. Backman, who represented the Utah Conservatory of Music, was holding classes throughout Utah County, and had Sister Backman as a pupil. Later, they met again in Draper and were married in the Salt Lake Temple, June §, 1921. In 1935 they were called to preside over the South African Mission. With their young family of four children, they spent three wonderful years there. As president of the mission' Relief Society, Sister Backman traveled many miles with her husband, often by bus, to visit the branches. She took the same enthusiasm and sweet spirit to the humblest organization as to the largest and most flourishing one. She was beloved by the missionaries serving in that mission, and for the RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD fifteen years since their return, this group of missionaries have met each month to study together, to sing together, to play together. A spokesman for them said, "She is as sweet and charming and unselfish a person as one could ever meet." She has held many important positions in the Church. Besides being a mission Relief Society president, she has been Primary teacher, counselor, and president; Junior Sunday School superintendent, and in the Yale Ward Relief Society presidency. Brother Backman is at present, president of the Salt Lake City School Board. He has been a bishop, a member of a stake presidency, a member of the general board of the Y. M. M. I. A., and a mission president. Their home is a beautiful one 377 where the spirit of the gospel abides in rich abundance. They are never happier than when the family all come home, nearly every week-end, the five sons and daughters, nine granddaughters, and two grandsons. Their children are Robert LeGrand, an attorney; Richard Price, a graduate of the University of Utah Business School; Mrs. John (Mary Jean) Alley; Mrs. Robert (Beverly) Davis, and James. The women of Relief Society will love Sister Backman for her friendliness and will not readily forget her warm, firm handclasp. Her earnest and sincere testimony and_ great ability will strengthen all whose lives she touches as she goes about filling the new assignment which has come to her. Winniefred Spafford Manwaring Lillie C. Adams Member, General Board of Relief Society.... Joying and beholding your order, and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ (Col. 2:5). N March 25, 1953, Sister Winniefred S. Manwaring was appointed to the general board of Relief Society. "Having been born of goodly parents," she possesses a rich heritage, for her parents were valiant champions of righteousness. She is the daughter of Don C. And Elizabeth Hickey Spafford. On April 25, 1928, she was married in the Salt Lake Temple to Paul W. Manwaring. 'They have a married son and daughter, Don and Darl; and Louise who is in junior high school; also one grandson. Realizing that our obligations are WINNIEFRED S. MANWARING 378 our opportunities, has given Sister Manwaring the desire and determination to fulfill every Church assignment with credit. Characterized by her unusual executive ability, she has made many contributions to the Relief Society. She knows that faith without works is dead; faith is that dynamic spark that defies defeat. She has carefully, thoughtfully, prayerfully pursued the many tasks assigned her. She has worked as secretary of the Big Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, president of the Twenty-first Ward Relief Society, and at the time of her call to the general board, she was president of the Emigration Stake Relief Society, having held this position for five and one-half years. Simultaneously, she served as group leader of the Relief Society stake presidents of the Salt Lake Welfare Region, and meticulously and methodically, she made plans and programs for the president's department. She has served long and diligently in all the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 auxiliary organizations in teaching and executive positions. Her appointment to the general board is the culmination of her faithful performance of Church service. Though Sister Manwaring's activities have been many, in business as well as in the Church, she has maintained a high degree of efficiency in her home, believing these words: "He is happiest, be he king or peasant, who finds peace in his home" (Goethe). The verse in Proverbs (31:27) aptly expresses the solidarity of her home, with the words: "She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness." Her home is one of refinement, culture, comfort, and hospitality, combined with spirituality. Through her faithful service and humbleness, she has gained a testimony of the divinity of the work and has been endowed with many rare gifts—faith, fortitude, courage, obedience, forgiveness, and other Christian virtues. Elna Parkinson Haymond Aleine M. Young Member, General Board of Relief Society HE many friends of Elna Parkinson Haymond were happy to hear of her appointment to the general board of Relief Society on March 25, 1953. Sister Haymond comes to the general board admirably qualified, as she has worked in the ward, stake, and mission Relief Societies. She is blessed with exceptional executive ability, the courage of her convictions, a firm testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and is loved by all who know her. She was born in Franklin, Idaho, to George Chandler and Lucy Doney Parkinson, in whose home service and spirituality were of paramount importance. Her father was president of Oneida Stake for twenty-five years, also a state legislator, and her mother was active in Relief Society. Their home was the stake headquarters for the General RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Authorities for many years, and love, charity, and hospitality radiated to everyone. 'There was a close companionship between Elna and her father, and he explained the principles of the gospel to her, and how they could be applied to daily life. He often said: "Every member of the Church should be a copy of the standard works of the Church that many may see and read." Sister Haymond attended the University of Utah, but obtained her B. S. Degree from the University of California. This was followed by a postgraduate course at the University of Utah. In December 1921, she married Dr. Creed Haymond in the Salt Lake Temple. They have one daughter, Mrs. (Marie) Stobbe, a son, Creed, Jr., who filled a mission in France and is now attending Northwestern University; a son George C., now serving as a stake missionary; and seven grandchildren. Sister Haymond has served as stake seminary class leader, teacher and counselor in the Y. W. M. ILA. In Yale Ward, president of the Y. W. M. I. A. In Yalecrest Ward, a guide on Temple Square, theology class leader in Yalecrest Ward, theology supervisor on Liberty Stake Relief Society Board, and president of Bonneville Stake Primary until 379 ELNA P. HAYMOND she and Dr. Haymond were called to preside over the Northern States Mission. In that mission Sister Haymond presided over the Relief Society and Primary, and upon her return she served as president of Bonneville Stake Relief Society, in which position she was serving at the time of her call to the general board. Spirituality, service, family prayer, and a strong missionary spirit have been the motivating forces in the Haymond home, and these qualities will be carried into Sister Haymond's work on the general board. Jo My Children Louise Nicholes If you could understand the bird's song, Or the murmur of the seas, Or fathom the gentle zephyrs That sigh among the trees; If you could read the mystery of the heavens From twilight until dawn, Then you'd know how I have loved you Since the day that you were bom. Contest Announcements—1953 HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the general board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writirfg among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The general board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. It is suggested that authors who plan to enter the contests study carefully the article "Why Study Literature," by Blanche Kendall McKey, page 383, of this issue of the Magazine, and the following articles on creative writing, which have appeared previously: "The Art of Poetry Writing—A Symposium of Opinions," page 370, June 1947, and "We Want to Write," page 375, June 1947; "For Makers of Rhythmic Beauty," page 370, June 1948; "You Can Write a Prize Winner," page 372, June 1948; "Points for Poets to Remember," page 371, June 1949; "On Writing a Short Story," page 374, June 1949; "On Building a Poem," page 376, June 1950; "The Short Story With a Plot," page 379, June 1950; "Tet's Write a Poem," page 386, June 1951; "Lets's Write a Story," page 387, 1951; "Creation of Poetry," page 277, June 1952; and "Basic Recipe for Short Story," page 380, June 1952. Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1953. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize -............---------$25 Second prize.............-.-.$20 Third prize ~................$15 Prize poems will be published in the January 1954 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birth month of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general Page 380 board. 'The general board reserves the right to publish any of the othex poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society general board, and employees of the general board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS— 1953 copy of the poem should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. ) 4. The sheet on which thepoem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5- No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state the title) is the contestant's original work. That it has never been published.. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication., e. That it will not be published no submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. G. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges all poems selecta0 381 ed for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected commit- _ tee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: Message or theme Form and pattern Rhythm and meter. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax aoe 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1953. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R.-Snow Poem Contest, 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. It is suggested that all entrants in the poetry contest check their work carefully for details of craftsmanship, and that they evaluate their poems in accordance with high poetic standards. The following books give helpful suggestions: Buell, Robert K., Verse Writing Simplified, $1.50. Coblentz, Stanton A., An Editor Looks at Poetry, $2.00. Hamilton, Anne, Seven Principles of Poetry, $2.50. Hillyer, Robert, Verse, $2.00. These books may be ordered from Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio. First Principles of Relief Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1953 opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1953. The prizes will be as follows: Pinsteprige..._....: ccsesrs---<2$50 Second prize................$40 Mind prizes oe$30 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1954. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society general board and employees of the general board—who have 382 - had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. (A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. ) 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication. ) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been publshed, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 7. A writer who has received the first - prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style _g. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1953. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. The following books on short story technique are suggested as helpful references: Hamilton, Anne, How to Revise Your Own Stories, $1.50. Foster-Harris, Basic Formulas of Fiction, $2.50. Merrielees, Edith M., Story Writing, $3.00. Uzzell, Thomas, Narrative Technique, $3.75. These books may be ordered from Whiters Digest, 22 East 12th Street, Cincinnati 10, Ohio. She Token Grace Sayre The sun's rays pushed green leaves apart To watch the fish cavort and dart Along the stream's clear silver bed; Near a bright bluebonnet's head, Gauzy wings of a dragonfly Poise and whir as the stream runs by. Quiet spreads her silken gown Where pathways cross the hills to town; But deep in my heart lies a sun-bright token As though the woodland stream had spoken. Why Study Literature Blanche Kendall McKey HE young man's eyes blazed with resentment, although I was not the offending teacher. We both were graduate students at the University, working for a Master's degree. In one hand he held The Canterbury Tales, and in the other, a dictionary of Old English. "Why do we have to go through all this rigmarole?" he demanded, "Chaucer was a great man. He wrote about real people, instead of giants and dragons. All right—grant him his glory. But he's dead. Why drag us through all this archaic language?" My experience as a teacher of adolescents and adults has shown me that this young man's attitude is similar to that of many people, who see good only in utilitarian studies. But let me cite another case. This questioner was a tall man of twentyseven, enrolled in a class whose average age was twenty-one. Necessity had kept him working on his father's farm, but now that wheat and corn were bringing higher prices, he was free to pursue his ambition of becoming a teacher. Desiring to marry and "get started," he was restless under what seemed a very slow-moving process. "Why should literature be trequired in this course?" he protested. "T shall never teach English." "Don't you find literature interesting?" I asked. "T would if I had time," he replied. "But there are so many books and writers and dates. Why must we connect the product with the man, and the man with the age that shaped his thinking?" A third case I still cannot recall without a tightening sensation at my throat. This boy was a highschool senior and had been my student as a junior also. In the past I had found him interested and responsive, but during this closing term he was making no effort. The second World War was raging, with its devastating influence on the older boys. I asked him to remain after school, and we talked for two hours—until the last dash of yellow had left the sky—and the long conversation was precipitated by his defense: "I can't see how all this digging into poems and stories and plays will help me face what I have to face." To my way of thinking, these representative questions—if for no other reason than their sincerity—are entitled to the best answer students of literature can give. 'There are many books on the subject—histories of literature, essays of literary criticisms, college and high school texts. Let us go back to the first young man's question, "Why study Old English?" Shall we disregard our heritage from the curious-minded, mystical Celts? Will it benefit us to forget the freedom-loving, adventurous Anglo-Saxons? Does Beowulf mean nothing to us when the great epic symbolizes man's rise above disease, above the lashing waves of Page 383 384 an unknown ocean, above the fires of towering Northern forests? Shall we ignore the culture of Rome and the beautifying influence of French accents? EAR by year the language has changed and grown, and is still changing to meet the demands of modern living. Although AngloSaxon and Latin form its basis, it has taken in, bodily, words from Italy, Spain, India, and Arabia. A few words are: From Italy, libretto, crescendo, balcony, cameo; from Spain, indigo, vanilla, alligator, mesquite; from Holland and Scandinavia, schooner, wagon, yacht, skipper; from India and Arabia, chintz, candy, orange, alcohol, coffee. From the Hebrew Bible, the Englishspeaking people adopted such words as cherub, jubilee, alleluia. America's contribution has come from Mexico, South America, the West Indies, and the North American Indians. From Mexico came chocolate, coyote, tomato; from South America, tapioca, jaguar, quinine; from the West Indies, hurricane, maize, potato; from the Indians, moccasin, moose, raccoon, papoose, squaw. The whole world has contributed to building our language of many synonyms, of beauty and power, the result of centuries of growth. This is a precious heritage few people stop to appreciate. Moreover, in the field of creative writing, the greatest thoughts of the world are preserved; and, if we seek them out, they shine like lamps in our hands. People and events of the past come to life as we read. History gives us facts; but great litRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 erature reveals the men and women themselves in their struggle, and we grow wiser and more understanding for having known them. The second student to whom I referred also represents a large number of people. His complaint was twofold: (1) The magnitude of the field of literature gave him a feeling of frustration; and (2) his life was too crowded for poetry. Let us consider his first contention. No person would attempt to deny the breadth of the study of literature, but reason can control the sense of being defeated. No one can learn all about literature anymore than he can learn all about life, for literature is a reflection of life "in terms of truth and beauty" (Long). There are so many different phases of life in history and in the great panorama unfolding before us today, that no one individual can be familiar with all the aspects. And, even if one masters acceptably English and American literature, there still lie before him the great letters of the European countries and the Far East. As soon as a student recognizes the truth that no one scholar "knows it all," he takes the first step toward stopping the hopeless feeling of frustration. He learns that the man who knows best the breadth of the field feels the least embarrassment in answering, "No, I am not familiar with that book." NOR can the student hope to master the study by mere outlines of periods, names, and dates. Even if a photographic mind could record so detailed a device, the learner would have a mere skeleton of WHY STUDY LITERATURE growth, with all the beauty and moving power of literature left out. And yet the student needs a pattern of some kind. There are two plans in general use: (1) The presentation of literature in chronological order as it was written, and (2) its presentation according to type. Our Relief Society literature lessons are offered in conformity with the first method, and each month are clearly and sympathetically outlined. Some class leaders have felt dissatisfied with their work because they could not cover the suggested ground within the allotted time. Let them take comfort in the fact that the Magazine is available to every home, and the class members themselves should assume some of the responsibility for making difficult assignments function. One hour of study in the different homes can bring a group of people together in a receptive and relatively understanding mood—one hour a month! Then, if the teacher sketches an historical, unifying picture of the conditions and trend of thought which surround the writers in their varying periods, giving most of the time to the literature itself, she builds a groundwork for further individual thought and reading. This stimulation of interest is one reason for studying backgrounds; but a more significant motive is that we understand the men and women and their works far better if we know why they wrote as they did. Let me give, very briefly, two examples. A young student once asked: "Shakespeare had such powerful plots and great characters; why 385 didn't he write novels?" I think we all know the answer—the novel was not developed in English literature until the time of Defoe, who lived some hundred years later than Shakespeare. Drama was the popular form during the Elizabethan period, and. Shakespeare naturally took it up as his means of expression. Take Milton and his time as a second example. If we know something about the political struggle that went on in England during the Puritan and Restoration periods, we can understand more clearly Pilgrim's Progress, Milton's prose essays, and his Sampson Agonistes. This is what my second representative student had not as yet realized: the relationship that exists between the creative artist and his age. The story of Sampson as Milton presents it is enhanced for the reader when he knows that Milton's understanding of the great Biblical character came from his own similar "agony": both men suffered under the treatment of the women they loved, both were persecuted by their enemies, both were stricken with blindness. It is this understanding of people, or of nature, or of God, that is the very fountainhead of great literature. Back of each piece of writing is the writer, and back of the writer are the time and _ circumstances which helped to shape him as an individual. We of Utah should understand this truth clearly, for the early struggles of our people brought forth "Come, Come Ye Saints," "O My Father," "For the Strength of the Hills," and other hymns that have never been excelled. 386 Let us now look into the second method of teaching literature, that is of studying it according to its type. In spite of the fact that millions of books and papers have been written, there are not a great many different kinds of writing. For instance, the boundless field of poetry can be divided into three classes: narrative, dramatic, and lyric poetry. All narrative poems tell a story and therefore are easily recognized. Some are simple; some have allegorical meanings. But if a person really studies one great nartative poem, like "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner," for instance, if he studies the ballad form, the theme, characterization, suspense, and climax, in a general manner, he knows something about all narrative poetry. The same can be said of dramatic poetry, which takes the form of plays, monologues, or masks. In each case the story unfolds through the speaking of a character or characters. In the works of Shakespeare, Browning, and Milton we find the best examples of dramatic poetry. In my opinion, it is better to know one of Shakespeare's greatest plays—the problem and its solution, the "lesson," the characters, the power and flexibility of blank verse—than it is to know vaguely all the Shakespearean stories told by Charles and Mary Lamb. Lyric poetry, for the most part, is short. Originally it was written to be sung (hence its name), and therefore is usually musical in form. It is to poetry what the personal essay is to prose, it reveals the thoughts and emotions of the author. In "Thanatopsis" young WilRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 liam Cullen Bryant gave his views on death, urging his reader so to live that when the summons comes he can meet it: Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams. Many writers have attempted to define that evasive, intangible quality which we associate with great literature, but no one has succeeded too well. Wordsworth's explanation is accepted by most people: "Poetry is emotion recollected in tranquility." How much greater is such a conception than that of readers who associate poetry only with metrics! There is a law behind the creation of poetry which is often entirely overlooked. Before poetry can be written, it must first be experienced. If a person does not feel, he cannot write poetry, and the capacity to be moved is a characteristic of all normal people. A story is told of two men who climbed to the brink of the Grand Canyon and looked down for the first time. Both stood long in awesome silence; then one said slowly, under his breath, "Gosh!" The other returned to his hotel and there alone, recalling his emotion "in tranquility," wrote a soul-stirring poem. Both men experienced poetry, although only one had the power of expression. "THE immense field of prose is divided by most authorities into six types: histories, orations, biographies, letters, essays, and fiction (prose plays, novels, short stories). There is not space here for a discussion of these forms; however, WHY STUDY LITERATURE they are familiar to most readers, and a mastery of one great example from each classification gives the student a standard by which to judge other works in prose. Moreover, such a study systematizes what might otherwise appear to be an insurmountable mass of unrelated literature. The third student to whom I referred at the beginning of this article had no idea that he was representative of many other people. We sat in the schoolroom—quiet at last—until the shadows began to press against the large windows. I sensed his youth, his fear of the terrifying world struggle, his vague intuition that his own life would merge with the conflict. And many times since I have asked myself the question he raised: Was his study of literature unrewarding? He cannot speak for himself, poor lad, but knowing the depth of his nature I answer in the negative. The facing of problems, of personal sacrifice, of sickness, of loss of loved ones, of death itself, is the common lot of all. Two quotations from the world's greatest Book, "I know that 387 my Redeemer liveth" and "The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want," have lived in the hearts of millions of people, giving strength in times of need. Our literature is replete with lofty sentiments, often clothed in simple language, and with great thoughts, which have a way of coming back again and again to stabilize, enlighten, or to inspire. One could go on indefinitely, the domain of literature is so rich, deep, and ennobling. And we must remember that we do not all drink from the same fountain. What feeds one soul may not touch another. We know our own secret spiritual requirements, and are free to choose. One of the glories of literature is that the supply is inexhaustible. There is beauty of some kind— beauty of style or of deed or of idea—in every great piece of writing. Paul explains our belief in progress, as step by step we follow an ideal example. He says: But we all, with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory (II Corinthians 3:18). Oan Beauty Catherine E. Berry My heart has known the touch of beauty's hand, Exquisite visions etched indelibly; I have stood breathless, mute upon the sand, Held by the magic of a moonlit sea. A cherry tree bedecked in bridal white When dawn's first rosy fingers touched the sky; The soft enchantment of a summer night When myriads of stars have shone on high.... These things have left their print upon my heart, Have woven threads of color on life's loom, Of each of them I've kept a glowing part That often helped dispel the clouds of gloom. In gratitude, I give one precious thing, The ever restless urge to sing and sing! Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1893 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF Att NatTIons" JUNE: Of all the year June is the happy month. No fear of chilling frosts nor dread of excessive heat to blight and mar the beauty of the earth. The child, the youth, the man all revel in its sweetness and its glory. With what delight the children hail the closing days of school.... The sweet girl graduate dons her fresh white gown and is showered with roses and congratulations. The weary professors lay aside the text books and bid farewell for a season to the school room to take a vacation tour in search of new scenes.... —Editorial WORLD'S CONGRESS OF WOMEN (May 1893, in Chicago): Women of all lands have met on a common and universal platform, and the one band that bound them has been peace and love and the inspiration of progression and advancement to the better and higher in the moral, mental, and spiritual, as well as the physical growth of the world. Serious reflection and a deep solemnity have pervaded the heart of this great Congress of women.... Bringing into such beautiful harmony women of all religions of whatever kind.... Saying effectually, come let us know each other better and love each other more for the sake of the uplifting of those who sit in darkness.... J —Emmeline B. Wells THE BRIDE You are now going home—to your own home, you see, While the home of your mother you're leaving; And there isn't a doubt that your mind, young and free, " Bright dreams of the future is weaving. May each happy vision presented to view, Be but a forerunner of that which is true; And may all that on earth you are called to endure Make your home up in heaven, just don el —Alofa THE WIND: One of the most inspiring themes and one which no poet of the West has yet fully interpreted is the wild, weird, solemn-sighing,, sobbing, moaning wind as it sweeps majestically (though unseen) with its tremendous music and undertone of discordant notes through the mountain fastnesses and over the stupendous heights of those lofty mountains of the Wasatch range. —Editonal RELIEF SOCIETY MEETING IN PAYSON, UTAH: President M. A. Hardy stated that this was a special meeting, to commemorate the organization of the Relief Society in Payson; and to present a small tribute of respect to the retired officers of the old organization.... We realize that they have done a great deal of good, filled their positions with credit to themselves, to the community, and to the church of which they form an honorable part.... After the meeting adjourned, the retired officers and incumbents, together with the bishopric and a few invited friends, repaired to the home of Sister Jannett Tanner, and there did ample justice to an elegant repast. —Maggie Wignall, Sec'y. Page 388 N April 11, 1953, Oveta Culp Hobby took the oath as Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare, the newly created department of our Government. She is the second of her sex to serve as a cabinet member, the first having been Frances Perkins, Secretary of Labor under President Franklin D. Roosevelt. HE Women's National Press Club's choice for "Woman of the Year," and a representative of all nurses in military uniform, is First Lieutenant Mildred L. Rush, of Pembroke, New Hampshire, who has made an outstanding record during fifteen months of service in Korea. Additional achievement awards were given to Ivy Baker Priest, Treasurer of the United States; Catherine Marshall, author of A Man Called Peter; Marie Tallchief, internationally known ballerina, and a member of the Osage Indian tribe of Oklahoma; and Helenor Campbell Wilder, chief of the opthalmic pathology section of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology. THE Associated Press poll ranks as the most newsworthy women: Rachel L. Carson, author of The Sea Around Us, (an exquisitely written book); Queen Elizabeth II; tennis star, Maureen Conolly; singer, Rosemary Clooney. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon FOR her recently published book I Made My Dreams Come True, Mrs. Wilhelmina (Billie) Chestnut, Salt Lake author and artist, especially adept in her animal portrayals, has been awarded membership in the International Mark Twain Society, which thus recognizes people of high merit in various fields of creative work. (CHARMING Naomi — Sanders (Mrs. Lowell) Farr, lyric soprano who sang in Leroy Robertson's Oratorio from The Book of | Mormon, won the $1,000 prize in the New York finals of the national contest sponsored by the National Federation of Music Clubs in April. An additional prize was a management contract for a year by the National Concert and Artists Company. Mrs. Farr will have an audition at the Metropolitan Opera House. IRTHDAY congratulations and best wishes are extended to Mrs. Lizzy Colborn, Salt Lake City, Utah, one hundred years old; Mrs. Dessie W. Middleton, Los Angeles, California, ninety-five; Mrs. Eliza Judd, St. George, Utah, ninety-one; Mrs. Sarah McDonald, Salt Lake City, Mrs. Louisa Amelia Van Winkle, Ogden, Utah, and Mrs. Ann Seal Reid, Salt Lake City, ninety years old. Page 389 O--7 IT ORIAL 9 VOL. 40 JUNE 1953 She 103d Annual Church Conference RESIDENT David O. McKay estimated at the 123d Annual Conference of the Church that there were perhaps hundreds of thousands of listeners to the conference proceedings. As the prophets, seers, and revelators delivered the word of the Lord, exhorting and pleading with the people to live righteously, deal fairly, and increase individual testimonies that Jesus is the Christ the Son of God, a blessing and a warning went out to the inhabitants of the earth. To the saints, President McKay called attention to two paramount obligations, "regarding the great mission that is yours in preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. In anticipation of this hour, I have been impressed to emphasize two great functions of the Church: First, the putting in order of our homes, and keeping them in order; and second, the proclaiming of the divinity of the mission of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ." President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Referred to the significance of the day which commemorated the resurrection. And pleaded, "Brethren and Sisters cling to the Savior. Accept him as he, himself, described himself: 'Iam the light and the life of the world.' Salvation comes only through him, and as Peter said to his accusers: "There is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved.' " The hearts of the saints rejoiced Page 390 in the calling of Brother Adam S. Bennion to fill the vacancy in the Council of the Twelve occasioned by the death of Elder John A. Widtsoe. Elder Bennion is recognized nationally for his outstanding work among the youth of the land. He is an educator and an_ inspirational Latter-day Saint speaker. Limited space does not permit setting forth the great discourses of the conference, but Relief Society members would do wisely to purchase a copy of the conference proceedings, when they are issued, to add to their valued libraries. These discourses should be read and reread. Elder Albert E. Bowen and President Stephen L Richards were the only General Authorities absent from the sessions. They were both greatly missed, and the prayers of the saints arose to the Lord in their behalf for their recovery. President McKay read a message from President Richards at the concluding session: I should be very pleased if you would express to the people my deep gratitude for the inspiration of the conference, and also extend to my brethren and sisters my love and my prayers that the united efforts — of all the Saints may bring great advance ment to the cause we love. May all the saints 'become | partakers of the feast of hearing the words of the Lord as delivered at the great general conference just concluded, —M, (on S, ' Alta g. Vance Resigns an the General Board It is with regret that the general board accepts the resignation of Alta J. Vance from the general board of Relief Society as of March 25, 1 ance Vance was called to the general board in 1948, and during her membership on the board she has given painstaking and faithful service, in addition to other assignments, on lessons and special committees. She has traveled among the stakes of Zion and imparted of her sweet personality and great knowledge of the Relief Society program in forwarding Relief Society work. Her presence on the board will be greatly missed, and the love and good wishes of Relief Society members go with her in the work in which she now engages. Notes TO THE FIELD Summer Work Meetings T is the desire of the general board that a work meeting be held each month, as heretofore, during the summer period, June through September. New Hymn of the Ilonth Singing Project Church-wide congregational hymn singing project has been inaugurated by the Church Music Committee, and all auxiliary organizations have been invited to participate. The purpose of this project is to increase the hymn repertoire of the Church membership and to place emphasis on the message of the hymns. Stake choristers and organists are requested to give assistance at union meetings to ward choristers and organists in carrying out this project.. 2 Hymn oF THE Montu A specific hymn will be selected for each month of the year. All congregations of the Church will be asked to sing the hymn of the month once or twice during that particular month. The ward choirs and auxiliary organization choruses will practice the hymn during the first part of the month so they can aid the congregation in singing it during the latter part of the month. Emphasis will be placed on the message of the hymn, even to the memorization of the words, so far as time and circumstances will permit in the various auxiliary organizations. Page 391 , 392 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 An analysis and story of the hymn will be printed each month in the Church Section of the Deseret News. The hymn of the month project will start in June, 1953. Following is a list of hymns approved for the thirteen months June 1953 to June 1954: Month June, 1953 July August - September October November December January, 1954 February Fage New Hymn Book Title 56 "Guide Us, O Thou Great Jehovah" 20 "Come, O Thou King of Kings" 212 "Zion Stands With Hills Surrounded" 48 "God Moves in a Mysterious Way" 203 "We Love Thy House, O God" 29 "Come, Ye Thankful People" 123 "O God, Our Help In Ages Past" 108 "Jesus Mighty King in Zion" 10 "Christ the Lord Is Risen" 96 "Hear Thou Our Hymn, O Lord" 99 "In Memory of the Crucified" 146 "How Wondrous and Great" INSTRUCTIONS TO CONDUCTING OFFICER The conducting officer, when announcing a hymn, should give not only the page number, but should read clearly and impressively the first sentence of the hymn, or even the first verse. An exception to this might be when no vocal announcement is made but the hymn numbers are placed on a wall board. Even under these circumstances, it is desirable that the first hymn be announced by reading of the first sentence. > wh Mlothers Prayer Elsie Scott Dear God, the Father of us all, Will thou hear a mother's call? Give me strength from day to day To keep my feet upon the narrow way; May my prints be firm and deep, May I constant vigil keep, That as my sons and daughters grow They may follow me and know I will not let them go astray, As I teach them how to pray Give me patience, tolerance, too, For little pranks that children do Make me. Wise to understand And teach them all that thou hast planned To guide them back again to thee. But most of all, O Lord, bless me And make me worthy of these joys— These precious souls, my girls and boys 53 "Great King of Heaven, Our Hearts We Raise"' SPRING BLOSSOMS, SANTA CLARA, CALIFORNIA Let Me Sake Sime for These Vilate R. McAllister A mother has such pleasant things to do, One task among them, not the least of all, To help her child store memories to recall With keen delight in later years: the dew Of early morning on a rose; the new, ' Quick buds of springtime's magic; or the small, Soft chirping of a bird at evenfall; The baby tiger sleeping at the zoo. Household tasks can wait, but not the hour The butterfly unfolds its drying wings; The day spring orchards are in perfect flower; The forenoon when the Pussy proudly brings Her family for inspection. Let us take Full time to savor these for memory's sake. Page 393 We Wished Aunt Ruth — Would ey Amy Viau E. All Hosea and prayed © W that Aunt Ruth would marty. We knew she must be very lonely in the big old home place, at the edge of town, now that Grandmother had gone. She had given years of devotion and care to Grandmother—and._ believe me, Grandmother was a care, adamant in her decisions and wants. Aunt Ruth deserved some happiness in life and companionship. | asked her outright why she didn't marry banker in town, who~ not only seemed nice but had asked her to marry him. ) "Really, Betty! Why would | marry John, even though I am forty and never likely to get another chance?" "But he's nice-looking—tall and polite, Aunt Ruth." Aunt Ruth was tall, too. ' "T know, Betty, but his height hasn't much with it that I'd want. Say, Tom looked nice in that brown shirt he wore Sunday when you stopped by. It matched his eyes." When she changed the subject to my husband that way, I had to stop talking of John Hennesy. Tom and I had planned to take a trip back to his old home in Canada in early March, and after I was home, thinking over my visit with Aunt Ruth, I had a sudden gleam which I felt would lighten the whole situation, if I could work my plan. Tom and I decided to Page 394 John Hennesy, a bachelor take iat Ruth to Canada with us: and see what might happen. Getting her to go we figured would be the first and biggest hurdle, perhaps. _ While visiting Tom's home on the farm the previous year, Tom had introduced me to a neighbor farmer—a bachelor of English descent. This Ronald Ross had lived as a neighbor to the French farmers long enough to have acquired some of their joviality and love of fun. My husband, French Canadian himself, liked Ross as well as I did, and was eye-to-eye with me as to making a match between him and Aunt Ruth. Because I liked him so much, and because Aunt Ruth and I were somewhat alike in our tastes, I. Was excited and hopeful about our plan. I approached Aunt Ruth on the subject of going as though the idea had just struck me. "Say—Aunt Ruth, you haven't ever traveled on a plane, have you? Why, I don't believe you've even gone on a trip farther than five hundred miles from home." "You needn't beat around the bush, Betty. If you and Tom want me to take the trip to Canada with you, I'd be delighted to go—and pay my own expenses." Those blue eyes of hers looked calm enough in their expression as she looked at me, but I wondered if Aunt Ruth didn't know me and my inner thought processes much better than I knew hers. WE WISHED AUNT RUTH WOULD MARRY UNT Ruth bought new clothes, visited the beauty salon, and revived her youthfulness to a degree that worried me a little. Maybe she wouldn't look at Farmer Ross. "Of course they don't go in for too much style, there on the farm, Aunt Ruth," I remarked casually. "What's to keep me from going into Montreal, once in a while? I've always thought that was' quite a place for shows, concerts, and the like." ' "Well, maybe you're right. Seems to me I did hear Mr. Ross, a neighbor to Tom's folks, speak of going into Montreal to some sort of concert, last winter. He's a bachelor, too." She was trying on the jacket to the dark blue suit she had just bought, and it did a lot for her. Aunt Ruth was rather a jacket-suit type, though she was feminine and dainty. "If that suit doesn't draw you a man, Auntie, men aren't what I think they are." "Tm not going on a 'drawing' trip of that kind or any special kind. I'm just going to enjoy myself," she retorted. M'S brother met us in Montreal. He drove a horse hitched to a two-seat sleigh, for Canada was snowbound. I had ridden in the sleigh the year before, and was delighted with it. Aunt Ruth was as pleased as I. She had never before ridden in a sleigh, nor behind a horse, for that matter. When we reached the old home and went inside, Aunt Ruth was too delighted to keep back her exclamations of praise. She exclaimed 395 over the rag carpets, hand-woven by Tom's mother, and the spinning wheel beside the large wood stove in the big kitchen. "IT can just see what Aunt Ruth will do to that house of Ronald's," I remarked to my husband that night. "IT wouldn't count too much on that, yet, honey." "But I am counting on it, so there!" "He may not take to her, you know, being set and English as' he ist "Take to her! Say, Tommy Beteau, any old bachelor would be tickled to get a chance to take her. But I'm not too sure she'll look at him. That's my worry." Both of us meant it, and that's why we laughed so hard, after we'd stated our hopes and fears for Ronald and Ruth. A party was planned for Saturday night. Tom's folks always asked the whole neighborhood in, when we visited. They would sit up and play games until late at night, and then serve refreshments and finish the evening with music and conversation. Aunt Ruth put on her best black dress, with her pearl necklace and earrings for the occasion. She looked almost too formal, I feared, for the eyes of plain country folks, but I hadn't the heart to suggest it to her. And when Ronald Ross came in, just an hour ahead of the assembling time, I was upset. When I introduced them, I was expecting her attitude to be one of polite indifference. But it wasn't at all. Instead, she treated him as though he were the gentleman of 396 her choice. As for him, it was evident that he was taken with Aunt Ruth. Then Mr. Ross explained that he had not come to stay for the party and wanted the party to come to his house, instead. He said his sister had died a year ago and his brother-in-law had just arrived at his house with the three children. 'They were all too young to take toa party. He had had a hard time to find a good housekeeper, so Ronald was - going to try and help him by taking some care of the children. "Quite a considerate man—that Ronald Ross! It isn't many who would help a brother-in-law with his children, that way," Aunt Ruth remarked as we were putting on our coats. "That's right, Aunt Ruth. Tom says Ross is an all-around fine fellow." I added my bit of praise gladly. HE party, with the pies and cakes we transferred over to the Ross place, was a success. Though Aunt Ruth didn't speak nor understand a word of French, she seemed to love the broken English the neighbors tried to speak in their friendliness toward her. She even tried to pronounce a few French words herself and laughed a great deal, especially at the French brother-in-law's mix-up of French and English words. "My sister could speak French as well as the English," Ronald explained, "so Jean is still mastering the English, as you see." It was a lovely party, and Aunt Ruth was anxious to talk about it when we got back. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 "Ronald is so kind and helpful to that man, Betty. And poor Jean seems almost helpless about caring for the children. Really, he doesn't appear nearly as old as Ronald— but Ronald says he is." She sighed as she glanced at me. "But, you'll have to admit, Aunt Ruth, Ross is exceptional, and don't be too hard on poor Jean," I added, looking at her doubtfully. During the ten days of our visit, Ronald Ross came for Aunt Ruth, sometime during each day, and drove her over to his house in his sleigh. But he never left his brother-in-law and the children alone for any length of time. And Ruth was always ready to go with him, dressed in neat, good clothes, but in none of the new ones she had bought. The new clothes hung neatly over the back of a chair in her bedroom, upstairs. But she had never looked prettier, even in her old clothes. When I suggested that we all take a trip into Montreal, Aunt Ruth refused without the least apology. "Have you ever seen a plan work more successfully than this one of ours about marrying Aunt Ruth to Ronald Ross?" I asked my husband one evening near the end of our visit. Tom answered tease me, I thought. "Don't plan on a wedding just yet, honey, you may be disappointed." "Well, if there isn't a wedding, I'll decide I've been a failure, but the compass of love is pointing that way." "Failures aren't the worst people to live with, I've heard," he answered, without further explanation. Skeptically—to WE WISHED AUNT RUTH WOULD MARRY A few days later Tom helped Aunt Ruth and me into the plane, for we were starting for home. After the plane had taken off, I remarked to Aunt Ruth that I imagined she hated to leave Canada and her new friends so soon. "Yes, Betty. I really do. They're such honest, sincere people. And I want you and Tom to know I think Ronald Ross is as fine as you said— maybe finer." I didn't try questioning her, though I was dying to know if she was engaged to Ronald, for she was uncommunicative always about her personal affairs. But I glanced at the third finger on her left hand just the same. It would have been possible that Ronald had given her a family ring, his mother's, perhaps, to seal the promise. But her finger was free of a ring.. However, the third day, after we were home, Aunt Ruth phoned and asked me over to her house for lunch. "I have something rather important to talk with you about, BetI hadn't the least doubt as to what she wanted to say. It would be about her marriage, of course. After I had arrived at Aunt Ruth's, it was all I could do to restrain my eager inquiry, but Aunt Ruth liked restraint. - We had hardly more than sat down to lunch before she told me, "Betty, I'm going to be married." Oh, Aunt Ruth, that's wonderful! We'll all be so glad. And I think he's just wonderful, too." "Well, he's pretty nice, and I'll try to make him a good wife." "Oh, you will, Aunt Ruth, you 397 will." There was no need for me to conceal my happiness. My plan had worked out, after all. "Thanks, Betty. I hope everything has turned out as you planned and wanted it." She smiled at me with tenderness, and I felt very guilty, somehow, but immensely successful. "But Aunt Ruth, all that we— that I ever wanted was for you to be happily married as you deserve to be." "Well—since it's turned out that way, we are all going to be happy. Now tell me how I can fix this old house and make it livable." "This house?" I was so surprised I wondered if she had really said "This old house." Surely she must have worked some magic to pull that Englishman from his roots for transplanting out here. Or—of course, she probably meant to condition the house for renting. "You, you mean you're going to rent this place, Aunt Ruth?" "No, I'm going to live here, of course. I think we'll all be quite comfortable, here." "Well, maybe he'll have some suggestions. But how on earth did you ever get that Englishman to decide to forsake his acres for this country?" Aunt Ruth, for a moment, looked as astonished as I felt. Then she settled back in her chair contentedly. "Oh, my goodness, Betty, you're all mixed up. It's Jean I'm marrying, not Ronald. And it will be much better for the children here." Almost—almost, I wished we had never planned to marry off Aunt Ruth! Utah's Archland Willard Luce F you really want something different in the form of scenery, you might try the Arches National Monument near Moab, Utah. Located in the heart of Utah's red rock country, the Monument contains eighty-eight known arches, numerous caves, pinnacles, monoliths, balanced rocks, and sandstone "fins." Some of the arches are no larger than an average window. One, the Landscape Arch, is so large that the Salt Lake City Tabernacle could be placed beneath it, long ways, with room to spare! Arches are large enough to circle the Willard Luce Several other. Bureau of Information on Temple Square. The Monument has been divided into five sections. Each is different, with its own personality, its own character. Each is alive with interest, with variations in color, in shape, and size of its formations. Each will fascinate you, charm you, and call you back, again and again. The Windows section is the best known and most publicized. It has been accessible longer and is sometimes mistakenly considered as being the Arches National Monument. It is reached over ten miles THE TURRET ARCH Located in the Windows Section, Arches National Monument Page 398 UTAH'S ARCHLAND Willard Luce 399 THE DOUBLE ARCH Located in the Windows Section, Arches National Monument of graded road, Utah 93, which leaves U. S. Highway 160 about fourteen miles northwest of Moab. A two-mile hike at the end takes you to such well-known formations as the Parade of Elephants, Cove of Caves, Double Arch, Turret Arch, and the North and South Windows. Most of the arches here are immense, having been worn away from gigantic blocks of red Entrada sandstone. Best known, possibly, of all the arches, is the Double Arch, originally called the Jughandles. Two spans of stone start from the same apex and arch gracefully outward in different directions. The larger opening is. 157 feet high and 163 feet across. The walls of the Salt Lake Temple are only ten and one-half feet higher, and twenty-three and a half feet longer! Beneath these arches are pinon pine and Utah cedar, yucca, and prickly _ pear; their green making a sharp and brilliant contrast with the red sandstone. And, somehow, in this red country, the sky always seems a deeper, stronger blue. It is a rugged country, one of sharp and violent contrasts, 400 The road also reaches into the Delicate Arch and the Devil's Garden sections of the Monument. The first is northeast of the Windows; the second, northwest. The Delicate Arch can first be seen from the bottom of a canyon. It stands on the skyline atop a thousand foot cliff of solid sandstone. From below it looks small and delicate; but not when one is close to it. It can be reached only by a twomile trail, most of which twists and winds over a steep field of slickrock —Navajo sandstone. The arch comes in view rather suddenly and seems surprisingly large after the view of it from below. Beyond it is the Colorado River gorge and beyond that the shimmering blue of the La Sal Mountains. HE largest section, and in many ways the most interesting, is the Devil's Garden. Of the eightyeight known arches in the Monument, seventy of them are here. Here also are the sandstone "fins," long, narrow slabs of sandstone, standing on their sides. They often reach a height of 300 feet and run parallel for twenty miles, broken RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 here and there with open spaces. Between these again are found the pinon pine and the Utah cedar, the yucca and the prickly pear, Brigham tea, and turquoise sage. Here are the sand and the lizards; and above, endlessly circling, are the hawks and the giant black crows. Again, there is a two-mile hike to see the important features of the area. These include the Landscape Arch, already mentioned, the Pine Tree Arch, Double-O Arch, and Fin Canyon. Skyline Arch can be seen from the road. - There is no road into either the Klondike Bluffs or Courthouse Towers sections; but the four-mile hike into the former and the twomile hike into the latter are well worth taking. Parts of Klondike Bluffs and parts of the Devil's Garden haven't been thoroughly explored. So, with all that is strange and different today in the Arches National Monument, there will be even more tomorrow, aS men and roads reach out farther and farther into the unknown. The scenery of the Arches is not only different, it is beautiful, colorful, and somehow breath-taking and unbelievable. It is a place to see and see again. Oasis of Home Mabel Law Atkinson The home Our childhood knew Becomes a cool oasis Where we return, to be refreshed, From deserts of disappointment. By &arly Candlelight V. A PARLOR OF THE PIONEER HOME Bonnie A. Kesler Illustrations by the author CONGRESS CHAIR YRUM and Annie were happy and proud, indeed, when finally their home had a room that they neither cooked nor slept in. It was a room for entertaining on very special days; at other times the door was not only closed, but it was sometimes locked. This room had another luxury that the other rooms did not have— there was a rug on the floor! Annie and her daughters had ripped their worn-out clothing into one-inch strips, sewed them end to end, and wound them into balls. Then they had taken the balls to a sister on the other side of town who owned a loom and had their rags woven into strips of carpeting. Annie had fifty to sixty yards woven at a time, then she would sew the strips of carpeting together to fit the room. Each fall, after threshing time, they would take the tacks out of the carpet, remove all the straw underneath, and burn it, then put new, clean straw under the carpeting again. 'This padding pre- 'vented wear on the carpet over the comparatively rough pine floor, and was softer to walk on. After the new straw was put under and the carpet tacked down, all the children in the neighborhood wanted to come and lie down on the soft floor. The neighbors who could not have carpets had their pine floors scraped smooth and rubbed with oil, and some of them were stained. CLEGHORN'S CHAIR Page 401 402 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 +r w vA ) / | at ((:. EA), WIA | 0% a* £@ of: | = yo ChE SAMPLER The walls of Annie's parlor were plastered, then whitewashed. A mixture of lime and water was brushed onto the walls to color them white. It was not a washable finish, but until paint was available, whitewashing was the main method of redecorating the walls and ceiling. The windows were long and narrow, with a sill at least a foot wide, because of the thick walls. The thickness of such walls, twelve to eighteen inches, accounted for the cool rooms in the summer, and the warmth in winter. Around the walls, next to the floor, was a baseboard, about twelve to fourteen inches high. Of course, the parlor had a fireplace and a mantle. It was quite common to have a fireplace in each end of the parlor. In the center of Annie's parlor stood a table with a pedestal in its center and three ball-shaped, horizontal legs. There was a laddevback rocker, with a seat of rawhide, and a similar rocker with a rush seat. Cattail or rush for weaving into seats was practical and suitable for the purpose, because being a long, grass-like plant, when twisted and woven, it became very sturdy. And it was available. A cupboard, built from a packing box and covered with material froin - the ample folds of calico skirts, made welcome shelf space. Builtin shelves in the corners held books and other treasures brought from their former homes and carefully carried across the plains. Annie saved until she could buy a couch made in one of the local woodwork shops, a type known as the "Mormon" couch. It could be converted into a full size bed after removing the cushions and drawing the front board forward, bringing another set of board slats with it. Her couch had been painted to simulate black walnut, by dragging and rocking a grooved tool through the wet stain or varnish, which gave the appearance of the grain in hard- _ BY EARLY CANDLELIGHT - wood. A very good effect was obtained. Annie had no roll-up window blinds, and curtains were scarce, but finally she had handmade lace curtains in the parlor as well as in the bedroom. A very comfortable chair placed by Hyrum's and Annie's fireplace in the parlor was a "Congress" chair, having a low back and side arms. For sewing, this was a favorite chair. When a quilt was on the frame in the middle of the room, it was in the way between quiltings, so, as — usual, Hyrum devised a plan to get around the problem without upsetting Annie's plans. He put four hooks in the ceiling and tied strong cord to the corners of the quilting frame. 'Then they could draw the quilt up to the ceiling hooks and out of the way until the women wanted to work on it again, then all they had to do was untie the cords and lower the frame. Hyrum, like the other men, kept his gun handy, and loaded. Familiar over the door or the mantle in the ane 2 SSN Yi) a freee saa ~ - _. A PEDESTAL TABLE AND CHAIRS 403 parlor were the powder horn and gun. The horn was hollowed out and a leather stopper was made for the end. When in use, it was hung over the shoulder by a strap, and in it was kept the powder used in loading the gun. The powder was measured in a small cartridge-like cup, poured into the muzzle of the gun, then a small wad of paper was gently but firmly pushed down with a rod which swung around on a swivel under the point of the gun. A measured amount of shot (ammunition about the size of today's buckshot) was then poured in, and another wad of paper tamped in to hold the shot in place. Hyrum carried his shot in a small canvas bag. With this slow, tedious method of loading, careful aim was taken before firing a gun. It had to be kept in a convenient place, because it was so much in demand, both for protection, and for securing meat. However, it was hung up high enough to be out of the reach of the children. One night at a home wedding re- 404 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 "MORMON" STUDIO COUCH ception, for the first time in the valley, Annie saw a real parlor sofa, with four chairs to match, uphol- _stered in black satin and red velvet. What a joy it was to see fine things being manufactured in their own territory! Also, in that home, were a walnut pedestal table, with a shallow walnut skirt around the top, and matching chairs, upholstered in velvet. Another piece of furniture in the patlor, which Annie wanted a long time before they could afford it, was a piano or an organ, with its bench or stool to match.. When they finally bought an organ, the girls took lessons and were soon able to play the dear, familiar hymns while the family gathered around and sang. All Annie's girls made samplers for the parlor. They were handembroidered, framed, and carried a warm, friendly, and often sentimental message, such as: "What Is Home Without Baby?" "Welcome All," "Home, Sweet Home," "God Bless Our Happy Home," and others. 'The samplers were hung over the doors, and between the windows. Annie's parlor was the scene of happy times at Christmas. They passed around candy canes made of molasses or honey taffy, cookies made of slightly sweetened dough, cut in all sorts of animal shapes, and fluffy popcorn balls, for popcorn could be raised in one season. Treats were rare, however, and were received with joy by the grateful family and their friends. The very furnishings in the parlor were treated almost with reverence by both parents and children. Annie's home, with the parlor, was two stories high, the bedrooms being upstairs. After a busy day, Hyrum called the family together and they all bent down on their knees to give thanks for their blessings, then with a candle to light the way, they climbed the high stairs which carried them up and away from their best room. Anyone Can Make a Feather Quilt Marijane Morris For a new thrill in creativeness, with emphasis on the practical side, find those feathers you have been stoting out in the garage or down in the basement and make a delightful feather quilt. If you were able-to talk to a sparkling lady in Perry, Utah, Mrs. Ruth Barnard, who has made more feather quilts than she can remember, you would be so enthusiastic you couldn't wait to get one started. She first adventured into this unique quiltmaking project when a Scotch friend of: hers, knowing she had some feathers tucked away, wanted to buy some. Mrs. Barnard laughingly remembers the first quilts she and her friend made—the hard way. Now, many years and many quilts later, she has evolved a method whereby anyone can make a feather quilt in two afternoons. A minimum of effort and material is required to produce a quilt that is light, durable, and warm enough to guarantee a complete new sleeping experience. One of its most valuable characteristics is that a feather quilt provides adjustment to individual bodily temperature, even though people of different natures are sharing its comfort. But to do and be all the things mentioned, the entire quilt, feathers and material, must not weigh over five and one-half pounds. For the cover, any material that is featherproof is acceptable. A material recommended is Bohemian-type cotton ticking, because it is closely woven and finely twisted. This helps to make it featherproof— and featherproof it must be! However, if obtainable, there is a featherproof sateen that makes a lovely quilt. The Bohemian ticking comes in plain colors, usually pale, or a dainty floral, or stripes. For a quilt seventy-two inches wide and two and one-half yards long, ten yards of material are necessary. Domestic or wild fowl feathers may be used. Should you desire to wash the feathers, they can be cleaned by putting them in a cloth sack and washing them automatically. This technique apples to the completed quilt, also. It is not advisable to wring the feathers or quilt through a wringer. It is also suggested that twice as much soap be used for feather washing, as for ordinary suds. To begin the feather quilt construction, cut your ten yards of material in two. That will give you two, five-yard lengths, thirty-six inches wide. Sew these lengths together to make the seventy-two-inch width, then fold lengthwise. You now have the covering, top and bottom, for your quilt, with one end closed (the fold), and one end open. Turn under the edges of the quilt at the open end and pin. This next step is important. It insures a smooth, even quilt, free from puckers or tucks. On the sewing machine stitch up the center of the quilt. Use for all your sewing ordinary sewing thread number fifty or sixty. Do not puncture your material any more than necessary, so as to protect its featherproofness. After making the center seam, and parallel to it, chalk off and pin, from the center both ways, six-inch wide strips. 'Turn under the edges and stitch together at each side. On this size quilt, there should be approximately eleven strips. These strips will form the long narrow tubes, Page 405 406 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 MAKING A FEATHER QUILT Melissa Gilbert assists her aunt, Mrs. Ruth Barnard, in distributing feathers into the pockets of a feather quilt. The feathers are being sucked from the box by the vacuum and blown into a pocket of the quilt. The pocket of the quilt has been atttached to the vacuum after the vacuum bag has been removed. = = = = = or pockets, for the feathers. This sewing from the center out will "square the quilt." This will also make the side seams true. Weigh your material carefully. If you have three pounds of material you will need no more than two and onehalf pounds of feathers. Strange as it seems, less feathers make a warmer quilt. For instance, eight pounds of feathers would not be as warm as three. After you have worked with the feathers, you will be able to tell when you have enough in each pocket, but until you do know quite accurately, it is best to weigh the feathers and divide them correctly. For example, if you have eleven pockets to fill, it will take approximately three and three-fourths ounces of feathers to a strip or pocket. The feathers go into the quilt next. You can use any bag type vacuum cleaner. Remove the bag, attach an open end of a quilt pocket to the vacuum. The feathers can be sucked and blown into the pocket. A word of caution: do not suck them too fast or they will clog. The feathers can be handled easily if placed in a pasteboard box. If you do not have a vacuum, the feathers can be put in the pockets by hand, and the quilt shaken to distribute them evenly. All eleven pockets should be filled with feathers. You are then ready to finish the quilt by sewing across the width the same way you sewed the length, beginning with the center of the quilt. This time mark the strips with chalk about eight inches wide from the center. ANYONE CAN MAKE A FEATHER QUILT 407 In sewing the width or length, the quilt may be rolled and the bulk of the roll placed under the head of the machine. Then work out the sections to the left. Or, if you desire, to get away from working with too much bulk, the quilt can be made a half at a time. A sleeping bag may be made by folding a feather quilt lengthwise and sewing on a sleeping bag zipper. If a satin cover is preferred, it can be sewed to the basic featherproof material during the initial process, or later, when the quilt is finished. ~~ Fun for Children on the Trip Ruth K. Kent eS it is necessary to take children on a long trip by car. Riding gets monotonous for them unless there is interesting scenery to watch. Then is the time for mother or daddy, or both, to play the "house game" with them. The game is started by someone saying, "The next house we pass will be daddy's." The children sit or stand still, watching for some sight of a building—cabins, sheds, tents, just anything with a roof on counts as a house. Then Tommy spies an old, broken-down bam. "Look, daddy's house!" he shouts. Everyone laughs at daddy's house. The next place is going to be mamma's. The children watch until Suzanne cries, "Look, that beautiful white house is mamma's!" And the children are happy that mamma has such a beautiful house. In fact, they will spend a lot of time talking about it, even planning on living there with mamma. The next house is Kathy's, and she spies it herself. "Just look at my place!" she laughs. It is a deserted roadside stand made in the shape of an orange. "Oh, well," she comforts herself, 'I'll live on orange juice." Sometimes it is a long drive between "houses" as we travel through rolling farm land, through deserts, sometimes through woods, all of which become tiresome to the children. But when they are watching for something, they forget themselves and sit still. When a house is found for each member of the family, then each may decide to move and start over again. This time daddy may trade his old barn for a nice red brick farmhouse. Mamma may not do so well. She may get only a water tank, and how the children will laugh! There is always something about farms, buildings, and cabins to cause a lot of interesting and informative conversation. Incidentally, the children are not only playing a game, but they are gathering knowledge as well. They are seeing many interesting sights that would have passed unnoticed if they had not been watching. They are having fun together. They are interested and happy. And mother and daddy are having a pleasant and peaceful trip! HAM-PINEAPPLE BROCHETTES Courtesy National Cotton Council 1 12-0unce can chopped ham, 1 7-ounce can mushroom caps or left-over baked ham 3 tablespoons melted shortening 1 14-ounce can pineapple chunks Cut ham into %-inch slices. Cut each slice into 1-inch squares. Drain pineapple and mushrooms. On large metal skewers "string" a cube of ham then a chunk of pineapple. Alternate ham and pineapple until there are 4 pieces of ham and 3 of pineapple on each skewer. Then slip 2 or 3 mushroom caps on end of each skewer. Brush all over with melted margarine. Lay skewers across shallow pan and broil under moderate heat until lightly browned. Turn skewers to brown under side of meat. Serve hot, with creamed onions and French bread or hard rolls. (Makes 6 servings) os K orest Ki oxgloves Vesta Nickerson Lukei Spires of Pendant purple Bells against the shadowed Green add beauty... But never sound Of chimes. Page 408 A Time to Forget CHAPTER 12 (Conclusion) Fay Tarlock ERENA looked at the knotty pine walls, so newly varnished, and at the big fireplace with the deer antlers over it. "TIsn't it wonderful?" she whispered to David. "It has everything a scout needs." "I wish the Meadtown scouts could see this." 'There was awe in David's voice. "Ah, Brother Trejeda, you've brought us a scout." It was Mr. Andrews, the personal friend of Luis. Luis swelled into something resembling a puff ball. With a bow, he introduced Serena and David and trotted off to find the scoutmaster. From the scout men's smiles, Serena knew Luis had forewarned them. Soon it was arranged and David was in the scout hall, surrounded by a crowd of boys. In the chapel again Serena took a rear seat. A young woman with an interesting face was talking about the musical history of her home town, a village in Arizona. She described the folk songs of the pioneers, and, without a trace of selfconsciousness, sat down to the piano and sang a song that had been inspired by the history of the settlement. 'Turning about on the stool, she told the story of the first organized Church choir. Serena was fascinated. She knew stories like that, from her grandmother, who had heard them from survivors of the Oregon Trail. David would like those stories. Serena waited for Jeff that night. He came home at midnight, weary of the verbosity of men at night, glad for the cup of chocolate she had ready. "T had fun," Serena said, sitting opposite him and eager to include him in her warm memories of the evening. "I danced, Jeff. Can you imagine it?" "Where?" ~He was more than curious. "In the social hall of Luis' church. The dance started right after the meeting; a girl played the piano, and there was a boy who was a wonder on his accordion. I never thought of dancing, but David was busy with the scoutmaster; so I peeked in. And now," her mirth was mounting, "this is the incredible part." She laughed, remembering. "The music had just started, a waltz. I saw Luis come in through another door. He rushed up to me, bowed almost to the floor, and asked me to waltz." "No!" Jeff didn't believe it. Serena laughed. "You know how Luis was, all shined up. He took so much time getting ready I had to wash the dishes alone. For a second I didn't know what to do—I'd never thought of Luis as a dancing partner, but I smiled back. And there we were whirling, and I mean whirling, I looking dizzily over his head. I tell you we were the fanciest couple on the floor." Page 409 410 "Well, what do you know!" Jeff. Said it in admiration. "But I've only begun to tell you." She moved her chair closer to the table. "The best part was the square dancing. 'The first one was a Virginia reel. Luis danced it with one of the sisters he talks so much about. I was standing by the wall having a wonderful time just looking, when one of the men..." "Was he a young man?" Jeff's voice was severe. "Oh, quite. He came up and said, "My name's John Clark. I haven't been introduced to you, but we're all brothers and sisters here together. May I have this dance?' " ERENA continued, "He asked me which ward I was from, and 1 never got to ask him what he meant, for we had to change partners. After that, Mr. Andrews, that's the scout executive and the personal friend of Luis, asked me for the next dance, some kind of a polka. Id be there yet, it was so much fun, but David came in, his eyes bigger than your cup. I got Luis and we came home." "Do they'dance every Tuesday?" Jeff asked it thoughtfully. "Not always, Luis says, but quite often. We'll go sometime, won't we?" "Yes we will," Jeff said, rising and stretching, "if you'll go to bed now." Lying awake in the cool September darkness she tried to understand why the evening had meant so much to her. 'There had been the years following Jim's death when she had been neither young nor old, but living in a kind of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 twilight. Then had come the few enchanted weeks in Mexico and the return home to find herself the mother of a puzzling, growing boy, and the wife of an older man. Groping for her way among Jeff's friends, who all seemed so staid and old, she had never expected to be young again. 'Tonight, she had been casual and lighthearted, almost as if she were among old friends. During the week she took David to be outfitted. "Oh, boy," he boasted as he tried on the uniform for his pleased father, "I can get off the requirements for a first class scout in six months if I really work." "Take it easy, Son," his father advised. "There's a little too much camping for us to get done before the rains start. Let's get to the rope knots so you can pass your tenderfoot test next time." Tuesday night David was master of the knots, but Jeff had another meeting at the county seat. Again Luis sat with Serena as they went to Mutual, as Luis called it. 'This time Serena was no stranger. She was greeted by hearty handshakes, and if her name was unknown to some, she was called simply Sister. Several weeks passed and Jeff had not made good his promise. The walnut season, late this year, found all the nuts ready at once. The threatened labor shortage did not quite materialize, though Serena drove to the Valley Oaks employment office each morning to make sure there was help. Never, Jeff said, had he seen such a collection. Men of many races and colors came from the nearby industrial towns to work on their free days or off hours. A TIME TO FORGET | mal had a special crew to handle the walnut huller. He taught Serena the special skills, and in emergencies she took over. Many times she got up in the starry darkness to make certain the gas heat was properly functioning. The walnut meats were drier this year, the shells thinner. Too much heat would ruin the nuts. After school David worked at picking. Between sacks, he would help Johnny with the knot tests. Serena heard them talking of coming hikes and what they would cook for their first outdoor meal. Luis worked throughout the harvest. Jeff let him quit an hour earlier on Tuesdays to get ready for the meetings. "Meeses, some day you keep promise and came to the Sunday meeting?" he reminded her as he stood before her freshly bathed and shaved ready to leave. "As soon as I can get Jeff to come with me," she promised. Luis shook his head gloomily. "Better you come alone than wait always," he muttered as he went out the door. The last Sunday in October Jeff's orchards had shed their nuts, and he had shaken the neighboring orchards. 'There had been a rain midweek, accompanied by high winds; the nuts that had stubbornly resisted the shaker lay bare and brown on the moist earth. A whole crew of men and women from Jeff's cottages had completed the gleaning. "What luxury!" Jeff leaned back in his chair after he had finished his sausages and wheatcakes, "a whole Sunday to rest and be with 411 you all day." He picked up the Sunday paper. "I'm going to sit in the sun until a breeze comes up, then I'm going to make a fire in the fireplace." Serena was at the sink, and David was on the screen porch, practicing signaling. Without looking up from the silver she was washing, she spoke. "Do you know, Jeff, for a long time we've promised Luis we'd go to church with him some Sunday morning... Sunday School he calls it, though it seems that adults go too." "Not this Sunday. Some time later." "T think we should go, Jeff." She was drying the silver, and her voice was intentionally careless. "If only to show our appreciation for David." Jeff heard wih one ear. "Oh, sure, we'll go some Sunday." He turned a page. AVID came in from the porch, dropped his flag, and, leaning against his father, began reading with him. There was an inscrutable smile on Serena's face, unnoticed by either of her men. Suddenly all wideeyed, as if the idea were newly come, she turned to David. "How would you like for dad and me to take you over to Luis' church this morning instead of having Luis drop you off in town for your Sunday School? It would be fun, all going together." "It would be fun." He cast a doubtful eye at his father, still deep. In the paper.. "Do you think he'll come?" 412 Serena polished off a breakfast plate, then she winked at David, a delightful, secret wink. "Suppose you wipe for me, while I finish washing and cleaning up. That will give us plenty of time to get dressed." When they were almost through, Jeff started for the east terrace, paper in hand, his eyes an invitation for her to join him. "You'll have to sit there by yourself this morning," she said with cheerful unconcern. "David and I are going to church with Luis... Of course we'd like you to come too. You've just got time to shave and dress." It was as easy as that, and she had delayed it so long! She dressed with a feeling of excitement, choosing her new red knitted dress with the black-lined stole and hat. Like Luis, she must array herself in her best. Luis had Jeff's big car in front. "Please," he pointed to the wheel. Jeff smiled assent and _ settled comfortably in the back seat with Serena. Grandly Luis opened the car door for them at the church door. "Thees way," he admonished them, walking very straight among the groups on the steps. In the foyer he led them straight to a tall, fair, and youngishlooking man with an intelligent face and a slow smile, like Jeff's. "The bishop," he announced. "Bishop Webster, my padrone and hees wife." The big man smiled. "I know who you folks are," he said, shaking hands. "Our Brother Trejeda here has been talking about you for a long time. I'm delighted that he RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE: 1953 has finally persuaded you to come. Brother Trejeda," and he patted the proud Luis on the back, "is one of our righthand men. We're all proud of him." GERENA smiled fondly at Luis. "He is our righthand man, too." She liked the bishop, a man of warmth and sincerity. David, who had been standing close, saw one of his friends of Tuesday night and rushed to a section where the boys sat in their Sunday best, their hair — neatly combed and glistening. Serena listened to the preliminary music. Never before had she seen such participation in worship. She was tense waiting to see what would happen next, and how. Soon she and Jeff were part of the group in a nearby room. A young man, not much older than she was the leader. Like the bishop, he gave out a feeling of robust health and well-being. To Jeff's consternation and her amusement in the classroom, the leader said good morning and asked them to tell who they were and whence they came. "We're not from any ward," Serena said, smiling, after Jeff had reluctantly announced himself, "we just came over from Meadtown because we liked what we found in your Tuesday night meetings." As the class progressed slowly back to the chapel, the leader caught up with them and shook hands. "I want you to meet one of our missionaries,' he said and signaled to a young man watching them. It was a Jack Burke whom Serena had met at Mutual. "Are you an investigator, Mrs. A TIME TO FORGET Landeau?" the young man asked as he shook her hand. Serena's laugh was spontaneous. "Please don't call me that... Rather say that I'm an earnest seeker." "We call anyone who is interested in our Church an investigator, and my companion and I would be glad to call on you and your husband any time you care to have us." Serena waited for Jeff's answer, her arm tight against his. Was his reply never coming? She held to the smile on her face. Then Jeff said at last, "We'll be glad to have you come." His words had a sincere ring. It was her turn now. "We'll be waiting for you," she said warmly. Waiting, the word gave her the cue to her thoughts. Back in the chapel, the Sunday School superintendent announced the parting song, finishing with, "Brother Trejeda will give the benediction." Serena's and Jeff's eyes sought Luis, who sat in a section across the aisle. He looked as if a great honor had come to him. His whole body seemed lambent. Then Serena found herself participating in the closing song. Jeft was singing too. Oh, Zion! Dear Zion! Home of the free Though thou wert forced to fly to thy chambers on high, Yet we'll share joy and sorrows with thee. Here our voices we'll raise, And we'll sing to thy praise, Sacred home of the prophets of God.... GERENA could feel cool, thin air of the mountains. She breathed the odor of the pines, and about her were the tumbling and crashing 413 of a mountain stream. "Oh Zion! Dear Zion! Land of the free," she sang with sweet fervor. "... All thy rights we'll defend, and our home shall be ever with thee." Did Jeff feel the same thing she had? Zion was the home of the heart. For a few pulsating moments she had found it. The song over, she looked again at Luis. He was no stranger to prayer, but would he find it easy? Confidently Luis walked forward, his head raised. In front of the _ pulpit he bowed his head, closed his eyes, and prayed fervently. As they made their way to their car, Luis came hurrying toward them, his brown face creased in smiles. ""Meeses..." he hesitated and bowed, "ees all right if I not return until night? My seestar, my brother," he waved towards a young couple who stood surrounded by children, smiling expectantly, "they eenvite me to their house today. Ees all right?" He looked up at Serena. She was beginning to understand what Sunday meant to him. "That's fine, Luis," she smiled her approval. On the first part of the way home, except for David's comments from the back seat, they were silent, each one deep in his own thoughts. After a while Serena looked at Jeff, and, making her voice casual, asked, "How did you like it?" For a moment Jeff kept his eyes straight on the cement, his lips tight in the October sun. "It had a certain lofty quality," he said finally, a smile beginning in his eyes. It was very important that she and Jeff talk without restraint about (Continued on page 431) From The Field Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and - the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Amelia P. Gardner NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, EUREKA BRANCH AIDS IN TOY RENOVATION PROJECT, December 1952 Left to right: Edith Morley; Mary Smith; Christina Bluke; Lois Rowley, work meeting leader; Ada Bingham; Irene Knight; Lillian Rowley; Wanda Rowley. Seated at table: Blanche Thevenin, President, Eureka Branch Relief Society. In this project, the Relief Society sisters renovated old and unwanted toys, the particular work of the sisters being renovation and dressing of the dolls. Other Relief Society women, not in the picture, who also assisted, were: Pearl Graves, Lucile Dale, Wanda Izatt, Frannie Wahler, Dora Bingham, Grace Smith, Lillie Skipper, Hazel Howard, Maggie Poteet, and Letitia Welch. Amelia P. Gardner is president of the Northern California Mission Relief Society. Page 414 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 415 Photograph submitted by Luella Walker SOUTH SUMMIT STAKE (UTAH), PEOA WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Left to right Ella M. Guthe (1916-1920); Jane A. Walker (1924-1945); Afton Marchant (1945-1949); Vera Jensen (1949-1951); Thelma S. Maxwell, present president. Luella Walker is president of South Summit Stake Relief Society. Map SB - Photograph submitted by Ida A. Gallagher MURRAY STAKE (UTAH), MURRAY SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE MADE A 100 PER CENT RECORD FOR SIXTEEN MONTHS Front row, seated, left to right: Cordelia Vander Meide; Johanna Dubelman; Iola Schindler; Elouise Baker; Therese Johansen, President; Velda Phillips; Ella Eatchel; Eva McCleary. Second row, standing, left to right: Sarah Wolf; Bessie Stewart; Agnes Graham; Minnie Spelic; Maybelle Plott; Pauline Cox; Maude Spencer; Ardella Butler; Florence Clint; Ruth Thorpe; Heidi Vander Meide. Back row, standing, left to right: Leila Snarr; Thora Miller; Helen Hoapiiaini; Alta Parr; Vernetta Wintle; Larue Petersen; Arthclla Elkins; Edith Madsen; Thelma McCleary. Ida A. Gallagher is president of Murray Stake Relief Society. 416 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 ' eae te ie" 68 eet 3: fy bal Sag yt 2 My ae Photograph submitted by Grace C. Crandall KOLOB STAKE (UTAH), SPRINGVILLE SEVENTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE 100 PER CENT RECORD FOR FOUR AND ONE HALF YEARS Front row, seated, left to nght: Ida Weight; Mary Ellen Anderson; SecretaryTreasurer Erma Hansen; President Maggie Wood; Nellie Condie; First Counselor Agnes Rowland; Donna Baker; Grace Averett. Second row, standing, left to right: Zelma Christiansen; Blenda Jorgensen; Effie Philips; Susie Allen; Sarah Allen; Fern Thompson; Second Counselor Edith Beardall; Chloe Hone; Elizabeth Roberts; Helen Whiting; Edith Wheeler; Vione Averett; Zelta Taylor. 7 Third row, standing, left to night: Afton Barker; Luella Best; Dorothy D. Hall; Mae Griffiths; Eleanor Hall; Mae Child; Edna Blackett. Grace C. Crandall is president of Kolob Stake Relief Society. T Photograph submitted by Ada S. VanDam NETHERLANDS MISSION, GRONINGEN (HOLLAND) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, seated, left to right: Kornelia VanKomen, First Counselor; Doederiena Hofman, Second Counselor; Stoffertje Copinga, President, Groningen Branch Relief NOTES FROM THE FIELD 417 Society; Ada S$. VanDam, President, Netherlands Mission Relief Society; President Donovan H. VanDam; Renstje Vanderlinden, missionary; Elder Nicholas Vanderlinden; Sietsje Stoffers, Secretary-Treasurer, Groningen Branch Relief Society. Writing from the Netherlands, Sister VanDam reports great pleasure in her work: "The Groningen Branch is one of the twenty-seven Relief Societies in the Netherlands Mission, with a total of about four hundred members. The Relief Societies are functioning well, and most of them have very fine Singing Mothers choruses. We have just completed our series of semi-annual conferences in the mission, and the lovely singing by the sisters contributed much to the fine spirit of the meetings. Many bazaars have been held, and the sisters have worked diligently to make them successful. Assisting in the Relief Society work of the Netherlands are the following sisters: Maria Schippers, M. Vandersteen, Charlotte Green, Gertrude Van Leeuwen, and Renstje Vanderlinden. Sister Schippers is mission Relief Society secretary, and the other sisters are district supervisors." Photograph submitted by Leone R. Bowring TEXAS-LOUISIANA MISSION, EAST TEXAS DISTRICT BAZAAR November 1952 Seated, left to right: Hazel Casey, First Counselor, Marshall Branch Relief Society; Daniel M. Conley (child); Elizabeth Conley, Secretary. Standing: Verna Lee Conley. Leone R. Bowring, President, Texas-Louisiana Mission, reports: "There were ten Relief Societies participating.... The purpose was to give small groups in outlying areas the opportunity of showing their projects at a large gathering. The bazaar was also one of the social highlights of the year, with over four hundred in attendance." Evelyn B. Hill is district Relief Society president; Lola Wade, first counselor; and Jewel Posey, second counselor. Only a small section of the many attractive displays is shown in the photograph. * Suggestions on Teaching Aids for 1953-54 Lessons Leone G. Layton Member, Relief Society General Board HE general board encourages the use of such teaching aids as are appropriate for Relief Society. They should add lesson interest, clarify subject matter, aid in remembering, and forward lesson objectives. In planning for their use we suggest you refer to the article, "The Value and Use of Audio-Visual Aids in Relief Society," published in the January 1953 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, page 27. THEOLOGY We are limited in the use of visual material for our theology lessons. We may however, use the blackboard to good advantage to clarify, emphasize, and help class members to remember facts. 'The blackboard may also be used in conducting a quick review, listing a name and asking class members to supply facts on his teachings. The message of The Book of Mormon will receive emphasis as we show how each prophet bears witness of the divinity of Ghrist. In lessons where we study a number of characters it is especially advisable to write their names, so that the sisters may differentiate between the men and remember something about each one. Page 418 Teaching Aids: Reynolds Chart on The Book of Mormon, $3, Deseret Book Company, 44 East South 'Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. Series of Book of Mormon pictures by Amold Friberg, Jan., Feb., March, and Apnil issues in The Children's Friend (for sale at Primary Office, 40 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, four issues for fifty cents—sixty cents postpaid). This series will be continued in The Children's Friend later in the year. WORK MEETING The opportunities are almost limitless for the use of audio-visual aids to forward the work meeting. Attention-getting posters will help catch interest and inform members of the activities planned for the next work meeting. 'They are much more effective than the average announcement. "Doing" skills can be taught by motion pictures, film strips, charts, or blackboard illustrations. Applicable pictures on buying will stimulate interest in the "Family Money Management" lessons. 'LITERATURE There is a wealth of audio-visual aids available to the literature class leader. One may use still pictures of people and places, movie shorts, phonograph records, poems set to music, figurines to create atmos- SUGGESTIONS ON TEACHING AIDS phere, posters copied from the clever marginal drawings found in the text, and maps. Hectograph copies of short poems to be studied may be easily made. (See "Making and Operating a Hectograph," The Instructor, April 1953, page 119.) Having copies of the poems in the hands of class members will add greatly to lesson interest and enjoyment. Because there are so many audiovisual aids available, the difficulty may be to use them to the best advantage. We suggest early planning and discussions in your union meeting departments on desirable selection and use. Teaching Aids: Appropriate pictures may be purchased from The Perry Pictures Company, Mal- 'den, Massachusetts. Stake educational counselors may send for a catalogue. Most universities have audio-visual material for rent, such as "Charles Dickens, Background for His Works," a ten-minute movie short. We suggest stake education counselors write to the Audio-Visual Bureau of a nearby university early to ascertain available material listed in their - catalogue. SOCIAL SCIENCE The 1951-1952 national magazines contained many fine articles 419 and advertisements featuring early American history of the particular period we are to study this coming year. There were many dealing with the theme of freedom and our obligation to preserve it for those who come after us. Pictures of men prominent in this period and of their homes and families, and pictures of places or buildings that have historical significance will add lesson interest. Teaching Aids: The National Geographic Magazine has many fine pictures of this nature and as this magazine is saved by most of its subscribers, it should be available in most communities. Historical pictures are sold by Perry Pictures Company, Malden, Massachusetts, at a small cost. A map showing the thirteen colonies will be helpful, or you may mark them over any United States map you have. Be sure your map is large enough to be seen by all your group. Parchment copies suitable for framing of "The Declaration of Independence," "The Constitution of the United States," and the "Bill of Rights" are available at $1.00 a set (3 Documents of Freedom) from Jeff Elliot Craftsmen, Station C, Flushing 67, New York. Movie shorts may be rented from most university Audio-Visual Bureaus. Inquiry may be made by the stake education counselor directly to a nearby local university. Long Ago Wanda G. Nielson When I was young—once on a time— My thoughts all charmed me, like a rhyme, And all I heard and all I knew, Was sweet as song, and deep as blue. Each dear object in my home Stirred with meaning, like a poem; And outside, the trees and brook Told me stories, like a book. And the sky's smooth countenance Smiled upon my fairy-dance Across the lawn to garden brown, Where blossom-maidens floated down And pansies spoke my native tongue— Long ago—when I was young. LESSON f= Fb DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Preview of Lessons for 1953-54 Elder Leland H. Monson HE last lesson of the 1952-53 course of study, lesson sixteen, presented the words of Jacob as recorded by Nephi. Lesson seventeen continues the study of Jacob and of his teachings to his people. In order to give a well-rounded picture of Jacob, class leaders should review with the class, lesson sixteen and co-ordinate it with lesson seventeen. The series of lessons to be studied this year start with Jacob, brother of Nephi, who with great energy and ability, gave a full measure of devotion to God. It closes with a study of Alma, son of Alma, perhaps the greatest missionary in the onethousand-year period of Nephite history. Between the time of the life missions of these two heroic figures lived many individuals, some good, some bad, but all interesting and educative. Class leaders should strive to help Relief Society members become spiritually stronger from the study of these characters. As we begin a new set of lessons, we ought also to bear in mind that the dominant purpose of The Book of Mormon is to reaffirm and _reestablish in the minds of men the Page 420 fact that Jesus Christ is divine, that he was born of a mortal mother and an immortal father, that he is the Only Begotten Son of God in the flesh. A deep and abiding testimony of this truth is all important to us, for it provides an urgency of application of the principles of thegospel to daily life.. Class leaders should ever be on the alert to utilize The Book of Mormon as a means of strengthening the faith of all Relief Society members in the divinity of Jesus Christ. The titles and objectives of the eight lessons for 1953-54 and the text references in The Book of Mormon follow: Lesson 17. Jacob and His Teachings (The Book of Jacob) Objective: To gain an appreciation for the teaching of Jacob. Lesson 18. The Completion of the Small Plates of Nephi (Enos, Jarom, Omni, Mosiah, chapter 1 ) Objective: to appreciate the value of the characters and teachings of seven prophets, and a king. Lesson 19. Teachings of King Ben- LESSON DEPARTMENT jamin (Words of Mormon: 12-18; Mosiah, chapters 2-6) Objective: To learn and apply to ourselves a correct understanding of the teachings of King Benjamin. Lesson 20. Ammon and the People of Limhi (Mosiah, chapters 7-26) Objective: To give a singular example of how this land of promise was a land of opportunity only so long as _the people had faith in Jesus Christ. Lesson 21. The Record of Zenift (Mosiah, chapters 9-22) Objective: To show the wisdom of following the admonitions of true prophets. 421 Lesson 22. Alma the Elder (Mosiah, chapters 18, 23-26) Objective: To show how Alma established The Church of Jesus Christ and the influence and power for good which were exercised by Alma following his repentance. Lesson 23. Righteousness and Good Government (Mosiah, — chapters 27-29). Objective: To explain how spirituality undergirds good government. Lesson 24. Alma, Son of Alma (AIma, chapters 1-8) Objective: To point out the influence which righteous men can exert in a democracy. Visiting Seacher ITlessages ~ Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Preview of Lessons for 1953-54 Leone O. Jacobs HE Visiting Teacher Messages for 1953-54 are a continuation of the series "Book of Mormon Gems of Truth," and are selected from the same portion of The Book of Mormon which will be covered by the theology lessons (Jacob— Alma, chapter 8 of The Book of Mormon). This additional study of The Book of Mormon will encourage all the sisters of the Church to become more familiar with this volume of scripture. As Latter-day Saints, we have in common the most precious possession in the world—the gospel of Jesus Christ. Visiting teachers have the opportunity of discussing the gospel with their sisters in the privacy and intimacy of their own homes. 'This opportunity is a rare and challenging experience. Every visiting teacher throughout the Church should recognize this fact and carefully prepare to carry out this sacred calling to the best of her ability. These "Book of Mormon Gems of Truth" are significant passages worthy of personal preservation. The general board recommends that every Relief Society visiting teacher commit these passages to memory. They will find that such knowledge is a source of strength and power in_ building testimonies of the truth. The selected messages and their objectives for the eight months, October through May, are as follows: 422 Lesson 1. "But Before Ye Seek for Riches, Seek Ye for the Kingdom of God" (Jacob 2:18). Objective: To point out that the pursuit of riches should be secondary to seeking the kingdom of God. Lesson 2. "... And See That Ye Have Faith, Hope, and Charity, and Then Ye Will Always Abound in Good Works" (Alma 7:24). Objective: to stimulate the development of faith, hope, and charity that good works may abound. Lesson 3. "Behold, He Sendeth an Invitation Unto All Men, for the Arms of Mercy Are Extended Towards Them, and He Saith: Repent, and I Will Receive You" (Alma 5:33). Objective: To point out the necessity of repenting and overcoming one's faults. Lesson 4. "And Ye Will Not Have a Mind to Injure One Another, But to Live Peaceably, and to Render to Every Man According to That Which Is His Due" (Mosiah 4:13). Objective: To show the importance of refraining from injuring one another. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE-—-JUNE 1953 Lesson s. "Let Not This Pride of Your Hearts Destroy Your Souls!" (Jacob 2:16). Objective: To encourage the cultivation of humility. Lesson 6. "Ye Have Not Applied Your Hearts to Understanding; Therefore, Ye Have Not Been Wise" (Mosiah 12:27). Objective: To urge that a conscious effort be made toward understanding the word of the Lord. Lesson 7. "But There Is a Resurrection, Therefore the Grave Hath No Victory, and the Sting of Death Is Swallowed Up in Christ" (Mosiah 16:8). Objective: To give assurance of life after death. Lesson 8. "Seek Not to Counsel the Lord, But to Take Counsel From His Hand. For Behold, Ye Yourselves Know That He Counseleth in Wisdom, and in Justice, and in Great Mercy, Over All His Works" (Jacob 4:10). Objective: To stress the wisdom of adherence to the counsel of God. Work Mleeting— Family Money Management (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Preview of Lessons for 1953-54 Rhea H. Gardner WISE spending of the family income makes possible a higher level of living and is a major factor in the establishment of peace and harmony within the home. As a class leader of the home management lessons this year, "Family Money Management," it is your privilege to help families achieve these much desired goals. LESSON DEPARTMENT We are told that one-third of all families in the United States overspent their incomes in 1951, according to statistics compiled by the Federal Reserve Board. 'This tendency, if continued, can lead only to economic slavery and an eventual lowering of our level of living. A recent national survey showed that women alone buy fifty-five per cent of all consumer goods for the family; eleven per cent is spent by wife and husband together; thirty per cent by men alone; and four per cent by unmarried children. That places a major responsibility of spending the family-living dollar on the homemaker. There is mounting evidence that, either because we do not care, or do not know how, the money we have is not being spent most profitably. Greater knowledge of goods to be purchased and more family group planning of "what ought we afford," not necessarily "what can we afford" is necessary. This would almost certainly result in fewer regrets and more progressive movement toward our big goals in life. For instance, a survey made in the State of Utah during the past year, in which more than one thousand homemakers participated, revealed the startling fact that highpressure salesmanship motivated the purchase of more than seventy-five per, cent of the major items purchased for home use—not careful consideration of their need and value to a particular family. 'There is no substitute for a knowledge of. The goods to be bought. The ever-growing variety of kinds, makes, and brands of goods makes such knowledge man- 423 datory, if there is to be wise money management. The home management lessons for the coming year are planned to help you get more of the things you want with the money you have to spend. Whether you have a dime or a dollar, there are thousands of ways to spend it. Your own standard of living is set by the choices you make in spending your income. The number of topics that can be treated this year are necessarily limited, as well as the space which can be given in the Magazine, but it is hoped that the information you receive will help to make you more efficient in all your buying. Excellent reference material may be found in reliable publications. Wherever possible use visual aids to demonstrate the lessons. Showing, plus telling, is many times more effective than telling alone. As soon as you receive this Magazine, it is suggested that you begin to assemble valuable material for use in presenting the lessons. The following is the list of lessons to be studied for 1953-1954: Lesson 1. Children's Spending Lesson 2. Your Shopping Dollar Lesson 3. Spending Your Food Dollar Lesson 4. Spending Your Clothing Dollar Lesson 5. Spending Your Home Furnishings Dollar Lesson 6. Spending Your Home Furnishings Dollar (continued) Lesson 7. Spending Your Housing Dollar Lesson 8. Spending Your Health Dollar 424 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 Vere Literature of England Preview of Lessons for 1953-54 (Text, The Literature of England, Woods, Watt, Anderson, Vol. II, Pp. 399-426) Elder Briant S. Jacobs T' was during the "most glorious reign" of their beloved Queen Victoria that Englishmen achieved a wealth and power never known to them either before or since. This complex period of titanic change challenged all alert men to readjustment, to vigorous affirmation and impassioned denials, even to shiftings between doubt and faith. _ This year we are to have the privilege of beginning a study of this immensely varied, fruitful, and powerful Victorian literature. Just as Victoria was the first queen to be photographed, so a study of Victorian England first enables us to see mirrored in retrospect the problems of our modern world. In studying the Victorians we return often to that which we know, for in the Victorian period we find the confusing, challenging, but great preface to our own day. "Brittania rules the waves," the proud nation sang; she also ruled more foreign lands and peoples than any other power. The Bank of England was the greatest financial force in the world. England was riches; she was power. This period was one of staggering, dazzling change. Within the lifetime of Queen Victoria England experienced more sweeping changes and reforms within herself than during the thousand years preceding. Before the Great Reform Bill of 1832, true democratic representation in Parliament was hated by entrenched aristocracy as the most horrifying of all possibilities; not until mobs rioted in the streets did the Tories (or Conservatives) relent and vote for parliamentary reform. To contemporary workingmen, the achievements of the Factory Act of 1833 seemed incredible, almost too good to be true: children under nine could no longer be employed in mines or mills (save silk mills); children under thirteen could not be forced to work more than nine hours a day; and children from thirteen to eighteen years of age were limited to a twelve-hour day. In 1837, when Victoria ascended the throne, English reformers were still rejoicing over their success at abolishing slavery in the English colonies, yet at home women (rather than mules) still pulled coalcars deep within the narrow mine shafts, and the cheap labor of children so endeared them to industry that they could not be spared from the loom long enough to be educated. Well over four hundred crimes were punishable by death, and public hangings were still exciting spectacles. During this era, progress in science and mechanics was likewise astounding. Fundamental "'firsts" laid the groundwork for modern geology, physiology, psychology, physics, and chemistry. In medicine germs of many deadly diseases were first isolated, vaccines first given, an- LESSON DEPARTMENT esthesia was first used in surgery and in childbirth (against the opposition of those fundamentalists who felt woman should not be allowed to escape from the curse of pain given her for sinning in Eden). The steam, later the internal combustion, engines revolutionized manufacturing and transportation, while the cheap steam press, the telegraph and the wireless vanquished _barriers of distance. 'The Colt revolver, the Winchéster rifle, the French 75 artillery, and the Gatling machine gun transformed warfare as did the steel plow and the combine harvester farming. It was Sir Henry Bessemer's process of making cheap steel which made this age of steel possible. Men began worshipping _ that which was newest, biggest, most. According to Carlyle, the modern hell became the fear of not succeeding. It was almost the age of inevitable progress; a progress born "not of accident but of necessity. What we call evil and immorality will disappear. It is certain that man must become perfect.... The ultimate development of the ideal man is certain." Thus wrote Herbert Spencer, one of the great prophets of nineteenth-century optimism. But many Victorians protested such an enthusiastic, idealistic statement. Again our text will be Literature of England by Woods, Watt, Anderson, Vol. II, purchasable at Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, with $5 of Relief Society funds, should your ward not own a copy. Copies of the following books to be studied this year are probably found in most homes and Relief Society libraries; however, they may be pur- 425 chased through the Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Utah: Charles Dickens' David Copperfield, price $1.25 (Modern Library edition); and A Christmas Carol, price $1.00 (Collectors Edition); Charlotte Bronte's Jane Eyre, price $1.25 (Modern Library edition). Postage on the literature textbook is 25c and 10c on each of the other books listed above. Also 2 per cent Utah State sales tax should be added. Lesson titles and objectives follow: Lesson 33. The Maturing Tennyson (1809-1892) (Text, pp. 593-654) Objective: To relate Tennyson's early poetry to the growing man living in a complex period of conflict and change. Lesson 34. Alfred Lord Tennyson, Representative Victorian 1892) (Text, pp. 593-654) Objective: To attain an understanding of Tennyson's later poetry. Lesson 35. Charles Dickens (1812- 1870) (A Christmas Carol) Objective: By studying Dickens' life and his Christmas Carol, to realize more fully why and how he has immortalized the Christmas spirit in his writings. Lesson 36. Charles Dickens (continued) (1812-1870) Objective: To gain a greater appreciation of Dickens through a study of his autobiographical novel David Copperfield. Lesson 37. Thomas Babington Macaulay (1800-1859) (Text, pp. 418, 419, 427-444) Objective: To relate Macaulay's theo. Ry and practice of literature and_ history to the Victorian period for which he spoke. Lesson 38. Robert Browning (1818- 1889) (Text, pp. 655-709 ) Objective: To study Browning's life (1809- 426 ' and works, that we might come to see more fully the unifying values they contribute to each other. Lesson 39. Robert Browning "Poet of Personality" (1818-1889) (Text, pp- 655-709) Objective: To study Browning's life and works, that we might come to see RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 more fully the unifying values they contribute to each other. Lesson 40. Charlotte Bronte (1816- 1855) (Jane Eyre) Objective: To enter more fully into the imaginative reality of Jane Eyre, that the significance of this work in the history of the English novel might be better understood. ' Social Science—The Constitution of the United States Preview of Lessons for 1953-54 Elder Albert R. Bowen OR more than one hundred sixty years the United States of America has been the symbol of freedom to the peoples of the world. To this nation, the oppressed of all nations have looked with longing for the realization of their dreams of equality and opportunity. It is a universally accepted fact that never before in history have men enjoyed such liberty and freedom as the people of this nation have enjoyed under our democratic form of Government. Many of our people have become complacent of our well-being and have grown to accept as commonplace the liberties which are ours. There are even those among us who would destroy our Government and its institutions, if they could. Serious inroads have already been made into our free institutions, so that all sober-minded citizens are alarmed at the dangers which confront us as a nation. Of recent years we have drifted perilously close to disaster. Unless we are vigilant and aggressive in defense of liberty, we may lose the noblest heritage of freedom ever enjoyed by mankind in the history of this world. The threats and dangers to our freedom come from all directions, both internally and_ externally. These threats have been pointed out for a long time. They have been referred to countless times by our General Authorities in conferences of the Church. They have been written and spoken of nationally from the pulpit, over the radio, and in countless books and pamphlets. It behooves us all to pay heed to these warnings. The most practical, effective method to meet the threatened danger to our free institutions and Government is through enlightenment of our citizenry. All of our people need to know how American freedom came to be established. The struggles, disappointments, and great sacrifices which made it possible should be engraved upon the LESSON DEPARTMENT consciousness of every man, woman, and child in America. Then, too, all should have a firm. Understanding of the institutions which preserve freedom. For the purpose of contributing to the cause of preserving freedom in America, the Relief Society offers the women of the Church a new course devoted to a_ study of the Constitution of the United States. It is felt that, properly informed and aroused, our women have a mighty contribution to make to this cause. This course of study on the Constitution logically and properly follows the course of study of the past three years, viz., The Progress of Man. In that course of study the basic necessity for freedom as a condition to man's progress has been considered. On page 2098 of the text, The Progress of Man, President Joseph Fielding Smith says the following concerning the Constitution: The Constitution is our assurance against anarchy and despotism. Every Latter-day Saint should be familiar with every part of this great document. Such knowledge is essential to an understanding of the significance of the word of the Lord in the Doctrine and Covenants. The first seven lessons of this course will be devoted to a consideration of the background of the Constitution; the struggles for freedom which preceded it and its final emergence upon the world scene. No background material giving consideration to the Constitution would be complete for Latter-day Saints without pointing out the special significance this great document has for our people. Therefore, 427 special emphasis is given, as a part of this study, to the Latter-day Saint viewpoint concerning the Constitution. The remaining lessons of this course will deal with the Constitution itself. 'They will be concerned with the basic constitutional doctrines and concepts which safeguard our liberties, and the manner in which they operate in practice. The following is a list of the lessons and objectives for Part I of this study: Lesson 1. Man's Struggle for Freedom Objective: To show that the struggle for liberty and freedom began even before man's earth life, and that freedom and liberty are essential to man's progress. Lesson 2. Latter-day Saint View of the Constitution of the United States Objective: To review the scriptural foundation of Latter-day Saint beliefs concerning the Constitution. Lesson 3. The Place of the Constitution in History Objective: To review briefly the most important documents and_ events which preceded the Constitution and to show that the Constitution of the United States was the crowning achievement in man's struggle for freedom. Lesson 4. The Forerunners of the Constitution of 1789 Objective: To trace the history of government in the United States, beginnning with the colonial charters, to the issuance of the Declaration of Independence, through the loose confederation of states which fought the 428 Revolutionary War, and culminating in the founding of a National Government. Lesson 5. Ihe Articles of Confederation Objective: To review the Articles of Confederation and the reasons for their failure as a framework of National Government. Lesson 6. The Philadelphia Convention Objective: To study the environment in which the Constitution was writtert; to observe the methods employed by the convention in considering its provisions and to determine the reasons why the Constitutional Convention was a success. Lesson 7. The Great Compromises of the Constitution and the Fight for Ratification Objective: To become familiar with the great issues of the Constitutional RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1953 Convention and how those issues were compromised; to observe the devices used to create "checks and balances" as a means of protecting the fundamental freedoms of the individual. Also to point out that the Constitution was one of the most thoroughly studied and debated documents ever presented to a nation for adoption. While any history of the United States may be found helpful for the social science lessons, the following four, which are found in many public libraries, are listed as being especially helpful: Bancroft, George: History of the Formation of the Constitution. Channing, Edward: History of the United States. Farrand, Max: Constitution. Fiske, John: The Critical Period of American History (1783-1788). Books containing original documents dealing with this period and encyclopedias. The Framing of the -—_- Notes on the Authors of the Lessons HIS year only one writer not previously represented among the authors of the lessons, is introduced to Relief Society members and readers of the Magazine. Albert R. Bowen, author of the social science lessons, "The Constitution of the United States," was born in Logan, Utah, a son of Albert E. Bowen, of the Council of the Twelve, and Aletha Reeder Bowen. He was graduated from the University of Utah in 1930, and from Stanford University School of Law in 1932. He has practiced his profession in Salt Lake City since 1932, beginning as an associate of his father and S. J. Quinney. At present he is a member of the law firm of Ray, Quinney, and Nebeker, and is a member of the Utah State Bar Association and the American Bar Association. For several years, at the call of the First Presidency, he served the Church in a legal capacity. In 1951, Elder Bowen was appointed a member of the Board of Regents of the University of Utah, and is now serving on that board. Elder Bowen served in the SwissGerman Mission from July 1935 un- LESSON DEPARTMENT til January 1928, and he has almost continuously occupied positions of leadership in the auxiliaries and Priesthood quorums in the wards in which he has resided since he was ordained a deacon at the age of twelve. His wife, Lucile Ross Bowen, mother of their five children, died in 1952. For biographical sketches on the authors of the other lessons, see the following references in The Relief Society Magazine: Elder Leland H. Monson, page 472, July 1951. Leone Openshaw Jacobs, page 472, July 1951. Rhea Hurst Gardner, page 418, June 1 B Elder Briant S. Jacobs, page 471, July LOAD: <-> Cr OWS Ethel Jacobson The sunset sky Shows a rosy bloom _ And the tall trees stand Like a crooked loom ' Where the great crows flap Aud flutter and croak, Weaving, wedving The night's black cloak. And when dawn comes Again they'll flit, Ripping the cloak, Unraveling it! << With a Page of Poetry Dorothy J. Roberts Humble, humble though they be, These are things the mind did see; These are countries travelled to, Jungle midnights striven through; Feathers dropped from soaring wing, Sounds from lips that longed to sing. These are thoughts the heart did heed Once in hunger and in need. 429 Keliof Society CHORAL MUSIC SSA.. God Shall Wipe Away All Tears— Roomate... A$.16 ae How Lovely Is Thy Dwelling Place—Brahms __............-... Eeeeeeeeeeo----- 22 = | Walked Today Where Jesus Walked—O'Hara...0.2 ee. 22 Lo, My Shepherd Is Divine—Haydn...22 a. Lord, Hear Our Prayer—Verdi........ 15 as Lord's Prayer—Malotte.......0.00..........25.. My Soul Is Athirst For God— Madsen ooo. Eee cceceeceeeeeeeeeeee.20 = Ode To intoae nee cessseseeee 120 =. Out of the Depths—Todd..................20 Peace I Leave With You—Roberts...15 WE PAY POSTAGE Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement on your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah! | Please send postpaid the music indicated | | i] i] | i] | '! 1 { | above. | C) On Approval 0 Charge (] Money Enclosed ] } NGM enone cece cece ee cecenceeteececeeceeeeseeseeseeesee | | Address.... Ecececccccececeeccceeescseecescseeeeesceecseseee | City 8 State... Ee eee cece eeeeeeeeee Da FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH au MAIN STREET Vo A SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH ENJOY YOUR SUMMER AT L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SUMMER QUARTER Begins June Ist _ YOU CAN REGISTER THROUGH JUNE 15TH Enroll Now! You can register any day through June 15th. Either day or evening classes in beginning and advanced Secretarial, Accounting, and Business Administration Training. Ask about our HY-SPEED Long-Hand class. It turns longhand into shorthand fast and easy. Junior classes for non-high school graduates start June 8th. Brigham Young University L. D. S. Business College Branch 70 N. MAIN SALT LAKE CITY Jo May Daughter Grace B. Wilson Child of my heart, In your face I see reflected All the things I would have been. All the hopes and dreams of youth, Long since vanished, unfulfilled, Spring to life again in you. Oh, little brown-eyed girl, I wonder if you, too, Will dream upon the hilltops, But dwell forever in the valleys. ~~ Neditation Emily Carey Alleman How tranquil is the setting sun, Which, like the clasp of hands, Joins today and the promised morrow With gold and silver bands. How beautiful now seems this life As evening shadows creep To bridge life's twilight with the night Of our last earthly sleep. Relief Society Magazines For Reference Have your Relief Society Magazines bound into permanent yearly volumes. They are excellent for reference. Cost is small. Write or phone today for information. Deseret News Press' 31 Richards St. 6); ®@ Salt Lake City, Utah 4-2581 Page 430 FOR BRIDES and GROOMS Present and Prospective THE SACRED TRIANGLE by Elder Matthew Cowley (His Conference Address—October, 1952) This is Elder Cowley's, powerful and effective sermon on the sacredness and beauty of Temple Marriage. When a man and a woman are married according to God's Holy Laws, they form a Holy oll of Three: the Woman, the Man, and od. This booklet is Elder Cowley's only sermon or writing to be printed outside of magazine or conference reports. Published by permission of Elder Cowley and the First Presidency. Beautifully printed and illustrated. Paper binding. Only 25c each $2.75 per doz. Order by mail direct from Oisual Ants (Co. 23 East First South SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Publisher of approved aids for those who teach and study the Gospel. Pictures — Books — Booklets — Filmstrips on Book of Mormon, Church History. —wWrite for Free Catalog — A Time to Forget (Continued from page 413) this morning, if only to keep open the path of understanding that so far had made their marriage smooth. She could not withdraw into silence. She asked, "Didn't you like the services?" "On the contrary," Jeff flashed her an enigmatic smile, "I liked the morning very much." "Was that all you admired?" She stressed the all, still keeping her voice careless. "Oh, no, that's just a beginning." His head was on one side and he was hesitating, thinking. "I like people to show when something is vital to them, maybe because I'm so reticent myself." His hands tightened on the wheel. "T suppose all religions when they are new are full of zest and vitality. When this one was new a hundred and some years ago, it must have been something to experience. | can understand how it carried them across the plains and mountains and tamed the wilderness. There's still much of that quality left." "And it goes deeper than vitality." Jeff was thoughtful, then his face lightened and his voice rose with enthusiasm. "I see it now, the thing I couldn't quite lay my hands on, this Church seems to have Christianity in its purest form." He tapped one hand excitedly on the wheel. "It stresses the supreme worth of the individual man, the whole participation of the individual. Look what it's done for Luis!" 1953 SUMMER SCHOOL UNIVERSITY OF UTAH June 13 to August 28 * Workshops * Conferences * Courses by Distinguished Visitors and the Utah Faculty * Recreational Program In Music Choral Productions and a Vocal Workshop James Fleetwood, Solon Alberti, Madame Leslie In Leadership Training Social Recreation Leadership E. J. Tyler Education and Group Leadership Ida Stewart Hill Writers' Conference Six Outstanding Authors with Brewster Ghiselin, Director Marba Josephson, Editorial Adviser Health Education Workshop for Teachers, Nurses, Administrators, Health Agency Workers A Variety of Workshops and Conferences For School Administrators, Teachers, Youth and Organization Leaders Page 431 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos KNABE The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built — All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Naa ao THE HISTORIC TRAIN Leaves Salt Lake City JULY 31ST FOR THE GREAT PAGEANT at the Hill Cumorah as well as Denver, INDEPENDENCE, NAUVOO, CARTHAGE, Chicago, Cleveland, KIRTLAND TEMPLE, Niagara Falls, Palmyra, SHARON, VERMONT, Boston, New York, Washington, and MOUNT VERNON, etc. For complete details write or phone. VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Telephone 4-2017 APD AAYQDAODO SE eeeeneaaeaaanaseea—aeeaeeaaw Page 432 OMETHING was joyful within her, urgent for expression. She felt like singing, yet she only said, "Then you're satisfied to let David keep on going to church there?" ™l'm going over Tuesday night myself, even if the flood control program for San Vicente Valley has to wait. Tl look into it a little more, and," he winked at David who was listening, his head against their seat, "maybe I'll do a little dancing." Keeping his eyes on the Sunday traffic, he asked, "What about it, Son, do you think you'd like going there?" "T like it a lot." David said it judiciously. "I think I'd like to try it again." "When we can't go, we can always send him with Luis." Jeff's eyes were still on the road. "But what would I do when Luis got invited out to dinner?" David was serious as he looked at Serena. "You'd have to come after me; so you might as well take me." Serena watched Jeff. The answer must come from him. "We'll try it for a while anyway. What do you think, Mother?" He had never called her that before, and his eyes were twinkling. She felt warm and happy, at peace with everything. All the past seemed joined with today, a_perfect moment ready for tomorrow, so close to her. "T think I'd like it." Her eyes rested on Jeff, his strong hands relaxed on the wheel, and David standing in the back, his eager face close to hers. "The three of us together." Guideposts to "the good life"... Read the books of RICHARD L. EVANS 1. TONIC FOR OUR TIMES For a jaded and distaught world these writings and genuine spiritual refreshment. They call us away from superficialities and self-deceiving platitudes to the timeless practical wisdom inherent in sound religious and moral teaching. Whether taken in at a daily rate or in one draught, they will prove a potent aid to understanding and better living. Large gift format $2.50 2. UNTO THE HILLS $2.00 3. AT THIS SAME HOUR $2.00 4, AND THE SPOKEN WORD $2.00 5. THIS DAY AND ALWAYS $2.00 _44 Fast South Temple Order Su wid extn I 1 Conventenlly | Netw nn | J by Marl Salt Lake City. Utah ee. COMPANY, "sat anak he Dept. 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Please send the eng circled books: 3 4 4 5 for which | enclose check [] or money order oO I I I I I I | for $ " U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 FOLLOW THE SIMPLE DIRECTIONS AND YOU'LL TURN OUT perfect U and I VAW BERRY JAM You can't help being successful in your strawberry jam sessions if you use ripe but sound fruit, pure U and I Sugar, the correct amount of pectin, and follow the steps. The RESULTS, rewarding dividends in personal satisfaction, economical savings, and in the pleasure of good eating. —_—, i ey Add 1 package powdered ectin to strawberries; mix rvellee Wash, hull, and crush 2 qts. Ripe strawberries, one layer at floating fruit. Set aside. For all your canning, be sure to use PURE U AND I SUGAR, often referred toas "crystallized sunshine and water" ee Wepre Meter Cover at once with 's inch hot poraffin. Yield: about ten 6-or. Glasses. A time, using o kitchen masher to assure an even textured jam. Measure 4 cups crushed fruit into kettle. Measure 7 cups U & I FINE GRANULATED SUGAR into bow! And Set over high heat; stir until mixture comes to a hard boil. 2 Add U & | Sugar and boil hard | minute. Remove from heat. Stir and skim by turns for 5 minutes to prevent VOL. 40 NO. 7 Lessons for October" THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First-Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - _ Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Josie B. Ba Gladys S. Boyer Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Sen Edith S. Elliott Mary J. Wilson Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Florence J. Madsen Lillie C. Adams Nellie W. Neal Winniefred S. Leone G. Layton Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring Elna P. Haymond RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - = - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 40 JULY 1953 No. 7 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES First Ladies of Our Land — Part I Elsie C. Carroll 436 The Road of Memories onan | Fredrika Clinch 448 FICTION Special for Redheads — Part Foo... Ooo eeeseeceeeceenceceneceeeeeeeeneceeeneeeee Hazel K. Todd 443 A Lady's Skirt a i FO rereBlanche Kendall McKey 450 GENERAL FEATURES Woman's Sphere 200... Eee neRamona W. Cannon 457 Editorial: Work — Not Drudgeery _22..... I2.... Ccc-cececcenenccee ec eeeeeenececeeeneeeeeeeneeenenevenenenneneVelma N. Simonsen 458 Notes to the Field: Program for the November Fast Sunday Evening Meeting.....0.....-.. C:--:.00- 459 Errors in Magazine Honor Roll 459 Notes from the Field: Relief Society Activities 0.0... Margaret C. Pickering 471 From Near and Far i. 496 HOME FEATURES By Early Candlelight — VI — Industry and Manufacturing in the Pioneer Home................ Bonnie A. Kesler 4a Hobbies Keep Her Young and Happy (Lizzie McArthur) Speedy Chow Spaghetti 468 Children's Clothes En cceccse reevesWinona S. Jensen 469 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Jacob and His Teachings - Leland H. Monson 478 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''But Before Ye Seek for Riches''. Leone O. Jacobs 482 Work Meeting: Children's Spending 2002.2.. Rhea H. Gardner 483 Literature: The Maturing Tennyson 20. Eceeeeetee ecto a Briant S. Jacobs 486 Social Science: Man's Struggle for Freedom ooen. Ce. EcccccccccscssscsnseseseeceseeseeceeesvaceceseceresAlbert R. Bowen 491 POETRY "Faith of Our Fathers''' — Frontispiece 22.......... CcscscececceseeeesesessesesseneseeaeceeseeeseseceeneChristie Lund Coles 435 On Wings of Prayer...... Elena Hassell Stanley 442 But This He Left; nnMany Gustafson 447 Dancing by Campfire — ael W. Hill 449 Eyes to See Zara Sabin 455 Grandmother's Album.............. Amy Viau 463 Acknowledgment ce Whitson Norton 467 Summer Lullabye co. Cc cc eeecececeeceeeeeee -Dorothy J. Roberts 470 Housewife's Song........ Genevieve Groen 477 Song to My Love......... ~ Grace Sayre 485 PIONEETS oonceeeeseeeeeseeeeeseceecneeecesecnenseeseees. Enola Chamberlin 494 Bouquet 20....2.-.-ces--snecceseeseseceeseseseeesnensesees ene Catherine B. Bowles 495 Release From Fear — Eunice J. Miles 495 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; a in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No ack numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. The Frieh Shirt 2.2.2.2... Ececcecececececececececene een ssenneecsnenscsusesecessnseeteneseseaseneseceuseesenee Sixty Years AQo oecccccccccececceccccesceceseeece eee ccesececeesesecsnessepescennesscasceeesnenstacescereneee A Letter From Mother 2.....0000.0.0.. Ceccccecceceeeceeceseeecenseececeeeeaccceneceseveseenensseeneees Mary C. Martineau 465 456 Clara Horne Park 455 AN AMAZING MONEY-MAKING OFFER TO NEW CHILTON DEALERS All 3 Boxes ¢ of Famous 4 Think of it!... There are $$$ and $$$ of CASH PROFIT waiting for you in these wonderful boxes of beautiful Chilton Greeting Cards. It's a GUARANTEED profit, too... You must make money just by showing these cards to friends and neighbors, or you may return the cards. Each year thousands of men and women are making new friends and asssuring themselves of extra money through the famous Chilton ''friendship plan.'' The moment you see these beautiful, colorful cards you'll understand why people are so eager to buy them. There are cards for every occasion... Christmas cards, birthday cards, anniversary, get-well, friendship, congratulation cards. Not just ordinary cards but cards so handsome they'll be remembered and treasured through the years! Your own good sense will tell you there must be literally hundreds of folks right in your neighborhood who'll thank you for introducing them to these cards. That's why we want to send you these three introductory boxes now... To prove what a warm, friendly, human experience it is to show Chilton cards! You'll earn $10, $20, $50 and more, quickly and easily. You need no experience; as 2 new member of the "Chilton Family" you get our money-making guides which explain everything. FREE TRIAL OFFER — YOUR PROFITS GUARANTEED To get you started, we make this amazing offer of all 3 boxes of famous Chilton Greeting Cards for just $1.00 — an offer that may never pe made again! Send no money, pay nothing when your sample boxes arrive. Just examine these cards and show them to your friends and neighbors. Unless they bring you immediate orders for many more boxes as an active Chilton Dealer, just return the cards and owe nothing. Or, if you prefer, keep them for your own use at the wholesale price. You don't risk a penny! But this offer is limited so mail the coupon today! Thousands $50 and More With This Famous Chilton Plan! I I I 'I; mailing costs and that I may return them | I I l I -_ £3 SIGN CARDS IN 23 KT. GOLD Golden Signature "Prize'' Assortment Our best-seller! 21 Christmas Wishes unrivaled for their. Richness and magnificence! With "Gold Writing" Kit. Sell this box for $1.25. Spirit of Christmas A colorful array of, Christmas greetings! 24 cute cards with heartwarming religious designs by famous illustrator, Eve Rockwell. Dainty and glowing with sentiment. Box sells for $1. Starlites 14 eye-catching cards! Each has a metal frame of shiny aluminum tinted in blue, green, cerise and silver. 23 Kt. Golden Signature included in this assortment. Box sells for $1.25. CHILTON GREETINGS CO. 120 Kingston St., Dept. RS-7, Boston 11, Mass. 1 1812 Roscoe St., Dept. RS-7, Chicago 13, IN. Please send me the three boxes cit CHILTON GREETINGS described above on free approval. I pay nothing when the I cards arrive. I understand the special price to Chilton Dealers is only $1 plus | without obligation if not satisfied. I Name... CccceescccceceesecsesesnessneesRTs iase l | I 1 Sy occ TZone...... State.............. 1 1812 Roscoe St., Chicago 13, HI. Ves exe eee eee ee we ee ee ee ee ee ee Chilton 20 Kingston St., Boston 11, Mass. | I Faith of Our Sathers. Christie Lund Coles "But what," I asked, "of the children? How did they fare, On the long trek in the Sun's relentless glare?" He nodded quietly, "I think Each had an angel's care." "But what did they, on the long miles, Find to do?" His smile was sweet, remembering, _ "Why, they laughed and played As children always do." "Yet, the little ones, tired, fretful, Across the desert's dun?" I watched his worn hands, touching: "Heaven has special solicitude For a little one." "But what..." I paused, "of those who died, Buried in unfamiliar sod?" His eyes were far away, and sure, He murmured, "Why... But they... Of course, They went to God." The Cover: Los Angeles, California, Skyline, Photograph by Ward Linton Frontispiece: Chimney Rock on the Pioneer Trail, Photograph by Otto Done Cover Design by Evan Jensen First Ladies of Our Land WIVES OF THE PRESIDENTS Part I Elsie C. Carroll ONE of her predecessors could N have had an experience that thrilled so many people as the kiss Mamie Eisenhower received on Inauguration Day the moment she became First Lady of our land. It might be called "The kiss seen round the world." Not only did the assembled throng in Washington see it, but millions in the television audience. And it gave romance to a happy occasion. "All the world loves a lover," Eisenhower's fellow Americans loved him a little more for his gallantry and devotion. That kiss will stand out as one of the highlights in Mamie's years as First Lady. Those who have held that honored station in years gone by had moments, too, that highlighted their histories. George Washington was also a devoted lover. It must have made Martha Dandridge Curtis happy that she so impressed him at their first meeting that he quickly changed plans he had declared important, so he could enjoy her society a few hours longer. At the time of that meeting George was a young colonel returning from a military campaign. He stopped to call on a friend, and before he learned that the beautiful widow of Colonel Custis was a visitor at the plantation, he had declared, "I can stay but a moment. I am hurrying to Williamsburg on official business." After he met Martha Custis his Page 436 and President. Departure suddenly became less urgent. He remained until late the next morning. At their next meeting, a few months later, they became engaged, and at the beginning of the following year, 1759, they were married. No doubt Martha was lovely in her wedding dress—a quilted petticoat of white satin under a heavy corded silk skirt with ruffles and pointed lace, white satin slippers with diamond buckles, pearl necklace, earrings and bracelet, and a pearl ornament in her hair. The Washingtons enjoyed a number of years of rural life before they became President and First Lady. At Mount Vernon they entertained many guests, among them large parties of fox hunters. Sometimes Martha would join in the hunts, but she liked better to remain at home and prepare favorite dishes for George and their company. The extent of their hospitality may be judged by an entry in Washington's diary: "Would anyone believe that with one hundred and one cows I should still be obliged to buy milk and butter for my family and guests?" In later years when Washington was leading the poorly trained and equipped patriots in their fight for freedom, Martha was with him as much as possible. In the army camps she helped in many unexpected ways. One writer says: FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND Her tact and charm helped to eradicate the petty jealousies in the newly organized staff. She brought harmony to the headquarters by making the officers' wives as well as the officers themselves her devoted admirers and friends. When she could not be with her husband, she spent her time from dawn until dark in the plantation workroom spinning, sewing, and knitting to turn out clothing for the ragged Continental Army. NE time when she heard that George was ill, she insisted on going to the front to nurse him back to health. Then she insisted on remaining with the forlorn troops, who at that time were feeling that the struggle against the English was all but hopeless. She organized the officers' wives into sewing groups and built up their morale by her own assurance that their cause was right and would win. She inspired others with her own patriotism. One time when the army headquarters were at Morristown, New Jersey, a group of women from the town called on her. One of them gave this report of their visit: "We found her knitting and with a specked apron on! There we were without a stitch of work and sitting in state, but General Washington's lady was knitting stockings for the soldiers." During the tragic winter at Valley Forge, she did all in her power to cheer the soldiers, carrying food and medicine to them and radiating her own faith and courage to the disheartened. A statement she made to her grandchildren years after the war was over reveals how close she was to the conflict. She said, "T heard the opening and closMARTHA DANDRIDGE CUSTIS WASHINGTON (1731-1802) ing guns of almost every campaign in the Revolution." She was fifty-seven years old when her husband became President. She had thought her services to her country were over when the war ended. But she was destined, as the first First Lady of the land, to set a precedent for future years. She had no models. But her own good sense and excellent taste, and her early training in social situations enabled her to establish customs that have continued to add refinement and culture to our nation. At receptions and other social functions she acted without pomp, but with a dignity and courtesy that won the admiration and respect of the new democracy. She was greatly beloved and universally respected. She knew that the eyes of the entire country would be on the life in the Executive Mansion, and she was de- 438 termined not to follow the regal display of the country from which her own had withdrawn. She preferred the simplicity of private life to that of the highest public station. She expressed delight when she and her husband returned to Mount Vernon after his second administration. "The General and I feel like children just released from school," she wrote to a friend. "I am again fairly settled down to the pleasant duties of an old-fashioned Virginia housekeeper, steady as a clock, busy as a bee, and cheerful as a cricket." Fortunately for those who were to come after her, she had set a model of simple, genuine, wholesome womanliness. KR Rk * ABIGAIL Smith, the young lady who was to become the second First Lady, surprised her friends when she married John Adams, a struggling young lawyer, recently graduated from Harvard University. Abigail was descended from a long line of ministers. Her father was a pastor in Weymouth, Massachusetts. But Abigail was in love with the young circuit rider, and they were married in 1764. From that time to the end of her life she devoted herself to doing whatever she could to promote her husband's work and his ambitions. John advanced rapidly in his public career. He was a member of the first Continental Congress. He was an international statesman. And later he became President of the United States. Because the pay a lawyer received from his work was so small, Abigail RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 ABIGAIL SMITH ADAMS (1744-1818) willingly supported the family by running their small farm while John devoted his time to the cause of liberty and justice for the people. During the years of the Revolution she endured many hardships and faced grave dangers. Indians lurked in the forests near her home. Alone she nursed her children through serious illnesses. Often battles were fought so near that she could hear the roar of the cannon and watch the fighting across her fields. She wrote to her husband an interesting account of hearing the Declaration of Independence read in Boston: Last Thursday I went with the multitude to hear the Proclamation of Independence. The inhabitants assembled and listened to the reading with eager attention.... As soon as the Colonel had ended, the cry from the balcony was "God save our American States!" Then three cheers rent the air. Bells rang. Cannon FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND were discharged and every face appeared joyful.... The king's arms were taken down from the State House and every vestige of him from every place in which it appeared, and was burnt in King Street.... Thus ends royal authority in this state. Abigail was a patriot, deeply concerned over the affairs of her country. She told her husband that women should have a share in government. BEING separated from her husband from August 1774, with the exception of a few months, for ten years was not easy for Abigail, but she complained only mildly as in such letters as the following: I have received a good deal of paper from you. I wish it had been more covered. The writing is very scant.... Yet I know your time is not yours or mine. Your letters let me know you exist, but some of them contain scarcely six lines. I want some sentimental effusion of the heart. Perhaps it was such expressions of her need for his companionship that made her husband send for her to join him in France after they had been separated for three years while he was assisting Benjamin Franklin to try to secure money and support for the struggling American Army. Later she accompanied him to London when he was sent to England as American ambassador. His mission to England was to try to establish friendly relations between that country and our own. Because of the recent war that was not an easy undertaking. Abigail, with genuine simplicity and_ tact, was often a buffer between her husband and the diplomats of King George III's court. The king was irritable and uncompromising, still 439 smarting from the loss of his colonies. John Adams was extremely outspoken. But Abigail's ability to adjust pleasantly to whatever situation she found herself in, helped him in his diplomacy. She won the admiration and respect of official England and made the way easier for future ambassadors from our country. After returning from Europe, John Adams was first elected VicePresident, then became President of the United States in 1797. He and Abigail were the first chief officials to live in Washington, D. C. Prior to that time the seat of government had been in New York and Philadelphia. The White House today is vastly different from the one Abigail Adams moved into in 1800. At that time it was unfinished and_ surrounded by forests. The streets around it were ankle-deep in mud. The now famous Pennsylvania Avenue ran through a swamp. A board served as a bridge between the road and the Executive Mansion. It was a problem to heat the house. When visitors called the First Lady worried about how to make them comfortable. Drying clothes was another problem. Sometimes the family wash was hung in the East Room to dry. But Abigail wrote to a friend that it was a beautiful spot, capable of every improvement. She said, "The more I view the place the more I am delighted with it." The nation was proud of the Mansion and believed that some day it would have the beauty and efficiency planned for it. Even then, Abigail Adams as First Lady made 440 guests feel welcome and at ease and followed the standards of simplicity and dignity set by Martha Washington. Mrs. Adams had the distinction of giving a son as well as a husband to the White House. However, she did not live to see her son John Quincy become President. * OK OK OK HE woman who would have been the third First Lady (Martha Wyler Skelton) died before Thomas Jefferson became President in 1801. He had designed and built for her the beautiful home Monticello, and she would: have graced the Executive Mansion as she did her own home. His daughter Martha Jefferson Randolph acted, at times, as his official hostess. ER RK AMES Madison's wife was_affectionately called Queen Dolly, and it was said that when she entertained, "political jealousies were laid aside in the charm of her hospitality, and Washington forgot that it was a city in a wilderness." She thoroughly enjoyed the eight years (1809-1817) she "reigned" in the Executive Mansion as the wife of President James Madison, and all Washington enjoyed themselves socially with her. Dorothea Payne Todd Madison had beauty and the grace and ease which usually come with a long background of social experience, but she had passed the first twenty-two years of her life in a simple Quaker family. At the time she met James Madison her widowed mother was boarding several members of Congress, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 and Dolly, a young widow, was helping her. James was shy and retiring, but even then was spoken of in Congress as the "great little man." When he married the pretty widow Todd in 1794, all Washington, including President and Mrs. Washington, smiled approval. It seemed an easy transition for Dolly from the demure Quaker customs of her childhood and first marriage to the fashionable world of balls, luncheons, and teas she then lived in. Her husband was Secretary of State during Jefferson's administration, and Jefferson relied much. On Dolly when official state dinners and receptions were held in the Executive Mansion. In fact, it was said that the real social center at that time was not the Mansion, but Dolly Madison's drawing room. There senators, cabinet members, and foreign diplomats met every day, and her home became known as Dolly's House. From those gatherings there came the influence which largely won her husband's election to the Presidency in 1809. Then she became the official First Lady, though she had already served, in a way, unofficially for eight years. She made the Executive Mansion bright and inviting with new furnishings, as well as by her own scintillating personality. She was a perfect hostess. She made everyone feel welcome and comfortable. She had the knack of bringing out the best in each person's conversation. Though now she dressed in satins and ermines and could wear jewels such as she had dreamed of as a little Quaker girl, she retained her gentle and simple manner. FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND Biographers state that she never forgot a name or a face and that for everyone she met she had special words of friendliness. She would never participate in unpleasant conversation. If irritating points developed, she would leave the room for a few moments; then return and resume the conversation on a new topic. She talked to each guest animatedly about his own special interests and concerns. She did even more. She had the rare grace of being an attentive listener. About her conversational charm one writer says: "The unfortunate had her sympathy and aid; the brilliant, her admiration; the witty, her flashing laugh. All were her friends." HE was a fine balance for her retiring husband and his second term was attributed to be due almost entirely to her popularity. During the War of 1812 she had some trying experiences. At one time while President Madison was away inspecting the American forces, word came that the British were marching on the Capital. The residents of the city fled in panic. The servants deserted the Mansion House, and Dolly was left almost alone. She busied herself collecting her husband's state papers, then began to write a letter to her sister. She wrote: "I can hear the roar of the cannon as the enemy are coming nearer and nearer." She related how she insisted on having a painting of Washington taken from the wall before she would prepare to leave, when a friend came to insist on her departure from the house. She ended her letter, "And now, dear sister, I must leave this house 441 DOROTHEA (DOLLY) PAYNE TODD MADISON (1768-1849) or the — will make me a prisoner in it.... When I shall write again to you, or where I shall be tomortow I cannot tell." When she and her husband returned to Washington, they found that the British raiders had burned the Capitol, the Treasury Building, and the Executive Mansion. The President and First Lady took over the Octagon House, and there the triumphant city celebrated the news of peace in 1815. Dolly waved to the returning soldiers, and they cheered her as they marched past. After the Madisons retired to private life, Dolly devoted herself to the care of her husband and his invalid mother. The older woman said of Dolly, "I am feeble and helpless and owe everything to her. She is my mother now." Montpellier, the home of the Madisons, was the center of hos- 442 pitality similar to that of the Jefferson estate. Hundreds came and went, and Montpellier was also sold, as Monticello had been, for debts. But even after the loss of the plantation and the death of her husband, Dolly Madison, though sorrowed by the profligacy of her son by her first husband, continued to be Queen Dolly and kept open house in a little home on Lafayette Square to the end of her days. Congress voted her the franking privilege and. Provided her a seat on the floor of the House of Representatives, the first time a woman was accorded that honor. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 Congress also saved her from poverty by purchasing her husband's letters and papers. She died in 1849, just a few months after she had attended a levee at the White House and had passed through the rooms she had once graced as First Lady, on the arm of President Polk, the seventh President after her husband's administration; and she had been honored by them all. On that occasion she was a frail, white-haired old lady, but she had the same serenity and charm that had brought her the spontaneous title, Queen Dolly, nearly a half century before. — On Wings of Prayer Elena Hassell Stanley Spring brought the promise of a bounteous yield To men grown lean through endless winter days As crystal water flowing through each field Released life-giving nurture from the clays. Then, when each plot was clothed in brightest green, A threatening shadow moved upon the land, As cricket hoards swept down from each ravine 'To verdant farms, and no one could remand.. With spade, with broom and shovel, stick and stone, The frantic people fought with frenzied zeal. Since Egypt's locust plague no one had known A greater menace to the common weal. As fields grew lifeless, famine ventured near To torment souls now sick at heart with fear. 4 In that dark hour they bowed their heads in prayer, For only God could check this ruthless foe With jaws of steel advancing everywhere, His hand alone the miracle bestow. A plaintiff cry, a shrill half-scream was heard, As myriads of sea gulls fluttered in To feast, disgorge, and feast again, each bird, Invincible ally, endowed to win. Who humbly kneels before the Father's throne Has placed himself in tune with heavenly light, Though raging storms endanger his hearthstone, Faith is a beacon shining in the night. And when our cross seems more than we can bear Perhaps our gulls will come on wings of prayer. Special for Redheads ' Hazel K. Todd kitchen curtains, Marian could see the medieval army of nine-year-olds, their grotesque wooden swords flourishing in the air as they lined up for combat. And although she could have walked out the door and saluted the proud leader in a few short steps, yet she knew, with discouraging assurance, she would still be a million miles from reaching him. "Ready, charge!" shouted Rusty, the knight in command, with his bucket head pointing into the air, and a lock of his red hair waving in the summer breeze through a hole in the helmet. Her eyes followed while the army swooped down with vigorous onslaught onto the unsuspecting clothesline poles. She watched the scramble of arms and legs and bucket heads segregate into separate boys. "Good work, Sir Knight," said Rusty, the head gallant, standing in their center, his board shield held in a stately manner before him. "And now we will get the knights on the drawbridge. Mount your steeds, men!" She saw them straddle their willow horses leaning against the garage and march away to the new battle, her heart following after the competent leader. Being a stepmother could be so satisfying if only Rusty would accept her as the others had done. If only she could think of the way to break down the hard wall he had built up against ole her blue, ruffled her. Her gaze wandered down along the row of trees that led to the meadow and the swamp she had heard Robbie mention. She thought of the dozens of ways she had tried to reach Rusty. There was the time when she had bought him the new belt with the shining silver buckle. He had given it to his friend Beany. There was the time she had gone to his room at night. She had sat on the bedclothes and tried to talk to him, but he had covered up his head and stiffened out like something made of steel. Then there was the time... "Moth-er." The word clung in her ears as it had done from the first time she had heard it. She turned to the small figure beside her. It was Robbie, a little boy, short for his four years. He was standing before her with his big eyes and his cat Blinky. "Moth-er, may I have a drink?" "Of course, darling!' she said, reaching for the glass. And then she sat on the chair and pulled him onto her lap, forgetting for the moment the one she could not hold. He kissed her lightly on the cheek, stroked the cat's silky hair, and then he slid from her knees and went chasing after some new interest. And Marian, too, went chasing in her mind after all the things in the recent past that had made her life so different. From Robbie, with his fairy kisses and his "Moth-er," to Rusty, with his stubborn red Page 443 444 hair, his scowl] and himself that he kept always out of her reach; to Patty and her sweet girlishness, always trying so hard to help; and to Bob her husband. With thoughts of Bob there came flooding over her a warmth that sang in her like spring sunshine. EETING Bob had been such a sweet surprise. Years before she had folded the scraps of a broken romance away in a corner of her memory and told herself that that part of her was dead. But one day Bob had walked into the shop where she sold toys, having been sent in by a mutual friend. From the moment she had looked into his suntanned face she had suspicioned that something could go awry with her well-planned spinsterhood. "T want a scooter," he said, "for a red-headed boy. Jack Rhodes told me you would help me select one." She had found herself thinking of the man's handsome red _ hair, instead of the scooter. "Something extra strong," she remembered his saying, "for a tough red-headed boy with too much energy." And then she had come to herself. "Oh," she had said, "something special for redheads!" And they. Both laughed together, and it had been such fun. Marian didn't recall when Bob had first told her about his chil- - dren, whose mother was dead. But one by one she had met them through incidents he had mentioned. 'There was Patty, who was eleven now, a shy girl who longed for the companionship of a mother; Rusty nine, who had red hair and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 so much energy that he needed a special scooter; and Robbie, four, who couldn't remember his mother. Robbie had a cat Blinky that he loved very much. And there was a housekeeper, Mrs. Sharp, who kept the house and the children very clean, in a very business-like way. Marian had made a special place in her heart for each of the children by the time Bob asked her to marry him. They had been walking after the rain along a street that was lined with lilac bushes. Suddenly, he had stopped at a spot where the late sun shone through the wet leaves onto his sunbrown face. Marian had looked at his wet hair that burned in the sunlight so that it set her heart on fire, at his smile that twisted her heart, and at his blue eyes that were full of his love. She had taken the folded scraps from the past and cast them away, and given him her heart as clean of the past sorrows as the washed leaves of the lilac bushes. She had had no_ stepmother qualms at meeting Bob's children. She had even waited with excitement the day he was to take her to his home to meet his family. When the car had stopped before the white house with its wide lawn and the neat picket fence, and the trees that led to the meadow beyond, she had felt that it was everything she had ever wanted in a home. Bob had been excited, too, like a boy who wanted to show something that was his and of which he was very proud. But when the car stopped, he had suddenly become very sober. He had laid his hand on her arm. "Marian, if Rusty SPECIAL FOR REDHEADS acts, stubborn —and —well, don't let him change your mind." ARIAN had laughed. She had seen throngs of redheaded boys who loved scooters. "Of course," she had assured him, "I will not be discouraged. Don't you know I have special ways for redheads?" And even after their first meeting she had not been discouraged. In her thoughts she relived her first visit. She stood again before the door that Bob was opening for her. Bob opened the door and she entered with joyous expectation. Patty was sitting at the piano, and she stood up and made a sedate little curtsy. Bob gave the girl a quick wink so that Marian knew they had planned it together. And in her heart she clasped the child's hand, knowing that with her there was nothing to fear. And then in the picture before her she saw Rusty sitting sullenly in the corner, with his red hair and a black frown. But before she had time to think further Robbie came from his seat in the big chair, with his big eyes and his cat. He walked falteringly, and he held the cat tightly in his arms. "Do you like cats?" he asked earnestly when he was several steps from her. "Mrs. Sharp doesn't like Blinky," - Patty hastened to explain. "She says there are cat hairs all over everything." Marian felt Bob's eyes upon her, while before her she looked into the other pair of eyes, the large dark eyes of a child asking for assurance. 445 "Why, I love cats," she said happily, going to Robbie and stroking the cat's soft back. "When I was a little girl I had a cat almost like Blinky." Robbie's big eyes looked joyously up into hers. "Could he sing?" he asked with great awe. "Oh, wonderfully!" Marian said, and then before she knew it they were sitting in the rocker together with Blinky purring softly. Bob cleared his throat. "Aren't you going to say hello?" he asked the boy in the corner. But Rusty had no such thought. Instead, he pursed his lips and scraped his foot along the carpet. Marian looked at Bob and saw the flush rise in his cheeks. He looked at her imploringly, as if he were afraid she might run away. Marian thought quickly. "Oh," she said, "I know what Rusty's thinking about. I'll bet it is how fast he can go on his red scooter." But as soon as she said it she knew it was wrong. He stood up and ran defiantly out the door, banging it behind him. Bob looked at her helplessly, and Patty was very embarrassed. "Please don't be upset," Marian hurried to assure them. "Rusty and I will get acquainted when no one else is around." But they had not. In fact, it seemed to Marian that he grew farther away from her each time she was near him. She recalled, with mingled emotions, the day they had come home after their marriage. Everything seemed to be going right. Patty met her with a smile and gave her a shy kiss on the cheek 446 and whispered that she was so glad to have her. Robbie came with Blinky the cat and his big eyes full of joy and trust. "See," he said excitedly, when the cat purred softly to her touch, "Blinky likes you." But Rusty — Marian looked around for his red head from the first moment. He didn't seem to be anywhere. In fact, he was nowhere to be found until it began to be dusk and she and Bob found him crouched in his rabbit pen with his rabbits. And then he burst out with indignation, "I don't want any old stepmother! I'd rather run away!" Bob was holding her hand and he gripped it so tightly it hurt.. She looked at the boy sitting defiantly in the rabbit house, his face smeared with dirt and his hair filled with hay leaves. "Really," she suggested carefully, but with a smile, "I'm not one of the mean kind of stepmothers, Rusty. And I think redheaded people are nice." But Rusty remained sullen. She caught a smoldering fire in his eyes as he climbed from the rabbit pen and walked without another word toward the house. Bob gave a quick start to follow him and Marian saw the angry flash on his face. She put out her hand and caught his arm. "No, please, Bob, don't be angry with him. It would do no good." He looked at her and the flush melted to tenderness. He gave her hand a quick squeeze. "All right," he said calmly, with his eyes still on hers. Then he turned, and with perfect control, followed his son. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 HE had sat down on the stone wall while her mind sorted out all the different kinds of boys she remembered who had come into the toy shop. She was so busy trying to find one that she could identify Rusty with that she did not notice the tiny form sliding closer to her on the garden wall. And then she heard it, a half-whisper as though it were meant for his ears instead of her own. "Moth-er," he said hesitantly. She turned then and saw Robbie's dark eyes like pools in the gathering dusk. 'They were fastened on her intently, and he had his cat clutched tightly in his arms. The word sang through her as though it were electric, chasing away all else. An impulse to clasp the little boy in her arms, a need to stop the flood of tears that was racing to her eyes, and a deep sense of responsibility all struggled for possession. She swallowed and said a silent prayer for strength. And then she pulled him over to her and kissed the top of his head nestled in the crook of her arm. Bob came back with two wrinkles between his eyes. He sat down by them without saying anything. With Robbie squeezed tightly between them, and the touch of Bob's hand sending a_ sweet tingling through her, she was possessed with a strange bewilderment as though she were unable to cope with all the different emotions—her deep attachment to Robbie and Patty, her worried concern for Rusty, and her love for Bob, all struggling at once for top place in her feelings. (To be continued) Ward Linton FUCHSIA BLOSSOMS M3 A Ly L But Shis Fle Left Mary Gustafson Here, birds have homed; in-this place he knew And kept each leaf and flower in place. This spot Is where he planted Concord grapes that grew To form an arbor, cover for the cot Where he could pause at sun-tipped noon. A goldfinch Flutters limb to limb, and butterflies. Drop sipping to a buttercup. The scold Of blue jay chatters up the hours when skies Are clear. Ferns lift their nestled fronds to claim Tall spikes of iris bloom. Blue violet Shies close to flowering peach, and fuchsia flame Drifts whirls of color to sweet mignonette.... The house is shuttered close to those who knock, And silence rests the hands that wound the clock. Page 447 She Road of Memories Fredrika Clinch HERE are many things which can start the mind traveling backward in a dream over an old road of memories. It can be 'the sunrise or the sunset, the howl of a coyote, a train whistle, the smell of fresh-cut lucern, the wind moaning in the chimney of an empty house, the sound of water, the song of a bird in meadow or tree, the smell of food, or the crackling of a fire. A train whistle breaks the stillness of the night, and the clicking of the wheels turns the present into the past. I am traveling backward in a dream over an old road of memories. Again I hear the clicking of the wheels of the train that passed the sugar-beet field, where my mother, sister, and brother toiled thinning and topping beets, while I played close by in the shade of the willows, out of the sweltering heat. I smell the fresh-cut lucern with the purple flowers, which my father cut with the mower in the field next to the sugar-beet acres. Looking south from the fields, I can still see the towering smokestack of the Elsinore Factory where our beets were made into sugar. Leaving the fields, I come to a grove of elm trees, and, nestled among them, is the humble adobe house where I was born and lived until I was five; then my father moved us to Southern Utah, to John's Valley, which was named after Dr. John A. Widtsoe. There the coyotes howled with the restPage 448 less wind, and the sagebrush grew as tall as trees. Before crops could be planted, we had to uproot the sagebrush from the soil. Fortunately, this was not a difficult thing to do, for in that soil the roots of the brush yielded readily to pick and harrow. In that wilderness, living was precarious, because every seed that was planted depended on the elements to make it grow, for there was no water supply to use if the rains failed to come. When the rains came, we had good crops, which had to be stored in the one-room, twelve-by-sixteen, cabin where we ate and slept. When the bins were full, we had very little space for living, and we had to sleep on the grain on straw ticks, with barely enough room to turn between the log rafters and the grain. We didn't mind sleeping like that, because we knew that some day the grain would go to the mill, and that meant food and clothing for the winter. It was the dry seasons that we dreaded. For days, weeks, and months, we would watch for the dense, black clouds to come, but day after day there would be only cumulus clouds that looked like gigantic heaps of meringue. Such clouds are beautiful to people who aren't looking and praying for rain. Many summers the crops burned in the fields, and the pond went dry. Every time I cut fudge into squares, it makes me think of the bottom of the pond before it got THE ROAD OF MEMORIES too dry and curled at the edges. When the pond was dry, the water had to be carried two miles from the neighbor's well, or from the river. OOKING south from the cabin, ~~ we could see a cliff we called "Pink Cake, with white frosting." A short drive from Pink Cake was Bryce Canyon, that miracle of nature, with its fantastic temples, spires, and grotesque shapes, sculptured by the wind and water of the ages. When I close my eyes, I am again taking my first trip to Bryce Canyon with my parents and sisters. We are in the bumpy wagon, and father and mother are in the spring seat with their backs to us. 449 It was when they weren't looking we would have our arguments, because father hated to hear us quarrel, and so we were careful to keep our voices below the noise of the wagon. We knew that if father heard us disagree, we might all have to go back to the farm, and we wouldn't get to camp under the pines, and see the sunset and sunrise over Bryce Canyon. At that time, the splendor of the canyon was unknown to tourists. The appearance of the canyon changes very little with time, and so it is with men. But customs change rapidly. Yet a smell or a sound can carry me back into the past even as the salmon that always returns to its native waters. Dancing by Campfire Lael W. Hill Firelight runs over hillock and hollow, The music is sweet and the night is for dancing; Lifting and drifting, the smoke-spirals follow— I see the long shadows retreating, advancing. The music is sweet and the night is for dancing— Oh, where is my love to swing me, to guide me? I see the long shadows retreating, advancing— Oh, where is the partner who should be beside me? Oh, where is my love to swing me, to guide me? The footsteps turn lightly, their swift rhythm wants me— Oh, where is the partner who should be beside me? Another strange music of mystery haunts me. The footsteps turn lightly, their swift rhythm wants me— Lifting and drifting, the smoke-spirals follow; Another strange music of mystery haunts me... Firelight runs over hillock and hollow! A Lady's Skirt Blanche Kendall McKey BIGAIL packed the few dishes A the three of them had used at lunch, and tucked the six remaining biscuits carefully in a tin box. As she moved back and forth, the lace of her petticoats caught at times in the low clumps of sagebrush, but she absently shook herself free. For the moment she scarcely saw Paul's sturdy _ little form, quiet in sleep, beneath an improvised tent. Even Warren, bent over his broken wheel, faded from her view, as did the limitless stretch of gray plains to the east and the purple outline of western hills. She was seeing budding hedgerows and patches of sweet lavender in England. They were still three hundred miles from Zion. The summer was old in the desert, but the midday rays were hot. "Will you bring me the small hammer, Abigail?" She lifted Warren's tool from a small chest lying open on the ground; and as she came toward him, again the lace of her many petticoats clung to the shrubbery. She pulled them free and stooped to look for snags in the scalloped edges. Warren had risen, stretching the muscles of his back, and now stood frowning under his broad brim as he watched her. "If you would pack two-thirds of your skirts in the trunk, we'd get along better. There's no place for hoops in this country." The irritation in his voice grated on Abigail's nerves, because she Page 450 had just seen a vision of herself and Warren, immaculate and dewyeyed, strolling through a country lane in Surrey. "And not even look like a woman?" she flashed. "Just like a... A... Well, like a wooden slat?" In spite of their dire situation, Warren smiled. His quick glance, taking in her entire person, was warm with admiration. "Spitfire," he teased, half under his breath. She stepped closer and slipped her hand over his damp shirt until it rested on his shoulder. "T'm thinking of Paul," she said, looking back at the child lying between two bunches of sagebrush. "Nobody wants to raise a son who will know nothing but digging. And enduring." Warren gazed at the boy, sunbaked, wind-blown, and small for his nearly four years. His expression was a mixture of tenderness and perplexity. Finally he walked back to the wagon wheel. "We'll have to make the best of things as we find them," he said. Abigail followed him, speaking hopefully. "You know how cheerful my aunt's letters have been the last few years. Things aren't so bad now in Deseret. I've been hoping all along that with your education and my music and sweet little Paul, we would take something beautiful to the desert." "Those things aren't fundamental, Abbie," he answered, shortly. Under her blue sunbonnet, she studied him as he hunted about for A LADY'S SKIRT apiece of wood and, eventually, chopped off the end of her broom handle and went to work wiring a broken spoke in the wagon wheel. His naturally fair skin was baked to a deep brown. The locks of hair that straggled down from the brim of his hat were baked, also, and faded to a dull yellow. There were "squinting" lines around his eyes and down his forehead. She put her hand to her own parched face and felt its roughness. Her lips burned; perhaps they would be blistered tomorrow. 'The vision came again of English gardens, of gentle rain, of rustling silken skirts. A quick indrawn breath made a choking sound in her throat. ARREN laid down his roll of wire and went to her, taking her arms in a firm grip. "Do you ever stop to think that your chief trouble is your husband?" he demanded. Her searching eyes found no explanation in his drawn face. "You, Warren?" she _ breathed slowly. "The schoolmaster was all right in an old village, but here...." "Without you, I'm _ nothing, Warten...." "T don't know enough about oxen. That's why the wagon keeps giving way. You have to understand - animals and things, as well as people, or something goes wrong. You should have married a mechanic in your father's shop." "Tm frightened, Warren, I'm afraid of the mountains even when I'm with you...." "We've got to accept them and live with them. Books are no good here." 451 "Wait," she whispered. "Wait a little longer. Books will be great in Zion." He brightened. "How is your aim today?" he asked enthusiastically. Swinging into the wagon, he emerged with a battered target and a rifle. He handed Abigail the latter and set the target against a sturdy growth of sagebrush. She fired. ~ "Good," he cried. "Now closer to the mark." - Her second shot was better. "Fine. Try again." This time she almost hit the bull's eye. "Well, you ought to feel braver after that," he said as he replaced the rifle and again went to work on the wheel. Little Paul crawled from under the piece of canvas. "Did you see a buffalo, Mother?". They laughed, but Abigail's eyes instinctively swept the eastern horizon. "Look, Warren," she said in a low voice. HREE men were riding toward them on ponies. They swayed easily with the motion of the beasts, their black hair vivid, their red shoulders gleaming against the scintillating sky. "That's just like Indians," Warren muttered. "You never know where they come from." "Hunters?" she asked. "More like scouts. Perhaps they heard your shots." The Indians rode forward, three abreast, then stopped for a parley. In a few moments one of them, on a mottled pony, came directly 452 toward the wagon. The beaded band across his forehead and the red feather it fastened to the back of his head, gleamed in the sun. Abigail took Paul in her arms. The Indian slid from his mount and advanced, his hands held high in the air. He called in guttural tones words that made no sense to his listeners. "Sounds like peace overtures," said Warren. But when the man came close, his deep-sunk eyes were veiled. "Mormon?" he asked. Warren and his family nodded. "Bread. Suga'," the Indian demanded. Abigail set Paul down and went to the box in the covered wagon. She took out three of the biscuits, thinking as she did so that three remained for Warren and Paul, if their journey should be further delayed. She poured a little sugar into a small bag and haltingly carried it and the bread to their silent guest. He took the food solemnly, dropping it into a bag that hung around his waist. At that moment Paul darted to the side of the Indian and reached up to finger the bright handle of a knife that hung from his beaded belt. "Good Papoose," he said. Abigail nodded rigidly. The Indian turned his eyes to Warren. "You give Papoose to Rain-in-the Face, great father?" he asked. Warren threw his son into the air, then set him on his broad shoulder. "Have to come back later," he chuckled. The visitor grunted and rode away to join his fellows. "Tm frightened," whispered AbiRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 gail. "What if he thought...." "Let's not become hysterical, Abbie. Even Indians know that people don't give their children away." They stood and watched the riders disappear. "You never know where they go, either," said Warren, thoughtfully. "I was only carrying out orders to be friendly." E went back to work and tried to teplace the heavy wheel on the wagon. Abigail turned up her outer skirt and pinned it around her waist. Together, they tugged and pushed and hammered, but the mended wheel no longer fit the axletree. When he finally gave up and faced her, she knew what he was going to say. "They won't miss us until camping time tonight. We were the last wagon, you may recall. They won't worry because we are always pulling in late. [ll have to get help now, while there's daylight." She darted a look at Paul but said nothing. "Listen, deary," he said tenderly, "you'll be all right. Stay in the wagon with the boy. Say your prayers, but keep the rifle handy. Dalby is fresh and swift. I'll catch up with someone in an hour." Abigail, with Paul in her arms, stood at the front opening of the wagon and watched Warren gallop down the trail the heavy caravan had left. They couldn't see him very long for the dust of Dalby's young hoof beats; after awhile the dust settled, and there was just the gray sweep of plains again and the mountains, like immense shadows, looming in the west. A LADY'S SKIRT The oxen have been traveling by inches, she thought; Dalby will soon reach a wagon or a scout. But every moment dragged like an hour. She kept seeing the Indian's stolid face when she had come close enough to hand him the biscuits. She felt sure that he was on friendly terms with the Mormon immigrants, but Warren's unstudied remark came back to haunt her. She thought, it was Brigham Young himself who said, "Never break your word with an Indian." "You will have to come back later," resounded over and over in her brain like the repeated rumble of muffled thunder. She read to Paul and watched the horizon, her heart fluttering painfully in spite of its passionate prayer. T first, the Indian was merely a clump of sagebrush, only that he moved and was followed by a faint cloud of dust. He was riding in the direction of the wagon. Abigail crouched down on the floor, pulling Paul with her, and watched from under the canvas. "Paul," she said breathlessly, "the Indian is coming back." He gazed at her solemnly. "The Indian is my friend, Mother." It was her own teaching backfiring. "T know, Paul. But he may want to take you away. You wouldn't like that, would you?" "No." But it was not a decided answer and contained little protest. She would have to frighten him. "T don't know why, dear, but Indians like white children. They have even stolen them—for keeps." His small face looked so drawn that she knew it must be reflecting 453 her own tragic expression. She peered through the crack between the canvas and the wood. The Indian was still riding toward them. She reached for the rifle. I know I could pick him off if he comes close, she thought, but she shook and turned faint at the idea. Besides, she remembered how her shots an hour or two ago had brought three tiders from nowhere. Shooting was not the way, she concluded. Where could she hide Paul? As she replaced the rifle, the lace of her skirts clung to a small, roughly finished bench which Warren used to step from the floor of the wagon to the driver's seat. An idea came swiftly. She could scarcely speak but she managed, "No one else in the world loves you as your mother does, Paul. You must do exactly what I say." He was almost ready to cry, but he said bravely, "I will, Mother." She placed the rifle on the floor beside the little bench. On a shelf near it she set the box containing the biscuits and a small chunk of bacon. Then she sat on the bench and took the boy by the shoulders. "Son, I'm going to hide you under my soft skirts. If you don't move, if you don't make a sound, the Indian will go away." She directed him to sit on the floor between her feet, then lifted the petticoats and placed them over him, billowing them around her on the wagon bed. She caught up a ball of knitting. "Sit still, Paul," she whispered, placing her hand for a second on his shoulder. He did not answer. "Do you understand, son?" 454 "Yes." She heard the hoofbeats and felt Paul's little hands clasp her ankles. "O God," she prayed silently, "O God...." She heard no noise but sensed the Indian's presence. In a second she looked up. His beaded head and great red chest were framed in the back opening. < H°w do you do?" Abigail managed. His face expressionless, he looked all around. "IT come for Papoose," he said, jerkily. "Papoose with his own people." He stared at her fiercely. She turned and pointed out at the wagon tracks. He came closer, looking over the driver's seat to examine Dalby's hoofprints. He glanced behind the trunk, opened the lid and looked in. He unfastened a roll of bedding. "Papoose with his own people," she repeated. His swordlike scrutiny cut. She held out the tin box with the food, but he continued to stare at her. "Bread?" she offered. Finally he took it, dropping it into his bag. But his veiled eyes were continuously on her. "Meat?" she asked, proffering the bacon, He took it silently. He looked at the rifle at her feet, and then back to her. But his eyes didn't appear to be directly on her face. She swallowed hard, putting her hand up to her throat. He started to talk rapidly in his own language. It was her necklace he wanted! She unclasped the ornament and held it toward him. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 "Beads?" she asked. He looked pleased. His sprawling features relaxed. He made an inexplicable explanation in his own tongue, swung the necklace in the air with satisfaction, then dropped it in his bag and departed. Evidently she had purchased her husband's promise with a string of glass beads! When Warten returned with two men who understood the mechanics of wagons, Paul poured out the whole story. How frightened his mother had looked, how smothering his hiding place had been, how still he had kept! Abigail was quiet during the recital, but at the close she clasped the boy to her and burst into a torrent of tears. When she could control herself, she looked up at Warren to find that his eyes were also flooded. "Abbie," he said huskily, "you take such stock in pretty things, but the look in your face this minute makes the richest decoration a bauble." When she could speak, she said: "Well, baubles have a place in life." Later, when the sun was low and the cool night air of the desert was beginning to stir, Abigail, resting in the wagon, could hear the clopclop of the men's horses riding ahead, and Dalby, tied to the back of the wagon, crunching his few oats. Warren was urging the oxen forward, while little Paul, tired of 'being cooped in so long, was running beside him. They were still talking about Paul's escape. "Father," he piped, "isn't it a good thing mother wears so many skirts?" Ss Letter from Mother My Dear CuHiLpren: With the warmth of summer around us, we feel a new and altogether delightful atmosphere everywhere. How are your roses coming along? Did you transplant the white roses in the back to the front garden? Just to walk through a rose garden gives me a lift for the day. You know, dears, I had a really good idea yesterday, at least I believe it is. Most people, I find, don't always want great things—they want little things. They like to have someone thoughtful enough of their comfort to move over pleasantly in a public place so that their well-being is considered. A smile and a pleasant word bring instant response. Almost anywhere. The other day when I stopped my car by a Stop sign, a young man with a sort of flashy car waited longer than was needful just so I could have a clear crossing. He smiled as though it had been his mother who was at the wheel of my car. As I passed him I couldn't resist calling, "You'll spoil me!" That set me thinking. We should all spoil each other more. Spoil the other person by giving him something he wants and is not expecting—some kindness and consideration that will warm his heart and make his day happier and fuller. That young man in the car, with his pleasant courtesy, persuaded me that I had probably been wrong about the 'rudeness of drivers. I just didn't consider them as people. Now I wanted to do something nice for other drivers. I wanted to pass the word along that courtesy is not dead, but is very much alive and worthwhile. At school, when I was small, we used to play the simple little game of, "Pass It On." Why shouldn't we pass on our idea of thinking up ways of spoiling people? If our neighbor feels that we have infringed on her privacy and annoyed her by playing the radio or television too loud at night, let us not resent it. Let us play our music softer. Give her what she wants. She will probably bring over some carrots from her garden the next day, she will be so happy. People's wants are usually rather simple. We can afford to spoil them by giving in to their wishes. Our good feeling will mount to the skies and, besides, we will be taking steps to shorten the route we are taking, that of loving the Lord with all our hearts, and our neighbors as ourselves. Well, darlings, be good citizens and love me even if I do talk a lot. God bless you and be with you. Lovingly, MorTHeER. Ciara Horne Park <> Eyes to See Zara Sabin Bee balm and red poppies starring wayside sod; Serried tips of pine trees reaching up to God; Green of hedge and coppice, glow of mpening grain; Gray tinge to a blue sky—hint of summer rain— Beauty all around me, feast for memory, And gratitude within my heart for eyes to see! Page 455 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1893 "FoR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN oF ALL NATIONS" DRESS AND COLOR: The woman of sense need ask no questions in order to always look well dressed, for in this day of such varied fashions there are a few simple tules to follow which, though a woman be poor or rich, old or young, homely or beautiful, she may appear fashionable and well dressed: avoid extremes, select a becoming color or combination of colors; and make your dresses neat.... But surely nowadays woman's dress is becoming much the same everywhere. The uniform, I call it, is this most common but quite taking...-navy blue skirt and blazer with the fresh, pretty shirt waist. —-Camelia WORLD'S FAIR: The ladies of Utah interested in World's Fair work will be pleased to know that Mrs. Emily S. Richards, President of the Territorial Board of Managers, returned recently from Chicago, though her stay at home will probably not be a long one, as the arduous duties of the office require so much that must necessarily be attended to or superintended personally. Mrs. Richards will enjoy the fresh and envigorating mountain air after being stifled up in a crowded city. —Lula TRIBUTE TO JULIA C. HOWE To Heaven's voice you have been true— The youth of Zion pray for you And love you for your sake, You've taught them long and faithfully To ever true and steadfast be— And never God forsake. —L. D. Alder WHO MOTHER GOOSE WAS: Mother Goose's maiden name was Elizabeth Foster. She was born in Charlestown, Massachusetts, in the year 1635, and married Isaac Goose of Boston. She was his second mate and began her maternal life as stepmother to ten children. She added six more to that number... Thomas Fleet listened to her songs as she sat in her arm chair, and printed and sold them.... They are full of practical wisdom. Let us hope a statue will be erected to this memorable old lady's memory. —M. A. T. RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT FROM CACHE STAKE: We have thirty associations in Cache Stake, with an enrollment of about two thousand three hundred and seventy-one. The usual attendance is good in all the wards. We have a band of able, energetic women who are using their time and talent freely for the improvement of the children of Zion, and these children are showing great improvement in their manners, and their morals are not neglected. Our President Sister Jane E. Molen is an indefatigable worker, and under her influence things are sure to prosper. —Mattie Blair Hanson Page 456 A Provo Latter-day Saint, Luella Wakefield (Mrs. Jesse A.) Washburn, seventy-five, is Utah's mother of the year. She has had eleven children, ten of whom are living. With money she earned from school teaching, nursing, midwifery—part of the time in the Uintah Basin—she helped make it possible for her husband to win his Bachelor's degree, and later, his Master's degree, and aided her ten children to go to college. Eight of them have degrees. The Washburn children have made excellent records in their chosen fields. MMA HOWARD (Mrs. William Henry) CORBRIDGE Layton, Utah, died April 24, at the age of 100. N Sweden, Nils P. Jonsson, 102, died in April, leaving a widow, Bothilda, 103, after seventy-seven years of marriage. Neither has ever _ been outside the tiny village of Asmundtorp. | ie als COCHRAN (Mrs. Floyd B. Odlum), recently became the first woman to fly through the sonic barrier and surpass the speed of sound. Racing around a 100-kilometer closed course near Rogers Dry Lake in the Mojave Desert, Miss Cochran was timed at 652.337 miles per hour. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon HELEN HINCKLEY (Mrs. Ivan Jones), a Utah woman now living in California, in Persia Is My Heart, tells the story of Najmeh Najafii, a young Iranian woman now studying in the United States. Her story, as told to Mrs. Jones, covers a period of less than twenty-five years, in which Najmeh saw great changes in the lives of the women of her country. It is a moving and dramatic narrative, beautifully expressed. WO women leaders from India have been doing some special studying in America. Dr. Kithianda Ganapathy, pediatrician on the staff of Lady Lyall Hospital of Agra (of Taj Mahal fame) has done advanced work in medical care of children, in Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Boston. Miss Chandra Kanta Narain of Delhi, a radio engineer in the government-owned broadcasting system, has studied architectural acoustics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology to learn modern techniques of acoustic equipment of broadcasting studios. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Dr. Frances Flliott, ninety-three; Mrs. Elizabeth Jane Terry Blair, ninety-two; and Mrs. Emily Maiben Robbins, ninety, all of Salt Lake City, Utah. Page 457 OQ- > EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 40 JULY 1953 Vork— lot Drudgery HE regularly scheduled Relief Society program, as recommended by the general board, provides that a work meeting be held one day of each month throughout the year. It is unfortunate that with so many people the word work is synonymous with the word drudgery. Words are peculiarly elastic things. 'They are charged with a variety of meanings. Often a word that may originally have had a special meaning may have that meaning modified and even changed by popular usage. In requiring that man should work to earn his daily bread God surely did not intend to impose a curse of drudgery upon him. Work is a blessing, not only because of the material things procured through it, but because of its wholesome effect upon the mind and body of the worker. But this effect comes only when the work is really enjoyed; and when the worker feels he is accomplishing something worthwhile or that he is contributing something to human welfare. One Relief Society president has suggested that we change the name of "Work Meeting" to "Fun Meeting," as she felt the word "work" suggested something unpleasant to the sisters. This president, perhaps, was not thinking of the vision and wisdom of our Relief Society leaders of the past when they planned Page 458 for and set aside one day out of each month as "Work Meeting." Relief Society was instituted to bring relief and solace to the members of the Church, especially the sisters, and its beginning was in the sewing of clothing for the men working on the Nauvoo Temple. The highest achievements and the most satisfying joys come through work. To make, to create, to produce something necessary or beautiful, lifts the spirit and brings a feeling of joy. Work meeting should be a joy and a pleasure because we are doing good to ourselves and also helping others. If the work of each day is well defined and well planned, it is not drudgery. Work becomes drudgery when we cease to plan for it, or to make it attractive or pleasant. Also, tastes and. Evaluations differ with different people. What is play to one is arduous work to another. Toa certain type of woman a party might be "a hard day's work." Pleasure to one may be the thrill of doing a piece of creative work, while to another it may be the peaceful satisfaction that accompanies an act of compassionate service. The other day a Relief Society ward president made this announcement in a sacrament meeting: "The sisters of this ward have been so loyal during the past Relief Society EDITORIAL. 459 season that we are going to reward sisters of the real joy and value of them. We are not going to hold work meeting—a meeting which, if any work meetings during the comconducted as it should be, will proing summer months." Such an atvide an opportunity for our sisters titude shows a lack of understandto serve, to create, and to develop ing. Of the purpose and the oppor- _ sisterhood. Tunities of the day, and deprives our —V. N. S. No TO THE FIELD Program for the llovember Fast Sunday &vening Meeting HE special program for November will be mailed to Relief Society stake presidents on August ist. We urge stake presidents to distribute these programs to the wards immediately upon receipt of them. The following songs have been selected for use in the program. "One World," by Geoffrey O'Hara, arranged by Harry R. Wilson, No. 106, SSA, 20C per copy. "T Will Thank Thee, O Lord," by Frank L. Moir, SSA, No. 8942, 15¢ per copy. If these songs are not available at your local music store, they may be ordered from one of the following: Daynes Music Company, 45-47 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Beesley Music Company, 70 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Glen Brothers Music Company, 74 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Grrors in Magazine Honor Roll Las Vecas Tuirp Warp, Moapa STAKE; PHOENIX THIRD Warp, PHOENIX STAKE; AND LAMeEsA Warp, SAN DIEGO STAKE. AS Vegas Third Ward, Moapa Stake should have been listed on the Honor Roll as having 48 members, 74 subscriptions, and a percentage of 154; instead of 80 members, 74 subscriptions, and a percentage of 93. This change places the stake as having 110 per cent, instead of 106 per cent. Phoenix Third Ward, Phoenix Stake, should have been listed as having 66 members, 68 subscriptions, and 103 per cent; instead of 104 members, 68 subscriptions, and 65 per cent. This correction places the stake as having 103 per cent, instead of 98 per cent. LaMesa Ward, San Diego Stake, should have been listed as having 59 members, 67 subscriptions, and 114 per cent; instead of 85 members, 67 subscriptions, and 78.8 per cent, as listed in the May Magazine. This correction gives San Diego Stake 79 per cent, instead of 76 per cent. The general board regrets these errors and wishes to express appreciation for the excellent record made by these wards and stakes. LY a ETE TE 4 u i Cod Zi, 1 A a AG = Wy ¢ Oy HLL — —_ il yp (By &arly Candlelight VI. Industry and Manufacturing in a Pioneer Home Bonnie A. Kesler HEN evening shadows fell across the fields and homes, the various problems were weighed by the comforting fireside. It was by early candlelight that so many of the pioneers, Annie and Hyrum among them, summoned _ their courage to solve their difficult problems. It was then, especially, that talents made themselves known and friends and neighbors worked _ together. One outstanding characteristic was resourcefulness. When Hyrum slaughtered his animals, he saw to it that all parts were used: hoofs for glue, bristles for brushes; the unused hair was mixed into plaster to reinforce it. Willows were used for basket Page 460 weaving, potter's clay was taken from the ditch banks and used for earthenware. Straw was used by Annie in making hats; corn husks were used for brooms; and cattails and reeds for weaving. Buffalo horns were used to make combs by sawing the horn lengthwise, and using a fine saw to form the teeth of the comb. Buffalo hides were used for floor and lap coverings. While Annie and her daughters had their varying occupations during the long winter evenings, so did Hyrum and his sons. They made beautiful wooden bowls, spoons, ladles, potato mashers, and other useful items. Meat choppers were made of a single blade, with BY EARLY CANDLELIGHT a handle added, often carved from elk or deer horns. Annie had her own wooden churn. She skimmed the cream and saved it until there was enough to churn, then stored the butter in the cellar, or in a bucket in the well, or in the shade by the running stream. A few men knew how to make molasses from home-grown sugar cane. Little Jane, Annie's third child, was pleased when she could carry homemade bread and butter spread with molasses to school in her lunch can. She was proud of her lunch can, and had watched and waited. When her daddy's axle grease can was finally: empty of grease, she had asked for it, washed it well, and used it for her lunch Ca. Annie saw to it that her household was always well supplied with candles. When their supply would get low, she would place her candlemold on end so that the small end, or top of the candle, hung down. Out of holes in the tips of the candle mold she would hang the wick or string about one half inch. As the mold was resting on its top, the wicks on the bottom (which was up) were tied to small strips of wood lying across the holes, through which the melted tallow was care- 461 fully poured to fill the individual spaces for candles. After the tallow was cool and solid, the strips of wood were removed and saved for the next time. The mold was dipped into hot water, and the candles slipped out, ready for use. If ever there was not time to make candles, Annie poured a little tallow into the frog dish and then would put either candle wicking or a cotton rag about one inch into the tallow, before it set, and light the rag or wick. It would burn until the tallow was all gone, perhaps for several hours. Another source of light was the "coil all" lamp, which burned coaloil or kerosene. By turning the knob on the side, the wick could be raised or lowered, making a dimmer or brighter light. It was a weekly chore for one of Annie's family to wash the smoke from the glass chimneys, making them sparkle and shine again. A rather rough candle was made by dipping a string into melted tallow, then allowing it to dry, then dipping again and cooling it, until the desired size was reached. Annie's family started the day by dipping water from the creek or well for culinary purposes. They used iron and brass kettles which had served them since Nauvoo. BUTTER PRINT 462 KEROSENE LAMP Some neighbors used wooden buckets of their own making. When Annie or a daughter was about to do the family wash, and the supply of soap was running low, then it was time to make a batch of soap from the grease which Annie had saved. If there was not enough grease, she would use rinds of pork after the lard was rendered out for kitchen use. She first sprinkled lye over the rinds, then added a little water and stirred until the lye dissolved the rinds, then a little more water was added and the mixture was boiled until of the right consistency for soap, a syrup of the consistency of honey. She tested a sample in plain water. When a spoonful, set aside, became congealed and nearly white, the kettle was removed from the fire and the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 soap was carefully poured into tubs to cool. Part of the mixture was perfumed with mint, or other herbs, to be used for hand soap. After setting over night, the soap was congealed, then it was cut into bars and set in rows to dry before being stored for use. There was little "store" lye, so lye was made by putting wood ashes from the fire into a hopper or barrel outside, then sprinkling water over the ashes. After repeated skimming and stirrings, the waste ashes settled down to the bottom and the clear lye water was ready for use. Annie also used the lye water as a water softener and to scrub the floors and tables. It was quite hard on her hands because it was so harsh, but a little grease rubbed into the skin helped to soften it. In the early 1860's, Hyrum took his family to the city to do some trading at Zion's Co-operative Mercantile Institution. The children CHURN AND DASHER BY EARLY CANDLELIGHT saw metal nails for the first time, in some discarded crates, and were allowed to fill their pockets. What precious things they could make with real nails! They counted every one and were excited beyond words to be gathering up these things they had heard about, but had never seen before. Brigham Young advised his people to produce everything they consumed. Since it was against their principles to get into debt, they did not indulge in umnnecessaries or luxuries. Hyrum's family had two shoe lasts—a small one for the children's shoes and a large one, hand-carved from wood. He re-soled and mend- _ed them as long as possible. He made the children's shoes from the tops of worn-out boots. Soles were nailed to the uppers by the use of hardwood pegs made from scrub oak. One method the girls used in polishing the shoes, or at least blackening them, was to rub them with soot. It did a pretty good job. 463 Hyrum was amused one day when walking to Church with a friend who told him he was _ embartassed by his daughters for they _ had blackened his shoes for a special Sunday session. He had gone out in the road and rubbed dust onto his shoes so he would not look fancy! Hyrum and his sons learned to tan hides in vats by the use of lime and water. They mashed red pine bark for use as a coloring agent, using several additions and changes of bark until the hides were dark in color, then rubbed them with oil or bear grease until they were soft and pliable. Although it was the best they could do, the tanning was not thorough, and when the leather became wet it shrank out of shape, and became hard and wrinkled when dry. The activities in Annie's and Hyrum's home were so varied that it became a private manufacturing center, and the family was selfreliant and efficient. Grandmother s Album Amy Viau The album on the oval stand In Grandmother's parlor, was very grand, With plush-faced cover and clasp of gold, To a little girl but five years old. And Grandmother said the pictures within The album were mostly of "our kin"— But more than "our kin," they looked to me Like strangers dressed for company. Except my picture, in which I'd smiled. And looked just like an "our kin" child. And when I told Grandmother this She gave my cheek a little kiss. My Grandmother handled the album with care While we looked at it from the rocking chair; And when she closed it with clasp in place, She let me feel its smooth plush face. LIZZIE McARTHUR, ST. GEORGE, UTAH Hobbies Keep Her Young and Happy IZZIE McARTHUR, seventy-nine, is working on a new hobby which she began three years ago—ceramics and china painting. She models and decorates exquisite figurines, book ends, and novelty designs and paints and decorates vases, plates, clocks, cups and saucers, candy and Page 464 cosmetic boxes, and many beautiful wall plaques. Her floral designs on these pieces are most carefully formed and beautifully tinted in raised petal arrangements. Mrs. McArthur has been a skilful and gifted artisan since early girlhood. She began to sew at the age of fifteen and was noted in her community as a tailoress before the age of twenty-five. She supported herself and two children by following this profession while her husband fulfilled a mission. She is an expert quilter and is adept at all types of needlework, making embroidery designs, applique, crochet work, hooked rugs, and many other kinds of decorative household articles. She enjoys textile painting and has also done some excellent work in oil painting. While assisting her husband in operating a bakery, Mrs. McArthur learned the art of cake decorating and is skilled in this exacting art, having made hundreds of birthday and wedding cakes. She is the mother of six children, nineteen grandchildren, and fifteen great-greatgrandchildren. She is still active in Relief Society work, serving as a visiting teacher, in which capacity she has acted for more than fifty years. The Fried Shirt Mary C. Martineau | Siam TUTTLE just would not wear his fried shirt to the ward sociable—no matter what his wife Fsther said. She felt baffled, for pioneer men nearly always bent to the will of their wives in the matter of shirts and wore fried shirts on special occasions. But John would not. He hated his fried shirt, and when Esther firmly got it ready for him to wear to the ward sociable, he simply rebelled, saying, "Esther, you've overstepped your bounds this time. I'd rather not go than put it on." Now you have heard of work shirts, sports shirts, dress shirts, and stuffed shirts; but do you really know what a "fried shirt" was? Well, it was a white shirt whose bosom, neckband, and cuffs had been starched twice (once with cooked starch and once with cold starch) and then ironed by a determined pioneer woman wielding a big, black, sizzling hot flatiron until bosom, neckband, and cuffs took on an appearance of snowy, shiny elegance, and the stiffness of a suit of armor without the bending joints. The collar for a fried shirt was separate. After being treated in the same manner as the shirt, it lay out stiff and straight until brought under control by collar buttons, a back one and a front one. The back button was the shorter, because it only had to reach through the holes in the neckband and collar, thus forming a connecting link between a man's back and his neck. The front button was longer, because it had to reach through both ends of the neckband and both ends of the collar in front, where it served as a sort of "king bolt" for the whole arrangement. Esther told John he was contrary, and she always did have to make him put on his nice things. She also said that some men, not so nice looking as he, or in such a high position, put on their fried shirts gladly. John replied it was all they had to do, but that he'd rather stay home than wear his! Of course, he couldn't stay home from meeting, for attending one's meetings and hearing the sermon preached on a Sunday, and then practicing what he heard the other six days of the week was what had brought him the reason to come to Utah. So, he always bowed to Esther's will on Sundays. But, he simply would not wear his fried shirt to the sociable. They had two enlarged pictures hanging on the wall, one of Esther's father and one of John's father, both fine looking men! But, although each wore a full beard, Esther always imagined that everybody who looked at her father's picture noticed at a glance that he didn't wear a collar. It was a source of grief to Esther—but a joy to John now he was feeling contrary about the party. When Esther had had her father's picture enlarged the photographer had promised that he would add a collar and cravat, but Page 465 466 he hadn't. So Brother Johnson always looked down from the wall, minus a collar. John, however, took license from the picture now and then, and in this instance, said he'd wear his light shirt and no other to the party. "If my light shirt is good enough to wear to town and to step into the bank in, it's good enough to wear to the party, and I'll not stir a step out of this house if you bring out that confounded fried shirt." Esther answered, "All right, then, | I'll wear my second-best dress!"' 'Wear it, you always look good." STHER knew that she was beaten, and it was with a heavy heart that she went to put the children to bed the night of the ward sociable. After hearing their prayers, tucking the quilts in around them, and kissing them goodnight, she carried the lamp into her own room. She set it down on the high side of the dresser and proceeded to get out her second-best dress. She'd show John for being so mean -about such a little thing as a shirt! Carefully she slipped the dress out of the top of her chest and spread it out on her white bedspread. It was a black brocaded cashmere and looked as somber as she felt. She had pressed her best dress in the afternoon. It was hanging demurely over the back of a straight chair to keep the wrinkles out. She tried not to look at it, but she could see it with her back turned, so to speak. It was of a deep maroon color, with a tight bodice and a gored skirt trimmed around the bottom with a narrow band of fur. Try as she would, she could not get herself to put on the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 black one. She didn't want to look second-best tonight. When she heard the sleighbells jingle outside, she knew John had the team harnessed to the bobsleigh and was fastening the bells on the horses. Before she knew it she had slipped into the maroon dress, because—well, just because she did, and she was standing before the looking glass arranging her hair when John came in to dress. She was always a glorious mystery to him, and now he paused to see which was prettier, her slender form from the back, with her dark hair combed high and the side combs he'd given her tucked in, or the face in the mirror, with its slight pallor contrasting with her shining dark eyes and the shade of her dress. For a moment he weakened about wearing his fried shirt for her. Silent argument was almost too much for him. There lay the shirt in all its glory on the bed beside her second-best dress But he weakened for only a moment or two. Who can say whether it was something about the _bed's seeming the best place for it, or whether he suddenly remembered his desire not to be fenced in? To Esther's sorrow, when he was dressed in his best suit and shining gaiter shoes, he had on his light shirt, with its soft collar. But, still, he did look handsome! John felt guilty, for Esther was quiet when they got into the sleigh. She wouldn't sit down on the quilts and keep warm. She sat up on the side of the box beside him so as not to crush her dress. Her fascinator was over her head and looped around her neck, and her coat was buttoned up closely. The snow THE FRIED SHIRT squeaked with cold under the horses' feet as they started up the road to the meetinghouse. The fog was rolling up from the river, but the sleigh bells on the horses' backs tang out merrily as they trotted along. S soon as they entered the meetinghouse they took off their wraps and went straight to work. The long tables were being set with food, and more food was being carried in. When all was in readiness, John Tuttle, as presiding elder, sat at the head of the table with his wife Esther Tuttle beside him. John's counselors and their wives sat next, then more brothers and sisters, until all the company were seated, except a few young ladies and young men who were to wait on the tables. The dinner began with John asking the blessing on the food. Just before he began all eyes were turned upon him; then all heads were bowed rather quickly. Elvirey Cash just couldn't resist peeking up again, and she nudged Josiah (who hadn't looked down yet—he just couldn't believe his own eyes— John's shirt!). As soon as Amen was said he whispered to Elvirey, "If I'd known that the presiding elder would wear a comfortable shirt, I'd have put mine on." After the feast was over, the benches were pushed back against 467 the wall, and the dancing began. Before long everyone was so warm that fried shirt bosoms and collars were melting on every side, for the floor was rather rough in spite of the wax that had been shaved off on it. Dancing was exercise as well as fun. Not everyone had gaiters on, like John Tuttle did, either. It was Jim Tuttle, John's brother, who finally broke over the traces. He pulled his tie and collar off completely, and, looking knowingly at John, laid them on the table beside the lamp. Dell Perkins followed Jim's example; then came Joe Dally, who took his collar off— followed by the rest of the laughing crowd of men. As the fiddler struck up the tune, they led their partners onto the floor for the Virginia reel. Esther and John danced to the center from the first corners and bowed to each other. "Smarty," whispered Esther. "Coming in style," murmured John teasingly, and they danced back again. As they danced to the center again and swung, John asked, "Aren't you glad I started the fashion?" "No," she answered, but she was radiant, and she smiled. Then John's heart was as light as his feet. Using his fanciest steps (and he knew some fancy ones), he danced down the center with her to form the arch. > Acknowledgment Alice Whitson Norton As I grow older, year by year, More clearly do I see— Man's measure of success depends On what he wills to be. SPEEDY CHOW SPAGHETTI Courtesy National Cotton Council 1 8-ounce package thin spaghetti SAUCE 3 quarts boiling water "% cup margarine 1 tablespoon salt % cup flour 1 2%-ounce jar dried beef 1 cup liquid from mushrooms, peas, corn 1 3%-ounce can mushrooms 1 tall can evaporated milk 1 8-ounce can kernel corn "2 teaspoon salt 1 §8-ounce can peas % teaspoon pepper Cook spaghetti in boiling water with 1 tablespoon salt until tender, about 10 minutes. Drain and rinse with hot water. Return to pan. Tear or cut dried beef into bits. Add to spaghetti. In small saucepan melt margarine. Add flour, stirring smooth. Gradually add vegetable liquids. (There should be 1 cup. If not, add water to make 1 cup.) Stir constantly. Add undiluted evaporated milk. Cook, stirring constantly until thickened. Add mushrooms, corn, and peas, reserving a few for garnishing, if desired. Add salt and pepper. Taste to make sure this is enough salt. Pour sauce over spaghetti in pan. Toss all together lightly. Heat thoroughly and serve on hot butter. If preferred, the spaghetti mixture may be poured into a well-greased baking dish, sprinkled with grated or shredded cheese, and baked in a moderate oven (350° F.). This method will take about 30 minutes. (makes 6 servings) Page 468. Children s Clothes Winona S. Jensen LIEILE ladies as well as big ones like to have that "just right" look in clothes. Here are some hints that may prove helpful in acquiring that look, especially if you are one of the smart mothers who have the joy of making their children's clothes. It is well to decide upon the style you wish before you buy the material. The basic patterns are princess, straight skirt, or flared skirt;. And, for sleeves, set-in ones, or kimono. It pays to buy materials carefully. Always buy cottons that are fast color. Many cottons today are preshrunk. Should you choose one which is not, buy two or three extra inches per yard and shrink the material yourself before cutting. To shrink, fold the material to avoid wrinkles, thoroughly soak it in cold water for several hours, squeeze the water out (do not wring) and hang on a Clothes line until almost dry, then press on the wrong side. Silks and rayons do not need to be shrunk, but should be pressed to remove creases before cutting. Materials with a slick finish, such as chintz, glazed or highly mercerized, stay clean longer. Materials, both in yard goods and in finished dresses, labeled "non crush" or "crush resistant" are very practical. Materials requiring extra Care are those that crush easily, such as chambray and handkerchief linen. Do not overlook the possibility of taffetas. They are as cheap, or cheaper, than some cottons and come in beautiful plaids and stripes. The darker ones can be used for school skirts and they hold up remarkably well. Velveteens and corduroys are sturdy, preferably for use as jumpers or skirts, so that they can be worn with various weight sweaters or blouses, depending on the temperature. Permanent starch in material for girls' dresses is very convenient to use and makes a lasting finish. In making children's skirts, avoid the skirt that is either completely circular (cut in one piece) or cut in only two pieces (front and back). Use a pattern with four pieces (two front and two back). The reason for this is that all the pieces are then cut in the same direction, and the hems will remain straight, whereas, on the others, the skirt very soon will hang unevenly, due to the drop in the bias-cut portion. Washable, flared skirts are easier to iron than gathered ones. At a certain age, girls want skirts without straps. If the waistband is not quite tight, the skirt will droop, and if it is tight, it will be too tight after each meal. The best solution is to have the band fit loosely and then put an inch or two of elastic through it in the middle of the back. 'This method solves the problem in a very satisfactory way. In making a skirt, it is easy to put a pocket in the placket opening. This gives the child a pocket, saves a zipper, and is easy to fasten. When a hem is let down and shows the former hemline, you may Page 469 470 either make a small tuck there or cover the line with rickrack, lace, binding, or whatever the dress is trimmed in. Or else you may wind some heavy crochet mercerized cotton on the bobbin, set the machine at its longest stitch and stitch over the line on the wrong side of the material. 'This results in a nice saddle stitch effect on the right side. F you are making a dress with a skirt cut on the straight of the goods, it is well to buy about onefourth yard extra material. Then if you need to lengthen the dress, four inches may be added to the front and the back at the bottom of the skirt and the seam may be covered with trimming. Most children wear their party dresses over a longer period of time than they do their school dresses. As a result, the waist usually becomes too high. If you are making a party dress, allow an extra inch or two in the length of the waist and let it drop down inside the skirt when sewing the skirt onto the blouse. Pre-teens, at present, like RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 nylon net or a glittery nylon material for party dresses. Their desire for this glamor may be satisfied with inexpensive tulle or other fluffy material which may be made into a very full skirt and worn over an older party dress. A velvet ribbon waist band for the tulle skirt makes it even more dressy. It is a good plan to avoid sewing a white trim on a dark dress. Make the white collars and cuffs removable. A nice linen or pique bow, which can be pinned at the neck, adds a light touch to a dark dress and is easily removed for laundering. Also, white plastic buttons brighten a dress and will not get as dirty as a white, unremovable collar will. White lace trim does not seem to soil as quickly as a material trim. In buying trimming for dresses, occasionally look in the upholstery department. Some fringes of this type are excellent for velveteens, and other materials which are to be sent to the cleaners. It is safer not to use upholstery trimmings on wash dresses, without first testing them. Summer Lullabye Dorothy J. Roberts You were never less than a miracle to me. Before I heard your new cry thread the corridor My mind had burst its anesthesia-bolted door To laugh and leap at birth's titanic ecstasy. A hunger raced its chemical through every vein, The longing for your minute hands' fragility, For petal-fingers, curled and pink, to be Entwined around my own hands' wanting once again. You were always miracle—when darkness kept Your night cry treasure for my mother ear alone, And the sweet triangle of your features and the tone Of your soft, quick baby breathing when at last you slept. You are wonder to me now—brief, brown curls that nest— Dark lashes, two butterflies, folded at my breast. From The Field Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES 3 Puatggmaph submitted by Eva R. Ellison LETHBRIDGE STAKE (CANADA) BOOK OF MORMON READING PROJECT Seated, at left: Jessie R. Ursenbach, who prepared the art work for the project; seated, at right: Gertrude F. Jensen, former President, Lethbridge Stake Relief Society. Standing, left to right: Ellice LeBaron; Eva R. Ellison; Phyllis Miller; Leah Pankhurst; Eleanor Matkin; Clara Smith; Emily Anderson; Hilda P. Russell; Gertrude Webster; Grace Buchan. Sister Eva R. Ellison reports that the Lethbridge Stake Relief Society '"'accelerated their Book of Mormon reading project by presenting in each ward a demonstration, part of which was the unrolling of a scroll representing the Stick of Joseph and the Stick of Judah. A painting of the Hill Cumorah, the Angel Moroni, and the Prophet Joseph Smith brought to mind the coming forth of the Book of Mormon in this dispensation. Stacks of books represented Books of Mormon to be read in our stake—one for each sister, and they were grouped according to ward membership. Members were urged to read the reading course as set forth by the general board, and, as a stake project, to read the complete book, or re-read it in 1952. As a sister read the complete book her name was inscribed on one of the books in her ward group." Amelia P. Johansen is the new president of Lethbridge Stake Relief Society. Page 471 472 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 ie So aE ae Swe gn 2 es Photograph submitted by. Eldredge BOUNTIFUL STAKE (UTAH), BOUNTIFUL SECOND WARD, TWELVE RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY March 17, 1953 Front row, seated, left to right: Eva Collings; Mary Nelson; Ella Williams; Emma Riley; May Burns. Back row, standing, left to right: Ella Smith; Marilla Sessions; Clara Mason; Viola Zwahlen; Zelma Duffin; Mabel Goodfellow; Thelma Gibson, present President, Bountiful Second Ward Relief Society. Of the thirteen presidents of this ward Relief Society, twelve are still living and attended the social honoring them. The ward was organized in 1909, with Isabell Stringham (now deceased) as president. Leila G. Eldredge is president of Bountiful Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Elaine B. Curtis COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, March 15, 1953 Seated at the right of the piano, left to right: Elaine B. Curtis, President, Cottonwood Stake Relief Society; Iola J. Peterson, chorister; Irene C. Lloyd, First Counselor. Seated at the piano: pianist Bessie Jensen; at the organ, organist Louise S. Fox. There are one hundred Singing Mothers in this photograph. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 473 Photograph submitted: by I. Williams GRANTSVILLE STAKE (UTAH) PAST AND PRESENT STAKE AND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT SOCIAL, March 17, 1952 Front row, left to right: Carrie Wrathall, Stake Relief Society President 1939-46; Maggie Anderson, Stake Relief Society President 1920-30, now deceased; Annie Williams, present Stake Relief Society President; Francis Hunter, Second Ward President, 1936-43. Back row, left to right: Glenna Millward, Second Ward Relief Society President, 1951-52; Lillian Barrus, Second Ward Relief Society President, 1949-51; Ruth Rydalch, First Ward President, 1941; Vinnie Anderson, Second Ward President, 1932-36; Dot Millward, Second Ward Relief Society President, 1925-32. Under general direction of Mildred Broadbent, the program was arranged by Lucille B. Hammond and Louise R. Arbon. Photograph submitted by Mabel M. Nalder CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISSION, GOLDSBORO DISTRICT, FAYETTEVILLE (NORTH CAROLINA) RELIEF SOCIETY Photograph taken at the Relief Society Bazaar, December 1952 Left to right: Reva Hansen; Peggy Terry; Second Counselor Carol Moseley; First Counselor Vellys Nelson; Margery Evans; Pat Terryl; Eunice Knecht; President Brentice Belche; Jean Gustavison; Secretary Mary Southerland; Fayetteville Branch President Leonard Southerland. Hallie Bell Erwin is president of the Goldsboro District Relief Society, and Mabel M. Nalder is president of the Central Atlantic States Mission Relief Society, 474 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 Photograph submitted by Ruby W. Nielsen BEAR RIVER STAKE (UTAH), GARLAND FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR Standing, left to right: President Merle Linford; Counselors La Vern Brough and Lucille King. Leatha Michaelis, work meeting leader, was unable to be present when this photograph was taken. This unusually successful bazaar was outstanding in the great variety and quality of articles displayed. Particularly beautiful were the quilts and the colorful aprons in both practical and fancy designs. Photograph submitted by Ida S. Hendrickson SNOWFLAKE STAKE (ARIZONA), JOSEPH CITY WARD OFFICERS AND VISITING TEACHERS, October 7, 1952 President Alice S. Hansen stands in the back row, at the left. Sister Hansen has served continuously as a Relief Society officer for twenty-five years, except for a period of two years, during illness. She has served as secretary, counselor, and president in her ward Relief Society. Clara H. Miller, Second Counselor, is seated in the front row, third from the left; First Counselor Esther Fuller (face hidden) stands in the back row, second from the right; Secretary Belle Tanner stands in the back row at the right. ' Ida S. Hendrickson, retiring Stake Relief Society President, reports, with much NOTES FROM THE FIELD 475 appreciation, the efforts of the sisters of the Joseph City Ward: "These visiting teachers are faithfully carrying on the traditions of the Joseph City Relief Society—lioo per cent visiting teaching. Indeed, this ward is noted for long and faithful service. Since 1877 there have been only eight ward Relief Society presidents. Adele B. Westover served for twenty-four years. During the last twenty-five years the only time that visiting teaching has not been reported as 100 per cent was one time when the visits had actually been made, but the report came in late." Jessie S. Baldwin is the new president of Snowflake Stake Relief Society. A sobmitted by Ida L. Allen YOUNG STAKE (NEW MEXICO), RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN PRESENT "LAMANITE SONG OF THANKS" AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY March 17, 1953 Left to right: Lucy G. Bloomfield, composer of the "Lamanite Song of Thanks," and President of the Mancos Creek group; Gene Jack; Daisy Golbe, missionary; Opal Jack; Sister Woody, a Navajo; Sister Nish, missionary; Katherine Cleveland; Sister Clak; Grace Benally; Nadine Millet; Estelle W. Thomas, President of the Shiprock group; Grace Herring; Gertrude Jim. Three of the women whose faces cannot be seen are: Flora Butler; Julia Hill; Adelaide Bond. Altogether in the photograph, there are nine Navajo sisters and eight white sisters. The Navajo sisters are from San Juan, Shiprock, and Mancos Creek. During the program, Sister Bloomfield made the following announcement: "Before we sing the "Lamanite Song of Thanks," I would like to tell you a little story. Sister Mary Jumbo of Toadlena, New Mexico, said she planted a red rosebush by her house, and when it blossomed she gathered a bouquet, but it did not look very well, being just red roses. So she planted a white rosebush, and when they both blossomed she gathered a bouquet of both red and white roses into one bunch, and it was beautiful. I am happy to present to our President (Ida L. Allen, President, Young Stake Relief Society) this basket of red and white roses, a symbol of the bouquet of red and white sisters who will now sing. But before we sing, may I present to you the youngest member of the Relief Society, Lilika Honahni, four years old (the child seen at the right of the organ), who has sewed on fifty-seven quilts at Mancos Creek, and many at Shiprock." 476 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 ' tens, a7 Photograph submitted by Eva C. Taylor EASTERN STATES MISSION, YORK (PENNSYLVANIA) BRANCH BAZAAR AND DOLL EXHIBIT October 31 and November 1, 1952 An outstanding feature of this unique bazaar was an exhibit of dolls, which included the collection of Velma McKay Paul (more than 700 dolls), as well as six other collections. Dollhouse furnishings of several periods were shown and also beautiful specimens of doll furniture and antique carriages. Ceramics, hand-woven articles, wood carvings, water color paintings, and Christmas decorations were sold at the bazaar. The illustration shows the china-headed dolls made by Mrs. Paul, copied from antique dolls in her collection. Officers of the York Branch Relief Society are: President Sylvia E. Palsgrove; First Counselor Anna May Strayer; Second Counselor N. Hazel Matthews; Secretary-Treasurer Fae L. Anstine. Eva C. Taylor is president of the Eastern States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Emily S. Romish WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), POCATELLO TENTH WARD PRESENTS EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM ON MEXICO AND THE LAMANITE PEOPLE Seated at the left: Gladys Merrill; seated at the mght: Lucille Hancock. Front row, standing, left to right: Stella Wright; Evelyn Thornock; Jennie Robbins, First Counselor; Mary Hedin, President; Alta Young, Second Counselor; Lucy Wardle; Edna Toombs.: Back row, standing, left to right: Jane Cox; Beth Freeman; Rosella Talbot; Connie Jensen; Margaret Babcock; Verdene Gibbons; Alice Olson; Bessie Johansen; Idalia Huff. The purpose of this program was to present some interesting highlights and background of The Book of Mormon, with pictures of the ruins in Old Mexico. Mexican love songs, a short travelogue, and a display of Mexican handwork added to the interest of the occasion. Seventy-one women enjoyed the program and dinner. Emily S. Romish is president of West Pocatello Stake Relief Society. Housewife $ Song Genevieve Groen Work-a-day blues were not meant for me; I catch the lilt of a moming bird's spree. The white of my neighbor's wash on the line Is a joyous reminder to hurry with mine. On days when the cleaning and shopping are done, I sit with my boy in the noonday sun. He finds all the bugs and brings them to me— That I don't enjoy them is easy to see. From Monday's yard filled with clean-smelling clothes, Till Sunday's meeting in polished church rows, Let me live a life of well-metered rhyme, And break not one spoke in my wheel of time. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 477 LESSON, a NIB pPaRrMENt Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 17—Jacob and His Teachings Elder Leland H. Monson > (Text: The Book of Mormon: The Book of Jacob) For Tuesday, October 6, 1953 Objective: To gain an appreciation of the teachings of Jacob. PRIOR to his death, Nephi anoint- 'ed a king over the people. Because of the devotion of the people to Nephi, they named succeeding kings after him, Second Nephi, Third Nephi, and so forth. Those who were friendly to Nephi and his cause were called Nephites; and those who sought to destroy the people of Nephi were called Lamanites. For a clear understanding of Book of Mormon history, we ought to remember always that the Lamanites are not necessarily descendants of Laman and Lemuel, and that the Nephites are not always descendants of Nephi and other righteous progenitors. The people who accepted and lived the gospel were Nephites; those who rejected this course of action were Lamanites. (See Jacob 1:14.) Nephi not only stabilized political affairs in his kingdom before his death, but he also took definite action regarding the engraving and preserving of the small plates of Nephi. He handed them to his Page 478 brother Jacob, many of whose teachings were given in lesson 16. He was ordained a priest and a teacher to the people, and was instructed by Nephi to engrave on this record a few of the things he considered most precious — their preaching which was sacred, their great revelations and prophecies. Jacob wrote that they had the spirit of prophecy, and that they had received many revelations, resulting in their knowing of Christ and his kingdom which should come. Jacob and others labored diligently to persuade their people to accept this message and to live in accordance with it. Like their brother, Nephi, Jacob and Joseph had faith in the coming of Christ, and took upon themselves the responsibility, answering the sins of the people upon their own heads if they did not teach them the word of God with all diligence. Jacob was a great teacher. He taught the Nephites the words of his father, Lehi, and the scriptures LESSON DEPARTMENT on the brass plates. His brother Nephi had consecrated him, and Nephi himself tells us that Jacob saw the Redeemer even as Nephi saw him (2 Nephi 11:2-3). Jacob Calls People to Repentance During the reign of the second king, many men began to "indulge themselves somewhat in wicked practices, such as like unto David of old desiring many wives and concubines, and also Solomon, his son" (Jacob 1:15). They also searched greedily for gold and silver and developed a spirit of haughtiness and pride. Jacob knew that these. Sins would bring about the moral deterioration of his people. Having first obtained his errand from the Lord, Jacob was told to go to the temple and give the people the word of God. Jacob was constrained because of the strict commandment he had received from God, to call the men to repentance and admonish them in the presence of their wives and children. He told the audience that he felt reluctant to do so, for he knew the feelings of many of the wives and children were tender, chaste, and delicate before God, and "instead of feasting upon the pleasing word of God have daggers placed to pierce their souls and wound their delicate minds" (Jacob 2:9). On Obtaining Riches Jacob declared:... Many of you have begun to search for gold, and for silver, and for all manner of precious ores.... And the hand of providence hath smiled upon you most pleasingly, that you have obtained many riches; and because some of you have ob- 479 tained more abundantly than that of your brethren ye are lifted up in the pride of your hearts, and wear stiff necks and high heads because of the costliness of your apparel, and persecute your brethren because ye suppose that ye are better than they (Jacob 2:12-13). That the wealthy might understand fully their responsibility with their riches, Jacob said: Think of your brethren like unto yourselves, and be familiar with all and free with your substance, that they may be tich like unto you (Jacob 2:17). Jacob did not discourage the acquisition of wealth. It was the love of money for itself, with no intent to use it for the benefit of others that Jacob condemned. He knew that ill-gotten gain, and wealth hoarded as an end in itself, canker the souls of men. Jacob did more, however, than criticize base means of acquiring wealth and base ends in its use. He offered a positive program: But before ye seek for riches, seek ye for the kingdom of God. And after ye have obtained a hope in Christ ye shall obtain riches, if ye seek them; and ye will seek them for the intent to do good— to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the afflicted (Jacob 2:18-19). On Pride Jacob's discussion of pride was closely articulated with his discussion of wealth, for he felt that the pride of the Nephites was a result of their affluence. Directing his remarks specifically to those who had afflicted their neighbors, and persecuted them because of their own pride, Jacob submitted a rhetorical question, "Do ye not suppose that such things are abominable unto 480 him who created all flesh?" (Jacob 2:21). He then called their attention to the fact that one being is as precious in the sight of God as another. On Chastity After chiding his hearers for their improper use of wealth and for their pride,, Jacob remonstrated with them concerning a greater sin: For behold, thus saith the Lord: This people begin to wax in iniquity; they understand not the scriptures, for they seek to excuse themselves in committing whoredoms, because of the things which were written concerning David, and Solomon his son (Jacob 2:23). He then told the people that the Lord had led Lehi and his followers from Jerusalem for the purpose of raising up unto himself a righteous branch from the fruit of the loins of Joseph. For this reason, Jacob pointed out, God would not suffer that this people should do like unto them of old. He gave them a command from the Lord: For there shall not any man among you have save it be one wife; and concubines he shall have none; For I, the Lord God, delight in the chastity of women. And whoredoms are an abomination before me (Jacob 2:27-28). These commandments had been given to Lehi, and the people had known them before. (See Jacob 2:34.) Jacob recorded the following: For if I will, saith the Lord of Hosts, raise up seed unto me, I will command my people; otherwise they shall hearken unto these things (Jacob 2:30). Jacob declared that the Nephites had committed greater iniquities than the Lamanites, and that God RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 would use them as a scourge against the Nephites, except they repented. He urged his people not to revile the Lamanites, because of the darkness of their skins or their filthiness, but to remember their own filthiness. Jacob then told his people why the Lamanites would not be destroyed but the Lord would be merciful unto them and one day they would become a blessed people: Behold, the Lamanites your brethren, whom ye hate because of their filthiness and the cursing which hath come upon their skins, are more righteous than you; for they have not forgotten the commandment of the Lord, which was given unto our fathers—that they should have save it were one wife, and concubines they should have none, and there should not be whoredoms committed among them. And now, this commandment they observe to keep; wherefore, because of this observance, in keeping this commandment, the Lord God will not destroy them, but will be merciful unto them; and one day they shall become a blessed people (Jacob 3:5-6). Zenos' Allegory of Tame and Wild Olive Tree After warning his people against fornication and lasciviousness, Jacob asked a pertinent question concerning the Jews, and then answered it. "How is it possible that these [the Jews], after having rejected the sure foundation [the Christ], can ever build upon it, that it may become the head of their corner?" (Jacob pe In answering this question, Jacob retold from Zenos the allegory of the tame and the wild olive tree. The tame tree and its fruit were preserved by means of grafting wild LESSON DEPARTMENT branches onto the tame tree, and of grafting tender branches onto wild trees. Ultimately, the tame branches were grafted into the mother tree, the tame tree, and the fruit thereof was good. By grafting, and by burning and destroying the bad branches, the Lord of the vineyard preserved that which was good. Like unto the Lord of the vineyard, Jacob told his people, the Lord of heaven will set his hand a last time to recover the tribes of Israel, thus answering the question he had asked concerning the Jews, a part of the house of Israel. Calling his people to repentance, Jacob asked: After ye have been nourished by the good word of God all the day long, will ye bring forth evil fruit, that ye must be hewn down and cast into the fire? (Jacob 6:7). Sherem Jacob relates, near the end of his book, the story of Sherem a man who was an anti-Christ. Because of the facility with which he could use the language, Sherem flattered the people, and persuaded many that Christ would not come. Feeling that he could convince Jacob, Sherem presented his arguments directly to him and even accused Jacob of blasphemy. Jacob, filled with the Spirit of the Lord, confounded Sherem in all his words. Finally, Sherem demanded, "Show me a sign by this power of the Holy Ghost in the which ye know so much." Jacob answered: What am I that I should tempt God to show unto thee a sign in the thing which thou knowest to be true?... Nevertheless, not my will be done; but if 481 God shall smite thee, let that be a sign unto thee that he has power, both in heaven and in earth; and also, that Christ shall come (Jacob 7:14). The power of God came upon Sherem and he fell to the earth. After many days, Sherem, from a sick bed, called the people together and denied the things he had taught the people and "confessed the Christ, and the power of the Holy Ghost, and the ministering of angels," and then Sherem died. "Peace and the love of God was restored again among the people; and they searched the scriptures, and hearkened no more to the words of this wicked man" (Jacob 7:23). Jacob sought to have the gospel taken to the Lamanites, but they delighted in war and bloodshed and had an eternal hatred for the Nephites. Instead of taking the gospel to them, the Nephites found it necessary to fortify themselves in order to avoid invasion. Jacob Entrusts Records to Enos Almost at the conclusion of his book, Jacob records: I have wnitten according to the best of my knowledge, by saying that the time passed away with us, and also our lives passed away like as it were unto us a dream, we being a lonesome and a solemn people, wanderers, cast out from Jerusalem, born in tribulation, in a wilderness, and hated of our brethren, which caused wars and contentions; wherefore, we did mourn out our days (Jacob 7:26). When Jacob saw that he must soon go down to his grave, he gave the small plates to his son Enos and told him the things which his brother Nephi had commanded him in telation to them and Enos promised to obey the commandments. 482 Like Paul the apostle and like Joseph Smith, Jacob was loyally devoted to the cause of Christ. He gave with great energy and ability a full measure of devotion to God. From the beginning of his career to the end, he encouraged his people to apply gospel principles to their lives and to reap a reward of peace and tranquility of soul. Yet, despite all this, he lived to see his people "mourn out" their days. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 Suggested Readings Smith, Joseph F.: Gospel Doctrine, The Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City, Utah, 1920, pp. 386-388. Questions for Discussion 1. Why are we encouraged to seek first the kingdom of God, and then riches? 2. What premium does Jacob place on chastity? 3. Is pride one of the besetting sins of our Civilization? 4. What is your impression of Jacob? Ussiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 17—"But Before Ye Seek for Riches, Seek Ye for the Kingdom of God" (Jacob 2:18) Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, October 6, 1953 Objective: To point out that the pursuit of riches should be secondary to seeking the kingdom of God. IFE is made up of an endless "_ series of choices and decisions. To make the decisions wisely, we must first seek the kingdom of God (the Church). It is extremely important to have the strength of character to make decisions in harmony with the kingdom of God. Such decisions will keep us constantly moving in the night direction. As mothers we have a sacred obligation not only to see that our own lives conform to the right pattern, but to give careful direction and guidance to our children. A young father who was asked to be assistant scoutmaster in his ward, answered, "I'm sorry, but if I am ever going to get ahead financially, I will have to concentrate on it now. Until my business is running along smoothly, I just won't have time to devote to anything else. Perhaps later." 'Twenty years later he died, still having taken no part in building up the kingdom of God. Many young people attending college decide that in order to do justice to their studies, they must temporarily give up all Church activity. 'They point out that after their schooling is completed, and they are launched on their careers, then they will resume their religious activities. However, service in the Church cannot be put off at will, as we might a cloak. It is not something to resume after seemingly more pressing matters are finished. LESSON DEPARTMENT Wrong habits may be formed in less time than it takes to complete a college. Course. Another way of life may, by then, have become deep seated. We do not know how long we may be here on earth to prove our good intentions. Those who keep the commandments of God as they continue with their studies, are indeed wise. The quotation, as given above, from The Book of Mormon continues: After ye have obtained a hope in Christ ye shall obtain riches, if ye seek them; and ye will seek them for the intent to do good—to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the afflicted (Jacob 2:19). There are many who have acquired riches, who have also kept the kingdom of God foremost in their lives. To seek riches is good as long as that ambition is secondary in one's life, and if the riches are sought with the intent to do good. Brigham Young said: 483 Wealth brings happiness only when used for the gospel—All the real business we have on hand is to promote our teligion.... Men and women who are trying to make themselves happy in the possession of wealth or power will miss it, for nothing short of the gospel of the Son of God can make the inhabitants of the earth happy, and prepare them to enjoy heaven here and hereafter.... The question will not arise with the Lord, nor with the messengers of the Almighty, how much wealth a man has got but how has he come by his wealth and what will he do with it (Discourses of Brigham Young, Pp. 313-315, 1946 edition). President David O. McKay has said: The true aim of life is seeking spiritual development, rather than seeking after wealth and worldly things. The Lord will truly bless us if we seek his kingdom above all else. We will then be at peace with the world and ourselves. The Doctrine and Covenants points out "He that hath eternal life is rich" (D. & C. 11:7). WVork Tleeting—Family Money Management (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 1—Children's Spending Rhea H. Gardner (For Tuesday, October 13, 1953) PARENTS desire happiness for their children. If it could be handed to them in a packet, especially at the time in life when children leave the protective influence of home and parents, it would be comparatively easy. Some parents have thought they were doing this when they have given them money, however, money can bolster or block happiness. It bolsters by buying necessities and making it possible for some of our fondest wishes to come true. It blocks the flow of happiness when it causes worry, envy, and greed. An important rea- 484 son for teaching children the value of money is to help them see it in its true perspective in their lives. They need help in learning what money cannot buy as well as what it can buy. To teach children to use money so that it will bolster their own happiness as well as that of others, is a major responsibility of parenthood. Most of the seeds that result in an erroneous attitude toward money are sown in the early years of life and are closely associated with children's early experiences in handling money. Attitudes toward money are developed when parents give children a small amount of money to handle in the form of a regular allowance. Child guidance teachers agree that a child should be given an allowance as soon as he shows a persistent need for money. Spending money properly is an important part of his nurture, just as certain food elements are. When the need of an allowance comes in the development of your child, talk the matter of it over with him. Decide on a plan for giving him an allowance, even though the amount is only a few cents a week. It is important that children understand that the allowance is a share in the family income. For it they may be expected to share in responsibilities about the home, farm, or other place of business, and to take part in matters of concern to the entire family, depending upon the size of the allowance. Before giving your child an allowance be sure he understands: 1. How much money is going to be received and when. 2. What items it must cover. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 3. What his responsibility will be in spending the money. Giving children money as a result of begging and coaxing, throws away an excellent educational opportunity. Instead of learning to plan and spend wisely on an allowance, children learn to associate cajolery and even subterfuge with the whole matter. There are usually mistakes made by children in the early stages of handling money. Trial and error are necessary in all kinds of learning. Taking consequences of extravace at six or seven, however, ls likely to be less costly than making mistakes ten or twelve years later. A child will not spend money as would an adult, but before calling a purchase "foolish," be sure you are not judging by your own standards, but by your child's. As long as he spends only the money given in an allowance, let him have freedom to choose how it will be spent, even though it may mean making mistakes and having regrets. The privilege of having some money to spend as one wishes, helps to satisfy a real need children have for independence. If the amount of the allowance has been matched to the age and abilities of the child, and if he understands that when it is gone there will be no more until next pay day, there will likely be few mistakes made by him. Most children need much understanding help before they learn how to use their money to get both the things they need and the things they want. Frequent and friendly discussions at home and guidance in making decisions when a purchase is about to be made, will help in the LESSON DEPARTMENT development of sound judgment and the right sense of value. This is also a very opportune time to teach the principle of tithing to your children. Help them to understand from the very beginning that onetenth belongs to their Heavenly Father. Some parents feel that they have done their duty when they have succeeded in teaching their children to save part of their income. There is no doubt of the virtue in teaching a child to save, but saving money for its own sake is not the best policy. Children should understand what they are saving for. Saving, then, is regarded as planned spending, and is a very worthwhile practice. The six, seven, or eight-year-old can only be expected to save for goals he can reach in a few weeks. After all, that is a long while to him, for he lives in the present and likes to see tesults soon. Children need to learn to spend as well as to save. Both are educational, but wise spending is harder to learn and harder to teach than is saving. Children who have learned to think straight about spending and saving have a better chance for happiness all through life. As they grow older, children should be frankly told the limits of 485 family expenditures and consulted when a choice has to be made. Let them help decide what the family income should buy and what could best be postponed. They may be asked to help decide whether mother or father should have a new coat, or if they should get a new bicycle, if there is only enough money for one. To learn early the value and profitable use of money is one of the greatest securities for future contentment and an indispensable spur to individual initiative and ambition. When a child is allowed to handle his own earnings, count his dollars, and decide what he can and cannot do with them, and have a part in deciding for what the family income should be spent, he is well on the way toward a realization of values, monetary and otherwise, that are essential for complete maturity and happiness in living. He automatically learns to think of the needs of others, as well as of himself, when he has money to spend. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How does the use of the family income directly influence the atmosphere within the home? 2. How does the manner in which children obtain and use their income influence their behavior and character? Song to May A cam Grace Savte Never to speak the name that to me is dearest Or tell the dream of you in my heart, that is nearest; Never to acquiesce that one and one Can keep the hungry heart from being lonely, Never to speak of these, these lovely things, But hold to remembered happiness, lest it take wings, Never... And yet the sound of your dear name Can surge through my heart and burst into flame. ee Literature of England Lesson 33—The Maturing Tennyson (1809-1892) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 593-654) For Tuesday, October 20, 1953 Objective: To relate Tennyson's early poetry to the growing man living in a com. Plex period of conflict and change. 'T' seems imperative to begin a ' study of Victorian literature with Tennyson. He was the most popular poet in England for almost fifty years and he most nearly gave expression to the thought and feeling of his contemporaries. In an age when the prestige of organized religion was on the wane, Tennyson deliberately and sincerely prepared himself to become poetprophet to the English people. By thus giving the Victorians what they wanted, Tennyson was overwhelmingly lionized by his age; he received a constant stream of gifts, while curiosity seekers at his estate used any subterfuge to hear his musical voice or procure an autograph. A devout pilgrimage of nobility, high society, and the dominant minds came to his parlor, there to hear the master himself read from his writings, particularly from his favorite, "Maud." And what the Victorians most desperately wanted, with doubt so painful and belief so hard to maintain, was a representative voice proclaiming certainty and acceptably compromising the devastating conflicts of the times. In his maturity that voice was Tennyson's. But before he could "arrive," he himself 486 had much growing and changing, doubting and affirming to do. And like many Englishmen, Tennyson spent his life attempting to resolve various conflicts which arose during his youth, with varying degrees of success. Events of Tennyson's Life The skeleton events of his life can be presented in a paragraph (see text, pp. 593-596). Born in 1809, Tennyson was reared in the country in a literary, ministerial home. He wrote his first poetry at five. He failed to graduate from Cambridge, but was deeply influenced by The Apostles, a group of student intellectuals, particularly by his dearest friend Arthur Hallam, whose premature death in 1833 was the great wound in Tennyson's entire life. In 1832, Tennyson ventured to share his inmost self with the world by publishing his poems. To this aspiring, sensitive youth the result was staggering. The reviewers pounced fiercely upon his poems for their feeble thought and over-rich mood, while the reading public not only scorned his affected style, they began laughing at him! Tennyson was brokenhearted, and published LESSON DEPARTMENT nothing for ten years. Not long afterward he thought he could detect that his eyes were failing. In 1837 he and the family for which he was now responsible were turned out of Somersby Rectory where he was born. At about the same time he became engaged to Emily Sellwood, but being a poor man and an unsuccessful poet, he could not think of marriage. Apparently, in desperation, he sold all his worldly goods and invested all his money, along with some funds from his family, in a Patent Decorative Carving Company, which left Tennyson destitute when it failed. For six months he was so ill that his family despaired of his life. Both financially and emotionally he was saved by a government pension of two hundred pounds. The tide turned when, in 1842, he published a volume containing "Locksley Hall," "Ulysses," "Break, Break, Break.'' He soon had a wide reading public who recognized his great technical skill, rich imagination, and moral loftiness. In 1850 his engagement of thirteen years ended in a happy marriage to Emily Sellwood; he published his greatest work "In Memoriam," and he was appointed poet laureate. Tennyson was acknowledged as the leading poet of England, with Carlyle, Dickens, Elizabeth Barrett, 'Thackeray, and Browning among his friends. In 1869 he built a home, Aldworth in Surrey, where he lived in seclusion until his death in 1892. Almost yearly he made a tour to some spot in Europe, and, in 1884, while touring the Scandinavian countries with his friend Gladstone, he cancelled two earlier refusals and 487 A Perry Picture Copyright 1930 ALFRED TENNYSON (1809-1892) accepted a peerage, "for the sake of literature." He voted twice in the House of Lords, but never spoke. After 1850 he wrote constantly, the output of his last twenty years of life being tremendous, and of excellent quality. At sixty he began learning Hebrew, preparing to write a poetic version of Job; at sixty-three he scaled a high mountain, and at eighty he waltzed vigorously. He was busy writing until the end. After a tremendous public funeral, signifying nation-wide mourning, he was buried in Westminster Abbey. Tennyson's Temperament In relating the three central poets of the time to each other, Tennyson stands between Robert Browning, who ignored the contemporary 488 world and turned to past ages to create rich characterization, and Matthew Arnold, who saw in contemporary England cause for stoic resignation. 'Tennyson completely lacked Browning's vibrant optimism, nor did he, with Arnold, despair of hope in traditional English values. But from his earliest years his characteristic mood was one of solemn melancholy and depression. In these moments of loneliness he doubted his poetic ability, his place in the actual world about him, and the final destiny of his soul. These misgivings seem to have dominated his inner life until, after seventeen years, he published "In Memoriam," in 1850, which expressed his problems-and solutions in poetic form. "In Memoriam" will be studied in our next lesson. At present, let us concern ourselves with the developing Tennyson previous to its publication. The Great Transition One might well wonder why Tennyson was laughed at in 1832, yet widely acclaimed in 1842. In this decade, which had changed: Tennyson's poetry, or the tastes of the reading public? Really, both. During the 1830's there was a great slump in the prestige of poetry, much the same as we have today. The public reacted to the excesses of romanticism: the wild passionate outbursts of Byron, Keats' exclusive concern with sensuous beauty, Shelley's musical rhythms. Now the public wanted poetry to give them noble precept and moral truths which would sustain them in their grapplings with change and doubt. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 Naturally the young Tennyson, whose true poetic genius lay in his lyrics and in his musical, descriptive powers, was dominated by Byron and Keats in his earlier writings. It was 'The Apostles at Cambridge who first pointed out to him that he could no longer live by beauty alone; that poetry should teach moral and spiritual truths which would fill the need of common men. When Tennyson finally saw the truth of this observation, and, to the less excessive beauty and music of his new poetry he added moral teachings and exemplary heroic figures, his success was assured. But in giving himself more to representing the Victorian values, he came to exclude his exquisite lyrical powers from his poetry. This is to be regretted, since to our generation Tennyson, the poet, speaks to us most truly and purely in his few lyrics lifted from larger, now discarded works. Poems of 1832 From the publication of his first poems to the present day, Tennyson's rare skill at creating mood and melody has been recognized as one of his virtues and, more often in our day, as one of his disquieting weaknesses. In his lyrics particularly, and to an extent in Idylls of the King, this gift is more controlled, but in "The Lady of Shalot," and "The Palace of Art," almost every stanza is so smothered in dazzling, sensuous imagery, over-sweetened with rhyme and alliteration, that it is difficult to free oneself from its spell and actually read the poem without being constantly derailed. For. Example, LESSON DEPARTMENT The gemmy bridle glittered free, Like to some branch of stars we see Hung in the golden Galaxy. * e* e * X All in the blue unclouded weather Thick-jeweled shone the saddle-leather, The helmet and the helmet-feather Burned like one burning flame together As he rode down to Camelot.... (text, page 598) The air of eerie mystery and the sentimental treatment of death further tend to make "The Lady of Shalot" a mood-piece, and of slight substance. It was this contrived artificiality which repelled, and which repels, those readers who fee] smothered by it. A stanza from "Oenone" (e no ne) contains writing both good and bad: O mother Ida, many-fountained Ida, Dear mother Ida, harken ere I die. For now the noonday quiet holds the hill; The grasshopper is silent in the grass; The lizard, with his shadow on the stone, Rests like a shadow, and the winds are dead. The purple flower droops, the golden bee Is lily-cradled; I alone awake. My eyes are full of tears, my heart of love, My heart is breaking, and my eyes are dim, And I am all aweary of my life. (text, page 600) The first two lines, repeated in substance nineteen times in the poem, now seem sentimental and posed, as do the last three lines, with their love and world weariness. "The golden bee is lily-cradled" is over-refined. But in the middle lines of the stanza 'Tennyson has skillfully caught the barren langour of noonday, particularly in The lizard, with his shadow on the stone, Rests like a shadow, and the winds are dead. 489 Because in "The Lotus-Eaters" (page 608) Tennyson has so happily married a rich, languorous mood to similar substance (particularly in the first stanza of "Choric Song'), it achieves a successful artistic unity, and therefore is too famous to merit extended comment. Poems of 1842 In direct contrast to "The LotusEaters" is Tennyson's "Ulysses" (page 612), also on a classical theme. Just as the first poem shows the romantic influence, so "Ulysses" mirrors Tennyson's new values of moral strength, direction, and belief in progress. 'This poem is a lofty, sustained statement of a great man who, having "suffered greatly" in his wanderings still expects to fulfill his desire To follow knowledge like a sinking star, Beyond the utmost bound of human thought. Ee ee * To sail beyond the sunset... Until I die. (text, page 612, line 31 ff.) The final lines contain the belief in self, the hope, and the unflinching resolution which the Victorians so urgently desired to hear. Though spoken by classical Ulysses, these words apply directly to Tennyson's England: Though much is taken, much abides; and though We are not now that strength which in old days Moved earth and heaven, that which we are, we are— One equal temper of heroic hearts, Made weak by time and fate, but strong in will To strive, to see, to find, and not to yield. (text, page 613, lines 65-70) 490 The two "Locksley Hall" poems, written forty-four years apart, neatly, hastily catalogue the Victorian mind. The aspirations are not truly lofty; the condemnations seem expected rather than irresistible convictions sprung from a mature soul. The first poem tells of a woman's "duty" to man (lines 50 ff.), mildly condemns financial greed and international dissension (lines 105-106), then dreams of inevitable progress with a wealth of air-commerce, eternal peace, and the federation of the world. The present, Tennyson finds unsatisfying, despite his conviction that "through the ages one increasing purpose runs" (line 136). He proposes romantic escape to a tropical isle, there to rear a dusky race free of all social restraint, law, and books. But suddenly realizing the irresponsibility of his attitude, he cries: Not in vain the distance beacons. Forward, forward let us range, Let the great world spin forever down the ringing grooves of change. Through the shadow of the globe we sweep into the younger day; Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of Cathay. (text, page 618, lines 181-184) The second poem expresses disbelief in endless Truth, Goodness, Progress (lines 71-78), the Church (83ff.), Democracy (go, 114), Freedom (128), modern fiction (141 ff.), Science (163), an ideal, warless world (164 ff.), Evolution as cureall (199), and social justice (218 ff.) However, in contrast to the evils and unfulfilled promises, the highest in man is still divine; therefore RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 Follow Light, and do the Right—for man can half-control his doom... Forward... Love will conquer at the last. (text, page 626, lines 277 ff.) Even in this statement of the ideal, man only "half-controls" his doom, and his conquest by love is presented most sketchily. 'The reader is left unconvinced, nor is he at all sure that 'Tennyson was convinced either. Lyrics from "The Princess" The immortal glory of 'Tennyson is to be experienced in his occasional lyrics. Here is "pure" poetry, effortlessly, magically done. Nothing intrudes; nothing is lacking. If there is lyrical perfection in our language, surely it is exemplified in "Sweet and Low," "Tears, Idle Tears," and "Now Sleeps the Crimson Petal." Here form, image, substance and tone are blended into one exquisite oneness. What better note for ending the lesson than to tread to the group your favorites or have class members recite their favorite quotations? Suggestions to Class Leaders The singing of "Sweet and Low," "Crossing the Bar," or other of Tennyson's poems which have been set to music would enrich the class period. Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss Tennyson as a_ transitional poet; as a Victorian. 2. Who were The Apostles? What was their influence on Tennyson? 3- What do you find in Tennyson of enduring value? Social Science—The Constitution of the United States Lesson 1—Man's Struggle for Freedom Elder Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, October 27, 1953 Objective: To show that the struggle for liberty and freedom began even before man's earth life, and that freedom and liberty are essential to man's progress. OD said to Moses in ancient times, "This is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:39). The plan to accomplish this noble purpose was conceived and agreed upon long before the Lord spoke these divine words to Moses. In order to achieve the purpose, it was first ordained that the spirit children of God should come upon an earth to be created and prepared for them, and take 'upon themselves a mortal life. An earth life, therefore, was an essential requirement of the plan. Another requirement was that man should achieve the condition of immortality and eternal life by free and willing obedience to the commandments of God. Free Agency Indispensable to Progress God, in his infinite wisdom, knew that free agency was indispensable to the progress of man on the road to the realization of his high destiny. It was decreed in the beginning that no man should be brought back into the presence of God by force. Satan's proposal to save all men, whether or not they would be saved, was rejected. A first great battle for freedom was fought in that pre-existent state. Satan's punishment for attempting to enslave the human soul and retain the honor and glory of the Father for himself, was banishment from the presence of God and the denial of any participation in an earth life. This punishment meted out to Satan and all his followers was terrible and devastating in its consequences. Is it not, therefore, apparent, that one of the most serious crimes in the sight of God is to deny man his free agency or to destroy such free agency? It must necessarily follow that if freedom is of such vast importance to mankind, then God himself is interested in the institutions of freedom. He tells us in plain and unmistakable language in the Doctrine and Covenants that it is his will that men shall be free to choose for themselves, wherein he said, "Therefore, it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another" (D. & C. 101:79). One might have supposed that when the great issue over free agency was decided by the great struggle or war in heaven, that this issue would have been settled for all time. Such, however, was not to be the case. On the contrary, Satan was cast out of heaven and came Page 49] 492 to earth to tempt men, and the alternatives of good and evil were decreed to be placed before the children of men. Therefore, it should not be surprising that perhaps the most diabolical efforts of Satan have been directed toward the enslavement of mankind. Slavery and dictatorship are weapons of evil. Inherent Desire for Freedom While all memory of the preexistence is blotted out of man's consciousness at birth, it is, of course, only natural that man brought with him into his earth life a personality formed and molded in that other sphere. One of the instinctive and inherent attributes of man accompanying him into this life is a desire for individual freedom and liberty. This desire has found expression in the ceaseless struggle that has gone on, since the beginning, by men to attain that happy condition. By and _ large, only a relatively few have ever enjoyed this great blessing. The history of man is replete with the story of slavery and serfdom, oppression and tyranny. It is a sad story of unhappiness and_ frustration. On earth, this struggle began at least as early as Nimrod, who, some say, caused the great tower to be built and required all men to serve him. We are told that he had a kingdom (Genesis 10). Since that time countless millions have lived and died and have never known anything but oppression. Wickedness Brings Enslavement Since individual freedom and agency is God's plan, and notwithRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 standing this fact, so many have never enjoyed its blessings, it is only natural to inquire the reason why so many men have been forced to live and die without it. In the beginning with Father Adam the children of men were free and there. Were no tyrants. It seems that the answer to this query lies in the wickedness that crept in among the people. We are told that in the days of Noah this wickedness became such that God repented the creation of men and caused al! Mankind to be destroyed except Noah and his family. Noah, like Adam before him, thus became the father of the human family. It is, therefore through wickedness and evil that men lose liberty, that Satan is enabled to raise up tyrants and oppressors to torment men and to enslave them. The struggle for freedom seems to be inextricably connected with a struggle to overcome evil. Freedom Difficult to Regain Once gone, freedom is very difficult to regain. Witness the plight of the children of Israel in Egypt, the many captivities suffered by Israel and the Jews, and the long struggles which went on to regain the precious God-given state of freedom. In each case enslavement followed wickedness and a refusal to follow the teachings of God. The struggle of men for freedom not only went on in very ancient times, it also continued on into the centuries immediately preceding and following the birth of Christ. Likewise, it goes on today. Speaking of our own times, we in our own generation have witnessed the rise of perhaps the most corrupt and LESSON DEPARTMENT wicked dictatorships of all time. Surely, after what we have been compelled to experience and see in our own day, we are in no position to point with superior scorn at the tyrannies of the past. We see this very day millions of our fellow human beings denied the most fundamental, basic rights of liberty. We see perpetrated j in the name of the State excesses in oppression which beggar all description. Righteousness, Safeguard of Free Agency As has heretofore been pointed out, enslavement and dictatorship follow evil. The reverse is likewise true that the best safeguard of liberty and free agency is righteous living. If this be so, then, of course, prudence requires that all who would be free and who would pass the blessings of liberty on to unborn generations should take great care to live worthily. The Constitution, Bulwark of Liberty Another way to safeguard liberty is to gain a proper appreciation and understanding of the institutions which insure liberty. For this reason, an understanding of the Constitution of the United States is important and worthwhile. In the lessons to follow we shall concern ourselves in some detail with a study of this great charter of liberty. We shall explore the background of the Constitution, that is to say, some of the fundamental facts of history which led up to it. The efforts made before its creation by the Founding Fathers to fashion a way to govern Americans are most important in understanding how it all 493 L. D. S. RECORDS and ALBUMS MM861—THE MORMON TABERNACLE CHOIR, Volume 1, four 12" records................--..--+-'$6 29 O My Father; Come, Come Ye Saints; Abide With Me; Guide Us, O Thou Great Jehovah; Praise to the Lord; Faith of Our Fathers; The Lord's Prayer; O Worshi the King; A Mighty Fortress; QO God, Our Help in Ages Past; Now Thank We All Our God; Lift Thine Eyes. ML2077—Same as above on 1 long-playing record MM899—THE MORMON TABERNACLE CHOIR, Volume 11, four 12' records.............-..00-000 6.29 $4.00 Let the 'Mountains Shout for Joy; Now the Day is Over; Jesu, Work of God Incarnate; Haill Bright Abode from ''Tannhauser"'; Achieved is the Glorious Work from 'The Creation'; Hear My Supplication; Out of the Silence Rise Up! Arise! From "St. Paul'' Hallelujah Chorus from "Mt. Of Olives.' ML2098—Same as above on 1 long-playing record $4 Jessie Evans Smith, ye and the Tabernacle Choir, " King of Glory" and "Behold 'Tis Eventide." 12" record..............-..0c000----$1.31 Jessie Evans Smith, soloist, with M. I. A. Youth Chorus, "Angelic Choir" and Jessie Evans Smith, soloist, "That Sweet Story of Old." 10" record Jessie Evans Smith, soloist, 'They Found Him in the Temple," and Leonard Friendly, organ, "Valse Amelia. "412" record................$1.58 Luacine Clark Fox, narrator, 'Story of Nephi." Two 12" records $3.75 Jessie Evans Smith, soloist, '1 Walked in God's Garden," and Leonard Friendly, organ, "Outside the Doors of Heaven." 12" recor: $1.58 tomas MAIL THIS COUPON -=———=—— As the Post Office will no longer insure records unless they are of an unbreakable | material, we must, therefore, have this authorization signed stating you will assume | full responsibility if the records are broken | or damaged in shipment. Add oP to ee | Single LP, 50c for regular | Album, add 25c for first single 78 RPM Record and 10c for each additional 78 | RPM record. In Utah add 2% to above | prices for State Sales Tax. | l | | | | | | $1.16 ee for 8 RMP Record Name...0000.....-.2eeeecceeee DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send me the records | have checked above. ( ) Cash ( ) Charge ( )C. O. D. Ee ee Da FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH au te Co, MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH 494 came about.. The concepts of liberty and justice which this document contains, its place in world history, and the influence which it has had upon the nations of the earth are essential to a proper appreciation of the Constitution—the greatest bulwark of freedom ever written by man. In short, one of the chief obligations of citizenship is to know and understand the Constitution in order to defend it better from attack by those who would destroy it and the precious liberties which it protects. Now is the time to be vigilant, to be armed with knowledge, and to wage a campaign to protect and safeguard it. It is no myth that there are those abroad in the land who would subvert and destroy the Constitution. This struggle has been too well pub- "Wa 1 ae | ee Preserve Your Relief Society Magazines For Reference Have your Relief Society Magazines bound into permanent yearly volumes. They are excellent for reference. Cost is small. Write or phone today for information. Deseret News Press 31 RICHARDS ST. Gd, Salt Lake City, Utah 4-2581 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1953 licized for any to be ignorant of its existence. Let us resolve to do our part that liberty and justice shall continue to exist in this land, and that this land of liberty may be a beacon to buoy up and sustain the hopes of the oppressed the whole world over. References Benson, Ezra Tarr: "Preservation of Our Blessings of Freedom,'' The Relief Society Magazine, February '1950, pp. 75-82. McKay, Davin O.: "Freedom _ of Choice," The Relief Society Magazine, July 1944, Pp. 355-359- Romney, Marion G.: "Decisions and Free Agency," The Relief Society Magazine, September 1952, pp. 572-578. Smit, JosepH Fie. Pinc: The Progress of Man, pp. 14-17. Questions for Discussion 1. What is the earliest record of man's struggle for freedom? 2. Why is God concerned with the institutions of freedom? 3. In what way do men lose freedom? 4. Why is it important to have an understanding of the Constitution of the United States? Pioneers Enola Chamberlin In memory they ride by night The trails which brought them West; Ride in single file or goad Oxen two abreast. Still, while dark is on the land, Still, while stars are burning, On the narrow, new-cut tracks Wagon wheels are turning. They who led the westward tide In their "Promised Land" abide. Bouquet Catherine B. Bowles God gave these tiny blossoms To brighten up the way, And with them may his blessing Strengthen you today. May comfort, peace, and happiness Be found in petals rare, And health be yours, my children, Is a mother's constant prayer. _ Release from Fear Eunice J. Miles They watched While drought and heat Destroyed their sustenance, Until their hope and faith could do No more. Then they heard The crying gulls Wide-circling barren fields, And thanked the Lord for quick release From fear. THE HISTORIC TRAIN Leaves Salt Lake City JULY 31ST FOR THE GREAT PAGEANT at the Hill Cumorah as well as Denver, INDEPENDENCE, NAUVOO, CARTHAGE, Chicago, Cleveland, KIRTLAND TEMPLE, Niagara Falls, Palmyra, SHARON, VERMONT, Boston, New York, Washington, and MOUNT VERNON, etc. For complete details write or phone... VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Telephone 4-2017 IMPORTANT ARCHAEOLOGICAL DISCOVERY! An ancient portrayal of Lehi's vision of the Tree of Life. (Shows all the features described in the Book of Mormon — the Tree, Lehi, the rod of iron, etc.! ) Order BULLETIN OF THE UNIVERSITY ARCHAEOLOGICAL SOCIETY, No. 4 (Dept. Of Archaeology, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. Price $1.00) The popularity of an Electric Clothes Dryer is skyrocketing! _ Be Thrifty -Use Electricity UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Page 495 From lear and Sar I have been delightfully impressed with the articles "Adventure in Glass" (series of eight articles published in 1952 and 1953, by Alberta H. Christensen). For many years I have been interested in old glass and am so pleased with the information given in these articles. It may interest you to know that I have one "Jewel and Teardrop" sauce dish (as pictured on page 113 of the May Magazine, 1952). I truly enjoy the Magazine and feel it is a "must" in my home. —Ruth J. Kuhre Cottonwood, Utah I wish to express my appreciation for the excellent work of Ramona W. Cannon. Her article "The Coronation of a Beloved Queen" is well written and gives much authentic information. I always enjoy the ""Woman's Sphere" page. In fact, I turn to this page first, and appreciate the wise selection of items. —Ann P. Nibley Salt Lake City, Utah Early this year my Relief Society Magazine failed to arrive when I expected it, so I was afraid it had come one day while I was not at home. I began to do some investigating, but found that the Magazine was just a little late that month. I do like and enjoy every part of the Magazine, and it has been an inspiration to me many times. I like all the stories, but "The Family Reunion" (by Yvonne Child Hiss) in the March Magazine, is my favorite. My daughters and all of us enjoyed that story. I hope some time to see all of my seven daughters anxious to have the Magazine in their homes. —Gladys B. Thomas Pasadena, California I cannot tell you how much I love the Magazine. I especially enjoy the poetry. The literature lessons this past year have been very inspiring as well as educational, as have all the other lessons. —Mary A. Hackney Kuna, Idaho Page 496 I want to express my appreciation for the splendid article "The Coronation of a Beloved Queen," (by Ramona W. Cannon, May 1953). The article is very comprehensive and, above all, so true. I particularly enjoyed it because my birthplace was England, and my early life was spent there, my education was received in the English schools, and it was there that the gospel found me. —Esther L. Warburton Evanston, Wyoming The May Magazine has just arrived, and I find it very attractive. Ramona Cannon's article, "The Coronation of a Beloved Queen," is exceptionally fine. —Blanche Kendall McKey Salt Lake City, Utah The serial story "A Time to Forget" (by Fay Tarlock, concluded in June 1953) is an excellent story of high literary quality and polish—a credit to any Magazine. This story exemplifies professional craftsmanship of a high order. —Christie Lund Coles Provo, Utah In the course of my mission here in the land of England, I have had the opportunity to come into contact with the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. A number of articles which have appeared have helped us in our work over here. The Magazine and my contact with Relief Society here in the mission have increased my love for the work Relief Society is doing in helping to teach our beautiful gospel. ' —Elder James L. Kimball, Jr. Brighton, Sussex, England I cannot tell you how much joy and happiness I continue to receive from the Magazine. This is my thirty-seventh year in Relief Society, and I appreciate all the Magazine has done for me. The lessons are enjoyed here, too. —Geraldine S. Johnson Stockholm, Sweden leet eater; Ih Mastraieg p—~ ENS i - julian Broz; 4 Cesk: ROTI HS Sy,, "THLE costetvetsetotoctoctectoctoctsets LITERATURE OF ENGLAND STUDY COURSE FOR 1953-54 1. LITERATURE OF ENGLAND, II— Woods, Watt, Anderson A comprehensive survey of English authors and their writings. Lesson course book again for 753. (25¢ postage) $5.00 2. DAVID COPPERFIELD—Charles Dickens Dickens at his greatest in this tale of an orphaned boy who grows to manhood through adversity. Modern Library. (10c postage) $1.25 3. CHRISTMAS CAROL—Charles Dickens The ageless story of Scrooge, Bob Crachit and Tiny Tim... Illustrating the Christmas Spirit as a pattern for living. Collector's edition. (10e postage) $1.00 4. JANE EYRE—Charlotte Bronte A strangely beautiful love story brushed by the haunting and the unexpected. Modern Library. (10c postage) $1.25 has = Fe 6UPSere lDOOR LC 4 ~ G pie -- Saif Lake CITY, Utan -~. Vpeae Se—sss ee Osha a ' oi, vite Ssh be 3 | a \ Please send me the following circled books: This Sunday—/\ | ze 3 ot s | for which | enclose check ( ) or money order ( ) 4g let S$ a Rt for §.; = a a Abe Nae ne ceeceec nsec nennnnnnnnteeessccoveereesnaaereeenaee! Go to A en a; PMCS a... 200i ecsscsesssssesn secs cece ee sene cscs seeessneesecnnssnsnenies, SENS City. ~~ - 2 church ity y 1 « Residents of Utah add 2% agate: S 'a ee ee ee ee el ee oe YES INDEED! HIS BENEFICIAL | LIFE POLICY WILL MAKE SURE |OF THAT HAPPY DAY FOR THIS © BRIGHT - EYED YOUNG MAN.. | LET YOUR BENEFICIAL LIFE UNDERWRITER HELP YOU PLAN FOR THE EDUCATIONAL NEEDS OF YOUR CHILDREN. OVER QUARTER BILLION OF LIFE INSURANCE IN FORCE INSURANCE (>, c COMPANY David 0. McKay, Pres. — =. Salt Lake City, Utab Western INlidsummer Landscape Katherine F. Larsen Great hills to the west, And the heat waves shimmer, Pungent with sage In the burning summer.... Under dry bald rocks In the dark, in the cool, Scorpions lie curled; A hawk's scream hurled Sends a gopher back to his hole.... Brittle devil-grass rasps In the fitful wind, And the Indian paintbrush Flares on the hill; Where chokecherries darken Two rattlesnakes lurk, Then slowly slide home Down a boulder's crack. On coyote feet Comes the western night, Devil-grass silvers over A scurrying mouse; Far on silent wings A horned owl glides Giving back the moon From his set, round eyes. The Cover: The Solitudes of Monument Valley Photograph by Wayne Davis This vast and lonely wilderness stretches northward from Kayenta, Arizona, towards the canyons of the San Juan and Colorado Rivers, crossing the Arizona-Utah line near the famous "Four Corners" (Colorado, New Mexico, Utah, Arizona) landmark. Frontispiece: The Colorado River Gorge, Near Dead Horse Point, Utah, La Sal Mountains in the background. Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen Srom lear and Far The frontispiece of the December Magazine ("Christ Blessing a Child') still leaves its imprint on my mind. Could you give me some information about it? Would it be possible to obtain a large reproduction suitable for framing? I have enjoyed the Magazine for many years. As a child, it was always in our home, and after I was married I main- © tained my own subscription. As_ the mother of five active youngsters, the Magazine has helped me many times with the problems of rearing a Latter-day Saint family. —Mrs. Vern R. Thomas Richfield, Idaho Information regarding this picture "Christ Blessing a Child" may be obtained from Camera Clix, 19 West 44th Street, New York 36, New York. HH We, the sisters of the British Isles, would like to express our thanks and appreciation for the splendid article ""I'he Coronation of a Beloved Queen" by Ramona W. Cannon in the May issue of the Magazine. With-great pride in our hearts, we read and thoroughly enjoyed it. Queen Elizabeth, to us, is one we can well pattern our lives from. One of the greatest teachings in our Church is home life, and one of the finest characteristics of our Queen and her family is home life. So please accept our sincere thanks and appreciation. 'The sisters' lives are greatly enriched by the splendid contributions in the Magazine—poems, stories, addresses, and especially the lessons. We feel we are blessed to be able to receive the Magazine. —Mary Laycock Chapeltown, Yorkshire England I think the April story "Pot-Head Kettle," by Velma D. Cloward was very good. —Mrs. Merritt Rushton North Las Vegas, Nevada The Magazine is a constant source of inspiration and enjoyment to me. —Gwen J. Christensen Orem, Utah I am sort of shut in and all alone, all my folks gone, except for one girl. Thanks so much for the Magazine. You can't know how much I appreciate it, so please kindly send me my April issue and I will keep a strong lookout for it. —Mrs. Adam Petereit Brigham City, Utah It is always a pleasure to appear in The Relief Society Magazine. (See "Anyone Can Make a Feather Quilt" by Marjane Morris, June 1953).- So many people read and like the material printed therein. It is doubly a pleasure to appear when the article is about nice people. Then they, too, come in for a share of the enjoyment. —Marijane Morris Corinne, Utah BEAUTY (Written in appreciation of the literature lessons in the Magazine, and as a contribution in a poetry contest sponsored by the literature class of the Relief Society, Parker, Arizona) May we learn to know and share The pleasures literature can bring; It brings to life the ages past, And helps memories to cling. "A thing of beauty is a joy forever," As the poet Keats has said So let us seek the beautiful, As along life's path we tread. There is beauty in the sunrise As it glistens on the dew, In the clouds that bring a rainbow With colors of every hue. In a meadow with a lily pond, Where dandelions dot the green; In a cactus desert full of bloom, Or a snow-capped mountain scene. But let us remember, as we strive Toward our eternal goal, That the beauty to exceed them all Is the beauty of the soul. —Jean Webster Parker, Arizona THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First-Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Mary J. Wilson Nellie W. Neal Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Josie B. Bay ~. Gladys S. Boyer RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager = = = = - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 40 AUGUST 1953 No. 8 Contents _ SPECIAL FEATURES Living More Abundantly on Your Income Family Home Hour — Maker of Happy Memories In Memoriam — Elder Stayner Richards............. William F. Edwards 500 LaRue C. Longden 505 mabe. Q. Morris 510 Gratitude _ velyn Dorio 528 FICTION The Refuge fore err a eeMargery S. Stewart 513 The End of c¢ Season nee ooo ococe ee ete ee nen sees nett cecetutnteestiteeeeeLera Wilde Earle $25 Special for Redheads — Part TD 2.0.0... Coco cocececeeeee eee ee vesceeeseeeeseteteseseresevarereoeeeeneeee th azel K, Todd 533 GENERAL FEATURE Sixty Years Ago........ Csseccscseseccsesecsseneccsessesssececsnssccsessasseeecasoncsccenees a er 2 8 Woman's Sphere o.. Cee eee ccee cece eee ece cece ee reeee cree eerie eee eeeeeeneeeeeeeeeteetereeeweee Ramona W. Cannon 519 Editorial: Psalm of Summer..00.-2.022---20e1e cee —— ee ee... Vesta P. Crawford 520 chsa E. Paxman and Lllie C. Adams Released From General Board...........-..2.1-1--0+ 522 Notes to the Field: Cost of Binding 'The Relief Society Magazine"' Increased........---..---.----0---++ 523 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities.........-ccessesse:---c----.. Margaret C. Pickering 538 From Near and Far: ae ee eee ee ee 498 HOME FEATURES IS V3 GCN eSElayne Bybee 512 A Letter From Mother.0.... C... Ccccesccececscnsesecsesceneeseceesnenenesecueceececseeoee Clara Horne Park 517 By Early Candlelight — VII. Arts and Crafts in a Pioneer Home.................... Bonnie A. Kesler 529 Do It Willingly Annie S. W. Gould 532 Pioneer Hobbies Bring Happiness (Mayne Wright Campbell) 0.02.20.... 537 Tenderness; Kate Richards 537 Bathroom Tricks — Make a Towel Tree.......-.2cec-sec-sssecsesesnrseseccesceeescceseseeneteraeessElizabeth Williamson 566 As We Journey Along -2......... Ssscesscccesscnesssnessesessesesesecsnesesosscsseeceneaseneee Esther Warburton 568 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: The Completion of the Small Plates of Nephi 2.0.0.0... 20. EceeeeeeesLeland H. Monson 545 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''And See That Ye Have Faith, Hoge, and Charity'' Leone O. Jacobs 550 Work Meeting: Your Shopping Dollar Rhea H. Gardner 551 Literature: Alfred Lord Tennyson, Representative Victorian............--ccccescceeeeseeee-Briant S. Jacobs 553 Social Science: Latter-day Saint View of the Constitution of the United States Albert R. Bowen 558 Books Dealing With American History Circer 1760-1790 0.. U.... Cccec-ceseeseeseeccseseeseeesHelen P. Gibson 563 POETRY Western Midsummer Landscape — Frontispiece -..2-.-...--scec-c-soseecesnsoees 497 "Pioneer Woman,' by Vilate R. McAllister, 504; ''Loneliness,'' by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 511; 'Lines for a Yearbook,'' by Vesta N. Lukei, 511; ''Evolution,'' by Mabel Law Atkinson, 516; 'Instinct,' by Catherine E. Berry, 517; "'These Remain,'' by Iris W. Schow, 522; ''Mother's Thimble,'' by Elsie C. Carroll, 523; ''Blue Preferred,' by Dorothy J. Roberts, 524; 'Three Years Old in August,' by Emily Carey Alleman, 532; 'Lon go,'' by Pansye H. Powell, 544; ''Dusk in Bouquet Canyon,"' by Ethel Jacobson, 549; 'The Closed Door,'' by Carrie Lee Franklin, 565; ———— by Bernice T. Clayton, 567; ''Whispered Wisdom,'' by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 567. ~ PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial] Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No 'back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Living More Abundantly on Your Income Dr. William F. Edwards Dean, College of Commerce, Bigham Young University APPINESS is not necessarily related to a person's financial ~ position. An increase in the family income may not make more pleasant the management of a home. More and more material resources may even make real family happiness more difficult to obtain. Nevertheless, there are few things that can help the typical family to realize real happiness more than proper financial policies and _attitudes. "Money (may be) the root of all evil' —whether because of too little or too much—to the extent that it is not used with wisdom. First Things First Have you ever met an active person who had time to do everything in which he was interested? Surely, the answer is no. Experience, however, confirms the ancient scripture that there is time for everything worthwhile. Each person should realize that he will be unable to have or to do all the things he desires. This is the nature of life when lived in full measure. Otherwise, life would be drab: and lacking in excitement. Try to imagine having enough time to do everything desired. At the end of each day every interesting project would be completed, every job done, including the least Page 500 pleasurable. For good measure, assume that frequently every desire would be satisfied and even a few hours left before bedtime when there would be nothing you were' interested in doing—a surplus of time. Very soon night would become a welcome relief from the monotony of the day. A thrilling day is one which ends with much accomplished, but yet with unsatisfied desires to dream about. The secret of successful living lies not so much in subduing appropriate desires, but in learning to put first things first, so that the more important ones will be accomplished and the least important neglected. Success or failure is largely a matter of doing the right thing at the right time—putting first things first. "What a fool does in the end, a wise man does in the beginning." The truth of these words by Ling Po is self evident if viewed in the light of daily experiences. Farmer John is unable to plant potatoes because he spent all of his money buying a potato digger. The Handicap family is unable to contribute to the ward building fund because of payments on the television set. Jack must discontinue college because of the cost of operating his automo-. Bile. In matters of personal finance, LIVING MORE ABUNDANTLY ON YOUR INCOME: 501 each situation must be approached with a mind as open and rational as that of a good scientist investigating a problem. It is so easy to accept what has been done as right and best. Erroneously, people generally think there is only one way to solve their financial problems. There are two ways of being happy: We may either diminish our wants or augment our means—either will do—the result is the same; and it is for each man to decide for himself, and do that which happens to be the easiest. If you are idle or sick or poor, however hard it may be to diminish your wants, it will be harder to augment your means. If you are active and prosperous or young or in good health, it may be easier for you to augment your means than to diminish your wants. But if you are wise, you will do both at the same time, young or old, rich or poor, sick or well; and if you are very wise you will do both in such a way as to augment the general happiness of society (Benjamin Franklin). Misery or Happiness Oh, how fine is the line that separates misery from happiness! Charles Dickens dramatizes the difference in these words: "Annual income twenty pounds, annual expenditures nineteen nineteen six, result happiness. Annual income twenty pounds, annual expenditure twenty pounds ought and six, result misery" (David Copperfield, chap. 12). If a person finds himself receiving more misery than happiness, or less happiness than he feels is his share, he shouldn't set up a vigorous program for taking the joy out of life by curtailing all expenditures. It may be that even now too little is allotted for certain purposes. The probable trouble is that expenditures are not receiving precedence in order of importance. To this extent, maximum happiness is not being derived from income. Presumably a person desires every item for which money is spent, but relative to income the less important items may have worked up near the top of the list. In the spirit of helping each person live more abundantly on his income, the following suggestions are offered as guides. It is believed that in them will be found the key to successful management of personal finances. 1. Church Contributions For members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints these appropriately come first. They bring eternal blessings and joys. It is expected that honest and faithful people will return to the Lord his ten per cent and, in addition, make the other contributions needed to carry out his purposes for their good. 2. Taxes It is the responsibility of every citizen to aid in support of the Government. Reasonable taxes are the just cost of our many choice opportunities. With total taxes so high, our most cheerful attitude may be similar to that expressed by Elder ° Heber C. Kimball when he described the exodus from Nauvoo: "We left willingly because we had to." "The power to tax is the power to destroy," and there are indications that taxes may have reached harmful levels. While paying taxes honestly, each person should exercise his best influence to have government expenditures curtailed, 502 especially those of the Federal Government. 3. Health Protection Our bodies are sacred tabernacles, and it is a duty, as well as an advantage, to preserve them. Preventive medicine is the best and cheapest. It costs less money in the long run to visit the dentist at regular intervals than to wait until a tooth aches. Hence, the allotment for health protection should receive precedence. 4. Emergency Fund Although individual emergencies cannot be anticipated, it is certain that they will arise. Unless allowance is made for them, like a thief in the night, they can upset the best-laid plans. Each family should review the so-called emergencies that might reasonably occur and estimate the minimum amount of money that would likely be needed to meet them. If this sum is not already available, enough money should be set aside each month to build up the fund to the desired level within twelve to eighteen months. So long as the fund is "full," no monthly allotments would be necessary. When it is reduced, monthly allotments should be resumed. This fund will take the sting out of most emergencies. 5. Minimum Life Insurance No head of a family, especially of moderate to average means, is properly protecting his family unless he carries a reasonable amount of insurance. We all agree that "Nothing is as certain as death." Yet, many defy the fact that "Nothing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 is more uncertain than the time of death." Every family head has certain dreams which he cherishes more than life itself. To the extent that these are not protected by savings already accumulated, life insurance is imperative. Is it reasonable to put these five items ahead of life's essentials: food, clothing, and home? The answer is definitely yes, if you want to live as abundantly as possible on your income. The first two, "Church contributions" and "taxes," are included "by the law" as it were. The next two, "health protection" and "emergency fund," are unavoidable. An attempt to defer them is likely to cost more money and bring less satisfaction. The last, "minimum life insurance," is advised for the average family, even if premiums must be paid out of money usually considered necessary for food. 6. Minimum Food | If one observes the children of Church families who are rich and poor, it is generally impossible to find evidence of better health resulting from the use of expensive foods. The author knows from personal experience that, if necessary, the average family can reduce its food allowance as much as onefifth to one-third with no reduction in nutritive value. Parents who experience concern over their financial position should consider carefully the words of Bismarck: "One-third of the people of Europe work themselves to death, one-third of the people of Europe eat and drink themselves to death, and the other third rule Europe." It is feared that this statement remains applicable today if food is thought of in terms of cost. It is unwise and damaging to the family welfare to take money from education or health protection to buy expensive foods. Therefore, when considering this phase of fnancial planning, allow only for minimum food costs. Fortunately, no meal can surpass one in which simple foods are tastefully prepared and attractively served. It is as easy to serve a healthful breakfast for eight at a total cost of 50 cents as $1.50! 7. Minimum Clothing Being well-dressed and properly clothed is always a distinct asset. However, it is an injustice not only to you and your family but also to your associates to dress beyond your means or the comparative means of the group. Until all other financial requirements are met, clothing costs should be held to a minimum. Avoid clothes of extreme style that quickly become outdated or are so distinctive that they are always noticed. There can be a big difference between expensive and appropriate dress. Clothes should be made over and handed down as the children grow up. Family members should be encouraged to change their clothes upon completing an activity, such as when the children come home from school. If the mother will develop the art of mending and patching, it will pay big dividends. 8. Minimum Personal Toiletries, Gifts, Recreation, Education, and "The Little Extras" "Man cannot live by bread alone" indicates the importance of this group of items. The minimum needs of each family will vary considerably, but a program that does not 'provide for these enrichments among the first essentials, predisposes a life devoid of some of the greatest joys. 9. Home. The objective of every family should be to own its own home. There can be no such thing as a home in the fullest sense of the word unless it is owned. Home ownership makes better citizens and better Church members and adds to the security and wealth of the family. The cost of the home must be reasonably related to family income. The family should not be denied clothes, food, medicine, education, and recreation in order to keep up unreasonably large payments on the home. This risk can be reduced if you take your average yearly income, subtract estimates for the previously discussed essentials, and work with the balance as the available amount from which all other - family needs and desires are to be satisfied. 10. Working Fund or Freedom Fund All previously listed expenses, with details adapted to each family, can be adjusted up or down, but as a group they are essential. Only the amount of money spent for each item is subject to control. Annual income less these minimum expenses leaves what truly can be considered the "Freedom Fund." This is the proportion of a person's income over which he is the master. LIVING MORE ABUNDANTLY ON YOUR INCOME 503 504 It should be used according to individual desires and circumstances. Some will first buy an automobile, then add to the allowance for food and clothing. Others will allow more for insurance or education and travel. All, if they are wise, will build up a savings fund. A Promised Blessing "My house is a house of order." This is true of the Lord's house and of those families who enjoy life to the fullest. A rich and abundant life is within the reach of almost all Latter-day Saint families. 'This is the Lord's desire for his children, and he helps them to accomplish this goal. Let us ask the question: "Do you find it difficult to meet all of the demands upon your family income, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 or do you have precious desires that must go unsatisfied?" If the answer is yes, then you are normal and will probably have at hand a golden opportunity to apply these principles and reap a bounteous harvest. After considerable personal planning, bring the family together for as many business meetings as are needed. Review expenses and jointly list them in order of importance. Be completely objective and daringly courageous. Give and take until each member is satisfied that the more important items are covered and only the least important ones are neglected. It may be difficult but remember that "Inch by inch, it's a cinch." Then, the promised blessing will be yours: added happiness and more abundant living on your income. Pioneer Woman Vilate R. McAllister The quailing that unbidden gripped her heart She silenced, and, though unshed tears can smart, She forced a smile; and, looking in her eyes, He saw new-mounting faith and courage rise. She worked beside him in the wilderness, And learned her backward yearnings to suppress. She helped to build the cabin, and somehow With scarcely stumbling feet she held the plow, Helped plant and irrigate the barren plain, 'Then reaped and cooked and served the golden grain. She kept the fires burning, lamps aglow To greet him, when, discouraged, weary, slow, At eve he sought his door; with warm caress She made his home a shrine of happiness. To her the cabin, lonely, bare, and crude, Became a cloistered nook for solitude, Where, while he toiled abroad, he'd never find Her weeping for the treasures left behind. Family Home of Happy LaRue C. Hour—Maker Memories Longden Second Counselor, General Presidency of Y. W. M. I. A. "Memories! Memories! Dreams of long ago!" HERE is a nostalgic peace that comes over many of us who have reached the half century mark when we recall our younger days. We are the fortunate ones who have tasted of unhurried existence. We remember happy evenings around the dining room table or in the "parlor" when mother sewed, father read from the evening paper, the scriptures, or the classics. Some of us recall being asked to "speak a piece" or to sing, play the piano, or in some way perform for loving, proud, doting parents who assured us that we were perfectly wonderful! 'There were discussions on current events, questions answered about "what we believe"; problems discussed and, if possible, cleared up; then, maybe a dish of ice cream—which, in those days, was a real treat, then the sweet togetherness of family prayer before going to bed. All this not on just one particular appointed night, but on many, many nights! Happy, happy memories! Such a feeling of surety that we would be "kept safe and sound throughout the night— that we would rise on the morrow healthy and strong, with a desire in our hearts to serve him!" If all children could be given a taste of this sort of happy living, there surely wouldn't be too much need of corrective institutions or even divorce courts. We no longer teach our children the old poems like "The Children's Hour." It must be forty years ago when I learned: Between the dark and the daylight, When the night is beginning to lower, Comes a pause in the day's occupations That is known as the Children's Hour. I still remember the warm feeling I had as I repeated all the verses of this lovely poem and I thought to myself, we are like that family. I could not have put it into words then, but I realize today that in my youthful mind I knew that we, too, in our home had precious hours together; that there was a sweet love and precious spirituality pervading those hours spent together as a family. The knowledge of man has given us many refinements in our homes. It has made mother's work much easier than it was in what our youngsters are pleased to call "the olden days." But that very knowl edge of man has helped to push the wisdom and spirit of our Father in heaven into a too obscure background in many homes. Most families have too many outside inter. Ests. I am not one who looks back and wishes we could return to the good old days—those good old days of washboards, coal stoves, horses and buggies. Not I! However, I would Page 505 506 recapture for my beloved teen-agers the quiet peace of evenings I remember when "hot" music from a radio that fairly pushes the wall out had not even entered the mind of man; when we could enter the living room without being "shushed" for fear of interrupting a favorite: television program; when the telephone didn't ring itself off the wall bringing various and sundry calls— some necessary, others certainly not. Oh, me! How old-fashioned can you get? There must be a happy medium! 'There is. It is up to Latter-day Saint parents to invite and, then, keep the sweet spirit of our Father in heaven in our homes by letting our children know that we love them, that they are very important to us, and their happiness, our main concern. Happy home hours can do much to knit families together. As I have talked to young folk throughout the Church about their home life, there is one very common problem they seem to face, and that is parents with too many social or Church obligations. I am one who feels sincerely (and we've proved it) that with the proper spirit of dedication on our part as parents, our children will never suffer because of our Church assignments. [' is, however, a sad commentary that we do have a difficult time to find one evening—even one hour —that can be kept inviolate for a family get-together, for a real home hour. It would be nice if the home hour could be something so natural that it would not appear to our children as an extracurricular event— RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 something tacked on because the bishop told us to have it, or something so completely out of line with our everyday living that everyone feels embarrassed and a little out of character. In homes where there are but one or two teen-age chicks, the home hour would necessarily be different from "family hour" in homes where there are several real young fry as well as teen-agers. 'There might be, though, a formula that could be adapted to fit all occasions and all families. We should always plan ahead, so that no one makes other dates. If there are in our family those who are "going steady" or who are engaged, it would surely be nice to invite those sweethearts into our circle. Why not start home evening with dinner, with various members taking turns fixing their favorite dish? Keep it simple. Serving buffet is fun some of the time, but there is something solid about "surrounding a board clothed with the bounties of life." At the dinner table everyone should have a turn to tell what has happened during the day to him or to her. It is so important that Mom and Dad remember this is not the time to discuss too much business or financial worries or to correct children for things either done or left undone. Too often this sort of discussion ends in misunderstandings and a feeling on the part of our children that we are finding fault all the time or that we do not understand them. It is fun to dedicate each home evening to one member of the family and on that night to serve his favorite dish, play a favorite game, FAMILY HOME HOUR—MAKER OF HAPPY MEMORIES Seated on the floor left to right: Marilyn; Kay; Susan; Christine; David. Seated on chairs on back row, left to right: Lenore N. Comwall; Joanne N. Buehner; Walter Buehner; Mrs. Maude Groberg Neeley; Jonathan; Kenneth R. Neeley. Or listen to some of his favorite music. It is also a good idea to put another member of the family in charge of the whole evening to plan little fun surprises, to see that each member has some part in the evening. On evenings when teen-agers sing or play music, which we at our advanced ages do not appreciate or understand, let's be as considerate of them as we shall expect them to be of us when it is our turn to be guest of honor. Eventually, with patience, we'll be able to bring them around to the better things. The family hour is a community affair. The over-all success of it. Is surely on the shoulders of the parents. We must be interested in what our children do. I recall one girl who said she loved her dad, but her main memory of him was that as soon as dinner was over he went to his easy chair and slept through | anything the rest of the family was doing. Another couple hurried their brood through their family hour so _they could get off to attend a choir party! Home evening? Home hour? Not many of us would sleep if we had guests in our home, nor would we hurry them in their visit so we could be off! Our beloved President David O. McKay has said that he and his dear wife thought of their children as special guests in their home and treated them as such. Aren't they just that—spirit children of our Father in heaven, loaned to us through his goodness? A very wise mother said to her children whenever a new baby was born into their home, "This little one has just come from being an angel. See that you treat him like an angel the rest of his life." FAMILY HOME HOUR—MAKER OF HAPPY MEMORIES 507 508 S I write of a family hour I keep getting back to the thought that every hour at home should be "family hour," and if it were, then the appointed hour when all of us plan to be together would be so simple to work out. 'Teen-agers need much love, much understanding, much wise guidance — then much love! It's just that simple! Why not hold the dessert course at dinner until later? Following the main course everyone helps clean up, excepting the one to whom the family hour is dedicated. Hurry the cleaning up process by putting a time limit. During this dishwashing session it is fun to have a family song fest, singing songs suggested by each member of the family. Then comes the part of the evening which each family must work out for itself, because we all have definite likes and dislikes. For a musical family, ten or fifteen minutes could be spent around the piano singing some of our Church hymns. A contest could be held to see who knows the most verses of some of our hymns. There are scores of folk songs and songs from the light operas, as well as some of the better numbers from current productions. IIcre is an opportunity for parents to lead the way in appreciation of good music. Most everyone enjoys charades, if they don't take too long and there aren't too many. Characters from the Bible or Book of Mormon furnish good subjects for dramatization —also words commonly used in our Church literature. Also, it is fun to portray present-day characters prominent in current events. It is loads of fun to play "twenty quesRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 tions'"—and also educational. There are other quiz games, that are fun. Each home has different facilities which might be used in the family hour. Where there are rumpus or play rooms, shuffleboard, table tennis, or any of the more active indoor games may be played. It might not be a bad idea once in a while for Mom and Dad to dance a round or two with the youngsters—just to show them there's still a little life left! We—and this includes our children — love to show and _ talk about our hobbies. This is a good time to do just this, but don't take too much time! Whatever we do, and whenever we hold this precious family hour, it seems to me mighty important to make it a natural thing—not something we have to do, but something we want to do. The art of conversation is not dead, but in many homes it surely sleepeth. Wise parents can steer the thinking of their teen-agers by good conversation. I firmly believe that it is not necessary to be playing a game every minute or to be passively entertained by someone else all the time. Sad the homes where there is no - entertainment save radio and television! We enjoy most that thing in which we ourselves participate. We must remember that our teen-agers are intelligent bits of humanity. They have learned to think for themselves, and they just love to express themselves. It is up to us to guide that thinking and that expression. There is not nearly enough reading and discussion of the scriptures in our homes. In the over-all pattern for the family hour there should EVENING AT HOME THe KenNETH R. NEELEY FAmMity ASSEMBLES IN MArRILYN's BEDROOM BEFORE UniTiInc ln FamMity PRAYER ~ Seated on bed, left to right: Susan; David; Jonathan; Marilyn. Standing at right: Christine; Mrs. Maude Groberg Neeley; Kenneth R. Neeley. Standing at left: Lenore Neeley Cornwall; Joanne Neeley Buehner; and Walter Buehner. Certainly be a time for scripture reading—either from The Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, Pearl of Great Price, or the Bible. Ilere is where we as parents have an opportunity to lay strong foundations for good spiritual lives for our children. Also, without calling particular attention to it, there should never be a family hour when Mom and Dad don't express their thankfulness for their lovely children; their thankfulness for the gospel which brings such peace and happiness to the home, and to give our darlings at least one extra morsel of the bread of life—a little faith-promoting experience—something we have heard, that has happened to us, or that we may have read. Let's forget the clock during the family hour. When the spirit dictates, serve the dessert. Sociability and real fellowship should characterize this climax to our family hour, with a let-down, easy, sweet feeling of peace and well-being in everyone's heart. Then comes the time to "sack in," in the parlance of our teenagers. Why not all troop to the bedroom of the one who is guest of honor tonight and with some fun ceremony turn down his or her bed (just a tiny act of service to one we love) and then unitedly as a family kneel at that bed for the blessed good-night prayer? Now, it won't hurt a bit if Mom and Dad kiss all the brood good-night, the brood kiss each other, and Mom and Dad follow suit! Happy memories? Sweet spirituality? Just a good Latter-day Saint home in action! FAMILY HOME HOUR—MAKER OF HAPPY MEMORIES 509 Gn Memoriam— &lder Stayner Richards (Dec. 20, 1885 - May 28, 1953) Elder George Q. Mortis Assistant to the Council of the Twelve STAYNER RICHARDS (1885-1953) LDER Stayner Richards had in EL; a marked degree those qualities that the Lord said qualified one who embarked in his service: "Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, diligence." - Through his long years of devotion to the Church, continuing from his youth to ripened and matured manhood, these qualities were abundantly Page 510 manifest. Eminently successful in business, he put his duty to God first. How rewarding and enriching this practice proved is apparent in the outstanding qualities of spirituality and leadership he attained.. In all he was faithful, resourceful, stimulating, and inspiring—as bishop's counselor, as bishop, for twelve years as counselor to a stake president, as stake president for twelve years, as President of the British Mission, and asAssistant to the Council of the Twelve, he forwarded the interests of the Church, blessed and cheered and helped towards perfection the many thousands with whom he was associated. He was richly endowed with the power to implant in the hearts of the people cheer, good will, faithfulness, and love. These qualities flowed from him as from a fountain. 'They were contagious. He loved people old and young. For the children he met, out of his heart or out of his pocket, he gave them something that made them happy and gave them friendship. The people to whom he devoted his labors gladly accepted his counsel and direction and gave him their admiration and love. One said of him: "There are great characters in the IN MEMORIAM — ELDER STAYNER RICHARDS world whom we admire and revere for their remarkable accomplishments, but there are not many men that we can love so dearly and sincerely." Perhaps his crowning achievement was in his own home. He has given to the Church and the world, in his family, a rich and enduring gift. They will bear his name in honor through the generations to come. His life's work logically and appropriately culminated in his calls > 511 to preside over the British Mission and to be an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. In these positions he served with marked distinction. President McKay said of his passing: "There passed to the great beyond a loving husband, a devoted father, a true friend, a valiant defender of the truth. Brother Stayner was a true gentleman, honest in thought and action—cheerful, kind, considerate, obliging at all times, constantly loyal to truth and to what he believed was right." Loneliness Evelyn Fjeldsted The wild rose waking near the sun-warmed hill, The roots that mine the soil for gold to make A new tiara for the daffodil, Will challenge stormy flares in April's wake. And budding twigs alive in amber light Will practice sketching on a garden rock. The high moon, weaving through the clouds of night, Will leave strange, moving shadows on the walk. The summer's calm, the winter's waiting snow, And once again the robin's same redress Will come, but still the heart will ever know That these cannot allay the loneliness, The wish to reach out to that somewhere sphere Since now a loved companion is not here. — Lines for a Yearbook Vesta N. Lukei The sundial notes with moving shade The present hour alone, But in these lines a year is laid, The milestones marked and known. The way ahead with care forecast, With equal care explained, Becomes in time the living past, The record still retained. Life Is a Gif Elayne Bybee | me is not a gift that you can send back. Living is a responsibility." I thought of those simple words that spoke a world of truth as the nurse laid the baby in my arms for the first time. I carefully opened the pink blanket and beheld a tiny red, wrinkled face, so young and appealing, and yet looking sadly old and forlorn as if pleading for love. With a feeling of utter disappointment and yet of elation, my first motherly thought was: ''Perhaps she won't look so odd when she fills out a bit and gets some hair." Then the wee fist, which was topped by a pink plastic bracelet with our surname written on it, opened to reveal a hand as perfectly formed as my own; her eyes opened their blue wonder to a world, for her not yet four hours old, and her wee mouth formed the letter "O" as she yawned, stretched, and went back to sleep. My heart was captured completely. As the rays of the afternoon sun splashed golden on the polished tile floor, I cuddled this bit of new life and knew indeed that I had been given a gift—from God! I knew that I could never take my gift of motherhood lightly, and that I must treasure it with all my heart and remember always that she was a gift that I could not send back or give to another, but, rather, she was entrusted to me. It was my responsibility and my husband's responsibility to nurture, love, and help this child develop into the type of person God intended her to be. Yes, the task of molding and shaping the personality of this little girl was ours, and I felt heavily all my inadequacy. As I held my child I thought of all the dreams that every mother holds for her children. Just as the springtime is a time for blossoming, a time when flowers burst forth with their blooms, so the birth of a child is a timne full of promise, joy, and happy expectations. What small things could we, her parents, teach her in a way to help insure her future happiness? We could not take out a policy called "Happiness Insurance,' but if we could, what would the unwritten parts of this insurance be? We could teach her the value of a smile and of time. We all draw the same salary in minutes and hours of the day, it is only their number that we know not. Knowing not how long or how fleeting her time on earth may be, it is imperative that she learn to live and enjoy to the fullest possible measure each day, and to harbor no regrets at the setting of each sun, for there will come a time when the sun for her, will fail to rise on the morrow. We shall strive to teach her to be cheerful by being that way ourselves. Courage, enthusiasm, initiative, loyalty, honesty, tact, and morality—all these she must know well—and most of all sincerity—for without that, all else is insecure. Optimism and ambition are the premiums on this "Happiness Insurance," and we must strive to help her acquire a set of ideals and standards so that she can always have a paid-up policy and can enjoy its benefits—the joy of living. Let her seek wisdom and know the exaltation of faith in her Creator, in her fellow men, and in herself. Let her always find the beautiful things that line the trails that traverse the road called life, which she so eagerly came to meet this day. The task of motherhood weighs upon my shoulders this day—but perhaps tomorrow it will rest lightly as a crown of which I shall be proud. These were my thoughts as I humbly bowed my head and said, ""Thank God, for my baby daughter." Page 512 The Refuge Margery S. Stewart T was evening when the girl came to the temple grounds. The Arizona sky burned blue as cobalt above the simplicity of stone. She hesitated at the gates. The garden within was so still and so beautiful, she shrank from bringing upon it the turbulence of her grief. She pushed her hands deep in her blue cotton pockets. She had run here like a deer to the mountain, a deer, hearing the hunter's gun in the valley. Now she wondered why? A gray-haired man stepped out of the shadow of the gate. He smiled at her, "My name is Anderson... Would you like to have me guide you about the grounds?" She shook her head but forced her tongue to the simple courtesies, "My name is Ann Prentice, Mrs. Harvey J. Prentice." But her lifted words brought no answering recognition to his eyes. "My husband is at the air base. He... He flies a jet." She carefully emphasized "as" and "'flies."" All must be in the present tense. Harvey is at the airbase. Harvey does fly a jet. He flies one today, and he will fly one tomorrow. The man smiled, "A brave young man." She nodded. "I will just walk around... By myself." Mr. Anderson looked at her with concern in his eyes. She could imagine how she looked with her eyes reddened from weeping and the fear making them big and too brilliant. He said gently, "I will be here for a little while... If 1 can help." She tried to smile and felt the smile shaking her lips. She bit the lower lip and turned away. There was a pool of blue water before the temple. She forced herself to look into it and saw the white temple murrored there. She had no tears now, nothing but the trembling of her mouth and the fear that seemed to be in her heels pulling down in icy pain the tendons of her legs. She repeated what Mildred Carruthers had said. Mildred, who shouldn't have spoken at all, but had been there and heard and couldn't keep the words from the loose wing of her tongue, "Harvey's jet is missing... Three hours overdue. No word at all... Except tumors of a crash in Dakota." "Harvey," Ann whispered, and the name brought him to her at once, as though he stood there, tall and brown-haired, with his face changing from the boy she had martied to the man he was becoming, the change most visible in eyes and jaw. The change in his fingers, too, growing thicker. His laughter changed, not coming so easily as before, moving back to make room for the man thoughts and words in a world that demanded maturity. She moved away from the pool. It seemed as if he moved with her and helped her on. She lifted her eyes and saw the frieze in the corners at the top edge of the temple walls. One was of men and women Page 513 514 disembarking from small boats, and the other of a handcart company. She smiled grimly. There was no easy generation. GHE walked down the path. She had promised her father to come and see the temple grounds when she first came and that she would write and tell him about them. But, somehow, every day had been crowded with Harvey and Harvey's life, and there just hadn't been time. She looked around now. Dad would love this place, though for her it would hold forever the pain of this moment. Her father would thrill to. The beauty of flowers and fruitful trees and the strange places that had borne some of them. The tree bending with purple blooms wherein the bees made a steady humming was from India—the little sign read. There was a_ yellowflowered bush from _ Palestine, named "Wormwood." She forced herself to look carefully at these things because the pain within was too intense to dwell upon. But her mind would not remain on outside things and returned to thrust itself on the thorns of the present. "Harvey! Harvey!" She put her arms across her breast and bent forward with the anguish. This day was the day which had been drawing closer and closer to her since the night she had wept in Harvey's arms, wild with happiness, because he loved her as she loved him. Wept because he would not go back and leave her again, but wanted her to marry him and return with him. Even in the wonder of that night she had felt the ominous wings of this day. This was the day she had shut away from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 her in the haven of his arms and the sight of him across the breakfast table. Harvey had guessed, though she had said very little. When another jet had crashed he had written a note for her and left it on her dressing table. "Beloved Worry Wart: I always told you I would give you the moon with a ring around it and tonight is the night. Keep one eye glued on the east corner of heaven and you shall see what you shall see. Harvey." She had obeyed him, walking about in the darkness in the patio of the motel they called home. Suddenly she had heard the sound of the jet, like the tearing of the skies, and had looked up and laughed aloud in delight and love, seeing the clouds of Harvey's jet in a slim wide circle around the moon. But even then this day had whispered cold as death against her heart. Only when she knew the baby was coming she had put away the fears, perhaps... Oh, perhaps, it might not come at all! HERE now, Ann? Where now, dreamer, with the babe be ginning its life within her? It's like being on a train, Ann thought, the destination growing nearer and more beautiful, and then having the conductor put you off at a desert station, unknown and infinitely frightening. Ann walked quickly down another path and came to a great stone covered with queer figures, mute evidence of a mighty people, long dead. She looked down at an Indian grinder holding in its hollow the polished stone ball. She thought of the Indians she saw THE REFUGE every day on the streets of Mesa and Phoenix, beautiful girls, tall, fine boys. She and Harvey had watched them march past in the Phoenix parade and a lump had come into her throat. "They're beautiful," Harvey had said. "They are so real. They make the rest of it seem tawdry." But it was more than that. There was an expression in their faces of determination and pride. "They look a lot more 'delightsome' to me right now than some of their white brothers," she had murmured tartly to Harvey. "Judging again?" Harvey had shaken her gently. Harvey was always after her for that. Harvey believed that no man could know the why and whereof of another. "God is the only one who really knows," he kept insisting. Harvey was so sure of God. He reminded her of her father in that. When the two men were together there was no difference between them when they talked of these things. Beside them she felt young and unknowing. The smell of grapefruit blossoms came to her on a wave of wind. She cried out against the fragrance because it reminded her of these past few months. This morning she had said to Harvey, "I wish I could put this day in a bottle, so I could keep it forever." She shivered and was aware that the sun had long since set and that she had been motionless, how long, she didn't know. The high windows of the temple were lighted and she heard the murmur of voices. She looked up. Men and women were hurrying up from the gates, carrying their suitcases. Many of 515 the people were older ones, whitehaired and slow of gait. The men helped their wives. 'There was something in their togetherness that was unutterably hard to bear. She cried out in her heart against it, a bitter protest against the knowledge that for her and her generation there was no promise of the long years together, year folding on year with the growing of married minds and hearts and the laughter of their children about them. MOCKINGBIRD _ chirped sleepily in an orange tree. "The birds have their nests..." she whispered, wondering where she had heard the wards. Memory brought back a hot Sunday morning in Miss Willoughby's class. She remembered herself, ten, squirming in the scratchy starched organdy dress. Blue, wasn't it? Yes, blue socks to match and white Maryjanes that she had to clean on Saturday afternoons. "The birds have their nests..." Oh, yes. Miss Willoughby was trying to tell the class about the Savior and his ministry, "... But the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head." Ann sat up and looked about the garden. It was close to darkness now, the pools of shadows under the silver palms deepening in intensity. The breeze of the evening swept against her face, its fragrant coolness almost unbearably sweet after the heat of the day. It dried the tears upon her cheeks. She touched the stone bench with her fingers, and its coldness brought the terror racing to her heart. She wrenched her thoughts away. It was in a garden that the Savior knelt on that night of his greatest 516 sorrow and he cried out in his anguish and would that he might not drink the cup. Ann's mind raced over the familiar words, they stood tall and terribly clear in her mind. Was there a place in the agonies of men where he had not stood? Even here Now her tears could freely come, and the anguish not be locked within, but flow out of her grief. For there was One who had walked this way before, only with greater pain than she would ever know, with depths of suffering of which this would be only a drop, but who had walked this way and said, "Thy will be done." Ann lifted her head, looked about the garden again. It was beautiful, tended by careful hands, planned by hearts who wished only the best. All her life she had been surrounded by men and women who created gardens and churches and temples and classes wherein the young minds could be filled with sustenance against the bitter griefs of life. Her mother, her father, her teachers... Little Miss Willoughby, who had doubtless wondered if any of the restless little girls had heard a word of her carefully prepared lesson. Ann covered her wet face with her hands. Now she knew why she had come. All her life long the holy words had been taught her... A little here and a little there. She RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 had thought that none of them stayed, that they had run out of her mind like water. But now she knew they had been with her always, the words that would give her strength in the hour of her greatest agony. She knew now that she could turn | from this anguish in resentment and bitterness and cry out against it all her days. She whispered through her fingers... "If... If it must be so, then... It is thy will, not mine be done." She took a deep breath and added, "Ill do my best... My very best... For the baby... Myself... Most of all, for thee." She rose then and walked quietly toward the gate, all trembling gone, strength in every move. Brother Anderson rose from his place beside. The gate. "I waited for you. It is quite dark now." "Dark?" Ann looked around. "I hadn't noticed." Mr. Anderson tugged at her arm. "Come here, I want to show you something." He led her to the blue pool, deep blue now, and she saw in the rippling surface the reflection of the moon, like a pearl on jeweler's velvet. She saw something more. Something that made her cry out and lift her eyes to the night skies where a thin circle of vapor faded around the moon. >_< & volu tion Mabel Law Atkinson A caterpillar crawled along. Its clothes were commonplace— A butterfly now wears a gown Of organdie and lace. A Letter From Mother My Dear Children: Well, darlings, we asked for it and now we have it. Summer! Desperate heat some days, but always with the cool evening breeze that gives us sleeping satisfaction. This morning I turned the pages of a magazine and saw an article about what men find wrong with women as wives. I thought it was a bit hard on us, but the writer did mention that some of us do have assets, also. He said that what he wanted in a wife was a sunny disposition, first of all. Perhaps this man has learned the value of peace in the home. You know, a lot of love can come from peace. Love, satisfaction, confidence, tranquility, relaxation, and fulfillment. It seems to me that no proper value has yet been placed upon peace in the home, in our day. Unlooked for favors and considerations may come from peace. A sunny disposition promotes peace and love in great abundance. In the book of Proverbs in the Bible, chapter 10, verse 12, we are told: "Hatred stirreth up strifes: but love covereth all sins." The 15th chapter has many wise sayings about peace and happiness, such as: "A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance.... Better is a dinner of herbs where love is; than a stalled ox and hatred therewith." Here is advice for you, my unmarried son, want it? The molding of the character of the sweetheart you will choose was well along its way by the time she was five years of age. By the time she was eighteen it was quite well developed, and you won't be able to change her much after marriage. So, I would recommend to you, take a good look now, an objective look, when you find her. Is she the kind of girl who draws people, old and young, to her? Does she go out of her way for the comfort of others? Does she voluntarily see the bright side of things? Will she be likely to count her many blessings without demanding or expecting too much from you regardless of your circumstances? Can she encourage you when things go wrong, do you think? When you find such a girl she will be a rare gem. If she is of your own religious faith, then marry her, if she will marry you. Have her sealed to you for time and for all eternity so that your children may have the advantage of belonging to your family unit always, even in the intimacy of God's own kingdom. And you, my dear young man, be worthy of her and appreciate her. May this summer show true happiness at the top of your list of blessings. My dearest love to all of you. Please write to me soon. Lovingly, Mother Clara Horne Park. Instinct Catherine E. Berry A homing bird, with instinct straight and true, ' Flies swiftly to her nest, And so, in some such way I come to you, Your heart my home and rest. Page 517 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1893 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN oF ALL NATIONS" PROBLEM: It is not possible for an editor to please everybody, and we find it difficult to publish all our subscribers think proper. Sometimes articles are rejected because they are unsuitable, and it is not possible to make the explanations public. —Editorial WOMEN PROOF READERS: There are a few women proof readers in New York. This requires perhaps an even greater amount of knowledge, for while the printer is justified in blindly following copy... The proof reader is liable to have the house about her ears if she is not able to make plain English out of the most illegible copy.... Spelling must be among her infallible qualifications. For this she gets anywhere from $12 to $21 a week, according to her skill. —The Journalist THE PRESENT CONDITION: Whatever fate awaits the people of this favored land of America, be sure it will all be over-ruled for good, for its destiny is upward and onward, though obstacles may have to be overcome, and dark clouds threaten. There will always be a silver lining somewhere, and if one has a light heart and a clear conscience he can stand firm and steadfast abiding the results which is, after all, in the hands of Him who holds the nations in the hollow of his hand. Above all the Latter-day Saints should not lose faith in each other, nor the promises of the Almighty to His people. —Editorial A GLIMPSE OF UTAH LAKE A score of miles toward the West, The lake lies spread with sunset sheen; - Atop the highest peak I rest, And count the hills that lie between The valley and the mountain crest. The changing hues of sunset die In misty twilight, dull, opaque; The distant sea-gulls slowly fly, A crescent moon hangs o'er the lake, Low down a fading evening sky. —tLaura St. Vrain RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN SANPETE STAKE: The Relief Society Conference of the Sanpete Stake convened in the Mt. Pleasant Meeting House, June 9, 1893. President Mary Ann Price Hyde presiding. Conference opened with singing "O My Father, thou that dwellest...." Counselor Sarah Peterson spoke of the many privileges we enjoy as Latter-day Saints in building temples and assisting in building up the kingdom of God.... Sister Lund expressed her desire to do right and prove faithful to the end. President Canute Peterson spoke of the promises that were made to the Latter-day Saints in the Salt Lake Temple, if they would keep the commandments of God. —M. W. S. Page 518 MES. LEONE JACOBS, of the Relief Society general board, was elected president of the Women's Legislative Council of Utah for the coming year. This organization is a member of the National Council on State Legislation, to which both men and women are eligible. At the national meeting in New Orleans in May, a Salt Lake woman, Mrs. Vernon L. Stevenson, was elected treasurer of the National Council. RS. LeROY McBRIDE this year won the Rhoda Corwyn Pickins national award for promoting interest in shut-ins. President of the Utah chapter of the national association, Mrs. McBride, who has been confined to her bed for fifteen years with partial paralysis, has written thousands of letters to cheer other handicapped persons. She lives in Hyrum, Utah. BEFORE World War I (1914) only three countries had granted women the right to vote and hold public office: New Zealand in 1893, Finland in 1906, Norway in 1913. In the United States agitation for women's suffrage began in 1848, with the first convention on women's rights in Seneca, New Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon York. It was not until 1920 that the XIX Amendment to the Constitution was ratified, making women eligible to vote in the United States. 'Today women in fifty sovereign states of the world have the privilege of voting and holding executive, legislative, and judicial public offices. N exceptionally successful Southwest Regional Workshop Conference of the National League of American Penwomen was held in Salt Lake City in June. More than one hundred persons were in attendance. Contributors to The Relief Society Magazine who won awards are: Claire W. Noall, Mabel Harmer, Sylvia Pezoldt, Christie Lund Coles, Iris W. Schow, Olive Woolley Burt, Mable Jones Gabbott, Ruth H. Chadwick, Blanche Kendall McKey, and Renie Littlewood. Vesta P. Crawford, Associate Editor of The Relief Society Magazine, assisted in judging the poetry. Me. ZADDIE BUNKER won her private pilot's license on. Her sixty-fifth birthday, probably the oldest woman student to be licensed in the U. S. A. She celebrated by taking four generations of her family for a sky-ride. Page 519 C—> EDITORIAL a VOL. 40 AUGUST 1953 Psalm of Summer The day is thine, the night also is thine: thou hast prepared the light and the sun. Thou hast set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made summer. 74:16-17). GRATITUDE for the beauty and strength and steadfastness of the earth is sometimes forgotten in the hurry and complexity of life. Yet there are times when the heart is full of rejoicing for the blessed privilege of life upon the earth, and this feeling of exaltation and thankfulness should be a lasting treasure throughout our days—not reserved for the season of summer alone. 'There should dwell in us a deep and abiding appreciation for the earth, which, if we are worthy, will be our everlasting home—when it is celestialized. This rejoicing in the world about us is often most evident in children. I recall a morning in early summer when a woman was walking in her garden, slowly, and with sad introspection. The winter had brought a great sorrow to her. 'Then she heard a thrush singing, and stood still to listen. When the bird had finished its high, soaring notes, the woman heard a child's voice saying, "Thank you, birdie, thank you! That was good singing." The neighbor's little son, on the other side of the hedge, had heard the caroling and had expressed in childhood's simplicity his gratitude for summer and bird song. 'The woman's spirits were lifted, and she was reminded to count her blessings. Page 520.. (Psalm It is an experience of great solemnity and beauty to read again the record of the earth's creation as given in the book of Genesis, and to understand "the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens." The Bible is replete with references to the prophets and the saints who found, in their closeness to the earth, especially in the solitary places, a close communion with the spirit of the Lord and a deeper comprehension of the purposes of life. The entire book of Psalms (one hundred and fifty psalms of majestic grandeur) reveals humility before all things of God's creation, yet portrays a lofty rejoicing for the goodness of the Master "Who telleth the number of the stars; he calleth them all by their names.... Who covereth the heaven with clouds... Who maketh grass to grow upon the mountains" (Psalm 147:4, 8). It was upon the Sea of Galilee, along the shores, in the wilderness, and among the barren hills, that Jesus taught the people, sometimes only a few together, and sometimes in multitudes. The Sermon on the Mount, in which the Beatitudes and other great and eternal prin- EDITORIAL ciples were given, was delivered on a mountain, for it is written in the fifth chapter of Matthew: "And seeing the multitude, he went up into a mountain.... And he opened his mouth and _ taught them." It was "up into a high mountain apart" that Peter, James, and John beheld the transfiguration of Jesus and the appearance of Moses and Elias. It was on the desert road to Emmaus that Jesus, after his resurrection, appeared to Cleopas and his companion, and went with them to the village. The love of Latter-day Saints for their habitations has been expressed in hymns of thanksgiving and trejoicing, in public discourses, and in private prayers, since the early days of the Church. In leaving Kirtland, in saying farewell to Nauvoo, there was sorrow for the loss of a beloved homeland. In the journey to the mountains there was a joyous anticipation of' finding new homes "far away in the West." The desert valleys were not loved for 521 their richness, but rather that they offered a haven to the hearts and hands of a people accustomed to difficulties and prepared to till the earth in humility and gratitude, and never to expect the green bounty of summer fields to appear without labor, without devotion to the land. Those who were called to lonely vigils on the far frontiers, and those who were explorers of the wilderness, accepted their assignments, declaring the deserts were "vineyards for service," and finding in the remote places, a great love of the land and a rejoicing in a victorv that became the blossoming rose. Always it has seemed that those who have felt gratitude for the earth and earth life have developed compassion, understanding, and great spiritual values through a close communion with nature and with the beauties of creation, for "The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the little hills, by righteousness" (Psalm 72:3). Achsa & Paxman and Lillie C Adams Released From General Board T is with regret that the general board announces the resignation of Achsa FE. Paxman on June 3, 1953, and Lillie C. Adams on June 3, 1953, from the general board of Relief Society. Sister Paxman has served on the board since January 1940, and dutring all those years she has placed the work of the board in pre-eminence and given unselfishly of her time and great talents. She was called to the board from the position of stake Relief Society president and brought with her a wealth of experience and a thorough understanding of the work of Relief Society. Her many committee assignments and special assignments on the general board have been ably filled. She has delivered inspiring 522 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 talks at conferences and conventions and traveled throughout the Church in the interest of Latter-day Saint women. Her attitude has been one of enthusiasm and a determination to succeed, and her belief has been that nothing is impossible that those in authority require. Although it seemed unwise for Sister Paxman to continue longer the arduous duties of general board work for reasons of health, her interest and capabilities will continue to be devoted to Relief Society and her presence will be an inspiration to those among whom she will associate. Sister Lillie C. Adams has resigned from the general board to accept the great calling of a home missionary. "... When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God" (Mosiah 2:17). Ever faithful and obedient to the Priesthood of God, she has accepted this latest call joyfully. Sister Adams was called to the general board from her position as stake Relief Society president. During the seven years she has served on the board she has faithfully sought to fill every requirement made of her. In a spirit of humility and zeal, she has accepted each new assignment. She has explained the gospel to women of foreign lands visiting Salt Lake City, and traveled among the stakes enthusiastically proclaiming the blessings of Relief Society in a spirit of love to Relief Society women. Sister Adams carries to her new calling a knowledge of the scriptures which will stand her in good stead and a burning conviction of the truthfulness of the gospel. The love and blessings of the general board go with Sister Paxman and Sister Adams as they enter upon different fields of service, and the appreciation of the members of Relief Society throughout the world will be theirs for the work in their behalf over the years. > Shese Remain Iris W. Schow The folded wing still holds the feel of flight; The fallen petal still is of the rose; And painted on the-background of the mind The faded sunset's glory lives and glows. The fragrance of the forest emanates From every fringed twig of the Christmas tree; The fluted shell miraculously holds The mystery and romance of the sea. The dream that ruled one moment of the night Throughout the day is dominant and strong, And the deathless soul in the aging breast Still is of courage, laughter, and song. Notes TO THE FIELD Cost of Binding She Reliof Society Magazine Increased EF FECTIVE September 1, 1953, the cost of binding the twelve issues of The Relief Society Magazine into a yearly volume, with a permanent cloth binding, including the index, will be $2.50, when Magazines are furnished by the person making the request. If Magazines are furnished by the general board of Relief Society, the cost will be $4.00. The cost of leather binding, when Magazines are furnished by the person making the request, will be $3.50; when Magazines are furnished by the general board, the cost for leather binding, will be $5.00. Only a limited number of Magazines are available for binding. It is suggested that wards and stakes have one volume of the Magazines for each year bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. Send orders to: The General Board of Relief Society, 40 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. <> Mothers Shimble Elsie C. Carroll One of the keepsakes in my treasure chest Is a little gold thimble. It lies with the rest Of priceless possessions I've kept through the years, Made sacred by memories and hallowed by tears. When I look at that thimble, I see a small hand, So soft with caresses, yet strong to command When evil assailed. Its touch was a balm For physical pain; for spirits—a calm. Millions of stitches it helped to push through All kinds of fabrics, both old and new— Stitches on baby clothes—dainty, straight seams; On patches of jumpers and coarse, heavy jeans. Stitches on trousseaus for bridal array; On pillows and scarves to be given away. On curtains and quilts and rugs for our home, Where love and contentment with simple things shone. As I think of the past, I whisper a prayer Of humble thanksgiving that I had a share In weaving, through years, the fine tapestry That pictures the story of our family. And I see as the symbol of what made it strong This little gold thimble I've treasured so long. Page 523 Don Knight ROARING EAGLE RIVER, NEAR MINTURN, COLORADO Page 524 Blue Preferred Dorothy J]. Roberts I must have blue to keep me company, Blue of gown, of ornament, and room, With blue-winged minstrels homesteading a tree In gardens, azure with delphinium. I love blue carpets that ascend a stair; The water-cool silhouettes where shade has lain; And ribbons twining through a girl's rich hair [ike sky-tinted brooks threading brown terrain. Something in me cries the color's need— Knowing blue space the soul's first corridor, With dawn's deep indigo, its chariot; Knowing when sapphire zeniths shall have freed The last noon metered to this earthly plot, Infinitude will open a wide, blue door. a The End of a Season Zera Wilde Earle ROM her kitchen window Helen watched the school bus roll to a stop at the end of the lane and her children alight. A farewell flutter of hands, then the bus moved on. Bitterness welled up within her. Those other children, she thought, all were going home to security, but her poor youngsters.... The three stood at the mailbox now, ten-year-old Margaret on tiptoe to see what her taller brothers might find there. As usual, Helen thought of the letter they had brought a few weeks ago. It was from Mr. Moore, the agent who had control of this farm now. Even yet she could see that crisp sheet with its curt notice. The farm had been sold, it said. The new owner desired possession in early March. Down at the gate now a daily joyous reunion was in progress. Helen watched the dog, Jake, romp from one child to another in frenzied bliss, then, barking ecstatically, tear round and round the group as they started up the long lane. Margaret, she could see, carried a paper bag. That would be the much-needed - anklets she had told her to buy during school lunch hour. How the child loved pretty things to wear! With a sigh, Helen took potatoes from the bin and began to peel them. George and the two little ones would soon be back, too. The whole family would be hungry. She should really fix something good for supper, she thought apathetically, but she had no heart for it. From across the bare March fields drifted the troubled cry of a killdeer. Was the bird, too, she wondered, being driven from his home? George had tried to warn her that this very thing might happen. "Farms are selling like hot cakes," he said. "If Moore gets a good offer for this place, he's not going to turn it down just to give us another chance." But Helen had not let herself think for one moment of that possibility. True, they had not been able to meet their payments, so, last fall, they had been obliged to relinquish legal claim. But they could remain as renters for a year, couldn't they? Then next fall they could begin to buy the place back. They had to stay, Helen reasoned. Two years ago they had come here to make this farm their home. Their savings had gone as a first payment on it. George had given up his work down home. Now to go back, beaten.... She could not bear to think of it. UT that gray, windy day last month when she had seen two men striding about the fields, Helen had begun to fear defeat. The tall one with the tan topcoat flapping about his knees had looked like Mr. Moore. Her heart had pounded. After a time they had driven up to the yards, looked over the barn and sheds. George had been away. Finally they had come to the door. It had been Mr. Moore, all right. He had introPage 525 526 duced his companion and asked if they might see the house. For several: days after that there had been no word from the agent. The buyer had perhaps found a farm he liked better. Helen's hopes soared. Then came that letter. As Helen thought of it she heard a — noisy scraping of feet at the door, and the children burst into the room, greeting her. "Where are Dad and the two little kids?" Rod wanted to know. Helen said they had gone to town. "Mother, you don't think Dad will let them run around town alone, do you? All those cars...." Helen reassured him. What a sense of responsibility he had, this eldest of her flock. Margaret came quickly to her mother's side. "Look, Mama," she invited, opening her paper bag. Inside lay, not new anklets, but several large bananas. "T picked out the kind you like, Mama, with lots of dark spots on them." "Oh, but, honey," Helen began, but Margaret hurried to explain. "I saw them in the grocery window, and I thought if I bought these we could all be happy tonight, but if I bought anklets, I would be the only happy one." Then, wistfully, "You seem like you're not happy any more, Mama. I thought maybe if we could have a layer cake with whipped cream and bananas on it, you might feel happier." Helen looked down into the earnest little face. "We'll have to hurry if we get it baked for supper," she said, taking a mixing bowl from the shelf. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 Remorse began an insistent tapping at the door of her consciousness. Had she been so immersed in her own gloom that even her children had felt depressed? HE boys had spread the comic section of the daily paper on the table and sat devouring it. Margaret chattered about Dorothy's new riding horse. Dorothy was her best friend. "It's a raspberry mare," she stated importantly. Both boys' heads jerked up from their paper. "Ho! Raspberry mare! Raspberry mare!" they laughed, and Helen was surprised to find herself laughing with them. Margaret was not in the least offended. "What is it, then?" she asked. "Strawberry roan,' ' the boys cried out together. "Do you know," Margaret continued, "Dorothy says she is never going to let Larry ride it, not once? She talks just like she doesn't like him—her own brother." Rod wrenched his attention from the comic page. "Well, I don't blame her very much. You know, Mother, that cold old day when the school bus broke down, and we started to walk the rest of the way home, old Larry whizzed by on his motor-bike,. And he didn't let Dorothy ride with him. She was nearly frozen, too." "Well, their folks must be rich," Brent marvelled, '"motor-bike and riding horse." "IT guess they're rich all right," Rod agreed. Helen felt a wave of thankfulness that no trace of envy marred their young voices. "Well, our father lets us drive THE END OF A SEASON the car a lot when he's with us," they agreed contentedly as they prepared to go about their evening chores. The aroma of baking cake drifted through the rooms. Helen, spreading a clean cloth on the table, was aware of a familiar warmth within her, a warmth against which, these past few weeks, she had kept a door tightly closed. She laid out her best silverware. Then, smiling tenderly, she brought from their high shelf a gaily decorated pitcher and matching glasses. These had been her latest birthday gift from Brent—not on her own birthday, but on his. For some sweet reason, which the boy never mentioned, he always brought her a gift on that day. UTSIDE, now, the dog's welcoming bark heralded the return of the rest of the family. From her window, Helen watched the two little ones scramble from the car while George stopped to gather parcels from the back seat. Dear George, she thought, how tired and troubled he looked. That tapping of remorse became a painful stab in her breast. He would be happy to go back to his old work, if only she were resigned to leaving. For she knew now that George was not a true farmer. He felt no warm satisfaction at sight of a moist furrow falling back from his plow blade, of potato sprouts thrusting their way through the soft loam, of stubble fields dreaming in September sunshine. And, as if in retaliation, his acres only yielded mediocre returns. But his skillful hands and keen eyes had helped him to excel in his 527 old work down home. Why, she wondered, had they both become restless there? "The farmers are surely making a mint of money," George had said, and Helen, remembering childhood vacations at Aunt Mary's farm, had been as eager as he to make the change. Well, she thought now, not every man can be a farmer; and the work to which George will be returning is important, too. Dimly, some lines of Robert Frost's came back to her—something about people's reluctance To yield with a grace to reason And bow and accept the end Of a love, or a season.... I think I'm learning to accept something, Helen thought gratefully. The two little ones had stopped in the yard to pat the dog. Bernice took her cat, Hugo, up into her arms, then both children hurried eagerly into the house. "Ts it a birthday?" Jimmy asked, sensing a festive air. Then, without waiting for a reply, "Can we have my pink petunia on the table?"— the petunia he had painstakingly transplanted last fall from his own little garden. AS Helen helped him wrap the pot in fresh paper, she thought, he can still have his tiny garden every summer. Our town lot will be large enough. Bernice sat stroking Hugo's glossy fur. "Daddy says Hugo can sit on my lap all the way while we're moving," she said comfortably, her little world still snug and safe. "Yes, indeed he can,' Helen agreed. Suppertime was gay. Margaret, 528 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 serving milk, noted that the supply What a grand bunch they are, of new glasses was exhausted by Helen thought. What good times the time she reached her own plate. We have. Thankful tears stung her "A set of six isn't large enough for eyes. Our family," she said. "T guess you're the extra one," someone suggested, and Margaret agreed, "Yes, I guess I'm a fourth spoke." In the ensuing laughter, George In the sudden hush, Helen deftly exchanged his own glass for looked round at the six stricken Margaret's plain one. "You mean faces turned toward her. She you're a fifth wheel, don't you, honlaughed shakily. "Because I'm so ey?" he asked. Happy," she cried, "and so rich." "Mama, your eyes look like there are tears in them," little Bernice said, then, in growing alarm, "Mama, why are you crying?" > CG. Ratitude Evelyn Dorio Fy spirit of an old man seems to accompany me on my travels to a natural beauty spot in the West. During grammar-school days we were dismissed from classes one midwinter afternoon each year, and allowed to climb the narrow stairway to the dusty attic, where a mild-mannered man would project colored slides on a screen We bundled up in sweaters and overcoats, and paid our ten-cent admission to—Wonderland! Once in the attic shadows, we crowded onto discarded benches, "handcarved" by our predecessors until the surface wood was textured like toadskin. When the last overgrown boy had creaked up the stairs and found a seat, the old man clasped his hands behind his back—and welcomed us! Though his gentle voice was out of key with the noisemakers confronting him, he always smiled patiently and soon filled our minds with anticipation and wonder as he explained the program. At last the tallest boys switched off by hand the few lights dangling from the rafters and, as our eyes adjusted to darkness, the screen would reveal the first magic scene. With this gentle-voiced man we tramped through Yosemite and admired the peaks and waterfalls; and climbed through the clouds to Mt. Rainier, where little white flowers bloomed in the snow. He took us through the Tunnel Tree and the Redwoods; he showed us Indian cliff dwellings in Arizona, and the Grand Canyon colored like sunset. At his side we ducked when Old Faithful spouted overhead; and with him we followed the narrow switchbacks to the floor of Bryce Canyon, while shadows fell dark as rain upon our faces. But far more than pictures, this old man showed us how beautiful was our country! He held out a new world for our imaginations to behold and told us God had created it to keep our spirits from getting lonely for heaven's beauties! Today's children, who can flick on the entire world in their homes as quickly as this man inserted a slide, can never appreciate how enriching were those afternoons when our spirits transcended the hillside walls of our drab little mining town and entered for a few hours a more wondrous world! It isn't strange that all the places I long to visit are scenes projected on a screen in our dusty school attic. Nor does it surprise me to find this graying old man at my side whenever my heart feels grateful for God's beauty. By Garly Candlelight Bonnie A. Kesler VII. RTS and crafts were developed A in Annie's pioneer home to fulfill the desire to create culture and adornment, and also to satisfy some practical needs of the era. Manufacturing is the work of the hands, whereas art requires also the spirit or soul of man, and a satisfying occupation it has always been. One of Annie's small boys, with others who were talented in the arts, were found using berries, roots, and leaves for color, and any material they could find as their canvases or boards on which they recorded scenes of their surroundings. Some of the young ladies made waxed flowers, flowers from wool, cloth, silk, feathers, and sometimes natural flowers were used and treated for preservation. Beautiful bouquets were made, from natural grasses and grains, by Annie's daughters and their friends—some colored, others frosted with alum and artistically arranged in a vase, then covered with a glass globe. This was a cherished adornment in any home —flowers or fruit under a glass globe on a wooden base. Among the needlecrafts carried on by Annie and other women, the most popular were weaving, spinning, knitting, crocheting, tatting, netting, embroidering, and crossstitch handwork. Hand-controlled, loom-woven bedspreads and drapes in honeycomb effect were found in many homes, along with hand-croArts and Crafts in a Pioneer Home cheted bedspreads and drapes. Any item of clothing that could be knitted or crocheted was made by the busy, never-tiring hands. Eyelet embroidery was another art of the industrious, competent pioneer women. An example of the type of sewing they did is the handsewn dress that Mary Walker made for her first child in 1866. Annie admired the dress, which was three feet long and had a border three inches deep around the six-foot lower edge of the solid eyelet embroidery. It involved months of patient work. To transfer the pattern from one space to another, Mary mixed flour and soot, then put it on the outside edge of her fist, pressed the fist against the finished embroidery, then stamped the pattern onto the new section. A creative pastime for the women was making hair flowers. Long strands of hair were easily obtained from friends and relatives, different shades being used. Black hair was for blackberries, blond for lilies, and various shades were blended for petunias, forget-me-nots, daisies, and leaves. Fine stocking needles were used for the fine loops, and larger needles were used when larger loops were needed. A piece of very fine wire was bent in the center, making a double wire. These loops were made around the needle, then the wires were crossed to make the loop secure, and so on until the right number of loops were on _ the Page 529 530 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 EYELET EMBROIDERY needles and wire. At last the needles were slipped out, and the wire was bent to form the flower shape. Rough ends could be trimmed at this point. Then the stamens were made separately by looping a strand of hair and securing it with wire and twisting all the wire ends together. 'These, too, were placed under glass globes, or arranged around a photograph in a frame and covered with glass. NNIE, who was interested in millinery, had one of her carpenter friends make her a braid press. After straw was braided and bleached, it was moistened and run between the rollers of the press to flatten it, then the braids were sewn into hats, belts, or bags. Of course, hats were made from many other suitable materials. Wool cards were an indispensable item for Annie as a homemaker, for without them she could not comb the wool before it was used for quilt bats or spinning into yarn for fabrics or knitting. Annie soon taught her daughters how to use the cards. They were a pair of wooden blocks about four by eight inches, with handles. The surface of each block was covered with symmetrical rows of fine wires or tiny slender nails protruding onefourth inch through a layer of leather over the wood. The handle of one card was attached in the opposite direction to the handle of the other card, and the wool between the two was combed and combed until it was evenly distributed over the wires, then the heel of the top card was used to pick up and push the wool into a tiny roll or layer about two by nine inches, which was then lifted off the cards and placed aside in piles to be spun later, or placed directly upon the quilt top and added to until the bat covered the quilt top, a slow, tedious process. Cotton mills began to operate in Dixie (Southern Utah) in 1862. Because of the Civil War, little cotton was raised, so there was a shortage oll over the United States. This was an opportunity to try out cotton raising in Dixie, and it proved BY EARLY CANDLELIGHT HAIR FLOWERS to be successful. Both the silk and linen industries were attempted. One fabric which was very serviceable and popular was called linseywoolsey. It was made of two-thirds cotton and one-third wool. Annie wove a warp and a woof of cotton and a woof of wool, making it a warmer fabric than all cotton and yet not as warm as all wool, and it was easier to successfully launder. Friendly Indians gave valuable information to pioneer homemakers on how to use sand for dyeing and what they called their paint pots. Much experimenting was done, and various methods were used to obtain the desired shades. Native rabbit brush stems supplied yellow dye. Creosote bush gave a rich brown. Wild dock supplied rich brown, not only for material, but also for leather. A plant which grew like a toadstool in the hills and develops a round bulb, was used for making dye. When dry, powder could be 531 shaken out of it, which made a good brown or black dye. The pioneers carefully cultivated the indigo plant for blues, and the madder plant for red, and purple was made from the berries of the plant. Brown and yellow dye was made from the leaves and roots of this plant. Not only did the factories dye, but Annie's family did also, and when the dye pot was on, it was an occasion for people to get together and dye all the fabrics they had accumulated tor some time. For a long time, however, fabrics were so scarce that the canvas from the covered wagons was dyed and made into trousers. Sometimes Annie's boys looked at each other and laughed until tears ran down their cheeks over their appearance. Each child in his turn lay on the canvas while Annie cut the trousers out around him. After the fabric mills began to operate, ginghams, plain cottons, prints, plaids, _ stripes, checks, and many of the patterns still in use today, were made. The hardships and adversity which the pioneers lived through limited some phases of culture, but for only a short time, for when they STRAW BRAID PRESS 532 emerged from their initial struggle for a living, the art instinct began to find wide expression. 'There was much natural beauty in the Rocky Mountains, the streams, canyons, islands in the great lake, and the sunsets. Poverty was not to keep these people from seeing and exRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 pressing the wealth of beauty which they recognized, thereby creating poets, painters, architects, sculptors, craftsmen, gardeners, as well as artistic and gifted homemakers. President Young consistently encouraged art education and accomplishment among his people. WOOL CARDS —>- Shree Years Old in August Emily Carey Alleman She helps her mother make the bed, Smooths each wrinkle from the spread;' She sweeps the floor and dusts a chair, Then brushes neat her tousled hair; She never waits for you to ask, But volunteers for every task! To be allowed to wash the dishes Is one of her most cherished wishes— But how can parents keep alive This interest after she is five? <> Do Jt Willingly Anne S. W. Gould Ik you are called upon to perform some disagreeable duty, don't grumble and think you are badly used, just take it matter of fact—it's life. We have to take the bitter with the sweet. It might help if you take it as a piece of discipline—one of life's tests. After it is over, you will feel better if you haven't put any disagreeable thoughts into the task. Who are you to have a flowery path all the time? Special for Redheads Part II Hazel K. Todd Synopsis: Marian, a young stepmother, is deeply in love with her husband, Bob, and has succeeded in winning the hearts of Patty, the thirteen-year-old daughter, and Robbie, the youngest child. Rusty, the nine-year-old, however, is so antagonistic that Marian doubts if she will ever find a way to let him feel her love. Clang of buckets being thrown together brought her back from her reverie, back over the weeks to the present. She stood up and walked to the window. The clash of arms had ceased now. A pile of bucket helmets lay at the foot of the clothes pole, and she could see the knights preparing to leave. She watched with envy their goodbyes. One boy, with numerous brown freckles and a pug nose, slapped Rusty on the back. "See yu tomorrow, pal," he said with perfect confidence at tomorrow's welcome. "Sure," Rusty answered, with a grin that reminded her of his father, "you can be that Green Knight the teacher read us about if you remember what I told you." She saw them take leave of Rusty, their leader, who was as free and easy as though he never would shut himself away from anyone. But, she reminded herself, these were boys he had grown up with, while she was regarded as a fulfillment of all the horrible creatures stepmothers had ever been made out to be, someone you must never speak to unless it was absolutely necessary. Rusty perched himself on an overturned bucket. Marian watched him with a heavy heart, knowing that he would stay there, or somewhere else away from the house, as long as he could. She noticed that Patty was coming down the walk from the corner grocery, where she had sent her on an errand. Her heart went out to the slim girl with the bag of groceries. It had been so easy to win her confidence. Like Robbie, she had come to her with open arms. She looked again at Rusty, and suddenly she was seized with new determination to win him, as she had done the others. She opened the door and started toward the bucket, her mind grasping frantically for something she could say or do that would bring results. Her eyes traveled rapidly over anything that might give her a hint. They suddenly came to halt on the grinning features of a bucket head, lying at the edge of the pile. She grasped at the suggestion it offered. "This one looks like Lancelot," she said, picking it up. "Did you make it?" - Her newborn hopes were smashed as quickly as they were born. He stood up angrily and snatched the helmet from her hands, almost taking the skin with it. "Leave it alone!" he said with fiery eyes. He turned and faced Patty who had come around the house and Page 533 534 was watching. "You ought to be ashamed of yourself, Rusty," Patty said. "What makes you act so mean?" "Mind your own business," Rusty said and went defiantly on his way. Patty turned to Marian, and the look of apology and shame on her face almost made up to Marian for Rusty's antagonism. "Oh, I'm so sorry. I don't know why he acts like that," the girl said, almost at the point of tears. "It just isn't _ like him. He can be so much fun when he wants to be." "Yes, I am sure he can," Marian said, taking some of Patty's bundles, and wondering if he would ever want to change. "But you musn't worry, Patty, I'm sure we'll get acquainted after while." She put her free arm around the girl's shoulders and they walked to the house. Suddenly the girl stopped. "I know! I know!" she cried, with excitement. "Next week's Rusty's birthday. Let's have a party for him. Then he'll know you're not the kind of person he thinks you are. Ie lta. Marian stopped. She was looking into the child's sweet face, beaming with excitement, and winking back the tears in her own eyes. She tightened her arm on the girl's shoulder, and leaning over, kissed her cheek over the bag of groceries. "Oh, Patty," she said, "what a wonderful idea! Hurry, let's put down these things and do our planning." MARIAN awoke early on the day of the party. It was as if she were a little girl again, she thought, as she lay awake planning over for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 the hundredth time each game, just what she'd do, the prizes. She could hardly wait for daylight so she could begin the cake. A dozen times she frosted it in her mind. Surely this day she would succeed. "Oh, Bob," she whispered to Lim, as he kissed her goodbye that morning, "I'm sure I can win Rusty this time." Bob was looking at her with his boyish grin and his eyes that were as full as his heart. "How could you help it?" he whispered with his arm tightening around her waist. "He has more resistance than any man I know, or he couldn't help loving you." After he was gone Marian brushed the tears lightly from her eyes. It was wonderful to be wanted by the ones you loved. And today she would win her other man. All day she worked with a growing excitement. Robbie followed close at her heels, with Blinky, chanting, "I'll help you, Mother, me and Blinky will help you." "Of course you will," Marian stopped to assure him more than once, as she kissed his cheek while she thought of some little errand. Then she remembered a little task that was just right for Robbie. "Robbie," she said, "I need a nice smooth board for a scoreboard, do you know where one is?" Robbie was all excitement. "Oh,. Yes," he chirped with glowing eyes. "In the garage!" "Good," said Marian. See" Robbie led the way excitedly into the far corner of the garage to a glass jar covered with a smooth board. It was exactly right and she Let's go SPECIAL FOR REDHEADS lifted it with words of praise for Robbie. But as she raised the board, she was startled at what it covered, a jar of water with round wiggling things swimming about with long waving tails. | "What are they?" she asked in wonderment of the small boy at her side. Robbie was holding Blinky, whose eyes were bulging at the sight. The cat struggled to free himself from his master's arms. But Robbie held the cat tightly. "No, Blinky, you musn't have Rusty's polliwogs. He would spank you." "Polliwogs!" Marian _ gasped, "what in the world are they?" She watched with curiosity, the pe culiar little wiggling marbles with their goggly eyes. "They're just polliwogs, Mother," Robbie explained very carefully. "They're Rusty's polliwogs. He caught 'em in the swamp." Marian placed the board back carefully on the jar. "Oh," she said, "T don't think we'd better take this board. Rusty probably needs it to cover up his... Polliwogs. We'll find another." x ke Kk * T last the time for the party arrived. Robbie had _ traveled around and around the table with the lovely lace cover and the handsome cake with its ten candles. He had touched each little bucket of nuts with loving fingers, and Marian had kissed his fingers impulsively, for, with her own heart so full, she could have followed him round 535 the table and fondled each bucket of nuts, too. Patty arrived early, with starry eyes, and when the boys, with wide grins, began sneaking in the back way as they had planned, Marian noticed that her hand was shaking when she laid their hats on the table. Now that everything was ready, and they were crouched together in the hall, with Robbie and Blinky squeezed against her legs, she suddenly felt weak. It was as though she were on the witness stand awaiting a verdict, and now that it was about to be given dark fears gnawed at her. One of the boys giggled, and she was seized with fear as though he had upset the whole thing. But the door was opening now, and she knew in a moment Rusty's red head would appear in the hall. She shut her eyes and said a quick little prayer. There was a loud shout of "Surprise!" She felt Robbie clutch the frightened Blinky. She opened her eyes and saw Rusty standing there. He was grinning at Beany, at Joe, and the others, and then Marian stood up. "Happy birthday, Rusty," she said, her eyes clinging to the happiness she had seen in his face. But he was looking at her now, with a quick, sullen scowl. For a moment he wavered as though undecided what to do, and then he turned without a word and went out the door he had just entered. "Aw, gee, what's the matter with yu?" tow-headed Beany asked disgustedly, and Patty ran after him, but he only shook her arm off roughly and went on. 536 Her first impulse was to go after him, but recollections of all recent experiences checked her. She looked into the sea of swimming faces about her and urged a_ smile through the mist. "Robbie," she said, "bring the scoreboard we made, perhaps Rusty will join us later." But Rusty did not join them later. He sat on the ground and leaned against the rabbit pen. She watched him through the corner of her eye from the lawn where they played. She saw him scrape his foot on the ground and felt his eyes watching when he thought she was not looking. Once Beany put his thumbs in his ears and waved his hands like a rabbit at him. But he only pretended not to see. And Marian whispered to him to pay no attention to Rusty. E was still sitting there when Bob came into the party, his bronzed head gleaming in the late sunshine She accepted his smile with her heart, and then she saw that he was looking around the group for Rusty. Robbie was at his legs, with Blinky close behind. "Rusty won't play, Daddy. He's sitting by the rabbit pen." She saw Bob start for the rabbit pen and she went quickly to him, giving Patty the rope she was holding for the relay. She slipped her fingers into his big hand. Please, Bob, don't say anything to him. Just leave him alone. He'll be all right." Beb hesitated. He closed his fingers tightly over her small ones. "But it's no use, Marian, your psychology "No, ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 doesn't work. It's about time something else did. He can't go on treating you like this." He untwined her fingers and started decidedly for the rabbit pen. But Marian caught at him again. It would be the wrong way. There would never be a chance if he tried to force Rusty. It was she, herself, who was the trouble. It must be she who would find the way. She thought desperately and made a desperate promise on the spur of the emergency. "Please, Bob, wait one more day. I promise if I cannot win by then you can try your way." There was no time to be frightened at the rash promise she had made. Bob stopped and looked into her eyes. They lighted with his familiar smile. "All might." He glanced at the rabbit pen. "Until day after tomorrow he can sulk with the rabbits, and then I'll try my way." Robbie was at her side, with big, somber eyes. "Moth-er, can I blow out Rusty's candles?" Marian caught her breath. This was indeed a disappointment. She had pictured a dozen times Rusty blowing out the candles, while they sang "Happy Birthday." She had even sneaked in a little picture of a smile he would give to her, a boyish grin with imps in his eyes like her other red-headed man. "Can I, Moth-er?"' The picture quickly fled. She picked up Robbie's cat and stroked its black fur. "Why, I don't see why not," she said, "if Rusty doesn't want to, you might just as well." (To be concluded) Pioneer Hobbies Bring Happiness Mayne Wright Campbell, Hurricane, Utah, Makes Netted Lace and Braided Rugs Mayne Campbell, eighty-five years old, is an expert in making intricate and unusual designs in netting. She makes many kinds of edgings, doilies, tablecloths, and trimmings. Her braided rugs have harmonious and attractive color arrangements and are so carefully braided and sewed that they lie flat on the floor and do not lose their shape in repeated washings. Mrs. Campbell also crochets and is adept at all types of needlework. The netted scarf shown on the table in this photograph was made by Mrs. Campbell and given to the Hurricane North Ward Relief Society. Mrs. Campbell lives alone and does all of her own housework, keeping a lovely hospitable home, and welcoming friends and relatives who come to visit her and see her handiwork. Seven of her ten children are living, and she has forty-two grandchildren, forty-five great-grandchildren, and one great-great-grandchild. Her work in Relief Society began when she was a young wife, and she has served many years as a visiting teacher, and has contributed scores of articles to bazaars, including quilts, rugs, crocheted articles, netting, and many other pieces of exquisite handwork. Mrs. Campbell received her name in a very remarkable manner. She was named Mary Emma, but as a small child, visiting in the home of President Brigham Young, he said, "There are far too many Marys, so I shall call you Mayne." She has gone by that name ever since. I enderness Kate Richards There is no substitute for tenderness. Resolve to keep that in mind when more violent emotions reach their heights—whether it is bitterness, hatred, anger, or jealousy. Page 537 From The F leld_ oC Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES sacononeat nia Photograph submitted by Renie H. Littlewood SOUTH BOX ELDER AND NORTH BOX ELDER (UTAH) STAKE RELIEF SOCIETIES CO-OPERATE IN SPONSORING A CLASS IN HANDWORK AT THE INTERMOUNTAIN INDIAN SCHOOL Seated in front, around the quilt: Marcissi Patrick; Elinor Clash and daughter; Laura Bennett and daughter; Kathryn Daniels and son; Lillian Harrison. Standing, back row, left to right: Ezma Knudson, President, South Box Elder Stake Relief Society; Aleda J. Nichols, Counselor, South Box Elder Stake Relief Society; Ruby Freeman, visitor; Beatrice B. Hansen, Chairman, Indian Committee; Hazel Bott, Counselor, North Box Elder Stake Relief Society; Lavina Clark, member, Indian Committee; May L. Jensen, Assistant Chairman, Indian Committee; Verna W. Butt, work director, Indian Committee. Sponsored by the Relief Societies of South Box Elder and North Box Elder Stakes, the class in handwork, composed of dormitory attendants at the Intermountain Indian School, Brigham City, Utah, has completed many articles, including nine quilts, afghans, pillow cases, luncheon cloths, dresser scarves, table covers, and crocheted articles. The class has also learned textile painting. Ezma L. Knudson is president of South Box Elder Stake Relief Society, and Lucille L. Wight is president of North Box Elder Stake Relief Society. Page 538 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 539 Photograph submitted by Thelma K. Timothy NORTH WEBER STAKE (UTAH), TAYLOR WARD ACHIEVES 100 PER CENT VISITING TEACHING FROM NOVEMBER 1950 TO MAY 1953 Front row, seated, left to right: Helen B. Green; Cynthia L. Peterson; Catherine Anderson; Inez C. Farr, First Counselor; Myrtle J. Peterson, President; Ellen Staker; Sarah E. Hadley. Second row, standing, left to right: Evelyn Mower; Iletta H. Peterson; Maurine G. Wayment; Letha M. Hadley, Second Counselor; Alta B. Neilson, Secretary; Clara Anderson; Lillian H. Hadley; Francis Gibson. Third row, standing, left to right: Ida B. Jardine; Hazel Favero; Veda Hadley; Merilla Gibson; Minnie Hayes; Louise Wise; Annis Hunter, visiting teacher class leader. Back row, standing, left to right: Helen Wintle; Wreatha Hadley; Opal Hammer; Ruby Skeen; LaRene Farr; Dora Hansen. Edna Butters was absent when the picture was taken. Amanda B. Hancock is president of North Weber Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Winniefred S. Manwaring EMIGRATION STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT CONCERT April 17, 1953 The group includes seventy-five mothers, representing every ward in the stake Each ward presented a separate number, and the group sang three numbers. The chorister, Dean B. Norberg, stands by the piano, and accompanist Beatrice Davies is seated at the piano. Winniefred Manwaring, now a member of the general board of Relief Society, was president of Emigration Stake at the time the photograph was taken. Lucile G. Williams is the new president of Emigration Stake Relief Society. 540 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 Photograph submitted by Annie M. Ellsworth CENTRAL STATES MISSION, ST. LOUIS (MISSOURI) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY HATMAKING PROJECT Front row, seated, left to right: June Kemp; Geraldine Hirch; Florence Lermer, President, St. Louis Branch Relief Society; Mardean Steinmetz; Vera Oscarson, instructor in hatmaking; Ruth Mack. Back row, standing, left to right: Kathleen Welch; Ruth Till; LaVoe Seamons; Mollie Hyer; Patricia Wright; Bonnie Allan. These lovely hats were made on work meeting days in February and March and were worn on Easter Sunday. Annie M. Ellsworth is president of the Central States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Della H. Teeter DENVER (COLORADO) STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, April 1953 Front row, left to right: Amy Novakovich; Twila Athy; Gladys Rusk; Della H. Teeter, President, Denver Stake Relief Society; Diana Calhoun, director and stake chorister. Second row, left to right: Hulda Rawlins, stake organist; Bessie Greenwood; Mary Clifford; Lelia Higginson; Florence Killip; Rowena Root, soloist; Lorna Sorrell; Dorothea Slack; LaVaun Dixon. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 541 Third row, left to right: Dorothy Villolobos; Jennie Rios; Lois Trenam; Enid Sherman; Lillian Cawood; Merl Hobday; Beatrice Self; Clotell Giersch; Josephine Madison, reader; Becky Lampman. Fourth row, left to right: Lucille Hatton; Mollie Richardson, Stake Counselor; Amanda Willits; Lucille Blunt; Mildred Bowen; Jean Anderson; Viola Castle; Ida Kirklin; Lucille Henry; Ina Wilson. The Denver Stake has ten wards and two branches. Six wards and the SpanishAmerican and Boulder Branches are included in this chorus. Photograph submitted by Lola M. Shumway PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA), FIRST WARD ANNIVERSARY PROGRAM HONORING FORMER PESIDENTS, March 17, 1953 Front row, left to right: Ione J. Simonson, President, First Ward Relief Society; former presidents: Helen Coplan, Nellie Kimball, and Elizabeth Rust. Back row, standing, left to right, former presidents: Eva Johnson, Elnora Shupe, Bertha Galbraith, Lois Hunt. Former presidents unable to attend the anniversary party were: Carol Wooten Blied, May Gibson, May Berry, Lorraine Rogers, Sue Flake, Maybeth Ashford, Geneva Cluff. Esther Olson, in prose and poetry, presented reminiscences of the thirty-six years since the organization of the ward, featuring the special activities and accomplishments of each president. The organization of the first Relief Society in Nauvoo, Illinois, was reviewed and the songs which were sung at that meeting were used for this anniversary party. An added interest in the refreshments was created by hiding a Relief Society pin in one of the cup cakes (arranged in tiers as a birthday cake). The oldest member, Carrie Niccolls, eighty-seven, was given a cup cake to take home to her husband, and that turned out to be the cup cake with the surprise inside, so Brother Niccolls now feels that he is an honorary member of Relief Society. Lola M. Shumway is president of Phoenix Stake Relief Society. 542 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 Photograph submitted by Ruby F. Olson NORTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE (IDAHO), TENTH WARD CLOSING SOCIAL, May 1953 Standing, center, left to right: Alta Killian, Secretary-Treasurer; Myrtle Layton, First Counselor; Eleatha Johnson, President; Pearl Smith, Second Counselor. Seated, front row, left to right: Ruby F. Olson, President, North Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society President; Theo Cropper, Magazine representative; Blanche Rock, visiting teacher message leader; Helen Waters, work meeting class leader; Edith Gleave, social science class leader; Laura Passey, chorister; Lucille Anderson, literature class leader. The photograph was taken May 20, 1952, just five months after the new Tenth Ward was organized. Many times at the meetings, children have outnumbered the women present. In this photograph, there are thirty-eight children and thirty-seven women. Photograph submitted by Maude E. Groscost TOOELE STAKE (UTAH), TOOELE NINTH WARD YOUNG MOTHERS AND CHILDREN IN ATTENDANCE AT WORK MEETING Shown in the photograph are twenty-one mothers and thirty-three children. The Tooele Ninth Ward was organized in January 1951, and since that time the membership in Relief Society has more than doubled. Many hobbies and homemaking skills have been introduced and put into practice in the homes of the sisters. Hazel Syddall is president of the Ninth Ward Relief Society, with Ardella Smith and Lunnette Lowry as her counselors, and Elaine Johnson as secretary. Leona P. Boyce is president of Tooele Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 543 Photograph submitted by Mildred M. Dillman WESTERN STATES MISSION, PUEBLO DISTRICT, COLORADO SPRINGS BRANCH ANNIVERSARY PARTY March 18, 1953 Seated, front row, left to right: Mattie Smith, Magazine representative; Carol Snell, Second Counselor; Frances Haynie, First Counselor; Irene Miller, President; Grace Gardner, District Relief Society President; Avalon Smart, First Counselor in the District; Alice Masters, eldest Relief Society member. A delightful program was presented at this party, followed by refreshments, consisting of punch and cake. Mildred M. Dillman is president of the Western States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Lileth Peck LEHI STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY March 17, 1953 Front row, seated, left to right: Mary Anderson; Liliane Anderson, First Counselor; Lileth Peck, President; Naomi Chatfield, Secretary. Back row, standing, left to right: Irene Wilson; Edith Evans; Ruth Stone; Norma Webb; Reba Allred; Lela Russon; May Bone. Second Counselor Margaret Barnes was ill at the time this photograph was taken and could not attend the party. The stake officers and board members were hostesses to all the ward officers and sisters in the stake. Ruth Stone and Norma Webb acted as chairmen for the program, which was centered around The Relief Society Magazine. 544 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 Photograph submitted by Lula B. Reeder NORTH BOX ELDER STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT RELIEF SOCIETY BIRTHDAY PARTY March 18, 1953 Seated, left to right: Lola Nielsen, First Counselor; Mary W. Kotter, Second Counselor; Lucille L. Wight, President,. North Box Elder Stake Relief Society; Pear] Hunsaker, President, Fourth Ward Relief Society. Standing, in center background: George A. Nielsen, Fourth Ward Bishop. Visiting teacher message leaders from 1946 to 1952 were Maggie K. Lee and Elsie Christensen. The new message leader is Laverna F. Jeppson. As the visiting teachers arrived, each was presented with a corsage by President Pearl Hunsaker in recognition of two years of 100 per cent service. The visiting teachers were seated at beautifully decorated tables featuring miniature trees with tiny bluebirds on the branches. Pixies bearing 100 per cent banners and little hats were also used in decorating the tables. At the head table a beautiful bouquet of red and white carnations was flanked by white tapers. Decorations were in charge of Mable Forsgren and Lillian Knudsen. Long Ago Pansye H. Powell Under the apple trees the grass was clean and sweet, A thick-piled carpet for our palace. Above, the leafy branches were our balcony retreat: Each violet held nectar in its chalice. We ate our green ambrosia from a bit of broken cup And drank clear water vintage. We would never Have traded our penates for the place where monarchs sup— And summer was forever and forever! LESSON FE} DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 18—The Completion of the Small Plates of Nephi Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Enos, Jarom, Omni, Mosiah, chapter 1) For Tuesday, November 3, 1953 Objective: To appreciate the value of the characters and teachings of seven prophets and a king. HIS lesson concerns seven prophets who wrote the last three books engraved on the small plates of Nephi. It also considers the king who received the small plates from Amaleki, the last Nephite prophet who wrote on them. The history covers the period from sometime before 421 B. C. To about 124 B. C. A common theme among the seven prophets is that as long as the people kept the commandments of God they prospered, and that when they did not keep the commandments they sorrowed. Each of the prophets who wrote the concluding portions of the small plates obeyed the instructions of Nephi and wrote those things most sacred to hin. Their words are of great value for us today. Enos | Enos, the son of Jacob, tells us of the wrestle he had with himself before God, before he received a remission of his sins. On one occasion when he was hunting beasts in the forest, he began to think seriously about the words his father had told him concerning eternal life and the joy of the saints. So serious was his meditation that he determined to pray. The prayer was far reaching in supplication and involved three separate and distinct requests. He first cried for forgiveness of his sins, and after crying all day long and into the night, a voice said, "Enos, thy sins are forgiven thee, and thou shalt be blessed" (Enos 5). As soon as he had received assurance of the forgiveness of his sins, he asked how it was done. The Lord told him, "Because of thy faith in Christ, whom thou hast never before heard nor seen... Wherefore, go to, thy faith hath made thee whole" (Enos 8). Then Enos thought beyond his own problems and prayed for his brethren, the Nephites. The Lord promised to bless them to the degree that they were diligent in keeping his commandments, and said to Enos: "And their transgressions will I bring down with sorrow upon their own heads" (Enos 10). Enos then prayed with many long Page 545 546 strugglings for his brethren, the Lamanites, who were enemies to his people. Enos prayed as the Christ commanded during his mortal existence, for those who had despitefully used him. Enos realized fully that they were a wild, ferocious, bloodthirsty, idolatrous, and filthy people, that they hated the Nephites, and had sought to destroy the Nephite records. But the knowledge of their wickedness did not discourage him from seeking their eternal welfare. Enos asked that these Lamanites should become powerless to destroy the records, that, rather, God would preserve them to come forth to the Lamanites at a future time, that the Lamanites might come to a knowledge of God and receive salvation. God covenanted with Enos that he would preserve the records and would bring them forth at a future time for the purpose of converting the Lamanites. Enos and the people of Nephi labored diligently to restore the Lamanites to the true faith, but their labors were in vain. The hatred of the Lamanites had been fixed by their ancestors, and they were led continually by their evil natures. They dwelt in tents and wandered about in the wilderness with shaven heads, clad in a short skin girdle, which they wore about their loins. Many lived on raw meat and were forever seeking the destruction of the Nephites. The Nephites also were hard to keep in the path of righteousness. They were a "stiffnecked people, hard to understand" (Enos 22). There was nothing save it was exceeding harshness, preaching and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 prophesying of wars, and contentions, and destructions, and continually reminding them of death, and the duration of eternity, and the judgments and the power of God.... Nothing short of these things... Would keep them from going down speedily to destruction" (Enos 23). The Nephites, however, lived on a much higher plane than the Lamanites. The Nephites of this period were tillers of the land. 'They raised all kinds of grain and fruits. They also engaged in stock raising, particularly the raising of cattle, goats, and horses. Jarom Enos died about 420 B. C. (Enos 25), leaving the small plates to his son Jarom, who engraved on them a short account of the Nephites. Jarom knew, he wrote, that the small plates were written for the benefit of the Lamanites. Analyzing conditions among the Nephites, he felt that it was expedient that much should be done among the people "because of the hardness of their hearts, and the deafness of their ears, and the blindness of their minds, and the stiffness of their necks" (Jarom 3). It is evident that when Jarom began to write, many of the Nephites were wicked. 'There were some, however, who were righteous (Jarom 4). They were living the law of Moses; they did not profane or blaspheme; and the laws of the land were exceedingly strict. Their kings and leaders were mighty men in the faith of the Lord and taught the people ways of righteousness. The Nephites had increased in . LESSON DEPARTMENT numbers by this time and had spread upon the face of the land. They became:. Exceeding rich in gold, and in silver, and in precious things, and in fine workmanship of wood, in buildings, and in machinery, and also in iron and copper, and brass and steel, making all manner of tools of every kind to till the ground, and weapons of war—yea, the sharp pointed arrow, and the quiver, and the dart, and the javelin... (Jarom 8). The Lamanites were wicked. They loved murder and drank the blood of beasts; they came many times against the Nephites. The Nephites, however, won most of the battles, thus fulfilling the promise of the Lord that if they lived righteously they would prosper in the land. In order to keep the Nephites in ways of righteousness, the priests and teachers exhorted them to live the law of Moses, to look forward to the coming of Christ, and to be diligent and long-suffering. Omni Jarom passed the plates on to his son, Omni. Omni declared that he fought much with the sword to preserve his people the Nephites from falling into the hands of the Lamanites. Then he added "I of myself am a wicked man, and I have not kept the statutes and the commandments of the Lord as I ought to have done" (Omni 2). Omni received the plates about 323 B. C. And delivered them to his son, Amaron, before 317 B. C. He writes: "... We had many seasons of peace; and we had many seasons of serious war and bloodshed... And I had kept these plates according to the commandments of my 547 fathers; and I conferred them upon my son Amaron. And I make an end" (Omni 3). Amaron Amaron, in recording the history of his people on the small plates, was about as brief as his father had been. He tells us, however, that by 280 B. C. The more wicked part of the Nephites were destroyed, and he points out the fact that their destruction fulfilled the prophecy spoken by the Lord unto their fathers "Inasmuch as ye will not keep my commandments ye shall not prosper in the land." Nevertheless, the Lord "did spare the righteous" and "did deliver them out of the hands of their enemies" (Omni 6-7). Chemish Amaron delivered the plates to his brother, Chemish. Chemish wrote only one verse, in which he testified that he saw Amaron write the last which he wrote on the day that he delivered the records to Chemish. "And after this manner we keep the records, for it is according to the commandments of our fathers. And I make an end," Chemish concludes (Omni 9). Abinadom Chemish passed the plates to his son, Abinadom, who wrote that he had killed many Lamanites in defense of his people, for the Nephites and Lamanites had much war and contention during this period. Calling attention to the fact that "the record of this people is engraven upon plates which is had by the kings, according to the generations" (large plates of Nephi), Abinadom 548 states that he knows of no revelation except that which had been written, neither prophecy, "wherefore, that which is sufficient is written," he says in closing his succinct account (Omni 11). Amaleki Amaleki received the plates from his father, Abinadom. Amaleki felt the need of giving an account of the movement of his people northward from the land of Nephi, under Mosiah, who was made king over the land of Zarahemla, and of their discovery of the civilization of Zarahemla. Amaleki wrote that Mosiah was warned by the Lord to flee the land of Nephi with as many as would hearken unto the voice of the Lord. They "were led by many preachings and prophesyings. And they were admonished continually by the word of God; and they were led by the power of his arm, through the wilderness, until they came down into the land which is called the land of Zarahemla. And they discovered a people, who were called the people of Zarahemla" (Omni 13-14). The leader of this people, Zarahemla, rejoiced in the presence of Mosiah and in the fact that they would now have access to the plates of brass containing the record of the Jews. The language of the people of Zarahemla had become corrupted. They had brought no records with them when they came from Jerusalem at the time when Zedekiah, King of Judah, was carried away captive into Babylon (about 590 B. C.). They denied the being of their Creator. - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953. Mosiah caused that the people of Zarahemla should be taught in the language of the Nephites, and he was made king over the two peoples in Zarahemla, his own followers, and those known as the Mulekites (Helaman 6:10; 8:21) then under the leadership of Zarahemla. From Helaman we learn that Zedekiah's son, Mulek, had brought, under the Lord's direction, a group of people to this continent. They had landed in the north country, for Helaman writes, "The Lord did bring Mulek into the land north, and Lehi into the land south" (Helaman 6:10). With the coming of Mulek to the promised land, we have three of the twelve tribes of Israel represented here, the tribes of Ephraim, Manasseh, and Judah. During the reign of Mosiah, the people brought to him a large stone with engravings upon it. Mosiah "interpreted the engravings by the gift and power of God" (Omni 20). It narrated the account of Coriantumr and his people, the Jaredites, who had come out from the tower of Babel at the time the Lord confounded the language of the people; and who built a great civilization in the land northward, and whose bones were scattered there. Mosiah learned that Coriantumr had been discovered by the people of Zarahemla, and that he had lived nine months with them. Amaleki then gave an account ot two groups of Nephites from Zarahemla who were interested in returning to the land of Nephi, the land of their first inheritance. We do not know the name of the leader of the first group, but he was strong willed and con- LESSON DEPARTMENT tentious. Asa result, all except fifty of the first group were slain. Those fifty returned to Zarahemla. Amaleki's brother went with the second group under the leadership of Zeniff, who was one of the fifty to return. (See Mosiah 9:1-3.) Amaleki was the last prophet to write on the small plates, as they were full, and, since he had no seed, he intrusted the record to King a son of Mosiah. Benjamin, Benjamin Benjamin had three sons: Mosiah, Helorum, and Helaman, to whom he taught the language of his fathers, and the contents of the plates of brass, which were written in the Egyptian language (Mosiah 1:4). King Benjamin was very much concerned over his sons. He wanted them to be men of understanding, to be able to read and interpret the prophecies of the Lord. He desired that they should understand the real significance of the brass plates and the large and small plates of Nephi, all of which had come into his possession. He begged his sons to remember that the records were true, to study them diligently, 549 and to translate their teachings into deeds. Benjamin conferred his kingdom on his son, Mosiah, and gave him charge of all the records, the sword of Laban, and the ball or director. Suggested Readings: Bible: If Kings 24:17-20; 25:1-7. II Chronicles 36:10-21. Jeremiah 21; 24:8-10; 32:1-5; 37:16-21; 39:1-7. Questions for Discussion 1. What theme predominates in these books of Enos, Jarom, and Omni? Z. What does the prayer of Enos unfold concerning his character? 3. Name the prophets who wrote on the small plates of Nephi. 4. Why did Enos try to create fear of the Lord in the hearts of the people? 5. Name differences existing between the Nephites and the Lamanites. 6. How does the history recorded by Amaleki on the small plates of Nephi connect with the history recorded by King Mosiah and King Benjamin? Note to Class Leaders: In teaching this lesson, the use of a blackboard on which the names of the different characters may be listed, will prove helpful. The following lesson (lesson 19) will set forth the teachings of King Benjamin, so this lesson, in relation to Benjamin, concerns itself only with the account of Benjamin as given in Omni and the first chapter of Mosiah. I Dusk in Bouquet Canyon Ethel Jacobson Sage, mesquite, and tumbleweed Quilt the canyon walls. Every bush a plump bouquet— Russet, green, saffron, gray, The colors change and interplay As desert twilight falls On sage, mesquite, and tumbleweed, And a late dove calls. Ussiting Seacher Tlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 18—"And See That Ye Have Faith, Hope, and Charity, and Then Ye Will Always Abound in Good Works" (Alma 7:24) Leone O. Jacobs Objective: To stimulate the development of faith, hope, and charity, that good works may abound. AITH, mentioned first in Alma's quotation above, is essential to the success of any endeavor. The Prophet Joseph Smith approved the following: Turn your thoughts on your own minds, and see if faith is not the moving cause of all action in yourselves; and, if the moving cause in you, is it not in all other intelligent beings? And as faith is the moving cause of all action in temporal concerns, so it is in spiritual.... But faith is not only the principle of action, but of power also.... Had it not been for the principle of faith the worlds would never have been framed neither would man have been formed of the dust. It is the principle by which Jehovah works, and through which he exercises power over all temporal as well as eternal things (Lectures on Faith, pp. 8, 9). In the Lectures on Faith, we are told that faith "is the assurance we have of the existence of unseen things." On the same subject Ralph Waldo Emerson explained, "All I have seen teaches me to trust the Creator for all I have not seen." The necessity for both faith and works is a subject discussed extensively, both in the scriptures and by prominent religious workers. From these sources we must conclude that faith is the root of all work. Upon the interdependence of faith and works, James in the New Testament, gave the following testimony: Page 550 What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food, And one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit? Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works: shew me thy faith without thy works, and I will shew thee my faith by my works (James 2:14-18). * *¢€ € & & If faith produce no works, I see That faith is not a living tree Thus faith and works together grow; No separate life they e'er can know. —Hannah More Hope is akin to faith and encourages good works, but it has not the vitality nor the moving power of faith. Charity, according to the apostle Paul, is of major importance in all good deeds. The spirit which accompanies the works determines in large measure, the good accomplished. All works to be effective should be tempered with charity, or its synonym "love." In The Book of Mormon, Mormon tells us that, "Charity is the pure love of Christ, and it endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with him" (Moroni 7:47). One of President For Tuesday, November 3, 1953. LESSON DEPARTMENT George Albert Smith's favorite expressions was, "Love people into doing the right thing." The apostle Paul says: And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity... It profiteth me nothing.... And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity.... Charity never faileth (I Cor. 19:2, 3, & 13). 551 Charity is so vital in the compassionate service which characterizes our Relief Society organization that the expression last mentioned by Paul was chosen as its motto— "Charity never faileth" (I Cor. 13:8). *Good works are a natural outgrowth of faith, hope, and charity. These three attributes combined bring forth good works in abundance. Work Mleeting—Family Money Management (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 2—Your Shopping Dollar Rhea H. Gardner (For Tuesday, November 10, 1953) HE standard of living of a nation, a family, or an individual is determined more by the manner in which the money income is spent, and what it is spent for, than by its total value. Inasmuch as women spend a large portion of the family income, it is their responsibility to learn what to look for in buying and how to get full value on every dollar invested. Experts calculate that a careful shopper who really makes comparisons and takes advantage of genuine bargains can earn $3 for every hour spent in shopping. But bargains, even real ones, can cost, rather than save money, if they lead you to buy things you do not need. With advertising playing the important selling role it now is, homemakers must learn to interpret what they hear, read, and see on the basis of facts that have been tested and proved by highly skilled and unprejudiced workers. There is no magic formula for buying more for your money. However, there are principles which, if observed, will help you to do so. Compare Values Prices on similar items, sometimes even on the same item, vary from store to store. Different stores feature different items from time to time. Price is only one of the elements of a bargain. A low-priced item may not be a good buy at all. On the other hand, many people do not realize that a high price may not necessarily mean that an article has great worth. To compare values fully you not only compare prices, you must also compare: Quality: Read labels and tags. If there are none, do not buy unless satisfaction 552 can be guaranteed. 'The absence of informative labels is largely because we as consumers have not demanded them. Design: Is it efficiently designed for the purpose it is to serve? Purpose: Is it suited to your special needs? Select Basic Styles Furniture of simple lines is more likely to be harmonious in a room of mixed pieces. In general, simply made and simply decorated items are less likely to become dated and are easier to maintain. Buy on the Basis of Intended Use You may want to buy a fancy grade of tomatoes for use in salads, but a cheaper grade is just as good in soups. Fresh fluid milk is usually preferred for drinking, but dried milk solids are just as good for cooking or baking, and will cost only about one-fourth as much. A good quality hard finish floor covering is usually a better buy from money aspects for a dining room floor than is a carpet, especially if the room is used regularly by the family. Buy on the Basis of Grade Labels "USP" on a drug item means that it meets the specifications of the United States Pharmaceutical Association. If two brands of aspirin are both labeled "USP," it would certainly be uneconomical to pay fiftyseven cents for one hundred put up by one manufacturer, if another offered you one hundred for twelve cents. Buy in Quantity The cost per ounce of most flavorings is greater when purchased in small quantity. This is because it costs just about as much to package, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 handle, sell, store, and deliver a small bottle as a large one. Labor costs figure high in the retail price of goods. 'The cost of a certain hair shampoo varies from fifty-six cents to more than $2 per pint, depending upon the quantity in which it is purchased. Before buying in quantity, however, one must be sure there are storage facilities adequate so that there will be no waste before the purchase is all used. Take Advantage of Best Buys Know your needs in advance and watch for buying opportunities. If you ascertain your requirements in advance of needs, you can save substantially by watching for special sales. Clearances and annual sales usually occur about the same time each year. Do Not Buy on Credit—Pay Cash Credit costs. Therefore, if you use it, you can expect to pay extra for the service. No credit charge means that all prices have been arranged to cover the cost of financing, because the extension of credit costs money. Do Not Pay for Unnecessary Services It has been estimated that a $150 sewing machine and a few dollars for sewing lessons can help cut the cost of family clothing from onethird to one-half. This includes no really difficult sewing. The use of ready-mixes and readyprepared foods have a place in some homes where time and energy are already taxed to the limit. For every service we receive, however, we pay high wages. LESSON DEPARTMENT High incomes often czcourage careless and uneconomical buying. Planned spending, based on longtime family goals, is a strongly recommended practice in time of prosperity as well as in adversity. Careful buying is not miserly. Rather, it is an important step in the ladder that leads to successful living. Christmas buying can be carried to excess, and many budgets are strained for the rest of the year to pay for the holiday spending. Christmas buying should be carefully planned in advance, and by taking advantage of best buys, kept within 55a the family budgets, so that the purchase of gifts will not upset the economic: stability of the family. By failing to take advantage of all the economies open to them, consumers help to keep prices up. Their tendency to demand smaller portions, more highly processed foods, and what might be called frills in the way of service, all contribute toward maintaining high prices. Thoughts for Discussion 1. After-Christmas sales. 2. Pre-inventory and clearance sales. 3. January white sales. Miemature—We Literature of England Lesson 34—Alfred Lord Tennyson, Representative Victorian (1809-1892) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II. Woods, Watt, Andcrson PP. 593-654 For Tuesday, November 17, 1953 Objective: To attain an understanding of Tennyson's later poetry. Yennyson as Poet Laureate HEN Wordsworth died in 1850, a list containing four names was submitted for consideration in choosing his successor as poet laureate. On this list Tennyson's name was fourth. Yet he was selected, at the personal request of Queen Victoria, who had been deeply moved by his verse. Rarely has a choice been more timely, more appropriate. Our last lesson mentioned briefly how Tennyson prepared himself to serve his people as their spokesman, expressing for them their hopes, emphasizing their beliefs and prejudices, resolving their fears. He was so near the great heart of England that he knew all its throbbings, and he pointed out the beat and rhythm to those not as alert as he. 'Tennyson flattered, scolded mildly, and inspired his age in language and on a level which it could understand. And the Victorians were so thrilled at having their portrait painted by such a personage; they were so awed at having so austere and loved a nobleman in their midst, that they never thought to wish that Tennyson might have been other than he was. He was theirs; they were his. Both felt happy and secure in the relationship. Tennyson's Belicts Because his mind was typical of 554 A Perry Picture—Copyright 1909 TENNYSON'S HOME, FRESHWATER, ISLE OF WIGHT the average Englishman, while his considerable poetic gifts were of a rare excellence, Tennyson is easily blamed by moderns for failure to be what he was not. It is self-evident from his writings that he believed firmly in the supreme destiny of the British nation, in loyalty, morality, science, progress, the domestic virtues, and in the worth of religion (not sectarianism), the conscience, and the immortality of the soul. Likewise it is known that he feared greed, other nations, national and domestic immorality, democracy, evolution as the successor to religion, art for art's sake, gossip, crowds, the flaws of his own early writings, and those who would write his biography. In his civic, domestic, and personal convictions he was unshakably confident, even narrow; in probing the great and ultimate questions RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 of religion and the soul, he was not without waverings. But whatever he was or was not, we must never accuse him of being insincere. He took his high calling most seriously. Yes, he compromised the differences between science and religion; on occasion he was confused, and he changed his views, but he was never irresponsible. He knew his Victorian age and was so close to it that, while both expressing and criticizing it, he was strongly sustained by the intimacy of his relationship with those immediately around him. Nowhere is this better illustrated than by "In Memoriam." When Arthur Hallam died suddenly in 1833, Tennyson was shaken to the very core of his being. Previous to this disaster Tennyson, a minister's son, had conformed to the social appear- LESSON DEPARTMENT ance of being religious, but never had there been any need for him to thrust his beliefs into the white flame of reality to test their stamina and temper. Suddenly, at age twenty-four, his personal convictions were severely challenged by this loss of his dearest friend: either he must justify his beliefs or discard them. For the next seventeen years he probed within his tortured soul in this racking, painful attempt at selfdefinition. By the time "In Memoriam" was published in 1850, Tennyson had chronicled in poetic form the anguished search for certainty driven to undertake. Almost at once the poem was widely popular. Numerous ministers used it as a text for their sermons, while the reading public therein found expression and vindication for their own principles, whatever they might be. For by picking the proper passage, the orthodox, the liberals, the scientists, and the skeptics found in this poem what they wished to believe. With Tennyson's ascending popularity England was again articulate, and the prestige of poetry and literary personages rose to a height in English life never reached before or since. During many years when poetry readings were held in. Tennyson's home, he could never be induced to read from "In Memoriam." He felt it to be such an intimate revelation of his own inner chaos and rejuvenation that he could not bear to re-live it in the presence of others. We may now read the poem, however, as a revelation both of Tennyson's mind and the mind of which he felt he had been 555 Victorian England which esteemed it so highly. In Memoriam If the excerpts in our text are to be accepted as representative, at once it becomes apparent how various are the parts of "In Memoiam." It seems a collection of mixtures. Neither in material, tone, intensity, nor in individual themes is it a oneness. But neither its origin nor its purpose lies in unity, but in a miscellaneous treatment of memory, loneliness, death; faith vs. Doubt; nature vs. God; personal identity vs. Futility; and, finally, belief in love, nature, and free will. In contrast to the bulk of Tennyson's writings, this poem has genuine emotional power: its tenderness, bewilderment, and memory of departed love move us to sympathetic emotional response. There can be no better place than here to pay tribute to Tennyson as one of the master craftsmen in English poetry. This poem is his best, not only because it reveals the sincere, true Tennyson, but because it is presented in words and imagery precisely suited to its content. Nor does the way it is said ever detract from what is said. Tennyson was a most conscientious artist, as these lines prove, continually revising his work until it more nearly expressed his exact intent. In the prologue we find the tone of the larger poem: Strong Son of God, immortal Love, Whom we, that have not seen thy face, By faith, and faith alone, embrace, Believing where we cannot prove.... (text, page 629, lines 1-4) 556 Tennyson then appeals to faith as transcending inadequate knowledge, which by itself cannot prove values of the soul. And later, We have but faith; we cannot know, For knowledge is of things we see; And yet we trust it comes from thee, A beam in darkness; let it grow. (text, page 629, lines 21-24) After asking forgiveness for grieving over the death of Arthur Hallam, 'Tennyson ends the prologue by asking forgiveness for. These wild and wandering cries, Confusions of a wasted youth. (text, page 629, lines 41-42) Two points seem significant. First, though the prologue begins with atfirmation, and a majestic sweep, it ends in contrition, confusion, and a plea of mortal weakness. Next it should be noted that, while the poem is to praise faith, 'Tennyson "trusts" that faith is from God; likewise he "trusts" that Hallam now lives with God. When he states his certainties in the final stanzas of the poem he "trusts" With faith that comes of self-control, The truths that never can be proved. (text, page 636, lines 9-10) Finally, then, the poem is one of trust rather than one of vigorous belief. In the first section of the main poem, with its memorable lines that. Men may rise on stepping-stones Of their dead selves to higher things. (text, page 629, lines 3-4) Tennyson begins grappling with the problems of Love and Grief and Death. Section II, typifying many RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 others, is well done, since it creates in words the quality of calmness it defines: Calm and deep peace in this wide air, These leaves that redden to the fall— And in my heart, if calm at all, If any calm, a calm despair.... (text, page 630, lines 13-16) Three times in the poem he describés the Christmas scene and mood, each time effectively contrasting the traditional peace of the season with the unrest within his own heart. In section sixty-four, page 632, he acknowledges the divine qualities within man, and feels security and nearness to some force larger than himself when he is alone in nature. In section seventy-three, page 633, neither Death nor Nature is to be cursed, since everything is governed by law. Section eighty-seven, page 633, is memorable for its tender rememberings of schooldays at Cambridge. It prepares us for section ninety-five, page 634, a mystical passage of inexplicable power and haunting beauty in which Tennyson, recalling the scenes in which he knew Hallam, feels thé presence of his dead schoolmate grow within him, only to end the. Trance "stricken with doubt." Hear and see the beauty. Of these lines: And calm that let the tapers burn Unwavering. Not a cricket chirred; The brook alone far-off was heard, And on the board the fluttering urn. (text, page 634, lines 5-8) While now we sang old songs that pealed From knoll to knoll, where, couched at ease, The white kine glimmered, and the trees Laid their dark arms about the field. (text, page 634, lines 13-16) LESSON DEPARTMENT Section ninety-five is a great piece of writing, and a memorable experience. In section ninety-six, page 635, confused by his own doubts, he says: There lives more faith in honest doubt, Believe me, than in half the creeds. Section 106, page 635, is his famous Ring out, wild bells, to the wild sky, The flying cloud, the frosty light; The year is dying in the night; Ring out, wild bells, and let him die. (text, pp. 635-636, lines 1-4) Tennyson then lists all the evils of the past which must die, and the virtues he would use to replace them: Ring in the valiant man and free, The larger heart, the kindlier hand; Ring out the darkness of the land, Ring in the Christ that is to be. (text, page 636, lines 29-32) Tennyson then acknowledges love as his lord and king, and love whispers "In the deep night, that all is well" (lines 11-12). His final affirmation section 131, is in freedom of the will: O living will that shalt endure When all that seems shall suffer shock, Rise in the spiritual rock, Flow through our deeds and make them pure. (text, page 636, lines 1-4) And thus, concludes Tennyson, with faith and self-control, and with truths realized through faith, we shall know again in love those kindred souls who were once close to us during mortality. While Tennyson's doubts were both intense and prolonged, it was 557 against his very nature, and the nature of mankind, to be dominated permanently by them. By the truths of life, and all existence as he saw it, Tennyson had to believe, and he spoke to an age desperately anxious to believe with him. Later Minor Poems In his mature years Tennyson produced a great volume of poetry, little of which can be noted here. Many excellent poems in our text must go unacknowledged. However, we should be reminded of "The Charge of the Light Brigade" (page 637), since it is representative of Tennyson's tingling patriotic poems (not in the text), such as "The Revenge," "Ode on the Death of Wellington," and "The Defense of Lucknow," which for decades endeared him to all schoolboys and all loyal Englishmen. His two homely dialect poems describing the changes in the independent, brusque northern farmer further demonstrate his versatility, not only in his skill at managing the new material, but in the way he emphasizes the undue importance the new generation attaches to "proputty, proputty, proputty" (pp. 641, 643). "Rizpah," one of Tennyson's most magnificent poems, unfortunately is not included in our text. Idylls of the King In our generation 'Tennyson is perhaps best known for his series of twelve long poems based on Arthurian legends, which appeared at irregular intervals from 1859 to 1885. Many of his readers found it pleasant to escape from the growing complexities of the times by reading his beautified creation of his fanci- 558 ful-historical realm of England's own glorious heroes. These heroic figures—King Arthur, Launcelot, and, particularly, Sir Galahad—appealed to the lofty concepts and solid moral standards of his readers. Also in the Idylls Tennyson indulged his love of rich description, mystery, and the supernatural. The first poem in the series, "The Coming of Arthur," leaves several loose strands in the reader's mind, and fails to distinguish successfully between his characters, as such, and their allegorical significance. But these details become of little consequence when Tennyson begins casting his own magic spell, to be seen at work in his description of the mysterious Lady of the Lake. (See page 650, lines 282-293.) In the Idylls Tennyson happily combined his word-music, dazzling imagery, love of the English past, and his power to depict moral, heRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 roic characters. For those who love the rewards found in the realm of imagination, reading from the Idylls of the King will always be rewarding. "Crossing the Bar" And, at the end, "Crossing the Bar" (page 654), which we have long known and loved for its clear, simple images, its smoothness and tight construction, and the serene peace of the life hereafter, will be especially rewarding. Life is better for having possessed this poem, just as it is richer for having known Tennyson and his considerable contribution to English literature. Questions for Discussion 1. Do you consider "In Memoriam" Tennyson's greatest work? Why? 2. Can you account for the popularity of Idylls of the King? 3. What do you like best in Tennyson? In his poetry? Social Science—The Constitution of the United States Lesson 2—Latter-day Saint View of the Constitution of the United States Elder Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, November 24, 1953 Objective: To review the scriptural foundation of Latter-day Saint beliefs concerning the Constitution. RELIMINARY to an examination of the Constitution itself, it is important to review the Latter-day Saint teachings and philosophy regarding this great document. In making brief mention of those beliefs and attitudes, it will be necessary to refer to much which may be to most, if not all, Relief Society women already well known. Therefore, it is anticipated that the following material will, for the most part, present a review of scriptural and other material which is already familiar. This is considered to be justified because of the great significance the Latter-day Saints place upon the Constitution in its rela- LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture—Copyright 1924 THE LANDING _ tionship to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Significance of Constitution to Latter-day Saints The importance of the Constitution in the eyes of Latter-day Saints springs essentially from two sources. The first of these sources is scriptural. The second source springs from a long and bitter Latter-day Saint struggle to attain religious freedom, equality, and justice under the Constitution. No people living in America has ever been more sorely tried and persecuted for religious reasons than have the Latter-day Saints. On the other hand, no other people is possessed of such wonderful scriptural support for their beliefs in relation to the Constitution as are the Latter-day Saints. 559 From a Painting by Van Der Lyn OF COLUMBUS In proper sequence, first consideration should be devoted to the scriptural foundation of Latter-day Saint beliefs regarding this great charter of freedom. Latter-day Saint views on the Constitution of the United States are unique in that they are bound up in Latterday Saint philosophy concerning the proper relationship existing between people and government. The basic Latter-day Saint view relating to the Constitution is essentially that it is a document of divine origin and, further, that the founding of this great country was directly connected with the restoration of the gospel. The Latter-day Saints are not, perhaps, the only people who believe that the Constitution was divinely inspired, but, of course, they are the only people placing any 560 significance upon the writing of the Constitution as an event preceding the restoration of the gospel in the latter days. 'The facts are, that Latter-day Saints have always been devoted defenders and protectors of the Constitution, attaching to it and to the Government under it, a far greater significance and importance than it would otherwise have. Rise of Gentile Nations Foretold in Book of Mormon The prophets of the Book of Mormon foretold the coming forth of the gospel upon this continent in a Gentile nation which the Lord would raise up. The description of that nation in The Book of Mormon so perfectly fits the description of our counl: y as we know it, as to leave no doubt as to its identity. Thus it is recorded in I Nephi 13:12-19 that the following events were to transpire: A man among the Gentiles, separated from the seed of Nephi's brethren by much water, through the Spirit of God, would go forth upon the waters to the land where Nephi's brethren _ lived. Thereafter, other Gentiles should follow in course of time who would smite and scatter the seed of Nephi's brethren. Following this, the Gentiles from the mother country would go forth to battle against the Gentiles who had come to this land. Because the Gentiles living here would humble themselves before the Lord, his power would be with them and they should prevail over the Gentiles who would destroy them or render them captive. Finally, the Gentiles occupying this land should prosper. It is also noteworthy that the Gentiles coming to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 this land are referred to as coming out of captivity. We know as a matter of history that following the coming of Columbus, there came from the Gentile nations of Europe many groups of people. We know, also, that they came out of relative captivity, many of them in search of religious freedom, and others for the purpose of securing economic opportunity and freedom from severe economic and social oppression. They came from countries where only the privileged few were allowed to enjoy life, liberty, or the pursuit of happiness. They came from countries where the acquisition of property and education by common people was extremely difficult, if not impossible. How can anyone deny that most of those coming to this land came out of captivity? We know that the Indians, the seed of Nephi's brethren, were in very deed smitten and scattered. It is a fact of history that the Gentiles from the mother countries did attempt to subdue and again render captive those Gentiles who had come and settled in this land, and that this attempt failed. Viewed in the perspective of history, it is a miracle that these attempts were unsuccessful. The greatest nations of the earth were the Gentile nations of Europe, and they were arrayed against but a handful of Gentiles upon this land. Judged by all of the outward appearance of power, the Gentiles of this land should have easily been subdued. 'That this did not occur is also a fact of history. Finally, the Gentiles upon this land have prospered. It is a fact that this nation under the Con- LESSON DEPARTMENT stitution has prospered and grown into the mightiest nation on earth. Furthermore, the Gentiles who came to dwell in this land, not only in what became the United States, but in every part of North and South America, threw off the yoke of their mother countries and each. Secured its political independence. In I Nephi 22:7 it states that a mighty nation is to be founded upon this land. Certainly, as has been observed, such a description can fit no other nation save our own. The Book of Mormon also tells us that this should be a land of liberty, and that no Gentile kings should rule over it, and that it should be fortified against all other nations (II Nephi 10:11-12). The Gentiles were to be set up as a free people in this land by the power of the Lord (III Nephi 21:4). Fulfillment of Prophecies None can gainsay that this foretelling has been literally fulfilled. This land became and is a land of liberty. It has been fortified against all other nations. So much is this so that no other nation or group of nations has thus far been permitted to prevail against it. No king has ever been able to maintain sway or power in this land. We know of the sad and pitiful attempt made by Napoleon III to install a puppet king, Maximilian in Mex-. Ico, and the tragic ending of that attempt. For a short time the son (Pedro 1) of a king of Portugal and his son (Pedro II) ruled in Brazil, only to be overthrown in 1889. We take it to be literally true that this land was set up as a land of freedom to the Gentiles living here and that 56! This was accomplished by the power of the Lord. While we remind ourselves and our Gentile brethren that the fortuitous blessings which this land has enjoyed are conditional, nevertheless the fact remains that thus far this happy situation has been permitted to prevail. Constitution Divinely Inspired Further and even more definite and explicit references to the Government of this great country, the purposes of its founding, and the manner in which the Lord caused the Constitution to be written are found in the Doctrine and Covenants. In section 101:77-80 the Lord said: According to the laws and constitution of the people, which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles; That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity,. According to the moral agency which I have given unto him, that every man may be accountable for his own sins in the day of judgment. Therefore, it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood. Again in section 98:4-6, the Lord says: And now, verily I say unto you concerning the laws of the land, it is my will that my people should observe to do all things whatsoever I command them. And that law of the land which is constitutional, supporting that principle of freedom in maintaining rights and privi- 562 Suggested RELIEF SOCIETY ~ CHORAL NUMBERS SSA God Shall Wipe Away All Tears Roma 16 = How Lovely Is Thy Dwelling Place Brahms... 22 = | Will Thank Thee, O Lord—Moir......15 = Lo, My Shepherd Is Divine Haydn 22 = Lord, Hear Our Prayer—Verdi..........15 = My Soul Is Athirst For God Madsen 20 — Ode To Immortality—Larsen............20 - One World—O'Hara 20 = Out of the Depths—Todd..................20 =~ Peace | Leave With You—Roberts...15 WE PAY POSTAGE Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement on your order biank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY | 45-47 South Main 4 Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music Indicated above. 0 On Approval 1 Charge O Money Enclosed Name. Address. City & State FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY ayes 45-47 SOUTH MAIN STREET To A SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 leges, belongs to all mankind, and is justifiable before me. Therefore, I, the Lord, justify you, and your brethren of my church, in befriending that law which is the constitutional law of the land. In the dedicatory prayer of the Kirtland Temple, the following was said: Have mercy, O Lord, upon all the nations of the earth; have mercy upon the tulers of our land; may those principles, which were so honorably and nobly defended, namely, the Constitution of our land, by our fathers, be established forever (D. & C. 109:54). This dedicatory prayer was revealed to Joseph Smith by the Lord, and its reference to the Constitution is a further testimony to the Latter-day Saints of the divine origin of that Constitution. Of course, the statements contained in section 101 are a direct and explicit revelation of God's hand in the establishment of our country and its fundamental charter, the Constitution. The admonition, in section 98, to uphold and sustain the principle of constitutional government and laws enacted which are in conformity to it, give point and emphasis to the Latter-day Saint view upon constitutional government, which has been evidenced by the teachings and writings of our leaders for over a hundred years. Constitutional Principles Vital to Restoration of the Church It is not necessary to dwell at great length upon the history of the struggles of Joseph Smith and his followers and successors for liberty and freedom of conscience. It is enough to recall the unhappy fact LESSON DEPARTMENT that Latter-day Saints were forced to learn through sorrowful experience and persecution the value of the liberties and freedoms guaranteed under the Constitution. Though these liberties and freedoms which should have been protected were ofttimes denied to the Church and its followers; nevertheless, the Church and its leaders never lost sight of the fact that constitutional principles are vital to the restored Church. Without them, the gospel could not have been restored. A moment's reflection should convince even the skeptic that only in this land could Mormonism have come forth. Let us ask ourselves in what other country would it have been possible, including the other countries of the American continent? It could not have happened in any nation where there was an established or state - supported church, or in a nation where the laws were such that only one church was accorded legal recognition and protection. The United States of America was the only one which could qualify for this great purpose. Finally, we know from the revealed scripture, as given to us in 563 The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants, that this was the chosen land upon which the great restoration was to be accomplished. In conclusion, let us, therefore renew our appreciation of the blessings of liberty. Let us be vigilant in the defense of the principle of free agency. Let us uphold the Constitution of the United States. In so doing, we shall be following in the footsteps of our predecessors in maintaining a tradition of loyalty and devotion to the Constitution and true constitutional principles to which we, as a people, have been devoted from the beginning. References Smith, Joseph Fielding: The Progress of Man, Chapter 29 "Church Authorities and the Constitution," pp. 335-345. Questions for Discussion 1. What are the scriptural sources of Latter-day Saint beliefs in the Constitution? 2. What makes the Latter-day Saints unique in their devotion to the Constitution? 3. What does the Lord require of Latter-day Saints in the way of support of the Constitution? Books Dealing With American History Circa 1760-1790 Helen P. Gibson President, Utah Library Association HE following lists of books, non-fiction and fiction, are presented through the kindness of Mrs. Helen P. Gibson, President of Utah Library Association, as suggested reading for the social science course, ""The Constitution of the United States." While all the books listed will not have the same appeal to different readers, it is hoped that this list will help readers, in line with their individual 564 tastes, choose books which will give them a background and deeper understanding of the years preceding and during which the Constitution of the United States was written. Your local library may have other books to suggest. Acknowledgment is also made to Dr. G. Homer Durham, Elder Thomas Cottam Romney, and Miss Abbie Wells. Mrs. Gibson says, "I am glad to recommend these books about the formation and development of "Our Way of Life." Avams, J. T.: Epic of America, LittleBrown & Co., Boston, 1933. ComMaGER, Henry STEELE, Ed.: Living Ideas in America, Harper & Brothers, New York, 1951. Here is a storehouse of eloquent expressions of American ideas and institutions— in literature, history, memoirs, speeches, and documents. Finpiay, Bruce, AND Estuer: Your Rugged Constitution, Stanford University Press, 1950. (American Ideals Series) How America's House of Freedom is planned and built. Fores, Ester: Johnny Tremain, Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston, 1943. (Winner of the John Newberry Medal, 1944) This story of a young Boston apprentice was written for young people, but people of every age have enjoyed it. Jounson, Gerald W.: This American People, Harper & Brothers, New York, 1951.; ee is a primer of what America can mean to us, a vital and essential exposition of the ideas that made American greatness, that now, as never before, should inspire every thoughtful American. Mercs, CorneEviA L.: The Violent Men, The Macmillan Company, New York, 1949.:. The study of human relations in the first American congress. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1953 PeaTtTrE, Donatp C.: American Heartwood, Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston, 1949. Some of the great stories of our past (told) against a new background of the primeval American forest, which had so much to do with making us what we are. RicuTErR, Conrap: The Trees, Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., New York, 1947. Pioneer life at the beginning of the 19th century. Van Doren, Cart C: The Great Rehearsal, The Viking Press, New York, 1948. The story of the making and ratifying of the Constitution of the United States. Van Doren, Cart C.: Jane Mecom, The Viking Press, New York, 1950. The favorite sister of Benjamin Franklin, her life here first fully narrated from their entire surviving correspondence. The Standard Fiction Catalogue recommends these books: ALLEN, Merritt P.: Battle Lanterns, Longmans, Green & Co., Inc., New York, 1949. The revolutionary period in South Carolina. Under the leadership of the Swamp Fox, Francis Marion. (easy reading) ATHERTON, GERTRUDE: The Conqueror, J. P. Lippincott Co., Philadelphia, 1902. A dramatized biography of Alexander Hamilton. 4 Boyp, Water D.: Drums Along' the Mohawk, Little, Brown & Company, Boston, 1936. The story of how the Revolution af.- fected the farmers on the frontiers. Boyp, Water D.: Wilderness Clearing, Dodd, Mead & Co., New York, 1944. Mohawk Valley frontier in 1777. (easy reading ) Decker, Matcoutm: The Rebel and the Turncoat, McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York, 1949. Politics in 1775. (easy reading) FrEuCHTWANGER, Leon: Proud Destiny The Viking Press, New York, 1947. The court of Marie Antoinette and BOOKS DEALING WITH AMERICAN HISTORY Louis. XVI. Benjamin Franklin and Beaumarchais are outstanding figures. FLETCHER, Incuis C.: Raleigh's Eden, The Bobbs Merrill Company, Inc., Indianapolis, 1940. Begins in 1765 and ends in 1782. (easy reading) FLETCHER, INGLis C.: Toil of the Brave, The Bobbs Merrill Company, Inc., Indianapolis, 1946. A romance set in the turbulent years 1779-1780. Frey, Rusy F.: Red Morning, G. P. Putnam's Sons, New York, 1945. The teeming, perilous life of a frontier outpost is given vivid credibility through insistence on small details. RicHTER, Conrap: Free Man, Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., New York, 1943. A young emigrant from Palestine seeks political freedom among the Pennsylvania Dutch. Roserts, KENNETH L.: Arundel, Doubleday & Co., Inc., New York, 1930. Recollections of a soldier who was attached to the secret expedition led by Colonel Benedict Arnold against Quebec. SANDBURG, CARL: Remembrance Rock, Harcourt, Brace & Co., New York, 1948. A long account of a family from the early 17th century to V. E. Day. THACKERAY, WiLL1AM MAKEPEACE: The Virginians, The Macmillan Co., New York, Virginia and London in 1756- 1780. TurNBULL, Acnes S.: Day Must Dawn, The Macmillan Company, New York, 1942. The pioneer experiences of a ScotchIrish family in the back country of Pennsylvania. WituraMs, Ben Ames: Come Spring, Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston, 1940. A novel of ordinary people in a remote Maine settlement. A true picture of frontier life. Zara, Louis: This Land of Ours, Houghton Mifflin Co., Boston, 1940. Panorama of American frontier life between 1755 and 1835. 565 The following two numbers are to be used by the RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS - CHORUSES Sunday, November 1, 1953 1—-One World— Geoffrey O'Hara......20c 9—I Will Thank Thee, O Lord — Frank L. Moir OUR STOCK IS COMPLETE WHY NOT ORDER NOW! GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 So. Main St. Salt Lake City, Utah She Closed Door Carrie Lee Franklin I've shut the door of yesterday, Its sorrows and mistakes; I've locked within its gloomy walls Past failures and heartaches. And now I've thrown the key away To seek another room, To furnish it with hopes and smiles. And every springtime bloom. ® No thought shall enter this abode That has a hint of pain, And every malice and distrust Shall never therein reign. I've shut the door on yesterday, And thrown the key away Tomorrow holds no doubt for me. Since I have found today. The Pride of Your Library! Your Relief Society Magazines when handsomely bound into permanent yearly volumes acquire new value as excellent reference books. Just $2.50 Per Volume If necessary to mail them to you, the following postage rates will apply. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate 150 to 300 miles voccccecetateecetsseeeeeees 28 300 to 600 miles.. - an a 234 600 to 1000 miles.? 42 1000 to 1400 miles _. SS. 57 1400 to 1800 miles.. _...60 Over 1800 miles.......:.. 69 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah @ e@ Phone 4-258] No Appointment Necessary Salt Lake City Store 'utc > atin paced ope enya" SEARS vse sour sary Page 566 PIII II Bathroom Jricks Make A ToweEt TREE Elizabeth Williamson For much needed extra towel space for the large family, make a towel tree. The younger children can easily reach the first tung, the older children the second, and the adults the third. PIII III Up to 150 miles. Anesenseanesaseseseneeaacsenccrecsrsascees MMOD Family Sreasures Bernice T, Clayton Today is cupboard cleaning day; These precious things I own Bring each a tender memory Of loved ones I have known. My mother's luscious birthday cakes, Each crowned this crystal stand. These fragile, moss-rose, company cups Were cared for by her hand. Great-grandma's quaint old silver shone In gracious candlelight, That giant cup for bread and milk Was father's own delight. This baby plate, that celery vase, Dear grandpa's bowl of blue— How much we miss of memory When everything is new! - Whispered Wisdom Eva Willes Wangsgaard I was five summers old When my grandma went With her seventy-five Long winters spent. After the trek, In a frontier town, Twice-wed, twice-widowed, And desert brown. And here is the whole Of my memories: A willow tree humming With blossom-fed bees A final farewell And words slowly said, Keeping her wisdom Alive in my head. "Don't try to get even, Revenge never pays. A quarrel feeds quarrels. Sow peace Through your days." Why not join our lovely Indian ) Summer Tour to Hawaii. We shall leave in early October. For Complete Details Write or Phone...... 'VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone 4-2017 or 5-9388 RELIEF SOCIETY CHORAL MUSIC Copies On Hand Now! Order Early! Songs for Sunday Nov. Ist, 1953 One World -§.20. J Will Thank Thee, O Lord.......... 15 Songs for October Conference (Special Chorus) Out of the Depths........................ -20 Lo, My Shepherd! S Divine..............22 Peace | Leave With You............; My Soul ts Athirst For God............ Lord, Hear Our Prayer.................. God Shall Wipe Away All Tears...... Ode to Immortality..........0...000.0... 3 How Lovely Is Thy Dwelling Place... O Payment Enclosed 0 Charge | WE PAY POSTAGE Nome Address Beesley Music Co. 70 SO. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Page 567 Ay We Gouty eaee Esther Warburton puRst and foremost in our lives is the joy of the restored gospel, the testimony we have burning within us of the truth of its teachings, to know the joy of service, the realization that we have a Heavenly Father who hears and answers our prayers. Because of that knowledge we have a wider, more comprehensive view of things both spiritual and material. The joy that comes from this source is true jay, because it is lasting, and will "never pass into nothingness." May we learn to evaluate life and to know a true sense of values. Above all, may we so live that the testimony we have of the truth may run like a golden thread through © the tapestry of our lives. So many things give joy to us through beauty, so many things to please the eye and gladden the heart. Are we observant? Do we take time to appreciate the beauties around us? The gift of appreciation is no mean gift. We cannot all be singers, writers, artists, musicians, or poets, but we can learn to appreciate these great talents in others and enjoy their beauty, and we shall find that the gift of appreciation is second only to that of creating. Let us consider other things that give joy. Nature is a spendthrift and lavish with her beauty. Who can estimate the beauty or joy that may be ours from contemplation of a lilac tree in bloom, such loveliness, blossoms so extravagant in their breath- - taking beauty, so dainty in color and fragrance, so delicate? Truly a lilac tree is a "joy forever." Then there are books. One cannot measure the pleasure gained from our book friends. To stand before a bookcase and pick out the book to fit the mood and the hour, to open the pages, and at once find yourself in the company of friends is a joy. These book fnends are so real, so infinitely dear, they live so vividly that you would not be surprised to turn around and meet Abbie Deal, Maggie Tulliver, David Copperfield, Selina Paeke, or even Babbit. You could enter into a conversation with any of them and be right at home. There is joy in the written word, joy in the painting of a picture with words. Our poets give us joy beyond measure. We are indeed rich when we have friends, true friends, who will stand by us in joy or sorrow, friends who will rejoice when we succeed and sorrow when we fail. In order to have friends we must be friendly. There is much of beauty that may be ours, much joy that comes into our lives, if we have the seeing eye and the understanding heart. As we journey along let us live by the way. Jo... Thou makest the outgoings of the morning and evening to rejoice. Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it: thou greatly enrichest it with the river of God... Thou waterest the ridges thereof abundantly... Thou makest it soft with showers.. The pastures are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are covered over with corn; they shout for joy, they also sing (Psalm 65:8-10, 13). Page 568 BRIGHAM YOUNG, THE MAN AND HIS WORK By Preston Nibley Here js the intimate lif, ve © story of eat; € gr Mormon colonizer ang oe ed one Special] Stress On President Young's teachings from his ' letters and Sermons, nine pre dents of: MISSIONARY EXPERIENCES By Preston Nible. Choice ©xPeriences of some me of the great men of Prepared under direction Of the Presiding Bisho the Church. Ds IS One Volume the reat 0 to Salt Lake valley, Regularly $3 9 INSPIRATIONAL TALKS FoR 0h Co. City. Utah — aa -D. S, Present. The leaders themselves, urch from the time Of its ganization In 18389 enever Possible, Mr, Nibley has made direct quote. $4.00 U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 ake the easy steps to BETTER HOME CANNI When you home can, using pure U and I Sugar, you: 1. INSURE THE HEALTH OF YOUR FAMILY... Providing them with year-round nutrition by canning or freezing fresh fruits. 2. STRETCH THE FOOD DOLLAR... By preserving fruits when they are plentiful and inexpensive. 3. PROVIDE FOOD ENJOYMENT... Preserving fruits in various ways... Canned whole, in jams or jellies, or frozen fresh... So that they will retain good flavor, texture, and appearance. U and I Sugar is the perfect canning sugar. Get an extra bag at your grocers today. =~ VOL. 40 NO 9 Lessons for December SEPTEMBER 1953 Why the TFumily Reading Oh, i] Offers To Send You ANY THREE Yes you are invited to accept any three of the wonderful books ie on this page for only $1.89, with membership in the Family Reading Club. Founded to select and distribute books which are worthwhile, Ss and entertaining without being OF THESE FINE BOOKS (Value up to $19.95 in publishers' editions) the very finest new books at bargain prices. Rene HHT GCI Nee IR ER dae BODO SO NEAR TO THE HEARTS OF MEN? T° the thousands who knew courage and power; understanding father, again and find yourself calling it eee Club ofr for dati, $1. 89. THE GLORIFICATION OF AL TOOLUM by Robert Alan Aurthur. A lighthearted novel about a man, his wife, and their three mischievous sons— and what happens when Dad becomes famous as "Mr. Average American,"" Thorndike-Barnhart DICTIONARY. = Incorporates all the advances in dictionary-making achieved during the last century. Contains 80,000 entries. 700 illustrations, 900 pages. A muss volume for the permanent library! By Robert poems, bur the and loved Peter Marshall, he was a constant beacon of hope, to his family he was. Even more—a warm, human man, a beloved husband, an Reading this biography will inspire your life, show you the way to a happiness greater perhaps than you have ever known. Young wife whom Peter left wrote it as a record "my book." is a national best-seller in the publisher's edition at $4.00, but you may have your copy as one of the three books you select on this new Family THE LIVING BIBLE. O. Ballou. The stories, histories and passages of the Brble — set in big type for easy feading. Psalms appear as Grex Words remain unchanged. Publisher's edition, $3.75, Who Was This Man_— The It THE SOJOURNER by Marjorie Kiiman Rawlings. Ase and Ben—more different men never lived— yetthiswoman worshipped both. What happened when she chose makes che year's most gripping novel' Pub. Edition, $3.50. ENCYCLOPEDIA OF COOKING by Meta Given. The master cook book that gives you a delightful new approach to cooking! Contains 2,000 great recipes, hundreds o} pictures, 1700 pages. Orig. Published tn 2 vols. A $10. 00. Ed. $ feonly objectionable in any way, the Family Reading Club is juse what you have been looking for! Read, below, how the Club brings you 89 WITH MEMBERSHIP Then mail the coupon to join the Club and get the three books you want, without delay! CREATIVE HOME DECORATING by the Rockows. Work wonders with this new, revised manual! Covers latest crends; contains 700 pictures, dozens of charts and '"'show-how'* rooms. Step-by-step methods. Pub. Edition, $5.95. WHY THE FAMILY READING CLUB MAKES THIS UNUSUAL OFFER HE Family Reading Club makes this offer to demonstrate how it brings you the most enjoyable new books at much less than the publishers' regular editions. Each month publishers submit books they believe will meet the Family Reading Club standards, ar. D our Editors select the book they can recommend most enthusiastically. These are books which every member of your family can read — novels, biographies and inspirational books by such outstanding authors as Thomas Costain, Fulton Oursler, Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings, Darwin Teilhet and Bellamy Partridge. How Members Save up to 60% There is no charge for membership beyond the cost of the books themselves. You pay only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling) for the books you purchase after reading the book review magazine which will come to your home each month. You pay postman nothing; bill is due later. You may accept as few as four books each year, and you will receive a free ''Bonus'' Book for each four selections you take. The purchase of books for only $1.89 each saves you from 35% to 50% on each book you accept. And when the value of the Bonus Books is figured in, you can save as much as 60% of your book dollars! Join Now — Send No Mo ney Choose any three of the books shown here, and mail coupon at once, before this unusual offer is withdrawn. FAMILY READING CiUB @ MINEOLA, N. Y. MAIL COUPON NOW! CHECK THE THREE BOOKS YOU WANT WITH MEMBERSHIP IN THE FAMILY READING CLUB FAMILY READING CLUB, Dept. 9-RSM MINEOLA, NEW YORK Please send me at once the three books I have checked at the right as my two Membership Gift Books and first Club selection, and bill me only $1.89 (plus delivery) for all three. Also enroll me as a member of the Family Reading Club and send me, each month, a review of the Club's forthcoming selection. I have the privilege of notifying you in advance if I do not wish to accept any selection, or alternate book offered —at the special members' price of only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling). There are no membership dues or fees, and I may accept as few as four selections or alternates during the coming twelve months. As a member, I will receive a free Bonus Book with each four Club selections or alternates I accept. SPECIAL NO-RISK GUARANTEE: If not delighted, I will return all books in 7 days and this bership will be Please Print) Zone.... State........ Same offer in Canada. Address 105 Bond St., Toronto 2, Ont. Offer good only in U. S. A. And Canada. Age. If LB Creative Home Decorating CO Fhe Glorification of Al Toolum C The Living Bible CJ A Man Colled Peter I Meta Given's EncyOo clopedia of Cooking I (D The Sojourner | ( Thorndike-Barnhart I Desk Dictionary 22 of her love and faith; you will read it again and Thousands Make £50 and More With This Famous Chilton Plan! Think of it!... There are $$$ and $$$ of CASH PROFIT waiting for you in these wonderful boxes of beautiful Chilton Greeting Cards. It's a GU. Profit, too... You must make money just by showing these cards to friends and neighbors, or you may return the cards. Each year thousands of men and women are making new friends and asssuring themselves of extra money through the famous Chilton ''friendship plan.'' The moment you see these ALERS nee SIGN CARDS IN d 23 KT. GOLD Golden Signature "Prize" Assortment Our best-seller! 21 Christmas Wishes unrivaled for their. Richness and magnificence! With "Gold Writing'' Kit. Sell this box for.$1.25. Spirit of Christmas A colorful array of, Christmas greetings! 24 cute cards with heartwarming religious designs by famous illustrator, Eve Rockwell. Dainty and glowing with sentiment._ Box sells for $1 Starlites 14 eye-catching cards! Each has a metal frame of shiny aluminum tinted in blue, green, cerise and silver. 23 Kt. Golden Signature included in this assortment. Box sells for $1.25. Beautiful, colorful cards you'll understand why people are sO, wae eum ame ee aes es oes coe os oe es ee oe eager to buy them. There are cards for every occasion... Christmas cards, birthday cards, anniversary, get-well, friendship, congratulation cards. Not Just ordinary cards but cards so handsome they'll be remembered and treasured through the years! Your own good sense will tell you there must be literally hundreds of folks right in your neighborhood who'll thank you for introducing them to these cards. That's why we want to send you these three introductory boxes now... To prove what @ warm, friendly, human experience it is to show Chilton cards! You'll earn $10, $20, $50 and more, quickly and easily. You need no experience; as a new member of the 'Chilton Family" you get our money-making guides which explain everything. FREE TRIAL OFFER — YOUR PROFITS GUARANTEED To get you started, we make this amazing offer of all 3 boxes of famous Chilton Greeting Cards for just $1.00 — an offer that may never be made again! Send no money, pay nothing when your sample boxes arrive. Just examine these cards and show them to your friends and neighbors. Unless they bring you immediate orders for many more boxes as an active Chilton Dealer, just return the cards and owe nothing. Or, if you prefer, keep them for your own use at the wholesale price. You don't risk a penny! But this offer is limited so mail the coupon today! Chilton 20 Kingston St., Boston 11, Mass. 4 1812 Roscoe St., Chicago 13, 111. U us cae ame cum ce com come coms ome oe ce me CHILTON GREETINGS CO. 120 Kingston St., Dept. RS-9, Boston 11, Mass. I 1812 Roscoe St., Dept. RS-9, Chicago 13, III. Please send me the three boxes of r CHILTON GREETINGS described above on free approval. I pay nothing when the i cards arrive. I understand the special price co Chilton Dealers is only $1 ples mailing costs and that I may return them i without obligation if not satisfied. L I Address i City. Tone...... S#Q90......00s000 From Near and Sar I feel I must write and say how thrilled I was to see my poem "A Mother's Prayer" in the June issue of our Magazine. I feel it a great privilege to be numbered with the contributors to such an excellent Magazine. May I add how much the sisters of Preston Branch enjoy working in Relief Society. We are only few in numbers, but the spirit of the Lord is with us in rich abundance. All who attend the meetings subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine, and we do not want tomiss a single issue. We send greetings to the many Prestonians who are now in Utah. —Elsie Scott Preston, Lancashire, England The July Magazine reached me a few days ago, and I have devoured every word of it.. I wish I could remember how long I have been reading The Relief Society Magazine, but I cannot remember when I did not read and enjoy it very much. —Mzs. G. Stanley Brewer Ogden, Utah The stories in The Relief Society Magazine are of high quality, and I have found them useful and entertaining in our M. I. A. Drama project—''Latter-day Saint Songs and Stories." My favorite stories for this project are: "Pot-Head Kettle" (by Velma D. Cloward, April 1953) and "A Lady's Skirt" (by Blanche Kendall McKey, July 1953). —Joyce P. Christensen Murray, Utah I attend the Glendale Ward, and I love-it there. I am a Junior Gleaner and vice-president of my Mutual class. I have been a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for three years. My mother attends the Relief Society meetings, and I go to work meetings with her and really enjoy it. I help the ladies with their sewing and talk with them. I really love older people and love being with them. I want to express my apPage 570 preciation for the poetry in The Relief Society Magazine. It is so inspiring, and I find that it states a little lesson. I love the stories, also. I am only sixteen years of age, but maybe some day I will be a Relief Society teacher. I am surely thankful that my mother is receiving the Magazine. —Virginia Smithart Glendale, Arizona I always read the Magazine from cover to cover, and it is always an inspiration to me as it seems to make everyday trials and troubles disappear. It is one of the things that I always give to my mother to honor her on Mother's Day because she enjoys it so much. —Evelyn C. Christensen Gooding, Idaho During our recent tour of literary shrines in England, I noticed that Relief Society women who had studied and enjoyed the literature lessons in The Relief Society Magazine were particularly interested in all the places we visited and their background of information added greatly to their enjoyment of the tour. —Vida Fox Clawson Salt Lake City, Utah Thank you for the excellence of the Magazine—for the enjoyment, the enlightenment, and the spiritual uplift I receive from every issue. It seems. To me that in every way it is a publication worthy of a society organized by a true Prophet of God. —Mrs. Wanda G. Nielson Monticello, Utah I take pleasure in renewing my subscription to the loved messenger that comes so promptly, with renewed inspiration in each issue, for which thanks are given for this great work that only the members of our sex could accomplish so successfully. —Violetta H. Dunton North Salt Lake, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The 'Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints 'RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD - - President - First Counselor Second Counselor. - - - Secretary-Treasurer Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Belle S. Spafford Marianne C. Sharp Velma N. Simonsen Margaret C. Pickering Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young.- Helen W. Anderson Elna P. Haymond RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford No. 9 Editor: Associate Editor _ General Manager Vol. 40 SEPTEMBER 1953 Contents Ancestry of President David O. McKay In Memoriam — Elder Albert E. Bowen Jeanette McKay Morrell 574 Mark E. Petersen 582 First Ladies of Our Land — Part II Elsie C. Carroll 587 Travel Highlights — Farm Scenes Near Lake Geneva Elizabeth Williamson 603 Elizabeth Florence B. Dunford 584 Special for Redheads — Part III — Conclusion Hazel K. Todd 607 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty. Years Ago Woman's Sphere Editorial: Congratul "Never 570 594 Ramona W. Cannon 595 ations to President David O. McKay on His Eightieth Birthday................ 96 I ive a Cross... Word" Marianne C. Sharp 596 Annual Report 1952 Margaret C. Pickering 612 HOME FEATURES Plant Bulbs for Spring Beaut Dorthea N. Newbold 599 Y By Early Candlelight — VIII. Music in the Pioneer Home Bonnie A. Kesler 604 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Teachings of King Benjamin Leland H. Monson 624 Visiting Teacher Messages: "Behold, He Sendeth an Invitation Unto All Men" Leone O. Jacobs 628 Work Meetin: Spending the Food Dollar Rhea H. Gardner 629 Literature: Charles Dickens Social Science — The Constitution of the United States POETRY Palais of Earth — Frontispiece: No Lesson Planned Briant S. Jacobs 631 for December 37 Eva Willes Wangsgaard 573 Shape Six Years, Passed Blanche Kendall McKe 581 Who Once Has Climbed a Mountain Pansye H. Powell 581 I Serve Eternity Amy Viau 583 I Can See America Marian Driggs 593 Lael W. Hill 602 September Snow Ora Lee Parthesius 606 Pine Country Autumn Sunflowers Evel Fjeldsted 611 Francelia Goddard 638 Memory's Magic Rendezvous Genevieve Groen 638 Song for a New School Margery S. Stewart 638 Beatrice R. Parsons 639 September PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, lbc. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Nellie W. Neal Mildred B. Eyring Mary G. Judd Anna B. Hart ' Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Blanche B. Stoddard._ Josie B. Bay ' From Near and Far New Serial "The Deeper Melody" to Begin in October Notes to the Field: Annual General Relief Society Conference Buying Textbooks for Relief Society Lessons "Relief Society Handbook'' Available Winniefred S. Manwaring Evon W. Peterson Leone O. Jacobs Mary J. Wilson' Louise W, Madsen Gladys S. Boyer FICTION: 603 598 598 598 GENERAL PRESIDENCY OF RELIEF SOCIETY ADMIRE BEAUTIFUL VASES A GIFT FROM THE JAPANESE MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING Left to right: Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, President Belle S. Spafford, and Counselor Velma N. Simonsen. Shape of Garth Eva Willes Wangsgaard There will be other years when crimson spreads From height to hill to valley like a flame, When stones are jeweled in the riverbeds Where shallow crystal wears a willow frame. There will be autumns when the sycamores Restrew their leathery leaves upon the walk And locust purses open wide their stores Of tarnished coins where sparrows crowd and talk. And one will pass at morning to the click Of maple castanets above the street, And pause, surprised to find them lying thick And noisy still beneath returning feet, Where patiently the silversmiths of rain Will tap new bronze to shape of earth again. The Cover: 'Clark Bird Refuge, Santa Barbara, California Photograph by Josef Muench Cover Design by Evan Jensen Ancestry of President David O. McKay Jeanette McKay Morrell [The first of a series of articles on the ancestry and life of President McKay.] RESIDENT David O. McKay comes from two lines of religious people. His paternal grandmother, Ellen Oman McKay was one of ten children, seven girls and three boys. Her father, David Oman, for whom President McKay was named, was the factor or steward of the large estate of the Earl of Caithness. The three sons went to India where they became the owners of a large tea plantation. The youngest of the brothers died in early manhood, but the other two remained to rear their families there, sending their children to London for their education. The seven daughters were given the best education Scotland afforded at that time. They all sang in the Presbyterian Church choir, and were popular among the young people of the church, and the town of Thurso.. Ellen Oman met and married William McKay from Strathnaver, Sutherlandshire, and their family consisted of two sons and three daughters: Isabella, Williamena, Katherine, Isaac, and David. On November 3, 1850, the William McKay family became members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The three eldest children were baptized with their parents on that date, and they all became enthusiastic workers in their new faith. Page 574 Ellen was greatly surprised and greatly disappointed when her parents and sisters refused to accept the gospel as she explained it to them. They even destroyed the books and tracts she gave them to read. Their attitude, however, failed to cool her ardor, and when, in 1852, her husband was ordained an elder, and later was made branch president, she was as active as he in proclaiming the tenets of the Latter-day Saint religion. When the time arrived for the family to leave their home for the long journey to Utah, Ellen's family pleaded with her to desist from what they termed "this mad adventure." The Presbyterian minister visited her, at the request of her family, and spent hours arguing against her leaving. He left her home saying, "I am sorry to lose such a strong Christian member." The Earl and Countess of Caithness added their pleas for her to remain, but when Ellen Oman McKay knew she was right, nothing could change her from her duty. After disposing of their property and making arrangements to leave Scotland, the children developed measles, and their departure had to be postponed. A friend of the family took advantage of the delay and asked William McKay to lend him sufficient money to take his family to the States, promising to return the amount when the family ar- ANCESTRY OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 575 THURSO CASTLE, SCOTLAND, HOME OF THE EARL OF CAITHNESS David Oman, great-grandfather of President McKay, acted as steward on the estate of the Earl of Caithness. Rived at New York with a later company. The McKay family left Liverpool on Sunday, May 4, 1856, on the sailing vessel Thornton, commanded by Captain Collins, and reached New York on June 4th. Upon their arrival they were greatly disappointed to find no trace of the friend to whom they had loaned their money; so they found themselves in a new country without means to continue the journey to Utah. Undaunted, a family council was held, and with the advice of the president of the New York Branch, William McKay and his two sons, Isaac, sixteen, and David, twelve, found work, the father going to Connecticut, Isaac to New Jersey, and David upstate in New York. HE mother, left with her three small daughters, rented an unfurnished, upstairs apartment, to which they removed their bedding and the few household articles they had been able to bring with them. Since the family observed the Word of Wisdom, there was an accumulation of tea, which had been issued to them on the boat, and this was exchanged for bread and groceries, which lasted until they had earned their first money. After two years in the East, the family left for Iowa, where they remained another year preparing for the long journey across the plains. From Iowa City, they, with a small company of ten wagons, moved to Florence, where they joined the company of Captain James Brown, leaving on June 13, 1859. As the family was ready to leave, word reached Ellen Oman McKay, that there were a lame woman and her daughter who had no place in 576 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 WILLIAM AND ELLEN OMAN McKAY Paternal Grandparents of President David O. McKay the company. She immediately ofWas it a coincidence that the exfered her own place in the wagon, periences of President McKay's and she walked every step of the mother's family in Wales paralleled long journey to Salt Lake City, arthose of his father's family in Scottiving Monday, August 29, 1859. Land? His maternal. Grandfather, LODGE ON THE ESTATE OF THE EARL OF CAITHNESS, THURSO, SCOTLAND This lodge was occupied by David Oman, father of Ellen Oman McKay, paternal grandmother of President McKay. David Oman was the factor, or steward, on the estate of the Earl of Caithness, and this lodge was his residence, and from this place Ellen Oman was married to William McKay. ANCESTRY OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY Thomas Evans, the son of Edward Evans and Jennette Powell Evans, was born in October, 1812, in Glamorganshire, South Wales. He was descended from a long line of professional people, among whom were lawyers, ministers, and teachers. His grandmother, Margaret (Peggy) Powell, daughter of 'Thomas Powell and Ann Lewis Powell, was born July 2, 1813, in Brecknockshire, South Wales. The families of both maternal grandparents were devout members of the Methodist Church, and shortly before Margaret Powell's passing in 1896, she received a visit from one of her nephews, Morgan Powell, who had come to America, and lived somewhere in 577 the West, and who was on his way East to accept a pastorate in the Methodist Church. Thomas Evans and Margaret were married March 27, 1837, establishing their home in Cefen Coed, near Merthyr Tydfil, Glamorganshire, South Wales. They were the parents of eleven children. 'They became converts to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and were baptized the same year the McKay family became members, in May 1850. Because of this action, Thomas was disinherited by his family, and received no word from any of them from that time until his death in Ogden, Utah, May 2s, 1877. Since that time, however, his HOME OF WILLIAM McKAY AND ELLEN OMAN McKAY, THURSO, SCOTLAND This house, once the home of President McKay's paternal grandparents, is still occupied. THOMAS AND MARGARET POWELL EVANS Maternal Grandparents of President David O. McKay descendants have exchanged visits with some of his people who came to the United States but remained in the East. Thomas was ordained an elder by William Richards, and later became president of the branch in which he lived. The family sailed for America, on the packet ship Horizon, May 25, 1856. They arrived in Boston harbor on June 30, and immediately boarded a train for Iowa City, arriving there July 8, 1856. THE Evans family remained in Iowa three years, and after securing wagons, teams, and an extra cow to supply them with milk and butter, they left Florence June 7, 1859, in the private company of Philip H. Buzzard, arriving in Salt Lake City August 24, 1850. Thus the two families, living in different countries, were baptized in the same year, sailed for the United States during the month of May 1856, and both reached America about six weeks later. The McKays remained in New York two years, and one year in Iowa, while the Evans family spent three years in Iowa, and the arrival of both families in Utah was in August 1859. Neither was conscious of the existence of the other until they met in Ogden, Utah. Surely theirs were "ships that passed in the night." The Evans family remained in Salt Lake City two weeks, and then came to Ogden, purchasing the property between what is now Adams and Madison Avenues, and between Twenty-eighth and Thirtieth Streets. Here they built a temporary log cabin, and, later, a rock house was completed. This was a comfortable and quite elaborate house for the times, and was occupied continuously until 1951, when it was replaced by an apartment house, owned by their grandson, Thomas Edward Gibbons. David McKay, a lad of fifteen, saw Jennette Evans as she sat on the tongue of their wagon, shortly after her arrival in Ogden, and he said he never forgot her large, 578 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 ANCESTRY OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY brown eyes under the pink sunbonnet. She became one of the most beautiful and most popular young ladies of Ogden, and David kept in touch with her and her family, and findlly persuaded them to allow him to marry her on April 9, 1867, when she was not quite eighteen. Apostle Wilford Woodruff performed the marriage ceremony in the Endowment House in Salt Lake City. Previous to their marriage, David had been in Huntsville for several years working with his father and brother. 'They had all taken up land, and Father William McKay had herds of cattle and sheep from 579 which his meat market in Ogden was supplied. David lived in a log cabin, and his sister, Williamena McKay, kept house for him and his father on his frequent visits to Huntsville. David was active in religious affairs, even as a young man. When the old rock schoolhouse in Huntsville was razed in 1934, and the cornerstone was removed, a sealed glass jar was discovered containing the following: Huntsville, Weber County, Utah Tertitory, United States of America, July 4, 1866. The following named persons, members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, agree to assist in building a house in Huntsville, wherein to worship God and educate their children. HOME OF THOMAS AND MARGARET POWELL EVANS, CEFEN COED, NEAR MERTHYR TYDFIL, WALES Jennette Evans McKay, mother of President McKay, was born in this house. The picture was taken July 16, 1952. Standing, left to right: Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of President McKay; a distant cousin of President McKay, Blodwyn Davis; President McKay. ROCK HOME OF THOMAS AND MARGARET POWELL EVANS IN OGDEN, UTAH This house stood until 1951 at the corner of 28th Street and Porter Avenue. View taken from the northwest, showing the front and one side of the house, part of the old walnut tree, and the lilac bushes. Then followed a long list of names, and David McKay's was one of them. FOLLOWING their marriage, David took his bride Jennette to the log cabin in Huntsville, and they commenced life as young pioneers. Indians came frequently to the village and, carrying out President Young's instructions, they were always received as friends and given food. The Deseret News gave an account of one such visit consisting of seven chiefs of the Shoshones, accompanied by about one thousand of their men, squaws, and papooses. They arrived on Thursday, and made their camp a mile west of the settlement. On Sunday, the chiefs attended the meetings of the Church, at which President Francis A. Hammond asked that a donation of food be brought the next day to the public | square, and invited the entire party to come and receive their presents. The Indians came, singing and dancing, and concluded their performance with a sham battle. They were given four beefs, nine sheep, several sacks of flour, and from fifty to seventy-five bushels of potatoes, carrots, beets, and turnips. This was not an unusual experience for Huntsville, except that the visitors came often in smaller groups. On one of these occasions a young brave must have decided that he would like the young bride, Jennette, for his own. He came to the cabin one morning when she was washing clothes, and said: "You be my squaw!" She struck him in the face with a towel from her tub, and then ran to another room where 580 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 ANCESTRY OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY Grandfather McKay was sleeping. As soon as the Indian realized that she was not alone, he hurried out to his horse and disappeared. During the months that followed she was nervous whenever an Indian approached the house. Al though she fed a great many of them, she said she was always relieved when she saw them on their way back toward their camp. 581 Two daughters, Margaret, January 22, 1869, and Ellena, May 22, 1871, were born in the log cabin before the front part of the rock house, now known as "The Old Home," was completed. It was a happy day for this small family when they moved into the larger and more comfortable home, and it was in this house that President David O. McKay was born, eighty years ago on September eighth. Six Years, Passed Blanche Kendall McKey O little son, my little son, The bell at the school door is ringing; Across the meadow and up the street You seem to fly on elfin feet, In tune with the call of its swinging. The birds have flown from the northern hill; The trees, the house, and my heart are still. Gray-winged clouds presage a storm; O little son, with your big red book, O little son, with your frightened look, May God's love keep you warm! Who Once Has Climbed a Mountain Pansye H. Powell Who once has climbed a mountain knows the thrill Of. Him who struggles ever on, until A goal is reached. He stands there strangely tall And stretches to touch the sky. He feels that all The universe is spread before his eyes, And earth is just one step from paradise, Who once has felt high wind upon his face And warmth of sun conferring healing grace, Will always know the elemental peace That brings the mountain climber earth-release. He walks more softly, will more kindly speak, Who once in life has climbed a mountain peak. In TT lier iagteaeniees 6lder Albert 6. Bowen (October 31, 1875 - July 15, 1953) Elder Mark E. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve HE people of the Church and of the entire West will sorely miss Elder Albert E. Bowen of the Council of the Twelve who passed away at his home in Salt Lake City, Wednesday morning, July 15, 1953. But even in death his steadying hand will bear its wholesome influence upon those who knew him. His common sense, his stability of character, his humor, his fairness, and his simple faith will linger through the years to further shape the lives of those who were fortunate enough to be within the circle of his influence. Brother Bowen literally "arose from the soil." He was farmerborn, he learned on the ranch what it meant to bear responsibility, what it meant to work. He had stability so characteristic of the soil and those who work it. There he learned to appreciate the simple but wholesome things in life, and the value of honesty, integrity, and straightforwardness. He dealt in plainness with his fellows. He was a man without guile. Brother Bowen was a self-made man in the same sense in which Abraham Lincoln was self-made. He, too, had to struggle for his education. He, too, knew the taste of disappointment. He, too, ate "humble pie." But, also, he arose to heights among his fellows. With Page 582 ELDER ALBERT E. BOWEN high honors, he graduated from great university as a doctor of jurisprudence and rose to the crest of the legal profession. Yet in it all he was human, humble, understanding, and true. Great as was his powerful intellect, wide as was his learning, his heart was greater. He had a love which ran deep. It embraced his country, his Church, his friends, and most of all, his family. He constantly gave of himself for others. He did not die for them—but he lived for them. Literally he gave his life—all the years of it—for others. Is there great. Er love than that? standing attribute. It was a simple, personal immortality of the eternal child-like faith. It was implicit. He world. He will find immortality had no doubts. And when he also in the hearts of us who remain prayed, he did so in the spirit of here in this life. His influence will that faith, and it was beautiful. == ~— go on and on. GF @erue &ternity Amy Viau I humor Time By bowing as I pass, But I serve Eternity For I have talked with timeless space And depth— So have glimpsed the endlessness Of heaven's unfolding. I fear not Time's threatenings, For I have communed with everlasting hills And skies At morning, Unafraid of Time's affairs With the chant of changes. I have countered its pendulumed minutes By the recognition Of the unmoving now. { humor Time As I may suffer a persuasive dream, But the covers of Eternity Are over me. IN MEMORIAM—ELDER ALBERT E. BOWEN His faith in God was his out- 583 Not only will he live on in the Elizabeth Florence B. Dunford dog, and so little a one as Elizabeth, shouldn't be such an important thing in a person's life. At least to me it had always seemed that people should come first. Yet when our threemonths-old cocker spaniel turned up missing that Sunday in late August it meant crisis. We had never had a dog before. My husband was a salesman, and all of our boy's life we had lived in apartments and hotels. But now Jim was coming home from Korea, with his leg still in a cast up to his knee, but blessedly safe and in time to start school that fall. "T don't care if he is twenty and in college," I told Allen that spring. "When that boy comes home this time he is going to have a dog." It wasn't that I was so particularly fond of dogs, myself. But Jim wanted one, and I knew he had missed having one all these years, for he had no brothers or sisters. Surprisingly enough, his father agreed with me. We were living in a house then, even if it was a rented one. At last we could keep a dog. | "Tll scout around and see if I can find one," Allen promised. "We're going to get you a dog," I told Jim, the first time he came back home before he had been released from the hospital. I remember now the odd, unbelieving look he gave me. "Now, Mother," he said. It's like that, I thought, a kind of Page 584 hurt shock going through me. He thinks it is my fault he has never had a dog. He thinks I don't like them. It was the way we had lived that was to blame. We had never really had a place for a dog before. But now we did. And that's how we came to get Elizabeth. [' was a month or so after Jim went back to the hospital, and just a few days before he would be discharged, that I went with Allen over his territory. We were in Hailey, and I remember he called me at the hotel. "I think I've found a dog," he said. He went on, "I'll pick you up; we'll run over and see it." The dog kennel was at the back of the white frame house. There were just three puppies inside with the mother dog, a cocker spaniel with a rich coppery coat. "All the males are gone," the woman who owned them said. The mother dog tore at the meshed wire fence. "She doesn't like her babies being taken away from her," the woman went on. There were two red puppies left. Then, over to one side, I saw the blond one. Instantly there was something in the way she raised her soft blue eyes with the incredibly long lashes that touched my heart. "I'd like to see the little blond one," I said, a strange kind of clog in my throat. "Could I hold her?" The woman went inside, closed ELIZABETH the door, and then after a moment came out. She placed the puppy in my arms. She was so soft, so utterly helpless, and so unresisting that the lump came into my throat again. She didn't make any fuss at all, just looked at me with sad hope, her long silky ears mashed flat against her woebegone little face. "They look like ear pads," I told Allen. And something about her expression reminded me of an old history picture. It was the picture of a queen, and her eyes held that same sad look. The big ear pads, of course, were bejewelled. "We'll take this one," I said, cuddling the puppy against my cheek. I turned to Allen. "Her name is Elizabeth." And so that was the way we happened to get her. The next few weeks I spent a good deal of time keeping her from getting lonely, teaching her to follow me about the house. And all the time my mind was with Jim, about how surprised he would be. I had already written him and told him about her. "But still he'll be surprised," I told Allen. I added, "Somehow he doesn't think we mean it." But then in a few days we had a letter from him. And he did finally believe it, because he said, "Take good care of Elizabeth." It was Sunday and he was due home the next Friday. Elizabeth was so dependable and loving that I thought I could trust her outside alone. But, suddenly, along about noon I missed her. "Have you seen the puppy?" I asked Allen, when he came from church. He stared at me. 585 Panic rose inside me. "I hoped you had taken her in the car," I said. I went on, "She's gone. I just let her outside for a moment." Together we scoured the neighborhood. "Here, puppy, here puppy, here Elizabeth," I called up and down the street. "She couldn't go far; she wouldn't go far; she's too little," I insisted. And then I added, "Someone's stolen her. Some of those boys who stop by the drugstore or the drivein over on Vista." That didn't seem reasonable either because Vista was half a block away. But some new businesses had opened up there recently — a movie, a drive-in, a service station. On Sunday especially the teenagers made it a gathering place. We looked the rest of the day. "She couldn't have gone far; she wouldn't have gone far; she's too little," I kept insisting. And as the afternoon waned and the evening shadows fell, I became more and more certain that someone had stolen her. "If she had been struck by a car, we would have found her," I told Allen. And he shook his head solemnly in agreement. Ig was hard for me to get to bed that night, thinking about her, wondering about her. I loved her for her own sake now. But along with it were my thoughts and worties about Jim. Jim somehow blamed me — not his father or the way we had lived for his never owning a dog. And even though he was twenty and had been to war and been wounded, something told me he would blame me now. That he would think I was not really sincere about wanting a dog for him. That next day at intervals I went down the road again. And by that time I had inquired at all the neighbors. "A little blond cocker," I kept telling them. But none of them had seen her. And though I strained my ears when I called her, for some answering sound, none came back. By that night I was desperate. '"Where's the dog?" I could just hear Jim asking it, the moment he hobbled into the house on his crutches. "I'm going to advertise for her," I told Allen suddenly that night after dinner. And I went to the telephone. "Lost: Blond Cocker Spaniel Puppy. Belongs to Wounded Veteran. Reward." Jim wouldn't like that ad if he knew. He had never been one to try to get sympathy. But something has to be done, I thought. There wasn't a possibility of getting another dog before Friday. We had paid thirty-five dollars for Elizabeth. And if we could have found another puppy, there would have been the explanations to Jim. The doubt would crop up. It wouldn't be the same. "Maybe if they see that ad they'll bring her back," I told Allen. And though I didn't believe it myself, still I had to hope. Anyone could tell by looking at her that she was pedigreed. Anyone who stole her wouldn't dare bring her back. By Tuesday noon I had almost given up hope. The ad was in the paper, though. But would the right person see it? Why would anyone who stole a puppy look in the lost and found column? It was shortly after twelve when I thought I heard the sound of a car in our gravelled driveway. And because I was hoping, if not looking for something to happen, I hurried from the kitchen through the living room. There wasn't a car. There wasn't a sign of a car though. I started to turn back, trying to swallow my disappointment. But suddenly I saw her. At first I could scarcely believe my eyes. A tiny bedraggled figure in the middle of the front yard, smelling around as though she wasn't sure of herself. "Is this my home, really, or isn't it?" her manner clearly said. I flew out the door, down the steps. Already I could see she was hurt. Her soft silky coat was a mass of burrs and dirt. She was dragging her right hind leg. But she was Elizabeth. Somehow she had come back or someone had brought her back. I scooped her up in my arms, carried her back into the house. Crossing to a chair, I sat down with her. GHE was dazed and unresisting at first. But as I cuddled her in my arms, realization struck at her. - She pushed her head under my arm and began to cry. "Mmmm, mmm, mmm," she wept, and her voice was high with pain at the long, terrifying hours she had lain out alone. For clearly she had been struck by a car, and plainly she had not had a bite of food or a drink of water in those two long days. Yet there was happiness, too, in her cry, a wild (Continued on page 639) 586 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 First Ladies of Our Land WIVES OF THE PRESIDENTS Part II Elsie C. Carroll ELIZABETH KORTRIGHT MONROE (1768-1830) OLLOWING Dolly Madison, Elizabeth (Eliza) Kortright Monroe (1768-1830) became mistress of the White House, as the wife of the fifth President. She was a belle of New York society when she met James Monroe, a young member of Congress who had left college to join the Continental Army and had later studied law with Thomas Jefferson and served in the Virginia Legislature. They had a whirlwind courtship and were married in February 1786, when Elizabeth was eighteen. A few years later James was sent to Paris as Minister Plenipotentiary. Though the reign of terror was coming to a close, some of the participants in the French Revolution were still in exile or in prison. Among these were America's friend Marquis Lafayette, in exile, and his wife, condemned to death, in prison. One of Elizabeth Monroe's memorable Paris experiences was a call upon Madame Lafayette. Minister Monroe wanted very much to help her, but conditions were so critical among officials in France that he feared to do anything that resembled American interference. He and Elizabeth decided that it might help Madame Lafayette gain her freedom if Elizabeth should call on her. Accordingly, one day a carriage conspicuously bearing the United States' shield drove up to the prison. A footman helped Elizabeth to the ground, as an insolent guard approached. Trembling with fear, but with a bold front, Elizabeth announced: "Madame Lafayette, if you please." The guard thought he had not heard right, and she repeated: "Yes, the Marchioness who is under sentence of death. I wish to see her at once." "Oh, Lady Monroe, you should not have done this,"" Madame Lafayette protested. "It may get you into great trouble." Elizabeth explained what they hoped from the visit, since her husband could do nothing officially. Page 587 The plan worked. The terrorist government noted the interest of the United States in Madame Lafayette, and a few days later she was released as a gesture of friendship for America. Ten years after Monroe's service abroad, he was elected President. He and Elizabeth moved their beautiful furniture into the White House, since the British troops had burned the furnishings during the War of 1812. People came eagerly to the receptions in the Executive Mansion, partly to see the furnishings, and with the hope that the social life there would be similar to that of Dolly Madison's day. 'They felt that the Executive Mansion belonged to the people, and that the First Lady was the nation's own hostess. Elizabeth's health did not permit her to carry on the full social life of LOUISA CATHERINE JOHNSON ADAMS (1775-1852) her predecessor and, besides, she had a different personality. She was charming and gracious, but, like Martha Washington, she preferred private to public life. Maria Montoe was the first President's daughter to be married in the White House. She was married in March 1820 in the East Room to her cousin Samuel L. Gouverneur of New York. James Monroe served two terms as President (1817 - 1825) and he continued to be active in the affairs of his country after his return to Oak Hill in Virginia. Elizabeth was still tall, dark, and stately, much as she had been when, in Paris, she had been called the belle of America. She died in 1830, and her husband followed her in death in July 1831. "THE next First Lady, Louisa Johnson Adams (1775-1852) was the daughter-in-law of Abigail, the second mistress of the Executive Mansion. Louisa was born in London, where her father had gone before the Revolution to engage in business. Mr. Johnson had married an English girl, and they moved to France soon after the Declaration of Independence was signed, but later they returned to London, where he served as American Consul. Louisa met John Quincy Adams soon after he had graduated from Harvard and was on his way to The Hague to fill a diplomatic mission for the United States. He stopped in London for a short time, and they became much interested in each other. Though he remained at The Hague three years, they did not for- 588 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND get each other, and when he returned to London they were married, July 26, 1797. Shortly after their marriage, John was made Ambassador to Prussia. In Berlin, they became intimate friends of Frederick Wilhelm III, King of Prussia (1797 - 1840), and his wife, Queen Louise. Four years later they were recalled to America, just before John Quincy's father retired from the Presidency. 'They were soon sent on another political mission, how- ' ever, this time to Russia. Louisa, unwillingly, left her two older children with their grandparents and took the baby with her. During the six-year residence in Russia, Louisa was saddened by the death of a child born during her stay in that country. This little girl was the only daughter in the family. Louisa's older children, after a separation of six years, joined her in England, where John Quincy Adams had received a new appointment—Minister to the Court of St. James (1851). Following the assignment in Russia and his diplomatic work in London, John Quincy served as Senator and eight years as Secretary of State, before he was elected President. Before she became First Lady (in 1825), Louisa, with her fine European social background and experience, did much to bring back to Washington the happy days of Dolly Madison's time. She made herself popular with her Saturday night cotillions, and with a splendid ball she gave in honor of Andrew Jackson when he returned a hero from the War of 1812. By the time she entered the 589 White House, however, her health was failing, and she could not carry on the full social program for which she was so well fitted. She had been weakened by the cold, damp years in Russia. However, she appeared at every necessary function, and one biographer says, "Her handclasp was so warm and her smile so bright and friendly that her guests did not suspect that she was ill." John Quincy Adams died in Febtuary 1848, while serving in Congress, nineteen years after his retirement from the presidency, and Louisa died four years later. RACHEL Donelson Jackson (1768 - 1828) died just before Andrew Jackson's inauguration in 1829. During his two terms in the White House, Emily Donelson, Rachel's niece, and Sarah Yorke Jackson, wife of the President's foster son and other relatives, served as hostesses. Andrew Jackson survived his beloved Rachel more than sixteen years, and, until a few days before his death, he wore around his neck, "hidden in his bosom," a miniature of Mrs. Jackson, on the back of which was a little wreath made of his and her hair. Rachel was buried in the garden of the Hermitage, the family home, near Nashville, Tennessee. The eighth and ninth Presidents, Martin Van Buren (1837-1841), and William Henry Harrison (1841) also went to the White House without First Ladies. Both Hannah Hoes Van Buren (1783 - 1819) and Anna Symmes Harrison had helped and inspired their husbands in their climb to their high offices. Hannah Hoes (who was married to Martin Van Buren in 1807 at the age of twenty-four), like Rachel Jackson, died a short time before her husband entered the White House. Her daughterin-law, Angelica, a niece of Dolly Madison, took her place in the Executive Mansion. Anna Symmes Harrison (1775- 1864) was the daughter of John Cleves Symmes, delegate to the Continental Congress and Judge of the Northwestern Territory. Harrison, a lieutenant in the army and one of the greatest Indian fighters of his time, married the beautiful Anna in 1795. She was too ill to go to Washington when William Henry was inaugurated. But she regained her health and was preparing to-go to the capital to assume her duties as First Lady when she received word of her husband's death. Misfortune came also to Letitia Christian Tyler (1790-1842), the wife of John Tyler, who was President from 1841 to 1845. Like Abigail Adams and Rachel Jackson, she superintended a large plantation while her husband devoted his time to political duties. By the time John Tyler became President she was an invalid, often unable to leave her room, but still exerting a spiritual and loving influence on her family and friends. Her daughter Letty and other relatives presided at White House social functions during Letitia's lifetime. President Tyler married Julia Gardiner (1820-1889), the daughter of a Senator, in 1844. For eight months, she served as a charming First Lady, and she gave her husband her staunch loyalty and support during a stormy period LETITIA CHRISTIAN TYLER 1790-1842) when he lost much of his popularity. She had the sadness of seeing him burned in effigy just outside the White House on one occasion. She tried to prevent his seeing the insult, but was unsuccessful. He told her, "I have seen this before, and though it hurts just as much every time I see it, the people can burn me in effigy all they want to, if they will just let me carry on my work in annexing Texas." He felt that if he could accomplish this his administration would have been a success. Before they left the White House, Tyler had won back some of his popularity, and Julia had some happy days as First Lady. Their great satisfaction lay in the fact that the battle for Texas was won. President Tyler's plan for annexation 590 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND was accepted by 'Texas just before he left office. Ex-President Tyler died in 1862 at the family home in Richmond, Virginia, and Julia survived him by more than twenty years, spending much of her later life in Washington. ARAH Childress Polk (1803- 1891) worked beside her husband James Polk as he rose from an obscure law practice in 'Tennessee to the State Legislature, to Congress, and finally to the Presidency. James was the first candidate for that high office who was not a distinguished national figure, and he was opposed by the popular Henry Clay. But Sarah knew that he had the characteristics of steadiness, perseverance, and ability to solve problems that would make him a good President if he were elected. So she worked ~heart and soul for him during the campaign. As First Lady (1845 - 1849) she brought back to the Executive Mansion such serenity and dignity as Elizabeth Monroe had given it. She upheld certain standards that had not been known before. For instance, she forbade card playing and dancing in the White House. Though such edicts irritated some people, she became one of the most popular hostesses the Capital had known. She gave two evening receptions every week, and numerous dinners, musicals, and informal parties. Her husband depended much on her and always consulted her on matters of importance. He _begrudged spending time on social affairs, and she relieved him as much 591 SARAH CHILDRESS POLK (1803-1891) as possible, sometimes even receiving alone at the traditional President's Saturday receptions to Congressmen. She made friends for them both. She was known to be as well informed as her husband on all political matters, though she refrained from discussing politics with anyone but him. 'They were indeed President and First Lady. At the conclusion of his administration, President Polk and his wife retired to their home, Polk Place, in Tennessee, where he died a few months later. Even after his death, the National Guard would end their drills in front of the Polk home, where Sarah, with head erect, would accept their salute, a tribute to her as much as to the memory of her husband. Sarah Childress Polk lived in widowhood for more than forty years, a gallant woman, loved and honored, in her home in Tennessee. Recalling her life in the 592 Capital, Sarah remarked, "The White House was the abode of pleasure while I was there." ARGARET Smith — Taylor, (1788 - 1852), a daughter of a Maryland farmer, was married to Zachary Taylor in 1810, when she was twenty-two years old. She lived the dangerous, comfortless life of army camps for many years, as she accompanied her officer husband from fort to fort. When their children were old enough for school, she sent them to live with relatives, for she was determined they should not be deprived of education, though she remained with her husband. For more than a quarter of a century "their house was a tent, and their home was the battlefield." During all those long years, however, she dreamed of the time when she could have a real home and family life. For a brief period that dream partially came true. When Zachary was called to command the army during the Mexican War (1846 - 1848), she did not go with him, but made a home—the Spanish Cottage—for her children on the banks of the Mississippi in Louisiana. When the war was over and he returned, a hero, Zachary was nominated for the Presidency. He felt unqualified for the position, and Margaret, it is said, prayed that he would not be elected. After election he became reconciled to the position, but she never did. She felt that she was so lacking in social background and experience that she would be a handicap, and, furthermore, she preferred privacy and domestic duties rather than social life and entertainRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER—1953 MARGARET SMITH TAYLOR (1790-1852) ing. Consequently, she shut herself away from the social life of Washington. Her daughter Betty (Elizabeth) Taylor Bliss acted as hostess, and her gracious youth and beauty captivated Washington society. Margaret spent her time in a room she had furnished to resemble the little home she had had for a short time in Louisiana. President Taylor died in that room in July 1850, a little over a year after he became President. Margaret died two years later. THE next First Lady, Abigail Powers Fillmore (1798-1853), was a schoolteacher from her teens until after her first baby was born. She became interested in Millard Fillmore when he was a wool-carder's apprentice struggling to get an education. She began to tutor him and helped him in his advancement the FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND rest of his life. Step by step, he made his way upward until he was Vice-Presiderit to Zachary 'Taylor, then President. | Abigail, because of failing health, was assisted as First Lady by her daughter Mary Abigail, a fine musician, who was only eighteen years old when she assumed many of the important responsibilities of a White House hostess. 'Together, mother and daughter arranged the books for the first White House library in the second-floor room they had furnished as a parlor. Here Mary often sang or played the piano or harp for her mother and a few close friends. At this time trouble was brewing between the North and the South. President Fillmore was accused of being a traitor to his party when he signed the Fugitive Slave Law. Abigail's greatest satisfaction lay in the knowledge that she was his support and comfort during those trying times. Abigail died less than a 593 ABIGAIL POWERS FILLMORE (1798-1853) month after the Fillmores left the White House (in 1853). The grieving statesman said, "For twenty-seven years, my entire married life, I was always greeted with a happy smile." YF Can See America Marian Driggs I can see the cities—black and gray: Tenements and brownstones, Fire escapes and neon rippled pavements. The honking... The screeching... The whistling... The rushing— I can see the towns— The ten-fifteen rushing by the darkened station, Blue-shaded streets with long purple poplar arms sprawled across Screen porches and purple-mottled front lawns. I can see the prairies— And feel the warm sun and the dry air, Smell the dusty earth and cracking soil; I can see a clear, sandy-bedded stream. I can see a farmland puddled with rain, A patchwork scene, yellow and red; A crowd of trees, a wooden plow, Waving wheat, alfalfa, and barley. Yes, I can see America— Her rolling sea, her swelling mountains; Her rich farmlands, her teeming cities. I can see America—our country. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1893 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women OF ALL NATIONS" THE SAVING OF GRAIN: Sisters be warned in time and remember there is no famine like the want of bread.... Women who have known the pangs of hunger and whose children have cried for bread when there was none to give them, must tealize what an important matter this is... We know when a loaf of bread was far more valuable than a handful of gold dust. —Editorial A CURIOUS APPEARANCE: One of the curious happenings of late is the appearance of a large eagle on the towers of the temple and on the head of the statue of Moroni, also on the trumpet. The writer accidentally saw it and felt impressed that it was a good omen. —E. B. W. WAYNE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY: Wayne Stake was organized May 28, 1893. The presidency of Relief Society are: Jane S. Coleman, Mary Ellen Hanks, and Sarah S. Forsythe. On July 12th we wrote to each president to have read in their meetings, "Utah Women in Chicago" in the June 15th number of the Woman's Exponent. Also have their teachers canvass their districts for subscribers for the Woman's Exponent. August 7th, held meeting at Cainesville, was happily surprised to have Stake President Robinson and Counselor G. Bastian attend our meeting. —Jane S. Coleman WOMEN OF THE WEST The seeds of liberty for years Round western altars have been sown; Nourished with hopes or fed with tears, Surprisingly has freedom grown. Columbia's glory, strength and boast The Constitution broad and grand, Is honored by a countless host Throughout this spacious western land. —Emily H. Woodmansee HISTORY OF MUSIC: In the growth of civilization among nations, as well as in the settlement and opening up of new countries and territories, music is the first outgrowth of the arts, taking precedence in the unfolding of social development of every genius but that of poetry. The peculiar form of expression in music is also an index of national character. The pioneer settlers who traversed the plains and crossed the Rocky Mountains to make homes in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, were certain in the early stage of their peculiar civilization to manifest the genius of music. Being so eminently religious in their tone of character, music would naturally form a very important part of their worship, and the hosts of Israel beguiled many an hour of their weary march across the Continent by singing the songs of Zion. —Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson Page 594 BIRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Emily Aubrey Hooper, Salt Lake City, one hundred years old; Mathilda Erikson Ankarstrand, Bountiful, Utah, ninety-eight; Geziena Stedevel Grundmann, ninety-seven, Mary Barrett Hendry, ninety-six, Anna Maria Haney Davisson, ninety-three, all of Salt Lake City; and Rozella Curtis Andreason, ninety, Aurora, Utah. VIRGINIA TANNER'S | Children's Dance Theater of the McCune School of Music, branch of Brigham Young University, received an ovation in the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival at Lee, Massachusetts, July 19, and the American Dance Festival, New London, Connecticut, July 27. This was the first time the sponsors of either event had invited children to take part in these nationally famed performances. MAUDE ADAMS, one of America's pre-eminent actresses, died July 17th at the age of eighty years. She was born and lived in Salt Lake City until her mid-teens; she played many times in the old Salt Lake Theater, her first appearance there occurring at the age of eight months. There was unusual individuality in Miss Adams' acting. The haunting quality of her pathos Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon will remain indefinitely with her admirers. Charm and_ refinement came through in every role. Some of the favorites with the public were the roles in 'Peter Pan," "The Litthe Minister," 'Chanticleer," L'Aiglon," and "What Every Woman Knows." She referred to Salt Lake City as "home," and said "The people of the valley have gentle manners, as if their spirits moved with dignity." Miss Adams' grandfather, Barnabus L. Adams, was one of the original pioneers who entered the valley with Brigham Young in 1847. He cut timbers for the Salt Lake Tabernacle and the Salt Lake Theater. MARY SMITH ELLSWORTH, wife of German E. Ellsworth, died June 30, 1953, in Salt Lake City. Long a devoted Church worker and enthusiastic Relief Society executive, she served as mission Relief Society president during the time that her husband served as mission president in the Northern States (1904-1919) and as president of the Northern California Mission from 1941 to 1949. She was a temple worker in both the Arizona and the Salt Lake temples, and was beloved by all who knew her, for her faithfulness, her devotion to duty, and for the inspiration of her life and her teachings. Page 595 @Q—> EDITORIAL D9 VOL. 40 SEPTEMBER 1953 Congratulations to President David ©. I on Flas Gightieth Birthday September 8, 1953 HE general board and members of Relief Society throughout the stakes and missions of the Church remember the birthday of President David O. McKay with deep appreciation for his years of devotion to the Church, and for the inspiration he so freely gives through his teachings and in the example of his life. We are grateful that his health has been preserved, and that he is able to travel at home and in foreign countries to proclaim his testimony of the gospel, and bring rejoicing to the hearts of tens of thousands who are thus able to be blessed with the presence of the Lord's prophet. "Never Give Cass... T an early meeting of Relief Society through which organization the key was turned for women in this last dispensation by the Prophet Joseph Smith, he gave instructions to Relief Society members in regard to their relationship towards their husbands. He exhorted the sisters always to concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in their husbands, whom God has appointed for them to honee Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat Page 596 We are grateful for the leadership of President McKay, for his inspiring personality, for his wisdom, and for his counsel. His interest in and appreciation of the work of the sisters, and his counsel for the forwarding of Relief Society are acknowledged with deep gratitude. May health and happiness continue with President McKay and his beloved wife, and their devoted family. May our humble prayers in behalf of our President be heard by our Father in heaven who has called President McKay to be his prophet, seer, and revelator to us, to lead us in the path of eternal life. Word" them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur—if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness.... When you go home, never give a cross or unkind word to your husbands, but let kindness, charity and love crown your works henceforward (D. H. C. IV, pp. 604, 606-607). If a marriage is to succeed, ever growing in love and joy as the years advance, the wife must probably be _more forgetful of self around the home than any other member of EDITORIAL the family. True marriage is destined to endure eternally, and each daily, small task performed by the wife for her husband draws the ties of marriage closer together. | Even before marriage it is well for every wife-to-be to recognize, in spite of present-day tendencies and actions, the true role of the wife as the homemaker and mother, and the husband as the breadwinner, the head of the household, and the bearer of the Priesthood through whom its blessings may be showered upon his family. By the very laws of creation these roles have been decreed in marriage. It is the wife's part to encourage her husband to magnify his Priesthood and all Church calls which may come to him. After caring for her family all day, it is not always easy for a wife cheerfully to see her husband depart on Church _business; but eternal marriage takes for granted love above self for the gospel and service in it. With the tender feelings of women, it is very easy in the early months of marriage for a wife to take exception to some slight or chance remark of her husband, and secretly balloon its importance. However unjust her husband's attitude may appear to her, if the wife will view all the circumstances impartially and try to understand her husband's attitude, usually she will acknowledge that there are two sides to the question. It is the wife's part to build up her husband in his own estimation so that he has the courage to win in the daily struggle to provide for his family. Even a selfish husband will be influenced more by gentle- 597 ness, kindness, and tenderness, than by scoldings or reproaches. Recently a wife of mature years laughingly confided, "I don't quarrel or let my feelings get hurt any more. What's the use? From the day of our marriage I knew I wanted it to endure forever, and I have always known I must get over misunderstandings and hurt feelings, so a few years ago I decided not to allow them to remain with me. Now I try to be especially considerate after any question has arisen and go along giving in as necessary so that it never becomes an issue. Of | course," she added, "I really do have a wonderful husband." Her attitude has been won over years of trying to follow the advice given by the Prophet Joseph Smith. As the decades pass, the understanding and love which grow in the marriage relationship are impossible to measure. A wordless look passed between a husband and wife may convey a world of meaning garnered over a lifetime of adjustment and sacrifice. The married partners who have reared their children in righteousness and set them on their own paths of marriage, in their later years may enjoy the harvest of connubial love. Under the gospel plan wives and mothers receive the greatest development and blessings, for it is the plan of the Lord. The Prophet Joseph Smith has given Relief Society members advice of eternal import. By heeding his words and living in harmony with the gospel plan, members of Relief Society will do their part in maintaining the sacred relationship of marriage and hallowing it for time and all eternity. —M. C. S. Noted v0 THE FIELD Annual General Relief Society Conference THE annual general Relief Society conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 30 and October 1, 1953. On Thursday afternoon in the Tabernacle, a meeting will be held to which the general membership of Relief Society and the public are invited. The attendance at the meetings on Wednesday and on Thursday morning is limited to stake and mission officers. Buying JSextbooks for Relief Society Lessons ROM inquiries which come to the general board it would seem that some Relief Society officers and class leaders are not acquainted with the recommended procedure for acquiring necessary textbooks for lessons. The education counselor in both the stake and ward should present to the president of the respective organizations a list of the textbooks which will be needed to teach the Relief Society lessons during the coming season. She should then be authorized to purchase these books with funds from the Relief Society general fund. The education counselor should see that the name of the Relief Society organization is written in each book before giving it to the respective stake or ward class leader for her use. At the end of the course the education counselor is responsible for collecting the books and placing them in the Relief Society library. Where a teacher wishes to purchase her own textbook in order to be able to mark it and keep it after the conclusion of the course, it is recommended that the Relief Society organization should also purchase a textbook: 1. In order that the book may become a part of the Relief Society library; 2. To be available for use by those given special assignments; 3. Because a change of teachers might be necessary during the course, and at that time it might be impossible for the Relief Society organization to purchase a copy of the desired textbook. Education counselors are urged to safeguard Relief Society libraries and to be alert to opportunities of adding to them gifts of Church and other worthwhile books. 'Relief Society Handbook" Available The Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society, 1949 edition, is available at the office of the General Board, 40 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, price 60 cents each, postpaid. This handbook contains official instructions on Relief Society policies and procedure. It includes a detailed index for ready reference and will be invaluable to stake, ward, mission, and branch officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers. Page 598 Plant Bulbs for Spring Beauty Dorthea N. Newbold Garden Editor, The Deseret News HO is there among us who W unaso' wandered out into a sleeping garden, bundled against the chill of late winter, and searched eagerly for the first green spear of a daffodil piercing the brown crust of soil, or been thrilled again at the sight of the first blooms of the indomitable snowdrops? Truly there is magic in a garden. Gardeners cannot create a daffodil, a tulip, or a hyacinth with all their beauty, color, and fragrance. Neither can a gardener tell how lovely blossoms are created. Yet each springtime we thrill again to their great beauty. Nature has endowed the bulb with the faculty of storing up food energy so that it can make an early growth long before the perennials, shrubs, or trees get started in the scramble for the soil's nourishment. If you were to peel the bulb you would strip off layer after layer of fleshy scales in which nature has thoughtfully stored the plant's food and energy. The scales are also the bases from which the leaves grow. Keep peeling, and you will finally reach the bud, a perfectly formed flower complete with leaves, petals, stamens, pistils—all in embryonic stage. Selection and Plantin Bulbs will do exceptionally well in your garden, for they are adaptable to many different soils and climates. However, good drainage and fertile soil are essential for successful bulb culture. Insure the beauty of your spring garden by selecting only first class bulbs — large, firm, brown bulbs, without blemish. "Plant good bulbs and you will get good flowers." That statement is just as true today as when first uttered years ago. A good rule of thumb for planting dates is — get all your bulbs in the ground before you cast your ballot — small bulbs and daffodils first. Plant bulbs six inches apart to allow for spread of foliage, and, for evenness of bloom, plant the bulbs at the same level. Be sure you plant with the pointed ends up, pressing the base of the bulb firmly against the bottom of the hole where it is to rest. Bulb Varieties First of all the bulbs to flower is the snowdrop. Often its buds may be seen as the-snow disappears, just waiting for the slightest hint of spring to lift its sweet head. Plant snowdrops as soon as possible after the first of September, in a colony, where they will not be disturbed and can multiply year after year. Chinodoxias, glory - of - the-snow, with their bright blue flowers, bring the first bit of color into the spring garden. They, too, look lonely planted singly. Take heed, then, and plant them in colonies. Crocuses, those silken lovelies, whoever has had too many of them? Page 599 Dorthea N. Newbold RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 HYACINTH BORDER Stately hyacinths border the garden walk and waft their fragrance through the garden and the house. Use them everywhere you find to tuck them in. Plant an extra colony of them on the south side of your house, where the reflected sun will hasten their blooming date by more than two weeks. Their flowers, in white or gold, or in shades of lavender to dark purple, are perfect for rock gardens. These, along with scillas, chinodoxias, grape hyacinths, daffodils, and hyacinths, need early planting. Scilla sibirica, squills, with their blossoms of blue, stay fresh and pretty for weeks in the April garden. Make a colony of them near Kaufmanniana tulips. They will flower at the same time and give lovely color contrast. Every garden, whether large or small, can use colonies of these "first-to-flower" bulbs. They can be planted under three inches of good soil in odd corners around the garden, there to put on their annual display of beauty to charm all who see them. Don't forget the hyacinth, for its rich fragrance will scent your entire garden. Plant them in groups of five to nine along in the indentations in your shrub borders. At long last, we are getting away from the idea that hyacinths must be planted in formal beds, or in rows, like soldiers marching along. Be sure to tuck in a few bulbs near your doorway, for then you may enjoy their fragrance each time you go in and out. Daffodils, with their happy habit of turning their faces to the sun, PLANT BULBS FOR SPRING BEAUTY Ward Linton SULPHUR PHOENIX NARCISSUS have great appeal when planted in informal groups along a driveway or pathway, or as an edging for a boundary line of shrubs or evergreens. Companion plants to use include blue grape hyacinths, forget-me-nots, anchusa myosotis, pulmonaria augustifolia, pansies, and primroses. When planting tulips and daffodils in close proximity, place the tulips in the front, for the daffodils will be in bloom while the tulips are still short, and then, when the tulips are in flower, they will hide the dying daffodil foliage. Tulips should never be planted in thin lines or awkward blocks. When they are in bloom they look best in groups of six to twelve or more, edging garden walks, drifting in the foreground of shrubbery, lending a touch of Holland to your garden. Tulips come in almost every shade of the spectrum, and in spe- 601 cies that start with the conventional tulip shape and go on to a bewildering variety of beautiful forms with intriguing names. They may be planted in October or early November. Early-flowering types, such as the Kaufmannianas, will bloom in late March or early April. May-flowering types, such as Darwins, Breeders, and Cottage tulips, will often last until early summer. Give some thought as to when you want your tulips to appear and your dealer will gladly suggest the proper varieties. Color Arrangements The springtime garden can be the most beautiful of the year, for, with a bit of planning, the beds of tulips and daffodils can have a carpet of blue or yellow flowers to enhance their beauty. A planting combinaWard Linton PARROT TULIPS tion that has never lost its popularity is the use of forget-me-nots set in among the daffodils, or use pansies or violas, both available in separate colors, or mixed, allowing you an opportunity to work out some striking color combinations. An interplanting of pale yellow or cream-colored primrose polyanthus with red tulips makes a stunning picture. Or use white rock cress in front of, and interplanted with dark red, dark purple, or the near-black tulips. These dark-colored tulips, unless emphasized by placement with light-colored flowers, do not make a striking appearance in most gardens. Yellow tulips, of late-blooming variety, planted under a bush of flowering almond, then given a carpeting of forget-me-nots, provide a picture in the garden that is charming. Or you might use pink tulips with the blue forget-me-nots. The white flowers of perennial candytuft make perfect companion blooms for tulips of the more brilliant oranges and reds. Hyacinths seem to demand a very low-growing companion plant, such as English daisies. Don't forget the bulbours irises, English, Dutch, and Spanish. Plant them early in September, in good fertile soil in a sunny section of your borders. They send up a tiny green spear during the fall months, which certainly helps you keep their location in mind. 'Their foliage is rather insignificant, but in spring, English daisies will make a fine underplanting for them, and _ then, when the daisies fade, annual portulaca will bloom until frost. For time, labor, and money spent, I know of no flowers that will give you more in return than will your spring-flowering bulbs. Our gardens would not be so beautiful without them. There is law in the garden. It is the law of creation, and if we will obey the law, play our small part by planting and cultivating, we can deal in magic. For we can take those firm brown bulbs, plant them according to the law, eral with the coming of spring, we can witness a miracle. September Snow Lael W. Hill Pause to watch the moments pass— Pause with summer in your hand: More than frost lies on the grass, More than breezes on the land. As a sleeping child may sigh, Dreaming everything grown old, So these frail, white fretworks lie And shiver in the scarf of cold. Summer, caught into a tear, Holds a later season's start: Too early snow upon the year— Too early winter in the heart. 602 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 Travel Highlights FARM SCENES NEAR LAKE GENEVA Elizabeth Williamson Illustration by the Author ON the outskirts of the village of Thonon, on the French side of Lake Geneva, small patchwork farms border the highway. As you drive along, you are attracted by the old stone Provincial farmhouse with the hayloft built high above the ground and adjoined to the living quarters. You feel you would like to know these country people who love and know every inch of their ground. You feel certain that they must possess a rare sense of humor, for near the road is a charming scarecrow astride an old bicycle. He looks ready for anything, with his black felt hat and big umbrella. Surely the birds aren't fooled by this friendly looking fellow. YF 2S i ¥ New Serial "She Deeper Melody ° to Begin in October A new serial, "The Deeper Melody," by Alice Morrey Bailey, will begin in the October Relief Society Magazine. The story tells how Steven Thorpe, a widower with three small children to care for, solves his problems and establishes a home for his family. The author is well known to readers of the Magazine, having contributed many excellent stories and poems of wide appeal. Mrs. Bailey's writings have received outstanding awards in newspaper and magazine contests, and she has won prizes several times in the Relief Society literary contests. Page 603 4 3 = \ ———_— \ J Y DULCIMER + &® & & By &arly Candlelight VIII. Music in the Pioneer Home Bonnie A. Kesler S far back as history is recordA ed, we find music taking an important part in the lives of people. In the religious pilgrimages of the ancient past, burdens and toil were lightened and sorrows calmed by song and harp. So with our pioneers, they sang their songs of praise and hope. Annie and Hyrum fostered music in their own home and encouraged individual development of their children, and supported the music leaders in all their endeavors. One child played in the orchestra, and others took part in the operas and band concerts. Nearly every type of musical instrument was represented in the community, and the individuals who played the instruments entertained also in their own homes. Once a year Annie's chil- - dren held a musical evening to which their friends were invited. Singing and its value were recognized on a grand scale in every Mormon community, with the home as the birthplace of the talent. Today Page 604 the musical culture of the Latterday Saint people is acknowledged by the musical world, a result of the ideals and the training in the humble pioneer home, such as Annie's and Hyrum's. One of the most appreciated instruments was the piano, a heavy rectangular instrument about six feet nine inches long and three feet two inches high, in which the sounding board lay horizontally as in the modern grand piano. Several of these pianos were brought across the plains in wagons. Mrs. Milo Andrus in Big Cottonwood Canyon had a large oblong piano which she had brought in 1855 across the plains in a wagon drawn by oxen. The legs of the piano were removed in transit. Mrs. Andrus walked most of the eleven hundred miles, and anxiously watched the ruts and streams along the way. In the valley she gave piano lessons, and many students came to her home to practice because they had no pianos of their own. To play j Sy x 2 Liye bs BY EARLY CANDLELIGHT an organ of that day, the player constantly pumped with foot pedals to force the air through the pipes, but Annie's daughters provided _ sweet accompaniments to their family songs on their small organ. Although there were many reed and brass musical instruments, the violins were the favorite music for square dances and quadrilles. As the pioneers listened to the sweet _ strains, hope and confidence filled their hearts. To cite an example of the extent to which some put forth effort to gain knowledge and skill in music, the following story was related by Hyrum to his boys. At the age of fourteen Samuel Jepperson made it known that he would like to play a violin. His father said they could not afford a violin. While the father was away working in the canyon and young Sam was at home with his father's yoke of oxen, a neighbor told Sam he would give him his violin if Sam would haul four loads of wood for him. 605 Sam rushed home to tell his mother, but she discouraged him because he had no shoes. With her permission, he went to the canyon barefooted and worked four days felling trees, determined to have his fiddle. At last he was given the violin, but it was a poor one. Still he learned to play, and as the years went by, he earned better instruments and was never without his violin. In fact, he became a successful manufacturer of musical instruments. Annie's neighbor had a drum. The father and son whipsawed a cottonwood tree from which the framework of the drum was made and then they prepared the skins for the ends and secured them with rawhide strips, they had a very good drum. Two unusual instruments that were enjoyed during pioneer days deserve mention. One was a dulcimer, made in England about 18s0. It had metallic wires stretched over a trapezoidal soundboard with a compass of two or three octaves, and re | imo eo \ we | N\A \ONA SQUARE PIANO ORCHESTRONE was played with two light hammers held in the hands. From the original dulcimer was derived the idea of the piano action. The beauty of its quaint, pastoral tones is difficult to describe. The other rare instrument was the orchestrone, or paper-record player organ, one of which is still in St. George. Hearing of it recently, a curator from the New York Metropolitan Museum of Art visited St. George, hoping to purchase the orchestrone, saying that to his knowledge there were only three others in existence, one in their museum, one privately owned in New York, and the other in a museum in Germany. But the Utah prize was not for sale. Hyrum and Annie could sing over + one hundred different songs, some sad, some humorous, others philosophical, but always carrying a story. How their eyes twinkled when they sang for the children, "I bent my gun in a circle, and fired around the hill." 'Their home was the scene of many joyous hours spent in singing and dancing, Church and business meetings, wedding receptions, and other glorious celebrations. Annie's and Hyrum's lives were filled with joy and happiness. Their successes greatly outnumbered their sorrows, and they never once doubted the wisdom of their early decision to go West with their companions. Annie and Hyrum and _ their neighbors in the community developed a culture all their own, arising from their heterogeneous backgrounds and then settling down to a common, unified way of life. When they were called upon to meet a need, physically and spiritually, they met it. They kept their sights upon genuine values, those human values which gave substance and meaning to existence. Perhaps we today can temper our commendable advances with proved and time-honored methods that developed through devotion to great ideals, in the beginning of one of America's great dramas. Wm. *& Pine Country Autumn Ora Lee Parthesius The wind sighs deeply as summer runs down The road, with shadows like drooping wings, Trailing her Indian paintbrush gown To which one bluebell clings. 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 Special for Redheads Part III (Conclusion) Hazel K. Todd Synopsis: Marian, a young stepmother, is deeply in love with her husband, Bob, and has succeeded in winning the hearts of Patty, the thirteen-year-old daughter, and Robbie, the youngest child. Rusty, the nine-year-old, however, is so antagonistic that Marian doubts if she will ever find a way to let him feel her love. Among other efforts, Marian prepares a birthday party for Rusty, but he refuses to take any part in it. Finally, Marian's husband tells her that he will not allow Rusty to treat her disrespectfully any longer, and that if Rusty's attitude doesn't improve in two days, he will supervise Rusty's conduct. ARIAN wakened next mornM ing with an ominous sense of calamity. The promise she had made so suddenly hung like a heavy cloud over her. There was a note on her pillow. This was the morning Bob was to leave early. There were words on the note that sent happiness thrilling through her, and at the end it said, "Good luck today." Marian folded the note thoughtfully. She sat down on the bed and ran her fingers through her hair. For the hundredth time she went over in her mind all the boys she knew. The patter of little feet and a cat's meow brought her back to present surroundings. She smiled at the pair standing together in the doorway. And the trust and happiness in Robbie's eyes brought joy to her heart. "Shall we cook breakfast?" she asked, taking Robbie's hand. "But Rusty says he won't eat any breakfast. He's out in the garage playing with the polliwogs." Marian said nothing. It was a good start, she reflected wryly, for the day on which she had promised to succeed. Indeed, success seemed to slip farther and farther away. Rusty not only refused to eat his breakfast, but at dinner he refused to come in until she had gone upstairs. Then she saw him slip into the kitchen, where she had left his dinner waiting. For the first time she was really and truly afraid. With staggering force the thought came to her that perhaps she would never win Rusty. Perhaps things would get worse and worse. Suddenly a new fear seized her. If this were true, then she should go away. What right had she to spoil his home, to take away his security? The thought grew on her. A dozen plans quickly formed themselves in her mind. But one after the other, they were chased away by thoughts of what the result would mean. She pictured herself pinning a note on Bob's pillow. The picture was quickly blotted out by a flood of tender emotion. She found herself telling Patty very straightforwardly that it was best that she go, but a picture of the little girl's face filled with sudden need for a mother chased that picture away. She imagined talking to Robbie and his cat, but the fear and insePage 607 curity in the little boy's face ended that idea. She dropped on the window seat with a feeling of fatigue. It was no use. She couldn't leave what had in a few short months become an integral part of her. She knew no answer to her problem, but she knew she must still find one. Perhaps, after all, Bob's way would be the answer. But remembrance of the angry flush on his face frightened her. He probably had a red-headed temper. It would only bring some resentment from Rusty. Surely, there must be another way. HEN the way came. It began with a cry from Robbie. It came from the direction of the garage. Her already tense nerves gave her added speed, and she quickly found herself in the doorway of the garage. But it was Rusty's face, red with anger, and not Robbie's that met her eyes first. He was standing near the tipped-over jar where the polliwogs had been, and he had the smooth board in his hand. In an instant the situation cleared itself in Marian's mind. Blinky, the cat, was crouching behind a nail keg in the corner, and Robbie, with eyes dilated in fear was crying hysterically. At sight of Marian he ran to her for protection. "Don't let him hurt Blinky. He didn't mean to eat the polliwogs. Please, Moth-er, don't let him hurt Blinky!" Quickly she put one arm protectingly around Robbie's neck, while with the other she reached instinctively for the board in Rusty's hand. "Please, just a moment, Rusty." Rusty was angry. His freckles seemed darker than ever. This time he did not sulk. Instead, the words came tumbling from him. "That cat—it ate my polliwogs. It deserves to be hit! It..." He suddenly stopped. She felt the board tighten in his hand... He pursed his lips tightly together. He was shutting himself up again, and there was nothing she could do to break the shell. But Robbie could break it. "Honest, Rusty, Blinky didn't know it would hurt to eat the polliwogs. And Ill catch you some more. Honest, Rusty, I can catch some. I watched you. I know how." The little boy was all serious, and in his earnestness he looked at his older brother with big, somber eyes. Rusty snorted. "Imagine you catching polliwogs! You'd fall in the mud and the polliwogs would run down your neck!" Marian caught her breath. Maybe here was something she could do. She swallowed to stop the fast beating of her heart. "I could catch them for Robbie. I will be glad to." Rusty stared at her in amazement. But, before there was time to know what he would do, Robbie was clapping his hands in glee. "Come on, Moth-er, I will show you the swamp." And he picked up the old bucket. Before Marian hardly knew what she was doing, she was hurrying down the garden path with Robbie tugging at her hand to go faster. She suddenly became aware of the bucket bumping his tiny legs with each hurried step. She paused and took it from him. 608 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 SPECIAL FOR REDHEADS "Now we can go faster, Moth-er," he chirped and tugged harder at her hand. They had reached the swamp before Marian had time to think of what she was supposed to do. She paused to catch her breath and at the same time looked into the dirty _water of the pond before her. "In there," Robbie was saying, "the polliwogs are in there. There's dozens of 'em. You get 'em with your hands and put 'em in the — bucket." N involuntary shudder went through her as she looked at the murky water. But the shudder was checked at once when her side glance caught something. It was Rusty, half hidden behind a tree on the trail they had come over. He was watching! He was watching to see what she would do. She was on trial. Suddenly, through some intuition, she knew this was her supreme trial. She was on trial for Rusty's heart! She gave a quick glance at the sluggish water and swallowed the throbbing in her throat. Then she looked at her feet. Robbie was watching her, impatient at her delay. "You have to take off yer shoes," he instructed. "Rusty always takes off his shoes. He takes off his shoes and rolls up his overalls, "cause sometimes he sinks way down deep in the mud. It's awful muddy," Robbie was babbling on. "Oh, I see," she said, unlacing her Oxfords. "But I haven't any overalls. I'll just have to hope it doesn't come over my dress." "Hurry, Moth-er, I'll hold the bucket, and you catch the polli- 609 wogs. Catch a whole big bunch of em, won't you, then Rusty won't be mad at Blinky any more, 'cause I don't want him to hurt Blinky. 'Cause Blinky's the best cat in this whole world, and he can sing so pur-ty." Marian stuffed her second stocking into her shoe and stepped gingerly into the edge of the mud. It oozed up between her toes, and she gritted her teeth to stifle a shudder. Then she would have jumped had her feet not been securely planted in the mud, for there was a splash and a ripple through the water. "It's a polliwog, Moth-er, get it fore it goes away! Hurry, Moth-er." And so began the strange game of chasing polliwogs to catch a heart. The first time she felt a polliwog in her hands she wanted to scream and throw it away, but Robbie was dancing up and down and fairly rattling the old bucket in his excitement. "You've got one, Moth-er, you've got one! Don't let it get away! Don't let it get away!" And he nearly waded into the mud with the bucket to make sure she didn't let it get away. So, one by one, she grasped the wiggling, goggly-eyed prisoners in her trembling hands and dumped them into Robbie's bucket, while he shouted and jumped about like a jumping jack. HE didn't exactly know when she first became aware of Rusty's presence in the pool, but after while she knew he was there catching polliwogs and dumping them into the bucket, too. He kept his dis- 610 tance and remained silent, but he was there, and her heart sang in her ears with the rapture of it. And then she saw it, the prize polliwog. It was a beauty, as beauty in polliwogs goes. Afterward, Rusty told her why it was so big and seemed to have three tails. It was because it was already taking on its future shape, that of a big green frog. It was resting languidly in the water, its goggly eyes sticking out like beads. Marian saw it, and determined to have it. The game was becoming fascinating. She had almost forgotten its first unpleasantness. Right now her whole attention was fastened intently on that particular polliwog with a firm resolve to catch it. How was she to know that Rusty was sharing the same identical thought!: Marian didn't know just how it happened, but, suddenly, she and Rusty came together with a thud, and before she knew it they were down in the mud and water together, and she was choking on a mouthful of it. She heard Robbie clapping his hands. He was enjoying immensely the rigorousness of the chase. She floundered about to free herself from the murk, and then Rusty had hold of her hand and was pulling her up. "T'm sorry," he was saying, as he held onto her while she pulled one foot and then the other from one mud hole and put them into another. "I didn't know you were after the same one that I was." Marian wondered if she were hearing right. Rusty, proud, aloof, Rusty with his sullen eyes and eternal silence for her, was speakRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 ing to her, actually saying things, nice things to her. Then a quick warning fear squeezed at the gladness inside her. She must say something, the right thing, to keep him talking. 'The tight thing, what was it? Her eyes tan down her muddy arm to his hand holding onto her, and then they went to his face. His face! She had never seen his face like that before. One side of it was completely plastered with mud, and it kept running down and dripping off his chin. And then she forgot that she was hunting for the right words to say, and laughed, a rippling, merry, contagious laugh, because it was funny. Rusty's eyes went quickly to her, one through a ruddy complexion, and one through an opaque plaster. They twinkled with hilarity, and then he laughed—laughed as Marian had heard him when he was with his "gang." "Your hair-r!" he said, pointing at her head through bursts of laughter, "you look like a mud hen!" MARIAN'S hand went instinctively to her head and came away with a handful of mud and leaves. She laughed again, while her heart whispered, "The happiest mud hen that ever could be!" "You could pass for a mud turtle yourself!" she said merrily, and they laughed together. Then they held onto each other through the mud and sat on a fallen tree while they scooped off the thickest. "Four, five, six, nine, ten, fourteen." It was Robbie sitting on the ground with his legs around the SPECIAL FOR REDHEADS old bucket. He was counting polliwogs. She had forgotten him in the excitement. But, evidently, when the chase became duller, he had given his attention to the more exciting thing of the moment, the polliwogs. "Twenty-eight, fortyone..." And then, suddenly looking up and catching her eye, he shouted, perfectly oblivious to her bedraggled appearance, "Oh, Mother, we caught forty-one polliwogs!" "Wonderful, Robbie!" Marian said with a laugh, "forty-one most precious polliwogs in the whole world!" And then Bob came. She saw him marching up the path with long strides, the sun glistening on his red hair. New warmth flooded her already burning heart. She forgot the mud in her hair and her bare feet. She remembered only that she was in love, in love with life, and her family, and her family was all hers. He stopped suddenly before her, a queer, puzzled expression on his face, and then he threw back his head and laughed, a strong, hearty laugh, containing all the satisfaction of a life that is full. "What in the world have you two been doing?" he asked, "having a mud fight?" "Why certainly not," Marian said primly, while she made a place on 611 the tree beside them, "we've just been catching a few polliwogs." Robbie, having caught sight of his daddy, came jamming the bucket against his father's legs. "Look, Daddy," he babbled, "We caught eighty-two polliwogs. Aren't they pretty?" Marian gave Bob a wink, and they all looked admiringly into the bucket. Rusty was standing up now. "Well," he said, "well... Well, I guess I'll help Robbie take the polliwogs to the house." "All right, Rusty," Marian said, "all right." But he didn't go just then. He half started, and then hesitated a moment. Marian looked up at him with a smile. "Yes, Rusty?" He gave a movement to start again, and then, suddenly, stopped and gave her a quick, sharp kiss on the cheek. Then he was gone in an instant, almost dragging Robbie and the bucket in his haste to get away. Marian sat, not wanting to move and break the spell, while the tears ran down her muddy cheeks and dropped onto her hands. And then Bob had her head on his shoulder. If her eyes had not been closed she could have seen the brown stain of the mud creep slowly over his light, green shirt. Sunft lowers Evelyn Fjeldsted Along the farm roads in the fall, Sunflowers, standing straight and tall, With bonnets made of petaled gold Are nodding in the first wind's cold. With autumn coming as a guide, Their bonnets soon are laid aside; With heads bowed in the warming sun, They whisper that their work is done. Swishing with the wind, they sing amid A gold yield being harvested. Selected Data ANNUAL REPORT—1952 HIS annual report reflects the activities and achievements of Relief Society for 1952, its 110th year. Women of many nationalities living under varied conditions participated in the Relief Society program of the 196 stakes and 41 missions included in this report. Commendable increases were shown in nearly all phases of the program. We congratulate the stakes and missions on the excellence of their reports. In the stakes, 57 were perfect and 124 required only minor corrections; in the missions, 10 were perfect and 22 required only minor corrections. The narrative sections revealed a wide variety of interesting and inspiring activities. Membershp increased 7,903 over 1951, bringing the total to 140,354. Gratifying as this increase is, however, there was an increase of 13,826 in Latter-day Saint families. Stakes and missions, therefore, should keep striving to attain our goal—every Latter-day Saint woman a member of Relief Society. During the year, opportunity for development through engaging in leadership activities was afforded 85,497 women, an increase of 5,789 over 1951. The average attendance at regular meetings throughout the Church increased slightly; theology and testimony meetings continued to have the largest attendance, followed in order by social science, literature, and work meeting. Visiting teacher meetings increased 1,935 over 1951. The total average attendance was 48.71% (46.99% in 1951) a commendable increase; in the stakes 47.81% (47-43% in 1951); in the missions 55.95% (43-42% in 1951) indicating that the missions have made particularly notable gains in expanding this activity. The increase of 184,441 visits by 3,780 more visiting teachers, in 1,790 more districts, brought the average number of visits to families to 7.87 from 7.59 in 1951. This increase, though slight in percentage, indicates steady* progress toward our objective of 12 visits annually to each Latter-day Saint family. Compassionate service continued to hold an important place in Relief Society as indicated by 16,336 more visits to the sick and homebound, and 868 more days care of the sick over 1951. Innumerable acts of helpfulness and kindly consideration for the aged, infirm, and unfortunate were related in the narrative sections of the annual reports. These, in conjunction with countless similar acts personally performed by members, are heartwarming evidences that the grand key words of the society as given by the Prophet Joseph Smith: "Said Jesus, "Ye shall do the work which ye see me do,'" are being carried into practice. Relief Society continued to support the Church Welfare Program through participation in welfare sewing at work meetings, at sewing centers, and in other welfare rojects. _ In Family Welfare Service an increase of 569 initial visits made to needy families under direction of bishops, and an increase of 1,045 follow-up visits indicate an increased solicitude for those requiring care in this phase of the Welfare Program. The general board is deeply grateful to all who contributed to the advancement of Relief Society during 1952. Present world conditions point up the need for faith, courage, and increased concern for the well-being of our fellow men. Relief Society, expanding to the far corners of the earth, through the loyal support of its members, will continue to minister to the well-being of those who come under its influence. General Secretary-Treasurer Woodcuts and arrangement by Don Mortensen and Doug Johnson, Audio-Visual Aids Department, Brigham Young University. Page 612 ANNUAL REPORT 613 MEMBERSHIP — 1952 140,354 members + 7,903 or 5.96% over 1951 In Stakes _ 236,442 L. D. S. Families + 11,258 over 1951 112,118 R. S. Members + 5,360 or 47.41% of potential membership In Missions 48,107 L. D. S. Families + 2,568 over 1951 - 28,166 R. S. Members + 2,473 over 1951 or 58.54% of potential membership LEADERSHIP ACTIVITIES 85,497 R. S. Members participated in Leadership Activities, 1952; 79,698 in 1951. 1952 1951 General Officers 0 24 24 Stake Officers 0000,. 2Bi 2,190 Mission Officers 465 420 Local Executive Officers 12,385 11,839 Other Officers 0 5,993 5,448 Class Leaders 0 11,360 10,568 Visiting Teachers 0 52,989 49,209 614 | pall | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 inn: GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS AND MEMBERS Location Stakes Organizations Members United States and Territories Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma 5,479 13,451 1,121 132 358 91 802 18,061 290 25 162 Organizations Members 12 4 28 8 43 21 Missions 183 81 415 97 998 7 91 25 518 346 737 29 318 450 157 281 202 393 71 Le 169 360 220 a5 478 Organizations Members 12 4 128 8 268 43 ANNUAL REPORT 615 Stakes Missions Totals OrganiOrganiOrganiMembers Location zations Members zations Members zations United States and Territories Oregon 43 1,935 28 685 71 2,620 Pennsylvania 1 41 24 353 25 394 Rhode Island 2 £23) 2 23 South Carolina 11 345 10 145 21 490 South Dakota 5 43 5 43 Tennessee 9 151 9. 151 Texas 4 157 50 1,039 54 1,196 Utah 799 60,038 — — 799 60,038 Vermont 2 27 2 Z/ Virginia 2 215 18 369 21 584 Washington 40 1,690 15 345 >) 2,035 West Virginia 10 184 10 — 184 Wisconsin 3 93 13 150 16 243 Wyoming 49 2,710 2. 219 61 2,929 Total United States 1,713 109,892 811 14,501 2,524 124,393 Other Countries Argentina 19 357 19 357 Australia 18 364 18 364 Austria 5 91 5 91 Belgium 6 49 6 49 Brazil 11 132 11 132 Canada 46 2,154 56 884 102 3,038 Denmark 14 366 14 366 Finland 9 142 9 142 France 11 89 11 89 Germany—East 76 3,278 76 3,278 Germany—West 64 1,212 64 212 Great Britain 82 1,066 82 1,066 Japan 4 151 4 151 exico 3 142 a/ 995 60 1,137 Netherlands a7 482 27 482 New Zealand 73 954 73 954 Norway 13 301 13 301 Palestine 4 = — = Samoa 48 633 48 633 South Africa 14 119 14 119 Sweden 34 450 34 450 Switzerland 24 322 24 322 Tahiti 15 295 15 295 Tonga a7 579 cif 579 Uruguay 22 354 22 354 Total Other Countries 49 2,296 739 13,665 788 15,961 GRAND TOTAL 1,762 112,188 1,550 28,166 3,312 140,354 616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 MEETINGS — 1952 153,905 Total Meetings Held in Wards and Branches 105,468 Regular Meetings In Stakes gee In Missions pes 951 Theology 13,636 + 756 13,643 _ £3,103 Work 18,879 +1,205 15,380 +1,770 iterature 13,198 + 775 9,721 + 646 (Optional Lessons in Missions) Social Science 11,711 + 588 9,300 + 1,134 i} 17,099 Visiting Teacher Meetings over 1951 ImStakes a.............<case---cgpes-cceees 13,646 + 1,037 In Missions...............---------0---0----- 3,453 + 898 31,338 All Other Meetings over 1951 Tew@itakes..¢....:.........000:-cileeeeee. 16,002 + 957 In Missions.............22..000222000-2---- 15,336 + 3,967 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS — 1952 Regular Meetings 49,255 or 35.09% total average attendance in 1952; er ete — eh ——= 45,524 or 34.37% in 1951. =a. _ Av. Attend- — Av. AttendTotal = ame ance ance Av. AttendIncrease ~_ — In Stakes In Missions ance © over 1951 " - Theology 41,252 12,825 54,077 ++.3,967 Work 34,835 11,745 46,580 +2,839 Literature 35,566 11,541 47,107 +3,997 Social Science 36,180 12,063 48,243 + 3,419 Visiting Teacher Meetings 25,814 or 48.71% total average attendance in 1952; 23,125 or 46.99% in 1951. Av. AttendAv. AttendTotal ance ance Av. AttendIncrease In Stakes In Missions ance over 1951 22,547 3,267 25,814 + 2,689 VISITING TEACHING SERVICE 1952 1951 over 1951 b. Total Family Visits 2,240,244 2,055,803 +184,441 Visiting Teachers 52,989 49,209 + 3,780 Districts 28,613 26,823 + 1,790 Families Visited At Home 1,508,448 1,387,914 + 120,534 Not Home 731,796 667,889 + 63,907 7.87 av. Visits were made to each L. D. S. Family in 1952; 7.59 in 1951. ANNUAL REPORT 617 SEWING SERVICE Increase (or 1952 1951 Deczense) Total Articles Completed 210,955 178,441 +32,514 Av. Number of women sewing monthly at work meeting............ 38,686 36,574 — 2,112 Kinds of Articles Completed: Quilts eee 14,846 14,153 + - 693 Children's Clothing..... 21,583 19,132 + 2,451 Women's Clothing.... 30,166 23,441 + 6,725 Men's Clothing.......... 3,088 2,391 + 697 Household Furnishings 53,426 38,444 + 14,982 Miscellaneous Articles....0....-......... 87,846 80,880 + 6,966 COMPASSIONATE SERVICE — 1952 1952 1951 over 1951 Compassionate Services: Visits to Sick and Homebound............ 209,894 193,558 + 16,336 Days Care of Sick..... 22,504 21,636 + 868 Number of Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted... 6,474 5,952 + 522 Dressing Only for Burial 787 649 se 138 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE — 1952 Increase (or 1952 1951 Daan) a "Average number of women participating in Welfare sewing at work meeting 8,422 12,856 — 4,434 igi! Average number of women participating in Welfare sewing at sewing center 3,936 302 + 444 } | *"Average number of women participating in Welfare projects other than SEWING....---.----------0e0--- 8,985 10,595 — 1,610 "Due to smaller Welfare budget assignments to wards **Due to fewer calls for service on Welfare projects FAMILY WELFARE SERVICE — 1952 Increase (or 1952 95) Come ily visits under direction of bishop........ 7,879 7,310 + 569 i Number of subsequent i+—— or follow-up visits...... 18,207 17,162 + 1,045 ua min Number visited who gave _ service on Church Welfare Projects 2... 1,458 1,493 — 35 Number of women visited who sewed at work meetings............ 1,505 1,598 — 93 Number of women visited who sewed for themselves and families 1,965 1,864 + 101 ANNUAL REPORT ———— 619 Number of initial fam- 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Receipts and Disbursements, 1952 Cash Balance on hand, January 1............$ 798,533.11 Receipts.......—2--—-----. Ee 1,268,613.82 $ 2,067,146.93 Disbursements................-: ce: ccecceceeeeeceeeeceeee 1,121,721.23 Cash Balance on hand December 31........$ 945,425.70 Assets and Liabilities, December 31, 1952 Assets Cash Balance on Hand December 31......$ 945,425.70 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishop's Office.............-..-.---- 422,912.22 Other Invested Funds (Savings, Bonds, etc.) -...-.----s-: ceeceecseeeecceeeeeeeeeeeeees 104,788.96 Real Estate and Buildings -....................... 96,265.79 Furniture and Fixtures -.......0..2......2:.2--0---- 597,874.87 Other Assets «............--c. Cccccceeeceeeceeceeeeeeeeeeeeee 147,489.59 Total Assets -2.....202000.0:22ecceeeeeeeeeeeeeeee$ 2,314,757.13 Liabilities Accounts Payable......2.2.2...--:.-c:-seesseceeseeee+$ 2,736.76 Balance Net Worth............---.----------00e-00-++ 2,312,020.37 Total Liabilities and Net Worth......$ 2,314,757.13 —_— REPORT OF FUNDS FOR NEW RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING, 1947 ~ 1952 Ee = == Receipts —————— a Vonbemesst oan esse e. 12,799.63 —" Proceeds from sale '"Wist Ye Not".. 2,197.50 Total Receipts............--..---0+-----$ 576,834.97 Disbursements..........---.----------------00eeeee-= 4,212.90 Cash Balance December 31, 1952......$ 572,622.07 ERA A RMERNS = = Contributions.......... Cc.-ce--ce-oeecoeeeeeeoeeneee$ 561,837.84 ANNUAL REPORT 621 COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL DATA 1951 - 1952 1952 Number or Amount Organizations Stakes and Missions, Total........ 237 Stakes. 196 Missions...0........--.-----2--ceeeeeeeeeeee 41 sc | ee 3,312 Wards in Stakes 20000000... 1,762 Branches in Missions.............. 1,550 Membership Total -....................... 140,354 a 112,188 WY CTS5 Ce) 5 | 28,166 General Officers and Board Members................------- 24 Stake Officers and Board Members. _ 2,281 Mission Presidents and Other Officers......2......-ceecceeeeeee ee 465 Ward and Branch Executive Officers.....2.....---seeeeeeeeeeeeeee 12,385 Other Officers 5,993 Class Leaders 11,360 Visiting Teachers...................- 52,989 All Other Members.................. 54,857 L. D. S. Families, Total................... 284,549 In Stakes 200022 236,442 In Missions............-......---..-------- 48,107 Meetings and Attendance 1. Meetings Held, Total -............. 158,397 General Board Meetings........ 29 In Stakes and Missions.......... 4,463 Stake and Mission District Board Meetings..........-.---- 2,496 Stake and Ward Officers Union) Meetings -........... 1,967 In Wards and Branches.......... 153,905 Regular Meetings for Memae _ 105,468 March Sunday Night Meetings - 9,365 Visiting 'Teachers MeetIMQS -___..----------------—-----1--0-- 17,099 Preparation Meetings.......... 17,501 R. G Conferences................ 2,885 R. S. Conference Preliminary Meetings.................- 1,587 2. Average Attendance at Regular Meetings for Members 49,255 In Stakes.0..........2. Eee 36,962 In Missions...................--.---- 12,293 1951 Number or Amount 230 188 42 3,177 1,667 1,510 132,451 106,758 25,693 24 2,190 420 11,839 5,448 10,568 49,209 52,753 270,723 225,184 49,599 141,346 27 4,250 2,382 1,868 137,069 957491 8,461 15,164 13,735 2,694 1,524 45,524 34,458 11,066 Changes 1951 to 1952 Number or Amount +++t+t+ | ++ +++ + ttt + + +4 + HHH FHEttet+++ + 4 622 3. Per cent of Members represented by Average Attendance at Regular Meetings In Stakes 22200. In Missions............-------.----. 4. Average Attendance at Visiting 'Teacher Meetings.......... 5. Per cent of Visiting Teachers Represented by Average Attendance Visits by Stake and Mission Officers 1. To Wards and Branches........ To Wards by Stake Officers To Branches by Mission & District Officers -............- Activities 1. Visiting Teaching: -Number of Visiting Teacher Districts..........-.----...----- Famil ome Not Home.....-.............. Per cent at Home............ Number of Communications in Lieu of Visits.............. 2. Educational Meetings: Average Attendance at Relief Society: Theology...........-----:+-+-+-+ Work (Sewing)............ Literature _...........000.0.... 3. Sewing Service at Meetings: Average Number of Women Sewing Monthly........ Total Articles Completed.. Kind of Articles: Quilts...........-...2%.-------- Children's Clothing...... Women's Clothing........ Men's Clothing............ Household Furnishings.. Other ( Miscellaneous} — 1952 Number or Amount 35.09% 32.958 2258) 28,613 2,240,244 1,508,448 731,796 67.33% 27,012 54,077 38.53% +8900, 107) 48,243 °° 34.37%, a 210,955 °° 14,846 21,583 30,166 3,088 53,426 87,846 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 Changes 1951 1951 to 1952 Number Number or or Amount Amount 34.37% 32.276, 43.076, 23,125 + 2,689 46.99%, 17,964 + 1,073 13,559 + 886 4,405 + 187 26,823 + 1,790 2,055,803 + 184,441 1,387,914 + 120,534 667,889 + 63,907 67.51%, 27,140 — 128 50,110 + 3,967 37.83% 43,741 + 2,839 33.02% 43,110 + 3,997 32.54% 44,824 + 3,419 33.84% 36,574 + 2,112 27.61% 178,441 + 32,514 14,153 + 693 19,132 + 2,451 301 $8? F T 38,444 + 14,982 80,880 + 6,966 ANNUAL REPORT 1952 Number or Amount 4. Compassionate Service: © Visits to Sick and HomeNumber of Days Care of 2 a 22,5041, Number of Bodies Dressed for Burial......... A 787 Number of Funerals at Which 5. Church Welfare Services: Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Sewing at Work Meeting 8,422 Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Projects Other than Sewee 8,985 6. Family Welfare Services: Number of Initial Family Visits Under Direction Number of Subsequent or Number Visited Who Gave Service on Church WelNumber of Women Visited Who Sewed at Work Number of Women Visited Who Sewed for ThemTotal Number of Wards and Branches With Lists of WHS seen acne ost 1,743 Mission Branches in United States, Great Britain, Magazine Relief Society Magazine SubFinances Cash Receipts -............2200..00020---$1,268,613.82 Cash Disbursements.................... 1,121,721.23 a 2,312,020.37 623 Changes 1951 1951 to 1952 Number or or Amount Amount Number 193,558 + 16,336 21,636 + 8681, 649 + 138 5,952 + 522 12866) 4,434: 3,492 + 444 x ii —_ 1,610: 7,310 + 569 17,162 + 1,045 fee = 35 1,598 a 93 1864 + 101 1,461 + 282 1109 + 168 352 + 114 102,754 + 9,127 $1,081,656.12 $+ 186,957.70 995,930.40 +125,790.83 + 225,947.34 2,086,073.03 bound oo... Eceee eee ee Relief Society Assisted.... Sewing at Sewing Center of Bishop............---.--.------ Follow-up Visits............ Fare Projects.............-.----- Meeting.......-..----2:.2:------ selves and Families........ Wards in Stakes 0.000000... Canada 2.0.0.2... Eee eee scriptions.........20...2200-...0- 209,894 6,474 3,936 7,879 18,207 1,458 1,505 1,965 1,277 466 111,881 LESSON ¢ UE} DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 19—Teachings of King Benjamin Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Words of Mormon 12-18; Mosiah 2-6) For Tuesday, December 1, 1953 Objective: To learn and apply to ourselves a correct understanding of the teachings of King Benjamin. Address of King Benjamin ING Benjamin was a high-minded man who worked assiduously to induce his people to transmute the gospel into terms of daily life. Even a cursory reading of his address to his people impresses us with the practical nature of the gospel he taught. Before he delivered his great address, he and his son, Mosiah, instructed the people to assemble together. Because the temple was too small to hold the crowd, Benjamin built a tower near the temple and talked to the people from it. Because of the greatness of the multitude, all could not hear his message, so King Benjamin had the address written and distributed among those who were not within the sound of his voice. The first part of his message was concerned with himself and _his service to the people. He humbled himself before them, declaring that he was mortal like themselves, and that he was subject to the same infirmities of mind and body. Page 624 Benjamin was careful to establish in the people's minds his right to be their king and ruler. He informed them that he had been chosen by them, had been consecrated by his father, and had been "suffered by the hand of the Lord" in his position. As their rightful servant, he said, he had sought the eternal welfare of his people by serving them with all the mind, might, and strength the Lord had given him. He referred to his having labored with his own hands for his livelihood in order that the people would not be burdened with taxation. He called attention to the fact that government under him had been an institution to help and to: protect the people. Under his reign the people had not been confined to dungeons. They had not been allowed to enslave one another. They had been forbidden to murder, plunder, steal, commit adultery, or adopt any of the barbaric vices that tend to produce moral degeneration. He inspired the people with the proph- LESSON DEPARTMENT ecies and doctrines recorded on the brass plates, and impressed them with the significance of all the words that had been spoken by their fathers since they left Jerusalem over four hundred years before. King Benjamin was a_ diligent preacher of the commandments of God. Service Above Self Feeling that the people might take his reference to his accomplishments as boasting, he told them that he had related these things to them that they might grow in wisdom. ~ All that he, as king, had done was only in the service of God, he said. And then he gave them one of the most important messages of the gospel, "When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God (Mosiah 2:17). No more practical gospel was ever taught to a people. It is the burden of Christ's message to mankind as given subsequently in his Sermon on the Mount. Using his own worthy life as an example, Benjamin asked his people, "Tf I, whom ye call your king, do labor to serve you, then ought not ye to labor to serve one another?" (Mosiah 2:18). Continuing his chain of reasoning, based upon the thetorical question, he gave them another question with its obvious answer. "If I, whom ye call your king, who has spent his days in your service, and yet has been in the service of God, do merit any thanks from you, O how you ought to thank your heavenly King!" (Mosiah 2:19). King Benjamin then enumerated the reasons why they should be grateful to their Heavenly Father. 625 It was a process of counting their blessings for them. He impressed them with the fact that they were eternally indebted to their Heavenly Father for life, for protection, for happiness, and for the ability to live in peace one with another. For these blessings, he told them, God asked that they keep his commandments. And when they did keep God's commandments, he blessed them; he made them prosper in the land, so they were always in his debt. Mosiah Appointed King Then it was that Benjamin informed them he could no longer be their teacher or king. He said the Lord had commanded him that he should declare that Mosiah, his son, was king and ruler over them, and Benjamin begged them to keep the commandments of God as they should be given to them by Mosiah. And he warned them against allowing contentions to creep in among them. King Benjamin, after appointing his son king and giving his people advice as to what their attitude should be towards Mosiah, gave the people the heart of the message he had for them. The Future Appearance of the Savior - Benjamin told his people that an angel had awakened him and told him that he brought glad tidings of great joy. The tidings were related to the salvation of mankind. The angel had foretold the coming of the Lord Omnipotent to take a tabernacle of clay in the flesh. He had said that while Christ was tabernacled in the flesh, he would perform a wonderful mission among 626 onl RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 the people. He would do many mighty miracles, such as healing the sick, raising the dead, causing the lame to walk, the blind to receive their sight, the deaf to hear, and curing all manner of disease. The angel had declared also that Christ should suffer temptations and pain of body, hunger, thirst, and fatigue. He had said that his name should be called Jesus Christ, and that his mother should be called Mary. Further, the angel had declared that Christ should be scourged, crucified, and rise the third day from the dead. His blood should atone for the sins of the world, thus making possible the salvation of the human race. Principles of the Gospel After reporting what the angel had unfolded to him, King Benjamin discussed the doctrine of the atonement, saying that the blood of Christ would atone for the sins of all those who have fallen because of the transgression of Adam, "who have died not knowing the will of God concerning them, or who have ignorantly sinned" (Mosiah 3:11). He further explained that the blood of Christ would atone for the sins of little children. But King Benjamin warned all those who would hear the gospel and who sin knowingly, that their only recourse for remission of sins and salvation would be through repentance and faith on the Lord Jesus Christ. Benjamin continued: The time shall come when the knowledge of a Savior shall spread throughout every nation, kindred, tongue, and people. And behold, when that time cometh, none shall be found blameless before God, except it be little children, only through repentance and faith on the name of the Lord God Omnipotent (Mosiah 3:20-21). Benjamin taught that "the natural man is an enemy to God, and has been from the fall of Adam, and will be, forever and ever, unless he yields to the enticings of the Holy Spirit" (Mosiah 3:19). Man must exercise faith in the atoning blood of Jesus Christ, and must learn to bridle his natural disposition, and become meek, humble, patient, and filled with love, if he hopes to have salvation. Benjamin also commented on the law of Moses and its relation to the atonement. This law had its symbols pointing forward to the coming of Christ and representing his mission for mankind, but it was of no value except through the atoning blood of Christ. Every man is to be judged, however, according to his works, whether they be good or evil (Mosiah 3:24). If his works have been evil, he shall shrink from the presence of the Lord into a state of misery (Mosiah 3:25-27), and his torment shall be like a burning lake of fire and brimstone. After completing this portion of his address, Benjamin looked over his people and discovered that they had fallen to the earth, for the fear of the Lord had come upon them. They cried aloud that they believed in the future appearance of Jesus Christ, and that they desired to subject themselves to his mercy. Conditions of Salvation Cognizant of their desires, Benjamin gave the people the conditions of salvation: first, they must LESSON DEPARTMENT believe in God; second, they must repent of their sins and forsake them; and, finally, they must keep the commandments. Benjamin desired his people to retain a remission of their sins, and told them they could help to do so by being liberal with their substance to the poor. He instructed them that every man must give according to that which he has (Mosiah 4:26). He offered some very specific instructions to the rich, saying, "Ye will not suffer that the beggar putteth up his petition to you in vain, and turn him out to perish. Perhaps thou shalt say: The man_ has brought upon himself his misery; therefore I will stay my hand, and will not give unto him of my food, nor impart unto him of my substance that he may not suffer, for his punishments are just—But I say unto you, O man, whosoever doeth this the same hath great cause to repent; and except he repenteth of that which he hath done he perisheth forever, and hath no interest in the kingdom of God" (Mosiah 4:16-18). Benjamin's instructions to the poor were equally specific. The poor must be willing sincerely to say to the beggar, "I give not because I have not, but if I had I would give" (Mosiah 4:24). But Benjamin was careful to point out that all these things must be "done in wisdom and order; for it is not requisite that a man should run faster than he has strength" (Mosiah 4:27). Benjamin told his people that if they kept the commandments they should be filled with love; should 627 increase in knowledge concerning the glory of God and of that which is just and true; should not have a desire to injure one another, but live peaceably together; should not allow children to go hungry, to transgress the commandments, or quarrel and fight, but teach them to love and serve one another. (See Mosiah 4:12-15. To live such a life, Benjamin said it was necessary to watch our thoughts and our deeds, and to observe the commandments. His unique contribution to our thinking upon this subject is the emphasis he places on watching our thoughts. After completing his message, Benjamin inquired to obtain the response of the people. They cried that they believed all that he had spoken, and to witness it, they covenanted with God to keep his com mandments the remainder of their days (Mosiah 5:5). Benjamin told them that because of this covenant, they should be called the children of Christ; for they had been spiritually begotten of Christ that day. Again, Benjamin emphasized the fact that Christ was the only name whereby salvation comes. Whoever, he said, refused to take upon himself that name, must be called by another name, and would find himself on the left hand of God. In closing, he exhorted his people: Therefore, I would that ye should be steadfast and immovable, always abounding in good works, that Christ, the Lord God Omnipotent, may seal you his, that you may be brought to heaven, that ye may have everlasting salvation and eternal life, through the wisdom, and power, and justice, and mercy of him who created all things, in heaven and in earth, who is God above all. Amen (Mosiah 5:15). Benjamin then took the names of all who had entered into the covenant with God, and consecrated his son Mosiah to be their ruler. Questions for Discussion 1. How can we best serve our God? 2. Why did King Benjamin tell about his service to the people? 3. How did King Benjamin serve his people? 4. What words did Mormon use to describe King Benjamin? Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 19—"Behold, He Sendeth an Invitation Unto All Men, for the Arms of Mercy Are Extended Towards Them, and He Saith: Repent, and | Will Receive You" (Alma 5:33). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, December 1, 1953 Objective: To point out the necessity to repent and overcome one's faults. HIS statement from Alma is expressive of the boundless love of God to all those who repent. "Come unto me and ye... Shall eat and drink of the bread and the waters of life freely' (Alma 5:34). All are bidden—not a preferred list or a selected few, but all mankind may come unto God by way of repentance. The message of all the prophets throughout the ages has been that of repentance. Over and over they have extended the invitation of our Lord "Repent, all ye ends of the earth, for the kingdom of heaven is soon at hand" (Alma 5:50) is typical of their cry. "Repentance is a means of pardon and is therefore one of God's great gifts to man" (Articles of Faith, page 114). Its importance cannot be overemphasized. No man is without sin, therefore, no man is exempt from the need to repent. Knowing that men would make mistakes, a way was prepared by which they might make reparation and be forgiven. The way was by means of repentance. We may not go back and live our lives over again and avoid the mistakes we have made; but, through the tender mercy of God, we are given the opportunity of sincerely repenting. Repentance is necessary in order that the atonement of Christ may be effective in our individual lives. Repentance involves several progressive steps and conditions. Recognition of sin is the first step; then follows a deep sorrow for sin; the repentant one will do all in his power to make amends for any wrongs sustained; and lastly he will refrain from committing the sin again, and determine to accomplish good. (See Articles of Faith, page 109.) "By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins—behold, he will confess them and forsake them" (D. & C. 58:43). Though there is always hope for the repentant one, yet we must 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT not suppose that repentance is always possible. "The gift of repentance is extended to men as they humble themselves before the Lord." And "Repentance becomes more difficult as sin is more wilful." Also, "As the time of repentance is procrastinated, the ability to repent grows weaker" (Articles of Faith, page 114). Amulek taught: Therefore, I beseech of you that ye do not procrastinate the day of your repentance until the end.... Ye cannot say, when ye are brought to that awful crisis, that I will repent, that I will return to my God. Nay, ye cannot say this; for that same spirit which doth possess your bodies at the time that ye go out of this life, that same spirit will have power to possess your body in that eternal world (Alma 34:33, 34). 629 If one hopes to obtain forgiveness through repentance, he must also be willing to forgive others. Repentance is not sincere unless one has become tolerant of the shortcomings of others. The Savior said: For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you: But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses (Matt. 6:14-15). When repentance is genuine, great changes are wrought in the lives of men. That is the purpose of this great principle—that men may overcome sin and perfect themselves. "Of all acts, is not repentance most divine?"—Carlyle. WVork Mleeting— Family Money Management (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Spending the Food Dollar Rhea H. Gardner (For Tuesday, December 8, 1953) HESE lessons are concerned primarily with buying practices. This lesson is to be treated from that standpoint. Reference to nutrition should be made only as it refers to better buymanship. Money cannot be invested better than in foods which build health, strength, and general well-being for every member of the family. Life cannot be lived fully unless the body is in a good state of health. Good health is dependent upon good nutrition. With good management, it is possible to provide an adequate diet at practically all income levels. Good management of the food dollar means buying diet essentials first, then including luxury and accessory items as the budget permits. It does not mean cutting out health-giving foods or reducing the total quantity below body needs. The food budget takes a larger portion of the family income than any other single division of family living cost, except in very high income groups, where housing sometimes exceeds the cost of food. Therefore, controlling food costs can affect the total pattern of family expenditures. Food planning and buying habits, food storage facilities and practices, home production of food, and methods of food preparation and service are all factors in controlling food costs. Planning Proper diet can be purchased at various costs. Whether you have much or little to spend, good planning will supply a better balanced diet. Going to market without knowing what you need is like taking a bus without knowing its destination. You are likely to end up at the wrong destination. The smart homemaker's first step toward thnfty food shopping is planning her food needs in advance. It is doubtful if one or two out of the 168 hours we have to use each week, can be spent in a more profitable manner. Planning the daily menu has been simplified by nutrition experts, who have classified foods into seven groups, according to their contributions to the diet. If, when planning meals, you will include at least one food from each group every day, you will be quite sure of getting all the foods your body needs. Where cost must be seriously considered, substitute less expensive foods for the more expensive ones within each group. Many nutrients cannot be stored in the body for future use. Therefore, even though the family is served an abundance of good food on Sunday, daily needs must be met each of the other days of the week if body needs are to be met. If you need a green leafy vegetable for salads, and your money is low, you will do well to select cabbage rather than lettuce. It is far more nutritious and costs much less. Winter squash compares favorably with sweet potatoes in nutritional value and costs about one-third. There is no economy in decreasing the amount of milk recommended for children or adults. Nutritionists agree that milk would be a good buy even at high prices, because of the many nutrients it provides. One pound of dry milk solids is enough for one gallon of skim milk. This may be used for all cooking purposes. The vitamin and mineral content is the same as whole milk, except for vitamin A. Canned milk costs a little more than dry milk, but less than whole milk. There should be no skimping on fruits, vegetables, eggs, and other protein-rich foods. Spending the food budget wisely can result in less money being spent for food, as well as for doctor and dentist bills. Remember, saving food money wisely is quite different from merely saving food money. Producing and Buying Food There is a national trend away from home food production. One reason is because most foods can be purchased at the neighborhood grocery. Before rural families rely too completely on other sources of food, they should be reminded that health-giving foods, most lacking in diets of the undernourished, are those which can be produced on the farm at much lower cost. Following are some buying tips which have been found profitable: 630 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT 1. Shop in person whenever possible. Cash and carry is usually cheaper, and your own selection of food is more satisfying. 2. Compare costs of different forms of food, such as fresh, canned, dried, or frozen, and select that which suits your budget and need best. 3. Buy foods by weight, rather than by count, whenever possible. 4. Study advertisements in newspapers for specials. Compare costs at two or more places. 5. Take advantage of seasonal best buys and specials. Buy for advance needs, if storage facilities are adequate, and you can use the food while it is still fresh. 6. Buy fresh vegetables in bulk rather than in fancy bunches, if there is a choice. 631 Tops left on vegetables take food from the root rather than add to it, and their being left on increases the cost of packing and shipping. 7. Study labels for quality and quantity or weight. 8. Buy on the basis of facts, rather than by habit. Thoughts for Discussion 1. The claim is made that impulse buy ing is common among homemakers who do not plan their menus and marketing. What can be some of the dangers of this practice? 2. How does the preparation and proper care of food help in saving the food dollar? Literature—The Literature of England Lesson 35—Charles Dickens (1812-1870) Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, December 15, 1953 Objective: By studying Dickens' life and his Christmas Carol, to realize more fully when and how he has immortalized the Christmas spirit in his writings. Dickens' Ability to Re-Create Truth Imaginatively WoOvuLD you care to share in the very thoughts of a child, as few of us, once past twelve, ever can do again? Then open Great Expectations to the first page and hear little Pip telling simply a child's truth: As I never saw my father or my mother, and never saw any likeness of either of them (for their days were long before the days of photographs), my first fancies regarding what they were like, were unreasonably derived from their tombstones. The shape of the letters on my father's gave me an odd idea that he was a square, stout, dark man, with curly black hair. From the character and turn of the inscription, "Also Georgiana Wife of the Above," I drew a childish conclusion that my mother was freckled and sickly. To five little stone lozenges, each about a foot and a half long, which were arranged in a neat row beside their grave, and were sacred to the memory of five little brothers of mine—who gave up trying to get a living exceedingly early in that universal struggle—I am indebted for a belief I religiously entertained that they had all been born on their backs with their hands in their trousers-pockets, and had never taken them out in this stage of existence. What can one say of such writing? Why must anything be said at such rare moments of experiencing a complete, flawless reincarnation of human reality? By critics, wary of using superlative adjectives, Dickens has been acclaimed the greatest of all English novelists. After we have read the above paragraph, our dominant impression might well be, "Forget the critics 632 and scholars; this writing doesn't need explaining. From the first page I liked it, and right now I'm living it. And now, please, let me read." Dickens' supreme gift is his ability to re-create truth. But the above passage is purely imaginary. True enough, but it is also true that imagined truth may seem truer than actual truth. One might ask, why don't children write the greatest children's stories, or doctors write the greatest stories of human suffering, or soldiers write the greatest stories of war and adventure? Or how could Dickens, aged fortyeight, know that "little stone lozenges" might produce in the mysterious, illogical, intense mind of a child the compelling image of little brothers "born on their backs with their hands in their trousers-pocktai? Of course the answer is obvious. While children have elephantine imaginations, they have little powers of selection. Then, too, self-consciousness would obscure the pathetic sincerity of this recollection, even if it miraculously escaped smothering beneath a mass of actual detail. It remains, then, for the artist to re-create imaginatively the truths of life. And each writer creates reality anew in terms of his own judgment and awareness: ""I'he world is seen in terms of the seer." Dickens' Love of Humanity Dickens' world was defined by his vibrant spirit as he sought self-realization and fulfillment by pouring forth his golden torrent of humor and love for humanity. And Dickens was passionately in love with the good life as he defined it: warm RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 family affections, hosts of jovial friends, good food, comfort and peace both at home and at large in the community—all well spiced with sparkling good humor. Above all, he loved to create people, mostly from the lower middle class which had produced Dickens himself. 'These immortal characters poured forth from his pen in a stream unbelievably rich and varied, each talking, acting, and existing in his own right. So real were they that Dickens could hardly bear the pain of finishing a book, thus deserting the characters he had created with such sympathy and joy. Long after a book had been written, he would quote voluminously from the opinions of Mr. Pumblechook, Sam Weller, Mrs. Gamp, Micawber, or Peggotty. Even when walking with a friend, he would remark, as he observed a passer-by, "His gait reminds one of poor Traddles, don't you think?" And in writing his books he did not create his characters (in Pickwick Papers there are more than three hundred ), he was those persons, and when they laughed, Dickens filled his chamber with his own rich laughtcr, sometimes so filling his eyes with tears of laughter that he could not see to write. Likewise, he suffered with them, in their cold and barren homes or in the sometimes elaborately staged throes of death. Thus there was never a gap between Dickens and his vast reading public, since he considered himself one of them. The working classes of England and America, from the beginning, knew he was one of them. And so he was, in subject LESSON DEPARTMENT matter, in treatment, in belief and hope—really in everything. The greatest proof of the Dickens' miracle is that never once has Dickens' popularity slackened since his Pickwick Papers first appeared in 1836, when Dickens was twenty-four. Dickens' Life The second of. Eight children, Charles Dickens was born in 1812 to a navy clerk and his wife living at Portsmouth, England. When Dickens was not yet three years old, they moved to London. Later, Dickens recalled some details of this early incident: there was snow on the ground, and his sister took him to watch soldiers' drill at a nearby field. Throughout life he absorbed the most minute details of scenes, people, and conversations. "I looked directly at nothing, and saw everything," he recalled, an evident truth when we consult his books. Often the emergence of genius will not be accounted for, and Dickens is no exception. His father, whose people were domestic servants, was carefree, friendly, irresponsible; his mother was conscientious, somewhat rattlebrained, but idealistic and sincere. Neither had any exceptional training or talent. Dickens was a sickly child, taught to read by his mother, and forced to stay indoors while his friends played outside. Until his twelfth year his father was his nearest companion, while he felt rather distant from his mother, so roundly did she scold John Dickens for his failure to assume either the financial or emotional responsibilities of parenthood. Whenever debts became pressing, he mysteriously disap- 633 A Perry Picture Copyright 1930 CHARLES DICKENS (1812-1870) peared, leaving no address; when the stern realities of life confronted him he would take his handsome, blue-eyed, curly headed son with him to the nearest tavern. There the young Dickens would sing and recite, much to his own delight and his father's as well. The two often took long walks together, a habit Dickens practiced in his later years, as relaxation after hours of writing. These happy days were cut short when Dickens' father was placed in Marshalsea prison for debt. His mother struggled hopelessly to support the family. The pawnshop was her mainstay. At nine Dickens obtained a job in a black, dark basement wrapping bottles of shoe blacking. For two years he worked there, so ashamed of his father's im- prisonment that he pretended he was an orphan. Yet he visited his father most faithfully. When an uncle left the family some money and the father was released, the pain was lessened, but Dickens' own children never heard of his first dismal job from his own lips, so painful was this memory to him. Surely it had much to do with his vowing that he would be a success. After being errand boy in law offices, ambitious Dickens taught himself a most complicated system of shorthand, and, soon, he was one of the top reporters for various newspapers, spending much of his time in law courts and Parliament. In 1836, when he was twenty-four, he. Married Catherine Hogarth. They were not congenial and their marriage finally, ended, twenty-two years later, in a separation. Ten children were born to them. A sister of his wife's, Georgina, spent her life in the Dickens' household, managing the household affairs and giving the children great affection. Throughout his life Dickens made enduring friendships. He loved to entertain and was the ideal host, with his games and feats of magic for the children, and his irresistible personal warmth for adults. For years his wife put up with his love of gaiety and people, and moved the growing family all over Europe rather than dissent from his desires, but, at heart, Catherine wanted peace and quiet, and the final break, most painful to them both, had long been predicted before it came. How supreme an irony it was that Dickens, who immortalized the virtues of domestic happiness, should spend his own domestic life without it. But this might explain, in part at least, the almost violent enthusiasm with which he carved out his own career. A tremendous worker, a shrewd, careful businessman, Dickens drove himself so ruthlessly, particularly in the last ten years of his life, that he killed himself through overwork. Dickens' Writings The young Dickens had begun writing Sketches by Boz simply for the delight he found in creating. He submitted the first few sketches anonymously to a newspaper, and soon had a reading public and a reputation. When the man hired to write a commentary on illustrations for the Pickwick Club failed in his contract, Dickens was hired as substitute. With the appearance of his Sam Weller, the series became tremendously popular, and Dickens spent the remainder of his life entertaining England either with his writings, which appeared weekly and monthly, or with his sensational public readings from his own works. He wrote almost twenty novels, and innumerable short stories and sketches which appeared in his own weekly newspapers which he edited and actively supervised during the last twenty years of his life. His best-loved works are Pickwick Papers (1836); Oliver Twist (1837-1838); The Old Curiosity Shop (1840); A Christmas Carol (1843); David Copperfield (1849-1850); A Tale of Two Cities (1859); and Great Expectations (1860). At his worst, Dickens' writings are sentimental, melodramatic, and extremely wordy, with little plot, and a journalistic shallowness of 634 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture 635 CHARLES DICKENS' HOME, "GADSHILL,'" ENGLAND characterization. At his best, Dickens' superb descriptions of scene harmonize with characters who "talk themselves alive." No one has surpassed him in his ability to arouse emotion in his readers. And the emotion which may become his most enduring monument is_ his immortalizing of the Christmas Spirit as created in his five Christmas stories, but particularly as found in A Christmas Carol, the first of these annuals to appear. A Christmas Carol Someone has observed, justly, that all Dickens' books are "Christmas" books, since his constant theme is either happiness and the goodness of natural affection, or the contrasting condition which follows when these virtues are absent. Christmas is many things to many people. In Dickens' Carol Christ's birth isn't mentioned, yet when we enter the humble Cratchit home and feel their rich pleasure in wishing goodness and health to loved ones, the "Christmas Spirit" is so strongly felt as to be almost tangible. How does Dickens create this strong feeling? What is its origin? Much of his power arises from his skillful use of contrast. Why does Christmas seem more nearly its true self, in some climates, when it is a "white Christmas"; and the deeper the snow on Christmas Eve, and the more chill the raw wind, the more delight we feel in the warm fireplace glow within our homes? It is the contrast between warmth and cold, between a family's happiness and a miser's loneliness, which makes Dickens' Christ- mases so memorable. How gay the trappings of Christmas become when displayed against the bleak London winter: Foggier yet, and colder, piercing, searching, biting cold.... The ancient tower of a church, whose gruff old bell was always peeping slyly down at Scrooge out of a gothic window in the wall, became invisible, and struck the hours and quarters in the clouds, with tremulous vibrations _ afterwards as if its teeth were chattering in its frozen head up there. The cold became intense.... The brightness of the shops where holly sprigs and berries crackled in the lamp heat of the windows, made pale faces ruddy as they passed. Poulterers' and grocers' trades became a splendid joke; a glorious pageant, with which it was next to impossible to believe that such dull principles as bargain and sale had anything to do. Again, contrast the "cheap" darkness and bachelor gloom of Scrooge's barren rooms with the spectacle created with the entrance of the Spirit of Christmas Present. At his entrance The crisp leaves of holly, mistletoe, and ivy reflected back the light, as if so many little mirrors had been scattered there; and such a mighty blaze went roaring up the chimney.... Heaped up on the floor, to form a kind of throne, were turkeys, geese, game, poultry, brawn, great joints of meat, suckling pigs, long wreaths of sausages, mince-pies, plum puddings, barrels of oysters, red-hot chestnuts, cherrycheeked apples, juicy oranges, luscious pears, immense twelfth-cakes, and seething bowls of punch, that made the chamber dim with their delicious steam. In easy state upon this couch, there sat a jolly Giant, glorious to see who bore a glowing torch, in shape not unlike Plenty's hom.... We catch the same spirit of abundance as we enter the Cratchit home: And now two smaller Cratchits, boy and girl, came tearing in, screaming that outside the baker's they had smelt the goose, and known it for their own and, basking in luxurious thoughts of sage and onion, these young Cratchits danced about the table and exalted Master Peter Cratchit to the skies, while he (not proud, although his collars nearly choked him) blew the fire, until the slow potatoes bubbling up, knocked loudly at the saucepanlid to be let out and peeled. The happy preparations continue. Then At last the dishes were set on, and grace was said. It was succeeded by a breathless pause, as Mrs. Cratchit, looking slowly all along the carving knife, prepared to plunge it in the breast; but when she did, and when the long-expected gush of stuffing issued forth, one murmur of delight arose all around the board, and even Tiny Tim, excited by the two young Cratchits, beat on the table with the handle of his knife, and feebly cried Hurtah! Finally, the father proposes a toast: "A Merry Christmas to us all, my dears. God bless us!" Which all the family reechoed. "God bless us every one!" said Tiny Tim, the last of all. Here is contrast again: weak, crippled Tiny Tim swept along on the crest of exuberance, so completely forgetting his own afflictions that in all innocent sincerity he wishes only for the continuance of joy and love and such festivity among them. The physical abundance, the turkey which the lonesome, repentant Scrooge eagerly gives to the Cratchit family, so plump and fat that Dickens marvels how its legs ever supported it—all symbolize the superabundance of love and affection to those who truly understand 636 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT the "Spirit of Christmas Present." It is this phase of Dicken's Carol that we all know and love, and anticipate creating, in some measure, within our own homes during the holiday season. The other two excursions of Scrooge, with Christmas Past and Christmas Future, do not contain the magic spark, and are little read. But in the. Story of Scrooge's conversion by Marley's ghost and the Spirit of Christmas Present as he watches his employees and relatives celebrate Christmas together—here we feel the full, rich warmth of Dickens' heart, as well as the puckish, whimsical joy which ideally crowns the innocent pleasures of those who know the supreme joy of loved ones about them at Christmastide. Note To Class Leaders Attention might be called to the presentation of a Christmas Carol on the radio and perhaps television, near Christmas, and of recordings. Questions for Discussion 1. Why has Dickens' popularity never ceased? 2. Discuss the importance of Dickens' painful childhood on his success as a writer, 3. What elements, made famous in his Carol, are common to all his books? 4. Why is Dickens' A Christmas Carol still a favorite at the Christmas season? XX» RN BRA Social Science The Constitution of the United States No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. _ 637 Appropriate RELIEF SOCIETY CHORAL NUMBERS SSA *. God Shall Wipe wii All Tears —Rome... -. How Lovely Is Thy Dwelling) Place —Brahms = 22 1 Will Thank Thee, O eee 15 Lo, My Shepherd Is Divine—Haydn...22 a. Lord, Hear Our Prayer—Verdi............15 _ My Soul Is Athirst For God —Madsen.20 ss Ode to Immortality—Larsen............20 — One World—O'Hara..........-n------- 20 Out of the Depths—Todd.................20 Peace I Leave With You—Roberts...15 WE PAY POSTAGE Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement on your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated Cl] On Approval (1 Charge 0 Money Enclosed City & State...... Da FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH i MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAN The Pride of Your Library! Your Relief Society Magazines when handsomely bound into permanent yearly volumes acquire new value as excellent reference books. Just $2.50 Per Volume If necessary to mail them to you, the following postage rates will apply. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 25 150 to 300 miles " 28 300 to 600 miles 34 600 to 1000 miles 42 1000 to 1400 miles 51 1400 to 1800 miles 60 Over 1800 miles 69 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone 4-258] NAWAI! Why not join our lovely Fall Tour to Hawaii? We shall leave the middle of November. For Complete Details Write or Phone... VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Telephone 4-2017 or 5-9388 Memory S Magic Francelia Goddard To conjure up my past before me, Show me hollyhocks. Let me smell the scent of clover, Pungent tansy, heady stocks. Take me where the bees are droning Where the swallows dip and glide. Set me on an old stone wall In a quiet countryside. XY A ABR A Rendezvous Genevieve Groen Listening to the brook With its babble-o-bubbling sound, I was watching day meet night On this flower-colored mound. Horizon hues were dark With a lingering ray of light Waiting just to hear The pianissimo of night. X» A AR A Song for a New School Margery S. Stewart May every child who comes to you Be proud of more than brick and stone, Remember more than lovely halls Or gardens where spring beauty shone. May every child have, as a gift, The memory of a reaching hand When he stood frightened and alone; A gentle word, when all he planned Was broken, or the quick delight He heard in some dear teacher's voice When he stood struggling in the mists Of mind, and made the nghtful choice. May every child wear, as a cloak, The happiness of learning why Things are as they were made to be— Winging bird in summer sky, The tides, the winds, the turning earth, All these things, the teacher's gold, May they be his to love and hold. 638 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1953 Bizabaih. (Continued from page 586) relief at knowing she was safe and loved again. "T don't know what happened," I told Allen a few minutes later. "T guess we'll never know. I don't believe she could have come back alone. She could scarcely walk, and besides, she's so little and new to the neighborhood. The only thing I can figure out is that someone after all read the ad. Remembering the little dog they had struck, they picked her up and brought her back." That day we took her to the veterinarian. "There isn't much I can do," he said. "Her hip is cracked, but she will recover. She probably won't ever be able to stretch that leg out straight. But otherwise she'll be all right." We took her home again. "What does it matter?" I said to Allen, as I held her in my arms. At least, I thought, now we can tell Jim about it. He wouldn't mind the bad leg. After all he had one, too. This he could understand. X» RA A A September Beatrice R. Parsons Pale, crimsoned leaves lie drowning in a pool of rain, Veined willow trees toss branches in a tangled skein; Against a sun-touched wall a swinging vine Writes summer's ending in a tattered line. » ELECTRIC HOME FREEZER SAVES YOU TIME AND MONEY: Be Thrifty - Use Flectricity | UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY For a Better Job... More Pay Attend LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE FALL QUARTER starts September 8. New students can register right now. Learn.... @ TYPEWRITING @ SHORTHAND. (easy-to-learn HySpeed Longhand or Gregg Simplified) e@ ACCOUNTING @ ENGLISH @ OFFICE MACHINES many other subjects FREE EMPLOYMENT SERVICE Available to advanced L. D. S. Students. Write or call for further inEe Attend your CHURCH school. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Branch of Brigham Young University 70 NORTH MAIN _— SALT LAKE CITY Page 639 €2 en ay plies e we For Inspired Education Choose Your Church University These students in one of the great B. Y. U. Assemblies come from 47 states and 21 foreign countries and 1080 of them are returned missionaries. Church members the world over look to B. Y. U. As THEIR university. The fastest growing school in the West, it grew 26 per cent in enrollment last year, and 16 new dormitories have been built to house nearly 1000 more students next term. Grow with your CHURCH university. Plan now to attend. Freshman Orientation _____September 21-24 Registration September 25-26 BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Provo, Utah Page 640 Relief Society LITERATURE ST: COURSE te 1953 - 1954 1, Literature of England, II Woods, Watt, Anderson An anthology of selected English writings interwoven with a history of English literature and writers. Comprehensive and interestingly presented. (25c postage) $5.00 2. A Christmas Carol Charles Dickens The timeless favorite that gives us Scrooge, Bob Crachit, Tiny~Tim, and a host of other delightful characters, by a master story-teller. Collector's edition. (10c postage) $1.00 B. Jane Eyre Charlotte Bronte A hauntingly beautiful love story, considered by literateurs to be one of the world's 10 greatest Sy. Novels. (10c postage) $1.25 4. David Copperfield Charles Dickens From childhood to manhood with its heartaches, tears, and happy moments is this well-loved tale about David CopperDESERET BOOK CO. 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me the following circled books: 1 2 3} + for which | enclose check ( ) or money order ( ) for INGA annonce cece ceccceccccccccscescecesceeceecseseesessesctesececessesessesevansees Achy ————— Ch ee Statice... Be sure to include postage. Residents of Utah add 2% sales tax, Pe moe mn em SO cones iam mee oom aces wean" field. (10c postage) $1.25 i) 43 ae VE "octoper-1 ate ie you 953 ¥, = + ote Le # <¥ ¥ ay" - ~? ' 2 Lessons for January LP, Vag Your baby today has twice as much chance to grow into a healthy childhood as an infant twenty years ago. One reason for this better birthright is improved infant feeding care. Good, safe Sego Milk, developed through years of scientific testing, is always easy for babies to digest — always uniformly rich in whole milk's food substances. Sego Milk supplies your baby with something else, too — pure crystalline vitamin Ds, the sunshine vitamin that helps develop strong, straight bones and sound teeth, and to make the best of growth. Ask your doctor about Sego Milk EGO ' NOMOGENIZED Your Baby, a handy, 64-page book that makes it easier to care for and train your baby. Approved by Mr, hedMs tan nM PURE oye re. S crouo tase Address: Sego Milk Co., Dept. R-1, Salt Lake City, Utah. A well-known doctor. Send for your free copy today. = om? MCREASED 10 400 UNS PROPORTIONED OF 40-DENIER NYLON Aas You'll be perfectly fitted in these proportioned slips. They're bias cut for extra comfort, too! Of finest quality 40-denier nylon tricot knit. With dainty all nylon lace trims at bodice and hemline, adivstable shoulder straps. White in sizes 32- 42, medium and tall lengths. MAIL ORDERS FILLED! Include 12¢ postage for first slip and 5¢ for each additional, Utah residents add 2% sales tax. DOWNSTAIRS She Salt Lake Semple - Christie Lund Coles Forty years, they say, it took To quarry out the stone, Forty years of toil and sweat And aching bone. Even more than toil, it took Tenacity as hard As the gray stones touching sky, Reaching heavenward; And love it took and vision And soul dedication, And a lifting pride that bore The mind's elation. The road ahead was dusty, Unshaded to the sun, Yet their faith was granite cool, And the toilers, one. Forty years! I lift my head In reverence to see The spires that mark their courage For all eternity. The Cover: Mount Moran, in the Teton Range, Wyoming Photograph by Don Knight Frontispiece: The Salt Lake Temple, Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen From lear and Sar At the annual Round-up of the League of Utah Writers, held in Logan in July, many contributors to The Relief Society Magazine received special awards. Alice Morrey Bailey's poem "New Snow" (frontispiece in the Magazine for January 1953) and Eva Willes Wangsgaard's "No Barren Bough" (first prize poem in the Eliza R. Snow Contest, published in the January 1953 Magazine) received high awards in the published poetry division. Other contributors _ receiving awards were: Christie Lund Coles, Olive Woolley Burt, Mabel Harmer, Pansye H. Powell, Lael W. Hill, Mary Ek Knowles, and Thelma Lund. —Mrs. Carl J. Christensen Salt Lake City, Utah I cannot refrain from writing to express my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. It is always a joy to me, and I read each issue from cover to cover and re-read much of it. The July issue brings a special delight, for the cover picture, entitled "Los Angeles, California Skyline," is a photograph of beautiful West-Lake Park, with the Elks' Club building and Asbury Apartments in the background. It is very near the vicinity where we live, and I often walk through the park and enjoy its restful beauty and the clear, placid lake, with the ducks swimming across its serene surface, as the cover picture so clearly shows. This beautiful picture brought renewed enjoyment and appreciation of our nearby surroundings. The excellent editorial '"Work— Not Drudgery" (by Counselor Velma N. Simonsen) is inspirational and encouraging. Work meetings are opportunities for happiness. "First Ladies of Our Land," by Elsie C. Carroll is a very fascinating and worthwhile article. Those women who held that honored station in days gone by are made to live again and help us to realize the worthiness and high repute of the men and women who have been the leaders of our great country. These excellent brief biographies have stimulated my interest in American history. Please continue this interesting series. —Mrs. John A. Gardner Los Angeles, California Page 644 _ The Relief Society Magazine. Alice Morrey Bailey's poem "The Pepper Tree'? (May 1953) has a delicately lilting structure, coupled with a homey theme to make a particularly pleasing poem. Eva Willes Wangsgaard's "Beyond the Strength of Rock" (June 1953) presents a beautiful thought handled with flawless craftsmanship.. —Iris Schow Brigham City, Utah The following exchange of letters regarding the editorial "Dwight D. Eisenhower Inaugurated President of the United States" (March 1953, by Vesta P. Crawford) will be of interest to readers of the Magazine. Dear Mrs. Eisenhower: I am_ sending you the March 1953 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, which is a monthly magazine published by the Latter-day Saints Relief Society, and in which there is a magnificent editorial entitled "Dwight D. Eisenhower Inaugurated President of the United States." I thought your illustrious husband would appreciate reading it. —Rachel S. Willes Salt Lake City, Utah The White House, Washington, D. C. Dear Mrs. Willes: Mrs. Eisenhower has asked me to thank you for your letter and for the copy of the March 1953 issue of She appreciates your thoughtfulness in calling her attention to the editorial "Dwight D. Eisenhower Inaugurated President of the United States." Mrs. Eisenhower is putting the article in her scrapbook and thinks it was certainly kind of you to send it to her. This brings you Mrs. Eisenhower's best wishes. —Mary Jane McCaffree, Secretary to Mrs. Eisenhower Permit me at this time to express my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazine. We have only four members of the Relief Society here, and we enjoy the contact with the organization as a whole which is afforded through the Magazine. —Ora Nell C. Folkman Fayetteville, Arkansas THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - Marianne C. Sharp - - Velma N. Simonsen - - Margaret C. Pickering - - Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Edith S. Elliott Mary J. Wilson Florence J. Madsen. Louise W. Madsen Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young President First-Counselor Second Counselor - Secretary-Treasurer Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Nellie W. Neal Winniefred S. Mildred B. Eyring - Manwaring Helen W. Anderson Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - ns - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford No. 10 Con tents CONTENTS The Framers of the Constitution and Their Work Portraits of the Signers of the Constitution of the United States Boyhood of President David O. McKay G. Homer Durham 646 649 Jeanette McKay Morrell 656 The Lehman Caves of Nevada Willard Luce 676 FICTION The Deeper Melody — Chapter I Pheasants on the Lawn Alice ie Bailey 663 Vir ew M. Kammeyer 672 abel Law Atkinson 679 Grandpa As a Magician GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 644 Sixty Years Ago 668 Woman's Sphere onn.. Eseencee-cecececcosnceceensennscceneceeecneesceceneescoceeeeeees Ramona W. Cannon 669 Editorial: ''Their Temples and Their Sanctuaries'' Vesta P. Crawford 670 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Margaret C. Pickering 684 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Ammon and the People of Limhi Leland H. Monson 691 Visiting Teacher Messages: "And Ye Will Not Have a Mind to Injure One Another"' Leone O. Jacobs 695 Literature: Charles Dickens (Continued) 3Rhea H. Gardner 696 Briant S. Jacobs 698 Social Science: The Plase of the Constitution in History ' Albert R. Bowen 705 POETRY The Salt Lake Temple — Frontispiece 2....... Ecssscesccsesseesneesnesneccoeecsssoeeenes Kindled Reaches.... Who Listens.................... AChristie Lund Coles 643 ——.... Thelma J. Lund 674 Della Adams Leitner 675 Stolen Treasure October -_Leone E. McCune 678 Evelyn Fjeldsted 683 Change Marian Schroder Crothers 694 Solitude - = Catherine E. Berry 690 Women at Conference oon ccececceececeeecenceenseeceeeceseeenetssaneesecececeaesnsecoeeseeasee Autumn os Sunflower Lesson.......0.--. Cc-: sscec-secenseeeceoeceeeeeeeecenee (Oloreicliclop)0s (0 fot te) ata nc ar SooMaryhale Woolsey 704 poorer nenen onanGene Romolo 710 Lucy Woolley Brown 71]... Lydia Bennett Egbert 712 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Vol. 40 Work Meeting: Spending the Clothing Dollar....... OCTOBER 1953 Yo ee The Framers of the Constitution and 'Their Work Dr. G. Homer Durham Vice-President, University of Utah GEORGE WASHINGTON O build a strong house, adeJl quate building materials, intelligent workmen, and a sound plan are required. If any of the three is missing, the structure suffers. In producing a frame of government for a political system, the problem is similar but infinitely more complicated and difficult. Whereas the achievements of architecture and construction engineering are virtually numberless, the net produce of statecraft over six thousand years of civilization is numbered and relatively small, perhaps two or Page 646 three hundred "specimens." The great Roman state had an existence for two millenniums—from about 750 B. C. Until the final expiration of the Eastern Empire at Constantinople in 1453 A. D. Queen Elizabeth II can look back to Alfred and a millennium of subtle growth for the British state and its marvelous commonwealth system. The Roman and British states were produced less by conscious design, however, than they were painfully evolved. Each has contributed its great legal system to the world— the civil law of Rome, and the common law of England, each as vital and alive today as centuries ago. In rather interesting contrast, the Constitution of the United States reflects conscious design. Gladstone's tribute is well known. However, it must not be forgotten that the "building materials" of all previous systems, including Persia, Greece, Rome, and Europe, were available. As Samuel B. Pettengill wrote, "Our Constitution was 'far brought from out the storied past.' " The main mechanical features and principles of the Constitution— written law, federalism, separation of powers modified by a check-andbalance system, republicanism— were at least 2,000 years old as political "specimens" although not extensively used nor brought into harmonious relation in one system. It is wonderful that the framers wise- THE FRAMERS OF THE CONSTITUTION AND THEIR WORK ly selected the right materials, and avoided the use of others. Who were these men? Were their attitudes? George Washington, who presided over the fifty-five members of the convention, said: "Let us raise a standard to which the wise and honest can repair.... The event is in the hand of God." Jefferson, who was in France and not present, called the group "an assembly of demi-gods." Of the 55 who attended (74 were chosen), 31 were lawyers; 31 had served in the Congress; the average age was 42. Madison, "the master-builder" of the instrument, was only 36. Gouverneur Mortis, whose fluent pen produced the final draft of 84 original clauses, was only All had political experience; most had helped draft state constitutions. Half were noteworthy scholars and college graduates; a unique distinction in that day. Not all legislative bodies of today, in the age of mass education, can say as much. To read through the records of the convention is to be impressed with the scholarship of the delegates. The efficacy of education, of the trained mind, is demonWhat strated on every hand. References" to the Achaean League, to Roman institutions, to Locke, and other authorities are frequent. References to colonial, British, and practical experience are couched in informed, philosophical terms, marking the distinctions and refinements of scholarship. Meeting in Philadelphia from May to September 17, 1787, the bulk of the work was done by about 35 members who attended regularly. Contrary to some popular traditions, 647 there is no record that prayers were ever said in the convention, despite the 81-year old Franklin's plea that the "Father of lights" be appealed to in formal prayer during the June 1787 crisis when the meeting nearly dissolved. DAY, despite the passage of time and the transition of the United States from a nonentity to the most powerful nation on earth bearing world-wide obligations, 73 of the original 84 clauses that Mortis' pen distilled for the final signing, remain intact; and despite 22 amendments. Moreover, the "living" Constitution appears to be stronger, and healthier, as Americans and their neighbors have come to appreciate its greatness and its advantages. It has been much prayed about since 1787! Church members are familiar with the veneration heaped on the instrument by our religious leaders. Literature of the Church is filled with such utterances.' Let us turn then to an outside, non-American source, for a critical evaluation. Read what James Bryce — Lord Bryce — famous Oxford professor, British scholar, political scientist and diplomat, wrote in his twovolume work, The American Commonwealth: The Constitution... Deserves the veneration with which the Americans have been accustomed to regard it.... After all deductions, it ranks above every other written constitution for the intrinsic excellence of its scheme, its adaptation to the circumstances of the people, the simplicity, *See Joseph Smith: Prophet-Statesman; chapters in The Discourses of Brigham Young; Gospel Doctrine; The Gospel Kingdom; The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff; Gospel Ideals. brevity, and precision of its language, its judicious mixture of definiteness in principle with elasticity in details. These words ring as true today as in 1886 when Bryce published them—even mote so. Despite any record of prayer in the convention, it is evident to all believers that the framers' intelligence, their aspirations and choice, labored through the hot and humid Philadelphia summer of 1787, by means of effective debate and discussion, to the point that the "American Prophet," Joseph Smith and his friends in Liberty Jail, March 25, 1839, could write:... The Constitution of the United States is a glorious standard; it is founded in the wisdom of God. If great and good men can earnestly work together in a great cause; and, after much labor, sifting, selection, and discussion, arrive at proximity to the wisdom of the universe, it should be a fact, not only of inspiration, but of great encouragement in all human endeavor. It is not enough merely to claim divine inspiration for the founders of the Republic. It is for us to know why "the laws and constitution"... Were "suffered to be established...." (D. & C. 101:77), and then sustain those principles intelligently. Why should we? What are the reasons? A little scholarship with the book of Doctrine and Covenants supplies the answers as to why the Constitution reflects inspiration. It was established: 1. For the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles; 2. That every man may act in doctrine and principle pertaining to futurity, according to the moral agency which I have given unto him.... 3. "Therefore, it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another (D. & C. 101:77-79). Then concludes the passage: "And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom | raised up unto this very purpose...." (D. & C. 101:80, December 16, 1833). Why did those who "built the building" of the Constitution labor "not in vain'? As section 101 clearly states, so that the cause of human freedom, the free agency of man on this planet, might be vouchsafed. Section 98, which preceded on August 6, 1833, contains the same premise for judging laws and political systems anywhere: And that law of. The land which is constitutional, supporting that principle of freedom in maintaining rights and privileges, belongs to all mankind, and is justifiable before me (D. & C. 98:5). As President John Taylor once wrote, "The worst wish we have for the human family is that the principles of the. Constitution may reverberate from shore to shore, until all mankind are free." Its basic principles and their application in public policy require intelligent, informed support from all of us— and especially from those who believe in the doctrine that "it is founded in the wisdom of God." To establish justice, provide for the common defense, promote domestic tranquility, and preserve the blessings of liberty "to ourselves and our posterity" involve arduous, intelligent labor. Each citizen, therefore, has to continue and carry on the work of the framers. 'This is our job, our political calling, and our obligation. No one may shirk the task. 648 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 Portraits of the Signers of te Constitistion of the United States ee signatures were attached to the Constitution of the United States in the Federal Convention on September 17, 1787, by thirty-nine delegates, representing twelve States, and the secretary of the Convention (William Jackson), as the attesting officer. George Washington, who signed as president of the Convention, was a delegate from Virginia. Rhode Island sent no delegates. Thirty-seven portraits are here reproduced. Portraits of the following three of the signers are not available: David Brearley, an eminent lawyer, was Chief Justice of New Jersey and a delegate to the Confederate Convention. Active in colonial boundary disputes, he supported the cause of the small states in the Constitutional Convention. He is credited with the first decision in American history of the judicial power declaring an act of the legislature unconstitutional. Thomas Fitzsimons, prominent merchant and financier, self-educated, was a member of the Continental Congress. He arrived at the Constitutional Convention promptly on May 14th and took a prominent part in the debate. He rode a famous European stallion in the Philadelphia "Federal Procession" which celebrated with great pomp the ratification of the Constitution. He was later a member of the House of Representatives. Jacob Broom "'who arrived in his carriage in a heavy rain on May 2sth" at the Constitutional Convention, gave loyal support on minor committees, but was inconspicuous in the debates of the Convention. The portraits were secured from the Library of Congress, Washington, D. C., with the following credit lines: Portraits from paintings by Charles Willson Peale (1741-1827): John Dickinson, Gunning Bedford, Thomas Mifflin, Jared Ingersoll, William Jackson (miniature), Robert Morris, George Clymer, and Rufus King. Rembrandt Peale (1778-1860) painted the original portrait of Jared Ingersoll. John Trumbull (1756-1843) painted the portraits of Daniel Jenifer, and Alexander Hamilton. James Sharples (1751-1811) painted the portraits of John Langdon, William Few, Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, and Richard Dobbs Spaight. Gilbert Stuart (1755-1828) painted the portraits of James Madison and William Samuel Johnson, and James Peale painted the portrait of George Washington. The following portraits are from the collection of the New York Public Library: Charles Pinckney, William Livingston, William Blount, and Nathaniel Gorham. The original portraits of the following statesmen are in Independence Hall, Philadelphia: John Dickinson, John Langdon, William Few, Gunning Bedford, Thomas Mifflin, Jared Ingersoll, Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, Robert Morris, Richard Dobbs Spaight, George Washington, and Rufus King. The portraits of Hugh Williamson and John Rutledge are from engravings from paintings by John Trumbull; the portrait of George Read is from an engraving by Samuel Sartain from a painting in Independence Hall, Philadelphia; the portrait of Benjamin Franklin is by David Martin (1736-1798); the likeness of James Wilson is from an etching by Max Rosenthal from a miniature in possession of the family; the portrait of Pierce Butler is from a miniature owned by Mrs. Sarah Butler Wistar of Philadelphia; Daniel Carroll's portrait is from the original owned by Miss Emily L. Harper of Baltimore, Md.; John Blair's portrait is from an etching by Max Rosenthal from a miniature in possession of the family; the portrait of William Paterson is owned by Mrs. J. Lawrence Boggs of Perth Amboy, N. J.; Nicholas Gilman's portrait is from a miniature owned by Mrs. Charles H. Bell, Exeter, N. H.; Charles B. J. F. De St. Memin engraved or drew the likenesses of Jonathan Dayton, James McHenry, and Richard Bassett; the portrait of Gouverneur Morris is from a painting by Thomas Sully, in possession of the family; Abraham Baldwin's portrait is from an engraving from a drawing after an original sketch by Robert Fulton (176s- 1815); painting of George Clymer is owned by Mrs. George Clymer, Wash. D. C. Page 649 650 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 John Rutledge (1739-1800). Bor and died at Charleston, South Carolina. Member of the Stamp Act Congress 1765, and of the Continental Congress from S. C. 1774-1775 and 1782-1783; Governor of South Carolina 1776-1778; delegate to the Constitutional Convention 1787; Chief Justice of South Carolina 1791-1795. James Madison (1751-1836). Born at Port Conway, Virginia, died at Montpelier, Virginia. Fourth president of the United States 1809-1817; a member of Congress from Virginia 1780-1783 and 1789-1797; delegate to the Constitutional Convention 1787; drew up the Virginia Resolutions of 1798; Secretary of State 1801-1809. Robert Morris (1734-1806). Born at Liverpool, England, died at Philadelphia, Pa. Member of Continental Congress from Pa. 1775-1778; established the Bank of North America in 1781; member of the Constitutional Convention 1787; United States Senator from Pennsylvania 1789-1795. Gouverneur Morris (1752-1816). Member of Congress from New York 1776; one of the committee on drafting the Constitution in 1787; United States Minister to France 1792-1794; United States Senator from New York 1800-1803. Nathaniel Gorham (1738-1796). Born and died at Charlestown, Massachusetts. Member of the Colonial Legislature from Massachusetts 1771-1775; delegate to the Provincial Congress 1774-1775, and member of the Board of War 1778-1781; delegate to the Continental Congress 1782-1783, and 1785-1787, serving as president 1786; member of Constitutional Convention 1787. Benjamin Franklin (1706-1790). Born at Boston, Massachusetts, died at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Member of Congress from Pennsylvania 1775, 1776; one of a committee of five on drafting the Declaration of Independence; Ambassador to France; delegate to the Constitutional Convention 1787. Daniel Carroll (d. 1829). Born in Maryland; died at Washington, D. C., at a great age. Member of the old Congress from Maryland; delegate to the Constitutional Convention 1787; Representative in Congress 1789-1791; his farm formed the site of the present city of Washington. John Blair (1732-1800). Born and died at Williamsburg, Virginia. American jurist; delegate to the Constitutional Convention 1787; the only other delegate from Virginia who voted with Washington and Madison for the adoption of the Constitution; Justice of the United States Supreme Court 1789-1796. Abraham Baldwin (1754-1807). Born at Guilford, Connecticut, died at Washington, D. C. American politician; member of Congress from Georgia 1785-1788 and 1789-1799; member of the Constitutional Convention 1787; United States Senator 1799-1807; president pro tempore of the Senate 1801-1802. Hugh Williamson (1735-1819). Born at West Nottingham, Pennsylvania, died at New York City. Member of Congress from North Carolina 1784-1786 and 1790- 1793; delegate to the Constitutional Convention 1787, also to the State Convention to act on the Constitution in 1789. George Read (1733-1798). Born in Cecil County, Maryland, died at Newcastle, Delaware. Member of Congress from Delaware 1774-1776; member of the Constitutional Convention 1787; United States Senator 1789-1793; Chief Justice of Delaware 1793-1798. William Paterson (about 1744-1806). Born at sea; died at Albany, New York. Member of Congress from New Jersey 1780-1781; delegate to the Constitutional Convention 1787; United States Senator from N. J. 1789-1790; Governor of New Jersey 1791-1793; Justice of the United States Supreme Court 1793-1806. JOHN-RUTLEDGE " — HUGH WILLIAMSON GEORGE READ WILLIAM PATERSON 652 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 Jonathan Dayton (1760-1824). Born and died at Elizabethtown, New Jersey. Delegate from New Jersey to the Constitutional Convention 1787; member of Congress from New Jersey 1791-1799; United States Senator from New Jersey 1799-1805. William Jackson (1759-1828). Born in Cumberland, England, died at Philadelphia. American Revolutionary soldier; aide-de-camp to General Washington. Assistant Secretary of War 1782-1783; secretary to the Constitutional Convention 1787; aide and private secretary to President Washington during his first administration. Alexander Hamilton (1757-1804). Born on the Island of Nevis, West Indies; died at New York. Member of General Washington's staff 1777-1781; member of Congress from New York 1782-1783, of the Constitutional Convention 1787, and of the New York Ratifying Convention 1788; Secretary of the Treasury 1789-1795; mortally wounded in a duel with Aaron Burt. Pierce Butler (1744-1822). Born in Ireland; died at Philadelphia. Officer in the British army, but resigned before the Revolution; member of Congress from South Carohina 1787, and of the Constitutional Convention 1787; Senator 1789-1796 and 1802 and 1804. Wilham Blount (1744-1800). Born in North Carolina, died at Knoxville, Tenn. Member of Congress from N. C. 1782-1783 and 1786-1787; member Constitutional Convention 1787; appointed Governor of territory south of the Ohio 1790; made president of the convention to form the State of Tennessee in 1796, also United States Senator. Richard Bassett (d. 1815). Born in Delaware. Member of Congress from Del. 1787; member of the Constitutional Convention 1787; United States Senator from Del. 1789-1793; Governor of Delaware 1798-1801; United States Circuit Judge 1801-1802. John Dickinson (1732-1808). Born at Crosia, Md.; died at Wilmington, Delaware. Member Colonial Congress 1765, and Continental Congress 1774; President of Pennsylvania 1782-1785; member Federal Convention 1787; founder of Dickinson College. William Samuel Johnson (1727-1819). Delegate to Stamp Act Congress; Colonial Counsel at London in 1766-71, later Judge of the Superior Court. Represented Conn. At Confederation Congress in 1784-87. Elected United States Senator from Connecticut in 1789, and retired in 1791 when the capital was moved to Philadelphia. Thomas Mifflin (1744-1800). Born at Philadelphia, died at Lancaster, Pennsylvania. American Revolutionary general and politician; delegate to the Continental Congress 1774, and was a member 1783 and 1785; delegate to the Constitutional Convention 1787. President of Pennsylvania 1788-1790, and its first Governor, holding office for three terms. Gunning Bedford, Jr. (1747-1812). Born at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, died at Wilmington, Delaware. Aide-de-camp to General Washington during Revolution; member of Congress from Delaware 1783-1786; member of the Constitutional Convention; United States Judge for the District of Delaware from 1789 until his last illness. Roger Sherman (1721-1793). Born in Newton, Massachusetts; died at New Haven, Conn. Member State Assembly Com. 1755. Judge of Connecticut Superior Court 1766- 89. Mayor of New Haven 1784-93. Nineteen years in State Senate. Delegate to Continental Congress in 1774. Helped to draft Declaration of Independence and Articles of Confederation. Prominent in Constitutional Convention 1787. In the House 1789-91 and the Senate 1791-93. Richard Dobbs Spaight (1758-1802). Born and died at New Berne, North Carolina. Member of the North Carolina Legislature 1781-1783; member of Congress from North Carolina 1783 and 1798-1801; delegate to the Constitutional Convention 1787; elected Governor of North Carolina 1792. WILLIAM 3 PIERCE BUTLER GUNNING BEDFORD, JR ROGER SHERMAN 654 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 James Wilson (1742-1798). Born near St. Andrew's, Scotland, died at Edenton, North Carolina. Delegate to the Continental Congress from Pennsylvania 1775-1777; member of the Constitutional Convention 1787; Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States 1789-1798. Nicholas Gilman (1755-1814). Born and died at Exeter, New Hampshire. American patriot and statesman; member of Congress from New Hampshire 1786- 1788, and 1789-1797; member of the Constitutional Convention 1787; United States Senator 1805-1814. Daniel Jenifer (1723-1790). Born and died in Maryland. American patriot; delegate to the Continental Congress from Maryland 1778-1782, and the Constitutional Convention 1787. George Clymer (1739-1813). Born at Philadelphia, died at Morrisville, Pa. Member of the Continental Congress from Pennsylvania 1776-1777; member of the Constitutional Convention in 1787. Jared Ingersoll.(1749-1822). Born in Connecticut, died at Philadelphia. Member of Congress from Pennsylvania 1780-1781, and of the Constitutional Convention 1787. Unsuccessful Federal candidate for Vice-President of United States in 1812. William Livingston (1723-1790). Born at Albany, New York, died at Elizabethtown, N. J. Member of Congress from N. J. 1774-1776; Governor of New Jersey 1776- 1790; delegate to the Constitutional Convention 1787. William Few (1748-1828). Born in Baltimore County, Maryland, died at Fishkill, New York. Served in Revolution as colonel; member of Congzess from Georgia 1780-1782 and 1785-1788; delegate to the Constitutional Convention 1787; one of the first two Senators from Georgia 1789-1793; member of the New York State Legislature 1802-1805. Rufus King (1755-1827). Born at Scarborough, Maine, died at Jamaica, Long Island, New York. Member of Congress from Massachusetts 1784; delegate to the Constitutional Convention 1787, and of the Massachusetts Ratifying Convention 1787- 1788; United States Senator from New York 1789-1796 and 1813; 1825; United States Minister to Great Britain 1796-1803 and 1825-1826. James McHenry (1753-1816). Bom in Ireland; died at Baltimore, Maryland. Joined the American army in 1776 as assistant surgeon; secretary to Washington 1778- 1780; Maryland Senator 1781-1786; member of Congress from Maryland 1783-1786, and of the Constitutional Convention 1787; United States Secretary of War 1796-1801. Charles Cotesworth Pinckney (1746-1825). Born and died at Charleston, South Carolina. Member of the Constitutional Convention in 1787; special envoy to France 1796-1797; unsuccessful Federalist candidate for Vice-President of the United States 1800, and for President 1804 and 1808. John Langdon (1739-1819). Born and died at Portsmouth, N. H.. Delegate to the Continental Congress from N. H. 1775, resigned June 1776; again a delegate in 1783; delegate to the Constitutional Convention 1787; Governor of New Hampshire in 1788, 1805-1812 with the exception of one year. United States Senator 1789-1801. Charles Pinckney (1758-1824). Born and died at Charleston, $. C. Member of Congress from S. C. 1785 and 1819-1821, and of the Constitutional Convention 1787; Governor of South Carolina 1789-1792, 1796-1798, and 1806-1808; United States Senator 1798-1801 United States Minister to Spain 1802-18059 DANIEL JENIFER new Boyhood of President David O. McKay Jeanette McKay Morrell [Second Article in a Series on the Ancestry and Life of President David O. McKay] RESIDENT David O. McKay was born September 8, 1873, in one of the loveliest mountain valleys in the then Territory of Utah. The little town of Huntsville nestles at the foot of the mountains, with a canyon to the east leading to ideal camping grounds, and another to the west, with a good highway which passes Pine View Lake and goes on into Ogden City. David was ushered into the world by Mary Heathman Smith, lovingly known as "Grandma Smith," who was more than an ordinary midwife of her time. She had received medical training in England, which prepared her to go far beyond the practice of obstetrics, whenever her skill was required. David was the first son and the third member of a family of ten children. His childhood was a happy one, and his pleasures were those every child longs for and enjoys. He _ owned a dog, a pony, pigeons, rabbits, and a magpie that learned to talk. He was active in all the games known to inventive youngsters, and best of all, he was born into a home full of love and sympathetic understanding. His first great sorrow came when he was only seven, for it was early in 1880 that both his older sisters passed away. Margaret, the elder of the two, was too ill to attend Page 656 school when it opened in the autumn, and as little was understood then about rheumatic fever, she grew gradually worse until March 28, the date of her death. It was a sad time for this household when Ellena, the second daughter, developed pneumonia and died the day of her sister's funeral, April first. The grave was enlarged, and the two were placed side by side as they had always been during their short lives of nine and eleven years. It was only one year later that David's father received a call to do missionary work in Scotland. Another baby was expected shortly, and the father was reluctant to leave his wife with the responsibility of the family and the farm, for which the last payment had recently been made. The hopes and plans that had been in their minds for so long, regarding the enlargement of the house and furnishing it, seemed almost within their grasp, and now, because of this call, everything must be postponed. The mother of President McKay, however, like his grandmothers, was equal to any sacrifice, and insisted on her husband's accepting the call and leaving with the company of missionaries he was expected to join. Consequently, the father left for the long journey across the ocean on April 19, 1881, and David O.'s childhood came to an end. His BOYHOOD OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 657 DAVID McKAY AND JENNETTE EVANS McKAY, PARENTS OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY At the time of their marriage, April 9, 1867 father had asked him to "take care of mama" during his absence, and from that moment he assumed responsibility far beyond his years. HE new baby daughter, the sixth in the family, arrived ten days after her father's departure, but the news of her birth did not reach him until after he was settled in Scotland. Then, as always during his mission, the letter said, "Everything at home is going smoothly, and we are all well, so you must not worry about us." Many times during his absence there were serious problems to be solved, but their existence never reached the absent missionary. He received only encouraging reports of the baby's development, and the wonderful help the two boys were giving, and of the great kindness of relatives, neighbors, and friends. Before leaving, Brother McKay had arranged for a man to take the responsibility of the cattle and the other outside work. He came, bringing a yoke of oxen with him, and these became an additional barnyard worry. He had not been at the home long before he decided to go away to visit distant relatives, leaving the oxen behind. One evening when David O. And his mother were feeding the animals, they came at last to the discouraging task of carrying sufficient hay to satisfy these large bovines, which seemed to eat faster than they could be sup- 658 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 DAVID McKAY AND JENNETTE EVANS McKAY AND THEIR FOUR OLDER CHILDREN Photograph taken in 1877 Left to right: Margaret, who died March 28, 1880, at the age of eleven; David O. McKay; Thomas E. McKay; Ellena, who died April 1, 1880, at the age of nine. Plied. The boy, with tears in his eyes, said, "Now let's give them two large armfuls of hay, and then run to the house before they eat it." In spite of all difficulties, the two boys were kept in school, but were taught to assume their part of the home duties, which they did willingly because it was "helping mama." Family prayer had always been a regular procedure in the McKay home, and now with the mother left alone with her small family, it seemed even a more important part of each day's beginning and closing. David was taught to take his turn in this religious rite, and the little group was united more closely than it could have been without this wonderful institution. With the assistance of her husband's Priesthood quorum, the spring planting was done, and the season was a good one for bounteous crops. Hay brought a good price, but grain was down, so the family was advised to keep that part of the harvest until prices advanced. At some sacrifice, this was done, and in the spring the price of grain was higher than it had ever been before, and, as a result, there was a fair-sized bank account at the end of the season. Encouraged by their success, the mother and son found the following year profitable, and their bank account increased until they felt justified in making the addition to the home which had previously been planned. The original part of the house had been built by William BOYHOOD OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY Christy and William McKay, the latter not a relative but the missionary who had converted the William McKay family in Scotland. 'These builders had moved from the town, and it was necessary to secure others, but that was not difficult, as Huntsville boasted of many artisans in every line of work. 'This addition was made without the knowledge of the absent missionary, and was a wonderful surprise when he returned in 1883. On November 20 of that year, he was made bishop of the Eden Ward, and, on March 29, 1885, he was ordained bishop of the Huntsville Ward, to succeed Bishop Francis A. Hammond. 659 ISHOP McKay's home _ was always open to visitors who came to Huntsville. 'There was no hotel in the town, and no restaurant, so everyone called at the bishop's and found a welcome. The table in the large dining room was always out full length, and guest rooms were occupied, especially on week ends. Patriarch John Smith was a frequent visitor, and would spend two or three weeks giving blessings to members of the three wards in the valley. On one of these occasions, July 27, 1887, David O. Received his patriarchal blessing, and at the close, the white-haired visitor placed his hand THE FAMILY OF DAVID McKAY AND JENNETTE EVANS McKAY Photograph taken in 1897 Front row, left to right: David McKay; Dr. William McKay; Katherine McKay Ricks; Morgan McKay, Elizabeth McKay Hill; Jennette Evans McKay. Back row, left to right: Jennette McKay Morrell; David O. McKay; Thomas E. McKay; Ann McKay Farr. on the boy's shoulder and said, "My boy, you have something to do besides playing marbles." David went to the kitchen where his mother was preparing dinner, and said, "If he thinks I am going to stop playing marbles, he is mistaken." The wise mother sat down with her son and explained what Brother Smith really meant. Two years later, his sister Ann was baptized on her birthday, as was the family custom, and with her were three cousins and a friend of about the same age. As the group came from the swimming hole toward the house, they met Brothers Richard _ Ballantyne, George Goddard, and William Willis, who had come to attend the Sunday School conference, which was to be held the following day. These visitors assisted with the confirmations of the young people, and that evening, at the family prayer, Brother Goddard thanked our Heavenly Father that he had been permitted to participate in such a marvelous ceremony, when five children had become members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. All the younger members of the family, kneeling in that circle, who had taken baptism as a matter of course, were impressed by its sacredness as they had never been before. David O. Was made secretary of the Huntsville Sunday School on January 27, 1889, and became a teacher in the same organization on August 20, 1893. He was in the presidency of the deacon's quorum when the duties of the deacons were far more arduous than at present. 'They kept the chapel clean and in order, chopped wood to keep fires going for Sunday School and for all other Church gatherings. They were also sent by twos to chop wood for the widows of the ward. The presidency of Weber Stake, Brothers Lewis W. Shurtliff, Charles F. Middleton, and Nels C. Flygare, were as well known in the McKay home as though they were relatives, because of their regular visits to the ward. Stake officers of the auxiliary organizations came quite regularly, and were honored guests always. 'These included Sisters Jane S. Richards, Emily Shurtliff, Harriet Brown, Josephine West, Elizabeth Stanford, Aunt Rose Canfield, Harriet Woodmansee, and many, many others. Mother, often weary from so much entertaining, would say, "They always leave a blessing in our home, so we are happy to have them." One of the happiest days of her life was when President Wilford Woodruff, with his Counselors, George O. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith, sat at her dinner table together. Apostle Orson F, Whitney came occasionally, and on one of his visits wrote one of his longest poems. In the evenings, around the large fireplace, he would entertain the family reading his own poems and those of his favorite authors. After one of these occasions, he sent an autographed copy of his poems, which is still among the treasures of the Old Home. This was the environment in which President McKay spent his boyhood and early manhood, but his life was far from being consistently serious.- He enjoyed swim- 660 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 TEE SPT RIES | DAVID O. McKAY AND HIS SISTER JEANETTE McKAY MORRELL At the time of their graduation from the University of Utah in 1897 Page 66] ming, horseback riding, reading, baseball, dancing, playing the piano with the town's dance orchestra, acting in home dramatics, debating, singing in the glee club, and in all these activities he was an enthusiastic leader. Once when David accompanied his father to the canyon to get a load of timber to build the large barn, they had to spend the night in the mountains. The father would chop the large trees and David would hitch them to the singletree and snake them down the mountainside to the wagon. That night, sleeping on their bed of pine boughs, David was awakened by the howls of coyotes and the crashing of bears through the brush near the camp. He was so frightened he nearly cried out, but hearing his father's even breathing, he nestled up to him and knew instinctively that there was protection and security as long as he was near, so he, too, soon slept soundly under the stars. Bishop McKay's influence upon his family always meant loving security and understanding sympathy. AFTER completing the eighth grade in the Huntsville school, David attended Weber Stake Academy in Ogden. During this time he lived at the home of his Grandmother Evans, and the old rock house on Twenty-eighth Street became a second home to him. He remained at the academy two years and then returned to Huntsville as a teacher in the public school. From here he entered the University of Utah and was graduated as president of his class in 1897. He was a member of the first football team that brought honor to his alma mater. His university days were among the most important of his life, for it was here he met Emma Ray Riggs, who later became his wife, and her charming mother. When the young people first met, David O. Was "going out" with a beautiful classmate, and Ray was engaged to a fine young man in the business world. David had made arrangements to teach the year following his graduation, and was greatly perturbed when he received a letter asking him to do missionary work in Great Britain. In his family no one had ever refused a call to work in any capacity in the Church, and this tradition probably assisted him in his decision to change his own plans and spend two years as a missionary. By this time there were four brothers and four sisters in the McKay household, and his leaving was the first break in the family circle. While everyone was proud of his worthiness and willingness to go, there was sadness at parting. The distance from home to Scotland seemed so much greater then than now, with fast boats and airplanes making the two countries neighbors. David O. Received a blessing, setting him apart for this new work, and he knew he would have the prayers of his parents, brothers, and sisters; so he left his home feeling that all would be well with him and with the loved ones he was leaving. 662 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 The Deeper Melody CHAPTER 1 Alice Morrey Bailey TEPHEN Thorpe awoke with S a start and sat up in bed in his hotel room, feeling that something was wrong at home with his small children, Davey, Ilene, and little Phyllis. It was, he thought, the same kind of intuition that their mother, Ellen, used to have before her death, when one of the children was running a temperature in the night. For a week he had been arguing himself out of such fears, telling himself that the new maid was all right, that they were probably well and happy and trying to reassure himself until his week's work would be accomplished. But now, at last, he swung out of bed, shrugged into his robe, for the room was icy, closed the window, and went to the wall telephone. He jiggled the receiver until the sleepy night clerk answered. "Get me Keystone 3943, Denver," he instructed, and then paced the floor waiting for the call to go through. Perhaps if it had gone through this afternoon he wouldn't have this frantic feeling now, but then there had been no answer at his home. He had meant to call earlier in the evening, but the mine officials had kept him talking machinery. Perhaps Gloria, the young girl he had hired, had had them out for a walk just at that time. The weather up in these mountains was so cold, however, that this thought only gave him further misgivings about adequate wraps. The _ telephone rang. "There is no answer at all at that number," the operator said. "Shall I keep trying and ring you again?" "Try again now," Steve ordered. "Keep ringing. They are probably asleep and hard to waken." "Yes, Sir," the operator replied, and he could once more hear the insistent ringing at his home, for what seemed half an hour. There was still no answer, and panic took hold. Of him. What could have happened to them? Whom could he call? No one. He had no close relatives in Denver, and had made no intimate friends in the short time since he moved there to take a position in the home office of the Pikes Peak Mining and Milling Machinery Company. He remembered Miss Tate, his secretary in the office, but discarded the thought of her immediately. She was already showing too much personal interest in him since his arrival. "I'm sorry, Sir. Swer." Steve sensed, rather than heard the edge to her voice. "Shall I try later and ring you again?" "Thank you, no," Steve replied, hanging up reluctantly. The urgency to go home was so strong upon him that he began feverishly to dress. There is no anPage 663 "What am | thinking of?" he asked himself. "I can't go home yet." He couldn't go until after the meeting of the Kettle Creek Mine officials tomorrow at ten. That was the climax to his week of talking, of demonstrating Pikes Peak machinery for their new flotation installations. If he left now the -whole deal would probably be off, or the order likely go to a rival concern. NEVERTHELESS, he stripped his clothes from the hangers in the closet and packed them automatically into his suitcase. Before he closed the lid he hesitated, looking at his watch. Four o'clock in the morning. He could travel down out of these winter mountains, covering the 150 miles in four hours, but by no stretch of the imagination could he get home and back by ten o'clock. He thought of calling the general manager of the mine and asking to have the meeting postponed, but discarded the idea as bad psychology, especially knowing that the man suffered from insomnia. His conflict between going home or staying on the job seemed to be wrenching him apart. The owner of his firm, J. T. Holden, wouldn't like being wakened at this heathenish hour, either, but there was no help for it. Steve went to the telephone again, and once more roused the sleepy night clerk. "Send a man up there?" shouted J. T. When Steve told him. "Steve, you stay there and see this thing through." ~ "T can't. There's an emergency at home. I have to come to Denver. Send Jim to take my _ place. It's in the bag, I tell you. All done but the signing." "Maybe. Steve, we've been trying to sell to Kettle Creek for ten years. I just know you can swing this. Every man I've sent there before has failed—I failed myself." "T'm sorry, J. T." said Steve miserably. "I know how important it is. I do have to go home, though." [' was no easy drive from Kettle Creek to Denver, with the steep descent over icy roads; but while Steve drove the hairpin curves, his mind was on his children. All the problems of the past year since EIlen's death surged through him. At first there had been many friendly hands to help a young man in his sudden grief. An embolism had taken her, the doctor had said. One minute Ellen was there, laughing, teasing about going home from the hospital. The next minute she was dead, leaving a baby only five days old, and two other children, Ilene, two, and Davey, three. Everything had been done to help him—his house cleaned, food left in silent sympathy, and someone on hand to help with the children. That was before he moved to the city. That was what came of living in a small town, of having neighbors and lifelong friends, but that couldn't go on forever. Steve had always carried his own loads, and he wasn't stopping now. His mother and _ sister, Geneve, had wept and called him foolish when he took the job in Denver, and insisted upon taking the children there with him. Geneve had wanted to rear them, 664 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 THE DEEPER MELODY since she had none of her own, but her husband, Felix, didn't want her to assume that responsibility. His mother had come with him to Denver, leaving his father for Geneve to look after, and she had stayed with him three months, but her health was failing, and Steve had sent her home on the train, assuring her that Inga, the new Swedish housekeeper, was just perfect for the job. But Inga hadn't been. She was a good worker, and she could manage the children, but she couldn't understand them, nor they her. It just hadn't worked out. 'Thinking of the succession of housekeepers since, however, Steve longed again for Inga. Things had gone from bad to worse in the ensuing four months, and the worst was Gloria, little, incompetent Gloria, with her evasive eyes and careless ways. She had been with them only two weeks when Steve was sent to Kettle Creek. Under no circumstances would he have hired her, except that she was all he could get soon enough to train before leaving. 'Traveling hadn't been in the bargain when he came to Denver, rather, the move had been made to end traveling so he could be more with the children. But J. T. Had taken a fancy to him from the start, and seemed to think he was some sort of miracle selling man. Kettle Creek, unsold on their machinery, was a thorn in J. T's side, so Steve had been sent there. Perhaps Mr. Holden wouldn't think so well of him now, after leaving before this meeting. At last Denver sprawled before him, in the murky February 665 weather, soggy clouds and dirty snow and shadowed buildings along the highway. T was a relief to see his own house still standing after the fears of the last night, but those same fears were justified once he was home, for he could hear Phyllis crying as soon as the car stopped in the garage. They were all in the kitchen, Davey, Hene, and Phyllis, unkempt and hungry. Phyllis was cold, and her eyes were red and swollen. She gave a racking dry cough almost with every breath. Steve swept her into his arms and went for a blanket, peeling off her wet night clothes as he went. Davey and Ilene trotted after him, squealing their delight at his coming, clinging to his legs. "Where's Gloria?" he demanded. She was there, appearing suddenly in the doorway, her hair tousled from sleep, her eyes puffy, and her mouth still smeared with last night's lipstick. "What's the meaning of this?" he asked, pausing with the baby in his arms. "IT was just getting up," she began lamely, "I was tired out." "And where were you last night when the telephone was ringing?" "Well, I...." she began, and stopped, measuring his face, trying to read how much he knew. "Where were you, Gloria?" "I was out in front, in a car, I guess. My boy friend...." "At four o'clock in the morning?" "When do you expect me to go out?" she flared. "I was listening for the kids." "How could you hear them if you couldn't hear the telephone?" Steve wanted to know. "Mr. Thorpe!" she answered, full of indignation, "you can take care of your own kids. I was just waiting to quit when you got home." She flounced to her room to pack, slamming the door, and Steve's sudden anger was spent. He should not have lashed out at her, but turned his rage on the real culprit— himself. How could he have hired her? But, then, maybe he could have helped her—with patience, and time. The children had been watching the scene with wide eyes. "Gloria bad girl," pronounced Davey. "Gloria bad gole," echoed Ilene. "Slap Ilene." She slapped her own little face smartly to demonstrate, grinning at Steve. He groaned, caught her in his arms, and kissed her, his pity for the inexperienced Gloria rapidly becoming extinct. He wrote the girl a check and called to her that he was leaving it on the desk. "Come on, now. Into the bathroom, all of you. I'm going to dunk you in the tub and then fix you a dandy breakfast." GTEVE put the blanketed Phyllis on a chair, while he scoured the tub. He eyed Phyllis with misgivings. Davey and Ilene shouted and splashed with the fun of bathing, but the baby sat limply gazing at him and whimpering in misery. In his concern for her, he scarcely heard Gloria leave the house. The only clean clothes he could find were unironed in the returned laundry, but he used them and got Phyllis washed and out of the tub as soon as possible. He put her in the big double bed where he and Davey usually 'slept and covered her up to the chin. She cried when he left the room to get the others, and when he got back she was standing beside the bed in her nightgown. "Here you watch Phyllis. Keep her covered while I get you something to eat," he said to Davey. No wonder Gloria had left! A man needed six hands to cope with the little eels, he thought, looking at them fondly. They were beautiful children. Davey had Ellen's black hair and dark blue eyes. He had a straight, manly little face and a well-shaped head. Ilene had a round littk gamin face, bright blue eyes, and dimples. Both girls were blonde, their cornsilk hair lying in waves like Steve's own. Phyllis was babyplump, a pink and gold miracle. They were all babies, for that matter, with the soft, vague motions of babies, the tiny violin voices that sharpened into birdlike shrillness when they were excited. Steve's heart swelled with his love for them until it felt near to bursting. There wasn't much to eat in the house, he found. A_half-empty carton of milk was on the floor beside the glass which Davey had been trying to fill when Steve came. He mopped up the milk and found a few slices of bread, some butter, and a can of pears. While the bread was toasting, Steve cleared the kitchen table by the simple expedient of stacking everything in the sink. It didn't 666 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 THE DEEPER MELODY look as if the dishes had been done for days. He filled the baby's bottle and divided the rest of the milk evenly, and the pears. Davey and Ilene ate avidly, stopping only to call "Mo! Mo!" until everything was gone. Phyllis snatched at the milk, but drank it indifferently and pushed away the fruit Steve offered her. She put her little head against his chest, where it felt hot as a tiny stove, and made his heart pound in apprehension. Perhaps an aspirin would be good for her, he thought, but there weren't any in the house. The drugstores wouldn't be open for another half hour, so he took Phyllis back to bed and sat with her until she went to sleep. Maybe she would sleep it off, he thought hopefully. There were so many things to do it was hard to tell where to begin— groceries to be bought, competent help found, and the house to be cleaned. Just now his difficulties seemed almost insurmountable, with his work to worry about, too. No time to waste thinking about his worries, though, he decided. HE children hung on his knees when he telephoned, trotted after him as he strode through the house picking up papers and soiled linen, straightening furniture, and tossing trashy magazines, relics of Gloria, into wastebaskets. He remembered how it was when there was a wife and mother in his household. Ellen had been a model housekeeper. He was still washing dishes when Phyllis awoke, crying and coughing. It was plain to see that sleep had 667 not cured her. Her breathing had become visibly difficult, and her nostrils pinched in with each shallow breath. Her eyes and cheeks were unnaturally bright. Steve telephoned for a doctor in a panic, and then called his mother long distance, knowing full well that he should have asked her to stay with the children while he was in Kettle Creek. It was his sister, Geneve, who answered the telephone, though, and rushed into conversation before he could tell why he had called. "Oh, Steve! I'm so glad you called. I knew you'd be worried, but mother came through the operation just fine. The doctor says she'll be out of the hospital in a week, and we're taking them home, both her and dad. I'm here now, getting his clothes." "Just what happened?" asked Steve in sudden fear. "I guess my letter was rather incoherent. You know those attacks mother has been having? Well, they were gallstones." Steve finished the conversation without adding his own difficulties to theirs, and cradled Phyllis in his arms until the doctor came. "Your baby has pneumonia," was the pronouncement. "You will have to have a nurse. I'll send you a fine one I know. How are you off financially?" Well, the man came straight to the point! No beating about the bush at a time like this, while Steve's baby, perhaps, lay dying. "I have some insurance," he answered shortly. Actually his little family kept him (Continued on page 711) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1893 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN oF ALL Nations" RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN SALT LAKE CITY:... Sister Mary B. Eyring from Juarez, Mexico, was thankful to be here and to mingle her voice with the congregation, glad to see so many engaged in the good work, thought the Relief Society branches in Mexico would compare favorably with those in Utah; they had not many calls for help, very few were without means to help themselves.... There were only a few Mexicans in the Church.... The sisters had made a few quilts... Sister Julia Lindsey, Bear Lake Stake, reported all the branches in good condition spiritually, and faithful in temporal labors; it was a hard country, very cold in winter; and in the settlements extended so far it was not possible to accomplish much in winter. —Selected from Conference Report THE CHILDREN: We can never give children too many legitimate pleasures. Childhood should be made as sunny and happy as unlimited love and tenderness... Can make it. The shadows fall soon enough in the most fortunate lives. Yet we cannot, with all our endeavors, make the hard paths easy for the little feet we long to save. The children must learn to fight their besetting sins, each for himself, if they are to be strong men and women in the days to come. —Selected MY FORTIETH YEAR My fortieth year I hail thee with pleasure, What gladness or sorrow thou holdest for me I know not, no matter, I know thou hast treasure More precious than pearls from the depths of the sea. —R. M. Fox PERFECTION: Can we arrive at perfection in this life, is the question. Well our Savior said, ""Be ye perfect as your Father in Heaven is perfect.".... The question arises, would he ask you or me to do that which we could not do... Believing this life is a school, it is well to give strict heed to our lessons that we may profit by them. The holy Bible being our guide, not only so, but The Book of Mormon, also The Doctrine and Covenants. The Epistle of St. Peter beautifully illustrates this lesson, as we read in the twentieth chapter of the first epistle: "Wherefore lay aside all malice and guile, and evil speaking...." Now I would ask you, do not we feel greatly blessed when we realize that we are growing in a knowledge of the truth in Jesus Christ, and can see the designs and purposes of God our Father concerning the human family, to fit and qualify them to come again into His presence, where we must give an account of how we have spent our talents and our time. —2Zion's Convert SILK EXHIBIT: Our readers will be delighted to know that Utah has taken three medals for her silk exhibit (at the World's Fair), and it is ardently hoped by the patrons of home industries here that this success will give an impetus to sericulture. —Editorial Note Page 668 MSs LA NEL GRANT, a Latterday Saint girl from Los Angeles, California, has been awarded one of three top prizes in the National Fine Arts Contest at the Carnegie Institute in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, for her hand weaving. During the past year Miss Grant has been in charge of the student. Looms at Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. She plans to major in fine arts at the University and hopes to become an expert in design and decorating. N her seventy-first birthday, in April, Frances Perkins (Mrs. Paul Caldwell Wilson), completed the last day of twenty years of Government service and left Washington. She became Secretary of Labor the day Franklin D. Roosevelt was inaugurated, and for twelve years served as the first woman Cabinet member, later becoming a Civil Service commissioner. Oveta Culp Hobby is the second woman Cabinet member. MISS FRANCES E. WILLIS, of Redlands, California, is the first career woman diplomat to be named a United States ambassador. She has been in the United States Foreign Service for twenty-six years. Miss Willis is fifty-four years old Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon and will be the ambassador to Switzerland. Mrs. Eugenie Anderson, former ambassador to Denmark, was a housewife. Mrs. Perle Mesta, former ambassador to Luxembourg, was a Washington socialite. Being ambassador to Italy is the first diplomatic post for Mrs. Clare Boothe Luce. LARGER families are coming back in America, the Institute of Life Insurance reports. According to Government figures released this summer, an increase is now taking place in the number of second, third, and fourth children being born in this country, giving the nation more than four million younger brothers and sisters since 1950. In 1930 marriage and birth rates reached their lowest level. In 1946 the birth rate began to climb and since that time has remained 'relatively high compared with the low of 1930. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Laura M. Reed Stephens, Salt Lake City, and Mrs. Annie Newman Middleton, of Ogden, who have recently celebrated their ninetieth birthdays. Mrs. Middleton has a_ twin brother, Brigham Newman, who joined with her at the birthday party. Page 669 OQ—> EDITORIAL c~© VOL. 40 OCTOBER 1953 NO. 10 heir Jemples and Sheir Sanctuaries... Come ye, with all your gold, and your silver, and your precious stones... And bring the box-tree, and the fir-tree, and the pine-tree, together with all the precious trees of the earth; and with iron, and with copper, and with brass, and with zinc... And build a house to my name, for the Most High to dwell therein (D. & C. 124:25-26). N more than a century of temple building, ten sacred houses have been erected, through revelation and by commandment of the Lord. One: of these is no longer in use, and one has been destroyed. Eight beautiful temples remain to adorn the habitations of the saints and provide a place for the performance of the sacred ordinances for the living and for the dead. A temple is now being erected near the shores of the Pacific Ocean, in Los Angeles, California, and, in August 1953, President David O. McKay dedicated two new sites for temples, one near Berne, Switzerland, and one near London, England. The first temple to be dedicated (in 1877 by Elder Daniel H. Wells, Counselor to President Brigham Young) in the valleys of the mountains, was the towered edifice in the valley of the Virgin River, at St. George, Utah, protected and surrounded by the red cliffs of a desert land. In 1884, the Logan temple was dedicated by President John Taylor. Facing the eastern mountains in lofty simplicity, above the tich grain lands and meadows of Cache Valley, it symbolized the struggles of a people toward their ideals of salvation and eternal glory, "even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of Page 670 learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God." The Manti temple (1888), set on a high and rounded hill, against a lofty plateau overlooking the farmlands of Sanpete Valley, was dedicated by Apostle Lorenzo Snow, with rejoicing, and with a prayer of gratitude for "refreshing showers, the hills to yield their treasures of snow, and springs of living water to come forth from the dry and parched ground." President Wilford Woodruff dedicated the Salt Lake Temple, April 6, 1893, with a prayer of humble supplication: "... We regard with intense and indescribable feelings the completion of this sacred house. Deign to accept this the fourth temple which Thy covenant children have been assisted by Thee in erecting in these mountains. In past ages Thou didst inspire... The prophets, to speak of the time in the latter days when the mountain of the Lord's house should be established in the tops of the mountains, and exalted above the hills." In 1919, the first temple to be erected outside the boundaries of the United States was dedicated at Laie on the island of Oahu, Hawaii —in the beautiful palm lands of the Pacific. President Grant, in offering the prayer of dedication, asked a blessing upon "the natives of EDITORIAL this land, that all the great and glorious promises made concerning the descendants of Lehi might be fulfilled in them." The temple at Cardston, Alberta, (dedicated in 1923 by President Heber J. Grant), stands in chaste simplicity upon the plain against a western backdrop of the snow-clad summits of the Canadian Rockies. Built upon the soil of a Commonwealth nation, this temple has been a source of comfort and fulfillment to the British people of North America, and to all who "partake of the spirit of peace and of the sweet and heavenly influence." So the same spirit of rejoicing and of restoration has characterized all the temples in their dedication and in the ordinances performed within their walls. The temple at Mesa (1927), magnificent in tts green gardens in the midst of the Arizona desert, received its dedication from President Heber J. Grant, wherein he spoke of the "pioneers of this land... Their courage and indomitable purpose, and their lofty ideals." Many thousands have thronged to the majestic temple (dedicated in 1945 by President George Albert Smith) on the banks of the wide Snake River, at Idaho Falls, to perform the temporal and eternal ordinances, in this the latest temple to be completed. It is of sacred import to members of the Church that the first temples were built through material poverty and spiritual grandeur; all of them have been constructed through sacrifice and industry and faith; all of them are loved and revered by the 671 saints who pray for "the endless life, which administers in time and eternity... A correct knowledge of all laws, rites and ordinances...." Much may be learned from a study of the humble, yet eloquent, dedicatory prayers pronounced upon the temples. Each prayer has explained the relationship between heaven and earth—between our former and our later habitation and the interim called earth; each has expressed gratitude for the restoration of the gospel, after the silence of the ages. Many of the prayers have included supplication for the Constitution of the United States and for the preservation of the civil liberties which protect the exercise of free agency. Many have expressed gratitude for the auxiliary organizations of the Church, and blessings upon the sisters of Relief Society have been asked of the Heavenly Father: "that they may be abundantly blessed in relieving the suffering of the destitute and sorrowful, arresting the wayward, and inspiring them with love for pure intelligence, and educating them in the way of life and faith, that our youth may find Thee early, and the aged be established in Thy righteousness forever." Now that two European temple sites have been dedicated, the saints in Britain and on the Continent may look forward to the blessings of temple ordinances for themselves and for their kindred dead. They will have the privilege of going up into houses of the Lord, and join with other saints throughout the Church in rejoicing that "God remembers still his promise made of old." —V. P. C. Pheasants on the Lawn Virginia M. Kammeyer T was a Saturday morning—a May morning. Breakfast was over, the children had gone out to play, and Sally should have been cleaning the apartment. Instead she stood with last night's "want ad" section in her hands. All she could think about was that house. It just might be the one. She approached her husband in the big chair. "Honey?" "H-m-m?" "Do you want to go see it?" "Tt wouldn't do any good." "Well, it wouldn't do any harm." "Wah." The grunt meant, "I'm tired of looking at houses." Bill was reading a magazine, and she didn't like to disturb him, but.... "Well, let's just see it, dear. It might be what we're looking for." He put down the magazine. "The kind of house you want we can't afford. You're trying to find a twenty thousand dollar house for ten." "This one is only eleven, two fifty. And just listen to what the ad says." "Yah, those ads. Remember the one that said magnificent view? So we went to look at it. The view was down over the steel mills. And remember the one that said four bedrooms? One bedroom was a back porch and another was a broom closet. And they all opened one off another so you had to go through one to get to...." Page 672 "I know, dear, but we're sure to find what we want if we just keep looking. Now this ad says, three bedrooms, fireplace, full basement, large lot. Listed by owner!" "Well, what's wrong with staying right here?" "Oh, Bill, we can't rear our children in an apartment. 'They haven't any place to play. They're always under my feet or out in the street." She scanned the ad again and murmured dreamily, "I hope it has a circular floor plan—and hardwood floors—and a fireplace. But I know what I really want. Bill?" "Ugh." "Bill, put down that magazine and just listen a minute, dear. 1 want a place like Grandma _ had. Did you ever see Grandma's house?" "Nope." "Grandma and Grandpa _ had passed on, I guess, when you appeared on the scene. And the house was sold. But, oh, honey, I'd like a house just like that. It had three fireplaces." "Three!" "Well, I'd settle for just one. And it had a long staircase, with a a wonderful banister for kids to slide down, and a storeroom, with just everything stored away—old dresses and hats and shoes and furniture and pictures. The house was set way back in fir trees...." "Hey, wait a minute — slow down! I'm not going to invest in some old Victorian horror with seven gables, just because it reminds you of your Grandma's place. And, PHEASANTS ON THE LAWN besides, what makes you think our children would go for that sort of thing? Modern kids want to live just around the corner from the movies and the dime store." "Oh, Bill, I don't think children change. Kar] wants a dog. He keeps talking about an imaginary one named Pooch. And he's not happy here. There aren't any children his age, and the big ones pick on him. I don't care if the place doesn't look like Grandma's. Goodness knows I want modern conveniences. But— well, I don't know quite how to say it but I'm looking for a place that feels like Grandma's did." "You're a nut," but he ruffled her hair as he said it. ' THAT place used to give me the most wonderful feeling, as though I were absolutely safe. I used to put it in my prayers— 'Please let us go to Grandma's.' And when we were there, I never wanted to leave. The house had all those beautiful evergreens in front. We used to play run-sheep-run there in the dusk, all the cousins. And there was a grape arbor, and apple trees—those old-fashioned kind of apples like Wealthy, and Banana apples. And on the north side of the house, where it was shady, there were violets—the biggest violets I've ever seen. And there was a barn and cows." "Now wait a minute!" "I know, dear. You wouldn't know which end of the cow to feed. We wouldn't have to have cows. But I'd like our children to know what it feels like to run barefoot up a dusty lane and make bur baskets and milkweed babies. There 673 was wisteria hanging down over the veranda and quails. "Quails?" | "Maybe they were pheasants. Yes, pheasants on the lawn. 'They had long, trailing tail feathers. We tried to catch one once. We ran into the house to get a box to put it in. By the time we'd found a box the pheasants had all run away. And I remember Grandma's pantry. It smelled like every kind of spice in the world. I can still see sweet, little, plump Grandma in that pantry." "O. K." "O. K. What?" "O. K., we'll go see the house." "Oh, darling, right now?" _ "What's your rush? You're just like a little kid. Give me a chance to work on the car this morning, and we'll run out and take a look at the house this afternoon." "Tl call the people and _ tell them we're coming." When the ironing was finished, Sally's conscience pricked her for having prodded Bill so hard about the house, so she decided to be a good wife and make him a pie. Cherry was his favorite. Rolling out the. Crust, — she thought, if only we had a yard of our own. It wouldn't have to look like Grandma's, if it just felt the same, and smelled like her place smelled. And then we could have a garden and get a year's supply of food put away. She scooped cherries, flour, and sugar into the pie dish, adjusted the top crust, and slid it into the oven. It was nearly noon. She tidied the apartment and then prepared lunch. Bill was still working on the car, doing something to the wheels. That's the only recreation he has, working on that car. If we had our own home, Bill could have a workshop. I'll mention that to him, she decided. At lunch Bill ate a large piece of the pie and admitted, a little grudgingly, that it would be nice to have their own cherry tree. Luncheon was over;. Three-yearold Karl and two-year-old Ann, hair combed and_ faces _— scrubbed, perched on the back seat of the car, eager for the ride. HEY drove out along the' city streets, and Bill turned as Sally directed him on the map. The paved street ended, and_ they crunched along on gravel, and then the gravel ended, and they billowed along through dust. "Yah, fine thing. The car." "Oh, but darling, look how nice these homes are—everything is landscaped, and see those nice, big yards. This is just like the country." "T haven't seen a grocery store for eight blocks." "Well, with a car, that won't matter." "Mail boxes, huh!" I just washed "Here it is. Here's the name on the box." A low brick wall fronted the place, and the lawn sloped down to the white painted house. There were many trees, and a great weeping willow in the side yard. Wisteria swung above a long porch that seemed to run around the side of the house. They stepped out of the car. A kind of feathery weed lined the ditch bank. Its smell was pungent—and_ nostalgic. "Oh, Bill, it's lovely! And look, wisteria." "Yeah, it's pretty nice, all right. And not too far from work. But don't get carried away. I'm going to inspect the foundation before I buv the place." The children were frolicking over the lawn, examining the willow tree. "Well, let's go see the owners." As they started down the brick path, Sally stopped. "I just thought of something else Grandma had— crickets. Listen?" Sally looked at her husband. Everything was all right. This was home. "T hear them, but I don't see any pheasants on the lawn." "No pheasants! Oh, well, they'll come later," Sally promised as she slipped her hand into Bill's. Kindled Reaches Thelma ]. Lund Autumn flames across the hills In oak-leaf pyres, And cloud-trails slowly drift from tips Of smokeless fires. 674 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 Ewing Galloway AUTUMN IN MARYLAND + © & & Who Listens Della Adams Leitner God speaks to us in color, In flowers of every hue, _ In the rainbow's arch, in sunset, And autumn's gorgeous view. God speaks to us in music, In varied songs of birds, In winds, in the flowing waters, More lyric than poets' words. God speaks to us in the rhythm Of our earth's own measured pace In harmonious relation To worlds in unending space. God speaks, and each soul who listens Finds all discords shall cease In the perfect realization God gives beauty, music, peace. Page 675 Willard Luce PARACHUTES OF THE LEHMAN CAVES ¥ The Lehman C ¥ aves of Nevada Willard Luce OR years people have been impressed by the beauties of the Cypress Swamps. For even longer they have been visiting the Leaning Tower of Pisa, and for longer still they have been extolling the wonders of the Pearly Gates. It isn't necessary to travel to Florida, to Europe, or even to Paradise to see these natural wonders. Not at all. In fact you can see them, and more, in less than an hour after leaving the headquarters of the LehPage 676 4 man Caves National Monument, five miles west of Baker, Nevada. The caves were discovered by Ab Lehman in the 1870's when a horse he was riding literally fell into one of them. From then until 1922, when they were made into a national monument, they were visited by a great many people. Their principal interest, however, seemed to be carving or burning names and dates on the walls and ceilings, and breaking off the formations for souvenirs. THE LEHMAN CAVES OF NEVADA Despite this, and the fact that the formations have almost stopped growing because of dryness, the caves are still in a remarkable state of preservation. A cemented entrance leads directly from the monument headquarters into one of the caves. An easy trail twists and winds through narrow, snake-like corridors, past "Music Hall" and the "TomToms," where the formations, when struck, give off clear musical tones. In one of the first open rooms a group of small pillars is known as "The Forest." Three miniature formations are called "The Statue of Liberty," "The Stag," and "The Monkey." Willard Luce 677 Indirect lighting gives a sharp, dramatic effect to the softly colored formations. Each turn offers something "new, something different. Coming next, for instance, is "The Leaning Tower." This cream-toned delicately-formed stalagmite, standing at one end of "Popcorn Hill," greatly resembles the Leaning Tower of Pisa. Another turn, another few feet, and you're in the "Cypress Swamps." If you are lucky enough to be there in a wet year, the floor will be mostly covered with water. Mirror-like, it will pick up the reflections of the various formations. Clinging to the ceiling, festoons of tiny stalactites might be mistaken "CYPRESS SWAMPS" OF THE LEHMAN CAVES 678 for Spanish moss, while bases of stalagmites and pillars spread out like the roots and trunks of cypress trees. ROBABLY no formation is more interesting or unique than "The Parachutes." Starting round and large at the top, they taper down to almost a point at the bottom. Rippling edges of stone work their way from top to bottom like the strings of a parachute. Near the end of the cave the trail passes through the intricately carved and fluted "Pearly Gates." Nearby is a beautifully sculptured formation resembling a Gothic cathedral. It actually seems strange that within so short a distance nature could have created and designed so many different forms all from the same materials — water, carbon dioxide, and lime.. First the carbon dioxide-laden water dissolved the lime, carrying it away. This slowly widened the tiny cracks into tunnels, the tunnels into corridors, and, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 in places, the corridors into large vaulted rooms and chambers. But the work didn't stop there. Little drops of water on the ceiling lost part of their carbon dioxide and a bit of their lime. They dropped to the floor and here lost a bit more. Slowly stone icicles, or stalactites, crept downward from the ceiling; while inverted ones, called stalagmites, labored upwards | from the floor. In some cases these have joined and become pillars; in many cases they have not, and possibly never will join, since Nevada's arid climate has all but taken the water from the cave and_ thus stopped their growth. Located at the base of 13,085-foot Wheeler Peak, the Lehman Caves are only eleven miles off U. S. Highway 6. There is a small campground and picnicking area, with cool, running water and spotless rest rooms. The White Pine Chamber of Commerce is already working for greater facilities to handle the expected influx of tourists now that U. S. Highway 6 has been completely surfaced across western Utah. <> Stolen Sreasure Leone E. McCune October hoards these precious bits Of Indian summer treasure, And places them within a chest Of gold—one lenient measure Of wedgewood sky, some purple grapes, The summer's last pink rose, One topaz chain of aspen leaves, A lovely amber hour, to close The day. She smiles possessively And locks the lid. November, In smoke-screen guise, then steals and hides It, under white December. Grandpa As a Magician Mabel Law Atkinson felt so useless in all his seventy-nine years. He hardly knew what to do with himself now his eyes were going back on him. Always before this summer he had been able to read to pass the time away. Each day he had read and read, novels as well as the Bible, with variations of other wholesome literature' in between. Grandpa even loved the funnies and had read them to the grandchildren until his vision dimmed. Strange, though, he could still see the mountains and fields almost as well as ever, but the words on the pages before him ran together in a blur. Grandpa was sitting in his old Congress chair under the big boxelder in the back yard of his son's home, where he lived now. Nothing depended on him anymore, and he was beginning to feel in the way. "It's a good old world as long as a body is needed," he mused and tears filled his tired, old eyes. "If only I was needed!" He spoke aloud this time. "You'd be needed badly enough right now if you were a magician." At the sound of his grandson's voice, Grandpa hastily wiped his eyes and looked up at the youth defiantly, if kindly, as if to dare him to think he had been crying. He had no need to worry, however, because Kurt Radford was too engrossed in his own problem to notice. "Now why would you be needing a magician, Id like to know?" c Rediendehad nese broke in the old man. "I don't take any stock in such, none at all. I figure a magician does his tricks in a natural manner, only he's too quick and too clever for most folks to find it out. Now, son, tell me all about it and maybe the two of us can work out a magic trick." Grandpa showed more zest than he had for months. "Oh, Grandpa, Joe Rand just sent word he won't have time to thresh for us until he returns from threshing in the next valley, and that may be two weeks or more. He was to have come tomorrow." "Well, two weeks isn't long to wait. It's early in the threshing season yet, and the grain is so well stacked that if it rains it won't be hurt at all. You're a fine bundle stacker, my boy. Your old Granddad's mighty proud of those stacks of yours. None better in the valley." "But it's my prize wheat, Grandpa, that I'm worrying about," broke in Kurt. "Don't worry over it, son. That big canvas covers that small stack completely, so rain won't harm it either." "But, Grandpa, it isn't the rain I'm worrying about. That wheat must be threshed by Monday morning, for the judges will make the decision then and award the prize, and I did so want that prize money. Fifty dollars, just imagine! I've had it planned all summer what I'd do with that money. Now Bill Garff will get it, for sure, for his wheat Page 679 680 got threshed today. I saw it, pretty and plump as can be." Kurt sank down at grandpa's feet and groaned. Again he was sitting in the 4-H Club meeting and hearing from the county agent how two boys were to be chosen to expeniment in growing a new variety of wheat. Each would be given the same amount of seed, with definite instructions on preparing the soil, planting, and watering. Then in the fall a fifty dollar cash prize would be given to the boy producing the greater amount of wheat, free of disease. He and Bill had been chosen from among the volunteers. What a joy it had been to plant and tend that wheat, watch it change from green to gold, as though touched by Midas-hands! All summer he had been building a dream, and now it had crashed. [' was Kurt's turn to have his eyes fill. Grandpa saw and yearned to comfort him, as he used to do, but knew that would never do now, for Kurt was fifteen, so he said consolingly, "Perhaps, if you take your bundles over to Mr. Rand's place in the big truck, he will have time to thresh them before he leaves." Hope was in his voice, but it filtered out as Kurt replied, "He's already gone. He had left before I received word. He sent his boy Jimmy over to tell me just as he was leaving." Grandpa groaned then, too, and slumped down as though defeated, but sat up erect and was as alert as could be when he heard Kurt say, "T've prayed night and morning about that wheat and worked my RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 best, too, and now it looks like the Lord has failed me." "Don't you go blaming the Lord, young fellow. I've lived four score years, lacking one, and he isn't the one who fails. We're the ones that give up. The Lord does his part, and don't you forget that, young man." Kurt broke in before his grandfather could say more, "I don't mean to complain, Grandpa, but it's times like this I miss Dad most. Seems to me we needed him." Tenderness filled Grandpa's old eyes as he placed his arm about Kurt's shoulders and said gently, "I know, son, I know, but remember, too, that the Lord always knows what he's doing. I've watched you develop into a man since your father died, and I'm proud of you, lad." "T should think the Lord would help me now, then," continued the boy, but his heart was touched by his grandfather's tenderness. "No one is licked yet, Kurt, if we're not, and I say we're not!" "What!" exclaimed Kurt. "You mean we still have a chance to get my grain threshed?" "Yes, sir, we have!" The flames relit in Grandpa's old eyes as he continued, "That is, if you'll keep on praying and work even harder than you have been, for we only have tomorrow left, you know, as the next day's Sunday, and only harm'll come if we work then. Will you do as I say this once, lad?" "Oh, yes, Grandpa, I'll do anything, if it means I can still win." "Well, I can't promise that, but by the looks of the western sky we can get your threshing done. Then GRANDPA AS A MAGICIAN it will depend on the quantity and the quality of your wheat as compared with Bill's. That can't be changed now, you know." As Grandpa told Kurt his plan for getting the precious wheat threshed, Kurt gave excited exclamations. Just then Mrs. Radford called supper, and arm in arm the two entered the house, Grandpa _ looking happier and feeling younger than he had in years. Being needed was the magic sesame. HERE was a thrilling excitement, an anticipation in the air the next morning. Kurt was up with the dawn doing the chores, so a little after sunup he was ready to begin his real day's work. When Grandpa came outside, his old eyes held gleams of youth as he saw the large, heavy canvas which had sheltered the precious bundles all spread out on the smooth earth by the barn, its corners staked down, and, on it, a circle of bundles with the heads of wheat turned toward the center. "Come in now, son," he called, "and have your breakfast; and eat a hearty one, you and Bud and Sally are going to be the threshers." "Yes, and Neil is coming over, too. He thinks it will be fun." Breakfast over, the threshing began, and it was fun—that is for a while. It didn't seem like work at all, just tramping around and around on those heads of wheat, then turning the bundles over and tramping again; for that was Grandpa's plan—to thresh the wheat the way they had done it when he was a lad. But these youngsters didn't seem to have the same power of endurance he had had as a boy. Perhaps, he thought, it's because they haven't had to do as much physical work with all the modern conveniences; or perhaps I've just forgotten that I used to tire, too. When one circle of bundles was threshed, the. Young folks carried the straw away, then the wheat, chaff and all, was gathered and sacked up. "IT can't see how you can think this wheat can win with all this chaff," objected Bud. But Kurt said mysteriously, "Just you wait." Grandpa looked wistfully at the sky as he thought, I sure hope it's favorable for the finishing up this afternoon. Again and again, fresh bundles were placed on the canvas, the heads toward the center, and the man-power thresher toiled on, with Grandpa using encouraging words as his whip. N the middle of the afternoon, the children became so tired that even Kurt was about to give up. Grandpa's eyes flamed, and his tired body revived as he said, "All of you lie down and rest a bit, and then we'll start again and soon be through with this part. If my old legs didn't have the rheumatism I'd help you tramp." Grandpa had been anticipating this moment, and felt that now was the time for him to do as his father used to do when he and his brothers became too tired to go on. First he went in search of some refreshments. When he brought out some lemonade in the large enameled pitcher, and cookies in a tin pan and cups, he found the children still flat on the ground, almost too tired to sit up. Never had hard earth felt so good to them before. But the lemonade and cookies did help, and soon tongues were busy again and lips were smiling. Sally seemed to notice the pan for the first time, for she asked, "Why the tin pan, Grandpa? We haven't used it for years and years." "But we're going to now," replied Grandpa, his eyes twinkling. "We sure are going to. Now, threshers, back on the job, and we'll be through before you know it." Grandpa turned the pan upside down on his knees, took two dimes from his pocket, held one between the thumb and forefinger of each hand, and called, "Ready now, one, two, three—march!" 'Then he beban whistling "Yankee Doodle" and beating on the pan with the dimes at the same time. How those young folks marched! Tiredness was forgotten, and threshing was fun again. Louder and clearer and shriller came Grandpa's whistle, as the rusty hinges of his throat, long unused, yielded to the lubricant of joy. Gouty old hands beat time perfectly on the tin pan, and his foot tapped in unison with the thythmic beats. What matter if he should be laid up tomorrow? He was young today, and he was needed. Round and round marched the children and, at last, the grain was threshed! OW," breathed Grandpa, and his whisper was like a prayer, "if only a wind will arise to fan out the chaff." Kurt was evidently thinking the same, for he came over and said, "TI go get the pans for you to show us how, Grandpa. I believe I feel a breeze coming now." He was right. Soon Grandpa was showing them how to fill one pan with the grain and chaff and, holding it high, pour it into the other pan, held low, while standing on the canvas so it would catch any grain which spilled. The breezes blew out the chaff while the grain was in the air between the two pans. Then Grandpa reversed his hands and-did the same thing again and even again to remove all the chaff. By this time the breeze had become stronger and, with all of them working, pouring wheat from full to empty pans, the last of the precious grain was chaff free by a little after sundown. As the tired workers surveyed the clean, shining kernels in the sacks, a feeling of achievement filled each soul. Grandpa was beginning to feel the strain, but his voice still had the tone of youth as he declared, "That's as fine a job of threshing as I've ever seen done, and I've seen many of them. That wheat's as clean or cleaner than it would have been had the thresher done it. I'm right proud of you and your thresher crew, Kurt." "It's you who's __ responsible, Grandpa. You get the credit for this," came from Kurt's grateful heart. Grandpa's eyes filled, this time with joy, as he continued, "Now, let's get this wheat under shelter, and Monday the judges can weigh and judge it. If Bill's is better, it must be good." 682 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 GRANDPA AS A MAGICIAN Grandpa slept like an exhausted child that night and rested most of the next day, but Monday morning, he was waiting for the judges, as anxious as Kurt for the decision. They were waiting on the front porch when the car drove up, and the county agent came with the three men who were to judge. After introductions were made, and they were on their way to the granary, the agent said, "If your crop turns out to be as good as Bill's, the farmers around here will all be planting this new variety next year." The four men remarked about the fine job of threshing, as they weighed the wheat. 'They wrote down figures, looked at another sheet, looked back again, then the judges nodded to the agent, who turned to Kurt and said, "Well, Kurt, you win by twelve pounds. Congratulations! You will receive your check at the meeting scheduled for this afternoon." Kurt couldn't trust himself to speak as the men shook hands with him and Grandpa, and compliment- 683 ed him on the fine work he had done. Grandpa blew and blew his nose, mumbling something about hay fever, but he couldn't keep back the tears, and they rolled down his furrowed cheeks. A few minutes later, as Kurt and his grandfather walked toward the house, Kurt added, "Grandpa, do you know why I wanted to win the prize so badly? It was for you, Grandpa, so you'll be able to read again. 'The eye specialist said if you could still see distant objects clearly, you could read again, if you were fitted with glasses, so tomorrow we're going to have your eyes tested, Grandpa, and soon you'll have glasses to read with. _Won't that be something?" Grandpa could hardly believe it. To be able to read again! And he wasn't useless! Unconsciously, he spoke aloud, "For once I was neededi "Tll say you were!" responded Kurt. "You are a magician, Grandpa, and who knows when I'll need you to perform another magic trick!" —<——~ October Evelyn Fjeldsted October's promises have been fulfilled. The rain that once was measured from the skies, The warmth of summer winds that now are stilled, And all the wealth of gold in each sunrise Are merged to bring the miracles of soil. The mallard takes his way beyond the streams, The stillness holds a song of finished toil— A song with memories of summer themes. The art of blending colors manifold Was natures's gift to brighten waning days, And yield completed in a boundless mould, Glows softly in a mountain—dnifting haze. The tree is bare where once the robin sang; Somewhere a flagon spills October's tang. From The F leld__ Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for '""Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Rose B. Astle SOUTH LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA) MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES ACHIEVE OUTSTANDING RECORD IN 1952 Front row, seated, left to right: "Bertha Millius, Matthews Ward (233%); Violet Tripp, Vermont Ward (178%); Nancy Rupp, Stake Magazine representative (210% ); Marcella Carlson, who served as Magazine representative for the Downey Second Ward during the first part of 1952; Bernice Little, Manchester Ward (222%). Back row, standing, left to right: Josie Newey, Miramonte Ward (218%); Ora Elmer, Downey Second Ward (182%); Nellie Hunter, Walnut Park Ward (181%); Avilda Kowalski, Maywood Ward (156%); Alice Taylor, Grant Ward (271%); Evelyn Ferrera, South Gate Ward (284%); Ruth Minton, Manchester Ward who served during the first part of 1952; Connie Price, Downey First Ward (195%). Eldora Reeves, Huntington Park Ward (167%), was absent when this picture was taken, March 20, 1953, at the anniversary party. Sister Rose B. Astle, President of South Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, expresses her appreciation for the devoted efforts of these sisters: "We are proud of the work these sisters have done. They have helped our stake to lead the Church in Magazine subscriptions for six consecutive years." Page 684 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 685 Photograph submitted by Grace G. Thornton EAST JORDAN STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PROVIDE MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, April 1953 Grace G. Thornton, President, East Jordan Stake Relief Society, stands fifth from the left in the back row; the chorister, Orpha S. Brown, stands at the left in the second tow; organist Eloise Webster is seated at the left in the front row. In the complete chorus there are eighty singers, two violinists, and a cellist. Photograph submitted by Ethel L. Mauss JAPANESE MISSION, RELIEF SOCIETY DISTRICT CONFERENCE May 24, 1953 Front row, seated, left to right: Sister Kumagai, visitor from Sapporo, who became a member of Relief Society in 1913, forty years ago, one of the oldest and most faithful members in the Japanese Mission Relief Society; Matsu Matsumoto, First Counselor, Tokyo Second Branch; Michiko Okada, President, Yokohama Branch; Fumiko Kaneko, President, Takasaki Branch; Motoko Nara, President, Tokyo Second Branch; Ethel L. Mauss, President, Japanese Mission Relief Society; Kinoko Senba, President, Tokyo First Branch; Kiyoko Nagano, President, Kofu Branch; Noboru Komine, President, Maebashi Branch; Sister K. Kaanaana, missionary; Miyoko Kanai, First Counselor, Tokyo First Branch. Sister Mauss reports the faithfulness and devotion of these and other sisters of the Japanese Mission Relief Society: "There were representatives present from six branches. In view of the heavy rain and of the early hour of meeting, I was pleased with the attendance. Each of the six presidents gave a report of the past year's activity in her branch. Also, I gave a twenty-minute talk on the blessings and purposes of Relief Society work. All of the officers are most happy to have the translated Handbook." 686 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 Photograph submitted by Della O. Taylor EL PASO STAKE (TEXAS AND NEW MEXICO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE May 10, 1953 Nelle B. Zundel, stake chorister, stands at the front in the center of the picture; Jennie N. Lawson, stake organist, stands in the back row at the left; Barbara Johnson, El Paso Second Ward Relief Society organist, who assisted at this presentation, stands in the back row at the right. Della O. Taylor is president of El Paso Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by LaVell King WAYNE STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION, May 14, 1953, AND FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Front row, left to right: Nettie Brian; Thora Jackson; Loa J. Hansen; Emma Sorenson; Lorea Hall; Mildred Wood; Ethel Taylor; Irene Peterson; Twila Sorenson; Florence Covington; Viola T. Rees, chorister. Second row, left to right: Beatrice Brinkerhoff, Reta Meeks; Wanda Heaps; Ellen Blackburn; Della Brian; Shirley Oldroyd; Emily White; Artie Taft; Donna Blackburn; Cleo Ellett; Thelma Buchanan. Third row, left to right: Mary Brinkerhoff; Bertha Ellett; Alice Farnsworth; Lillian Munson; Fern Chidester; Marzella Forsythe; Ora Morrell, accompanist; LaVerd Ballee; Bonita Taylor; DalMarr Hellstrom; Cleo Durfey; Vonda Williams. LaVell King, President, Wayne Stake Relief Society, reports that these Singing Mothers meet regularly for rehearsal, some of them traveling as far as thirty miles to attend. They represent the following wards: Fremont, Loa, Lyman, Thurber, and Teasdale. NOTES FROM THE FIELD » 687 Photograph submitted by Agnes F. Lindsay PALO ALTO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE AND FOR INTER-STAKE CONVENTION Agnes Farnsworth Lindsay, President, Palo Alto Stake Relief Society, stands in the back row, fourteenth from the left; Deane White, the chorister, and Laura Pugmire, the organist, are seated in front of the piano. Seated at the piano, Marguerite Stoddard, organist of San Mateo Ward Relief Society, where the conference was held. Photograph submitted by Lucile J. Rawlins NAMPA STAKE (IDAHO), NAMPA SECOND WARD VISITING TEACHERS MAKE 100 PER CENT RECORD FOR EIGHTEEN MONTHS (November 1951—April 1953) Front row, seated, left to right: Beulah Williams; Alice Jones; Amy Murray; Adelia Pipkin; Estella Day; Rebecca Wayman. Second row, seated, left to right: Eva Thorne; Emma Liljenquist; Minnie McGrew; Leva Newland; Laura Newby; Sylvia Medley. Back row, standing, left to right: Blanch Murphy; Luzean Yorgason, President; Lavern Stewart; Delvin Bean; Alletta Bowles; Gwen Andrews; Virginia Hunter; Deane Pixtin; Lydia Ricks; Lucille Hennis; Ethel Hayes; Sarah Daines; Mary Dixon; Coral Liechty; Phoebe Levi. Not present when the picture was taken were: Vera Schulze; Hellenia Richards; Martha Hidgley; Bessie Donahue; Irene Gwilliams; Margaret Willyerd; Irene Johnson; Estella Curtis. Alta Fuhriman is president of Nampa Stake Relief Society. 688 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 Photograph submitted by Mary L. Henrie DESERET STAKE (UTAH) VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION, May 30, 1953 Mary L. Henrie, President, Deseret Stake Relief Society, reports that their visiting teachers convention is held each year in May. "We honor and pay tribute to the visiting teachers in a program of music from our stake Singing Mothers combined chorus. We hear testimonies from the teachers and also from some of the women who have been visited. We have talks and receive instructions to emphasize the true spirit of visiting teaching. We are working to improve the quality of the teaching in our stake, as well as for a one hundred per-cent record." Photograph submitted by Edna H. Matheson EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION, PARKERSBURG, (WEST VIRGINIA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY PREPARES LUNCH FOR CONFERENCE August 16th and 17th, 1952 Standing, left to mght: Lovada Hansen; Mary Teter; Bessie Vandergrit; Hillary Rymer; Bessie Hutto; Viola Astin, President; Macel Garvin; Lessie Teter. In commenting upon the activities of these devoted sisters, Edna H. Matheson, President, East Central States Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Parkersburg Relief Society is a small organization in number, but a very active one. They have eleven enrolled members, hold weekly meetings, and are carrying out all the activities of Relief Society. They have recently put into effect the visiting teacher program and have reported one hundred per cent visits made in their last report. They also had 138 per cent Magazine subscriptions the past year." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 689 Photograph submitted by Nina J. Langford SOUTH OGDEN STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE May 1953 Stake board members, standing back of the piano, left to right: Mattie G. Ray, theology class leader; Nina J. Langford, Secretary-Treasurer; Loretta S. Cramer, First Counselor; Erma V. Jacobs, President; Flossie Nicholls, Second Counselor; Vera B. Pettit, chorister. This large chorus consisted of representatives from every ward in the stake, and the numbers presented were carefully selected and beautifully presented. Ff wef =e Photograph submitted by Bertrude S. Mitchell PAROWAN STAKE (UTAH), ENOCH WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE 100 PER CENT RECORD FOR ONE YEAR Front row, seated, left to right: Rua C. Jones, First Counselor; Mary D. Jones, President; Sarah W. Matheson, visiting teacher message leader; Cora B. Murie, Second Counselor; Helen C. Jones, Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, standing, left to right: Ellen Anderson; Lela G. Gibson; Mildred O. Maxwell; Pearl J. Halterman; Ivy J. Williams; Marva J. Armstrong; Elizabeth S. Grimshaw; Grace J. Smith. Bertrude S. Mitchell is president of Parowan Stake Relief Society. 690 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 se Photograph submitted by Merna E. Marchant BURLEY STAKE (IDAHO), TWELVE WARD RELIEF SOCIETIES UNITE IN CELEBRATING THE 111th ANNIVERSARY OF THE ORGANIZATION OF RELIEF SOCIETY, March 17, 1953 Standing beside the exquisitely beautiful birthday cake are the two sisters who made and decorated this piece of artistry: at left, Afton G. Baker; at right, Delma G. Bean. Merna E. Marchant, President, Burley Stake Relief Society, reports that the entire program was unique, "depicting Relief Society from its origin to the present time, with readings, drama, songs, and dances, linked impressively with narration written by Lucile Hatch Nielson, stake social science leader. The birthday cake, exquisitely decotrated, was truly a masterpiece. The little ladies in the decoration represented the eighteen women piesent when the society was organized. Each little woman had on her blue dress a name in gold letters, such as Charity, Patience, Love, etc. The lady atop the cake was The Spirit of Relief Society. Another attraction was a display of beautiful handwork and also a number of gifts to equip the kitchen in our new tabernacle." <-> Solitude Catherine E. Berry Within this fold of hills the mountain climber Pauses now beside a quiet stream, So close to heaven here that he must tarry, To breathe the fragrant air and build a dream. For time has stopped—there is no past, no future, Only this bright hour, this shining day, While purple peaks and white clouds lean above him This little while he holds the world at bay. LESSON DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 20—Ammon and the People of Limhi Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Mosiah 7-26) For Tuesday, January 5, 1954 Objective: To give a singular example of how this land of promise was a land of opportunity only so long as the people had faith in Jesus Christ. Ammon Leads Men to | Lehi-Nephi EARIED by the pleadings of his people who were anxious to go to the land of Lehi-Nephi to inquire about their brethren who had gone there years before and had not been heard from since their departure, King Mosiah chose sixteen strong men and sent them to this land. Ammon was chosen as their leader. These sixteen men wandered for forty days in the wilderness and finally pitched their tents north of the land of Shilom by a hill. Evidently feeling that he had discovered the land for which he was searching, Ammon and three of his men, Amaleki, Helem, and Hem, went into the land of Nephi. They met King Limhi and his guards near the gate of the city. Ammon and his men were surrounded by the king's guard, taken, bound, and committed to prison, for King Limhi suspected that they were the wicked priests of King Noah, his enemies. 'There they remained for two days before they had their bands loosed and were taken before the king for trial. Ammon Meets King Limhi On the occasion of their trial, King Limhi commanded them to answer his questions. First, however, he introduced himself as King Limhi and explained that his father was King Noah, who was a son of Zeniff. 'This man Zeniff, King Limhi said, had come from the land of Zarahemla years before, he being a man who was overzealous to inherit this land of Lehi-Nephi, the land of their fathers. Limhi undoubtedly knew of the earlier journey, how a large number of men had gone into the wilderness from Zarahemla to return to this land of Nephi, and how because their leader was a strong-willed and a contentious man, civil strife had occurred and all but fifty had been slain in the wilderness. These fifty returned to Zarahemla to relate the sad misfortune. Probably Limhi also knew how Page 69) Zeniff, a member of this group of fifty, had gathered together as many as desired to accompany him on a second journey to the land of Nephi. (See Omni 27-30.) Zeniff had made arrangements with the king of the Lamanites, who controlled the land of Nephi, to have possession of the cities of Lehi-Nephi, and of Shilom and the land round about. Zeniff had successfully established his colony in these two places. But he had been deceived by King Laman and really brought his people into captivity. Limhi, however, did not complete this story to Ammon. Instead, he asked why Ammon and his men were so bold as to come near the walls of the city when he was there with his guards. King Limhi Welcomes Ammon The king was a surprised and astonished man as Ammon bowed before him and said: O king, I am very thankful before God this day that I am yet alive, and am permitted to speak; and I will endeavor to speak with boldness; For I am assured that if ye had known me ye would not have suffered that I should have worn these bands. For I am Ammon, and am a descendant of Zarahemla, and have come up out of the land of Zarahemla to inquire concerning our brethren, whom Zeniff brought up out of that land (Mosiah 7212-13). King Limhi reported how he had sent a group of forty-three men out in search of Zarahemla. This group had not found Zarahemla, but had returned with a report of having discovered the last remains of a once mighty civilization and had brought back twenty-four gold plates [Book of Ether] filled with engravings. 'hey had believed the ruins to be of Zarahemla. King Limhi rejoiced with Ammon. Now, I know of a surety that my brethren who were in the land of Zarahemla are yet alive. And now, I will rejoice; and on the morrow I will cause that my people shall rejoice also (Mosiah 7:14). That Limhi and his people were in bondage to the Lamanites, and were required to pay a grievous tax, was soon made known to Ammon and his group by the king. Anxious to free himself and his people from this bondage, King Limhi urged these men to help him plan a way of escape. Ammon, Amaleki, Helem, and Hem returned to the land of Shillom where the remainder of their group was encamped and took them with them to the land of LehiNephi. King Limhi Calls His People to Repentance and Promises Deliverance to Them | King Limhi called a general meeting of his people to convene at the temple on the next day. When they were assembled, King Limhi addressed the group. He spoke words of comfort to them, telling them that in the near future they would be released from subjection to the Lamanites. He asked them _ to place their faith in the God of Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, the God of Israel who brought the children of Israel out of Egypt and made it possible for them to walk through the Red Sea on dry ground, the God who brought their own fathers out of the land of Jerusalem and protected and preserved them. And then Limhi referred to a 692 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT great truth which they could fully understand, that they were in bondage because of the iniquities and abominations of King Noah and the people. King Limhi said: For if this people had not fallen into transgression the Lord would not have suffered that this great evil should come upon them (Mosiah 7:25). Limhi then detailed some of the wickedness of the people, pointing out that they had put to death a prophet of the Lord because he bore testimony of the future appearance of Christ among the children of men. After recalling this incident to their minds, King Limhi asked, "Who wondereth that they are in bondage, and that they are smitten with sore affliction; For the Lord has said: I will not succor my people in the day of their transgression; but I will hedge up their ways that they prosper not; and their doings shall be as a stumbling block before them. And again, he saith: If my people shall sow filthiness they shall reap the chaff thereof in the whirlwind; and the effect thereof is poison. And again he saith: If my people shall sow filthiness they shall reap the east wind, which bringeth immediate destruction (Mosiah 7:29-31). Limhi told them that their affliction was nothing but the fulfillment of prophecy. 'The great English historian, Thomas Carlyle, in his four-volume history of the French Revolution pointed out to his readers, that the French Revolution was nothing but the delayed justice of God working itself out on a corrupt civilization. He further declared that God's justice might be delayed a day or so, a year or so, but it was certain to come. Carlyle, like Lim. 693 hi, gave an implicit argument that sometimes God sends evil rulers to a people to punish them for their wickedness. After assuring them that there was a definite causal connection between their wickedness and their punishment, Limhi promised his people that if they would serve God with diligence, he would deliver them from bondage. King Limhi then called upon Ammon to speak to the people. Ammon rehearsed much that had happened in Zarahemla since Zeniff left it years before. He also gave the people the last message of King Benjamin. Then the meeting was adjourned and the multitude was dismissed to return home. Ammon Declares Power of Mosiah to Translate Records In the presence of Ammon, King Limhi had his servants bring the record of Zeniff, which contained an account of the history of the people since they left Zarahemla. Limhi told Ammon that the forty-three men he sent to locate Zarahemla (Mosiah 8:7) had brought back, in addition to the twenty-four gold plates [Book of Ether] many breastplates made of brass and copper, and also swords, whose hilts had disappeared and the blades of which were corroded with rust. He asked Ammon if he could translate the strange characters on the gold plates, or if he knew of anyone who could. Ammon responded: I can assuredly tell thee, O king, of a man that can translate the records; for he has wherewith that he can look, and translate all records that are of ancient date; and it is a gift from God. And the things are calied interpreters (Mosiah Siggy),, Limhi rejoiced with Ammon, for he now knew that he would ultimately learn the history that was engraved on the twenty-four gold plates. As a result of the coming of Ammon and his group, King Limhi and many of his people covenanted with God to serve him and keep his commandments. Limhi desired baptism. But there was none in the land who had authority from God, and Ammon declined, considering himself an unworthy servant. (See Mosiah 21:32 ff.) | | People Delivered from Lamanites Ammon and Limhi began to consult with the people how they could deliver themselves out of bondage. They had all the people gather together that they might have the voice of the people concerning the matter. It was decided that the only way they could escape would be' to flee to Zarahemla with their flocks, herds, and tents. The Lamanites were so numerous that it was deemed impossible to deliver themselves out of bondage with the sword. Gideon, a trusted advisor of the king, suggested the plan that was followed. He knew that the guards "by the back pass, through the back wall on the back side of the city" were drunken by night. He proposed that the people pay their last tribute of wine. They sent more than the tribute wine, and the people of Limhi with their gold and silver and other possessions went through the back pass into the wilderness while the guards slumbered. After traveling many days they arrived in Zarahemla where they joined with Mosiah's people and became his subjects. (See Mosiah 22.) Questions on the Lesson 1. Why were the people living under bondage to the Lamanites? 2. In what ways do individuals pay for their violation of the moral law? 3. Do nations, as well as individuals, pay a price for unrighteousness? Change Marian Schroder Crothers There was no sign. No bitter wind, with sharpening breath Had scattered scarlet leaves of trees; Untouched, late flowers glowed beneath the sun, For now, enchanted autumn held the land. Only the blue-white haze upon the far horizon Told of change; Only a wedge of wild geese, winging south, Gave warning. That winter's cold, fierce legions marched To conquest, Down from the northland. 694 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 Visiting Seacher INlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 20—"And Ye Will Not Have a Mind to Injure One Another, But to Live Peaceably, and to Render to Every Man According to That Which Is His Due" (Mosiah 4:13). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, January 5, 1954 Objective: To show the importance of refraining from injuring one another. HAT a place of rejoicing this world would be if no one at any time injured another! The goal of Christianity would be realized in that the children of men would love one another and think of their brethren as themselves. There are many ways in which it is possible to injure one another. It may be through gossip, through dishonest business dealings, through hasty judgment, by angry words, by neglecting to give spiritual or material aid in time of distress, and in numerous other ways. To cast any reflection on a good name or character is a serious matter. Sheridan says of gossip: Believe not each accusing tongue, As most weak persons do; But still believe that story wrong, Which ought not to be true. Honesty will always be one of the cardinal moral virtues, but today it needs re-emphasizing. In this day of keen competition there is a tendency among some to_ regard "sharp" business practices as imperative for survival. But we should be scrupulously honest in all our dealings. If one finds himself in a position where he may take advantage of another's ignorance or neglect, it would be decidedly dishonest to do so. Angry words often cause untold sorrow and remorse. Once uttered, they can never be recalled, nor can the ill effects be completely erased. How may we discipline ourselves so that we do not even thoughtlessly injure one another? Someone has coined the phrase "kindness therapy." Surely the world is in great need of "kindness therapy." Suppose all of us determined to administer this healing balm to those with whom we come in contact, what would be the result? We would show appreciation of each other; we would give generous amounts of encouragement and praise; we would rejoice in the righteous accomplishments and success of others. We would refrain from passing judgment on others; we would be strictly honest; we would control our tempers; we would not act impulsively, but would first ask ourselves the question: "Will this that I am about to do harm anyone?" or "Will this that I feel like saying be unfair to any person?" 'This attitude should be the measure by which we act. Brigham Young said: To conquer and subdue, and school ourselves until we bring everything into subjection to the law of Christ, is our work Page 695 696... The thousands and tens of thousands of incidents that make up the sum of human lives, whether for good or evil depend on a momentary watchfulness and care. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953... Let each person be determined... To be the master of himself (Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 265, 267, 1946 edition). Work Mleeting— Family Money Management (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4—Spending the Clothing Dollar Rhea H. Gardner (For Tuesday, January 12, 1954) HE average American family spends about fifteen per cent of its annual income for clothing. It is second or third in cost among family expenditures. The greater part of it is spent by women. Their buying skill will, therefore, greatly affect the kind and quantity of clothes the family has and the degree of enjoyment that is derived from their use. In the days of our grandparents, every homemaker was familiar with the type of materials available and their performance. Today, the situation is quite different. 'The multiplicity of fabrics, weaves, fibers, and the "dos" and "don'ts" in handling materials present a complex problem to even the most highly skilled shoppers. This complex situation warrants serious consideration of ways in which the clothing share of the family income can most profitably be used in the interest of all family members. In no other division of family expenditure is long-time planning more essential. Plan Before You Buy Minimize the buying of non-essentials and an overtaxing of the current budget by making a longtime plan of clothing needs. In periodic family councils, have each family member, mother and father included, make a list of "must haves" and "would like to haves" or "wishes." Careful planning can often show the way to make wishes come true. A clothing buying plan will help you anticipate most of your needs and avoid snap judgments. Before deciding what you are going to buy, check over the clothes you have. What is the condition of them? Can they be made wearable with repair or alteration, or re modeled for one of the children? What colors, types, and quality of materials and specific kinds of weaiing apparel are needed to complete your wardrobe? In your planning you will likely be confronted with the decision as to whether to buy yard goods, for certain pieces of wearing apparel, or ready-made garments. Definite decision will perhaps be determined only after sources of supply and costs in both departments are studied. Home sewing can be a real dollar stretcher for anyone who has the skill, time, and physical capacity, satisfactorily to make needed LESSON DEPARTMENT garments, especially in children's clothing. Be a Wise Shopper Well-thought-out plans are essential to successful shopping, but preplanning is only part of the clothing buyer's responsibility. The value-wise buyer avoids the busiest shopping hours and never goes shopping when she does not feel well. She is never misled by so-called "bargains," for she knows that a bargain is a bargain only if: 1. The article is something she really needs. 2. The price is better than normal. 3. She will be able to use it with satisfaction. 4. It will not be too hard or costly, in time or money to keep in good condition. The wise homemaker buys clothes that fit in with those she already has on hand. If money is particularly scarce she sticks to a "kin" color for the wardrobe of each member of her family. This is what is generally considered to be the "best" color or colors for each member. Around it, she builds the entire wardrobe, working new garments into the color scheme for the best effect. In this way she never has misfits. Labels are important to her. She favors those materials and readymade garments that carry labels which give in clear unquestionable terms: 1. The kind of fiber that'is used 2. Probable shrinkage 3. Color fastness to various causes of fading Resistance to wrinkling Best type of care Cleaning method recommended. Ras 697 She disregards labels that only give half-truths and misleading statements, such as "preshrunk," "fast color," and "super shrunk," for, unless these terms are elaborated on, they have no value. Guessing or exaggeration by an overenthusiastic sales person can be disregarded when actual facts are given on the label. A wise buyer would not think of buying a ready-made garment without first checking the workmanship. Some of the things she checks are: 1. Seams. Unless they are at least onehalf inch wide, and finished, if the fabric ravels easily, the garment will not give satisfactory wear. 2. Grain line. Garments cut off-grain will soon sag and pull out of shape. 3. Fabric pattern. If it is striped, checked, or plaid, she wants all pieces to be well matched. 4. Trim. Will it stand cleaning and wear along with the garment? Does it cheapen or add to the appearance of the garment? Has it been used to cover up inferior workmanship or poor quality material? 5. Belt. Will it stand cleaning and wear for the life of the garment? 6. Style. Will it still be good next year, and the year after that? Simplicity is the key to good taste. Consumers Will Get Only What They Demand Not until individual consumers see the need for informative labeling, standardized sizes, and high quality workmanship, and demand them, will methods of merchandising be improved. Thoughts for Discussion 1. In what way does the proper care of clothing help in spending the clothing dollar? 2. Of what advantage are labels on merchandise? Literature—The Literature of England Lesson 36—Charles Dickens (Continued) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Text: David Copperfield) For Tuesday, January 19, 1954 Objective: To gain a greater appreciation of Dickens through a study of his autobiographical novel David Copperfield. Dickens' Religious Convictions C)FTENTIMES Dickens has been criticized because his characters are flat; never do we see into their minds as they contemplate a plan and repent. 'This charge is as true of his characters as it is of Dickens himself, and of the millions of people who have loved his writings as well. As we implied in our first lesson, Dickens had no desire to brood long hours in self-examination, nor did he need to. For him life was throbbing with action, excitement, people, parties, tragedy, sadness, friendship. With unquestioning fervor, Dickens knew that life is good, or is meant to be. Dickens spoke out for most Englishmen when he affirmed life's happiness, and when he vanquished evil characters and situations by taking them lightly. J Dickens' fervent optimism was firmly rooted on his religious convictions, which were strongly Christian, but not sectarian. He stated them in a letter to his son soon to sail for Australia: Never take a mean advantage of anyone in any transaction, and never be hard upon people who are in your power. Try to do to others as you would have them do to you, and do not be discouraged if they fail sometimes. It is much better for you that te should fail in obeying the greatest rule laid down by our Savior, than that you should. Page 698... The more we are in earnest as to feeling the Christian religion, the less we are disposed to hold forth about it. Never abandon the wholesome practice of saying your own private prayers, night and morning. I have never abandoned it myself, and I know the comfort of it. Dickens' Influence Undoubtedly Dickens enjoyed by far the largest reading audience of any Englishman during the nineteenth century, since his books appeared in monthly installments over a period of decades, while his newspapers, largely a statement of his own views, were circulated widely each week for twenty years. So powerful was Dickens' influence that literature could not contain him; he assumed the stature of a moral force in all the major reforms of the age. Because of his intimate knowledge of the horrible living conditions among the middle and lower class people—his people—he was more aware of the suffering, of England en masse than all of his contemporary writers combined. While he sang the praises of the great emotional sweetness to be found beneath each roof, he also presented the appalling lot of fellow humans with such vigor that, often, as a result of his writings, reforms were successfully effected in housing, prisons, insane asylums, working conditions, and education. Andre Maurois maintains that Dickens' LESSON DEPARTMENT vigorous campaigning for human rights prevented a bloody revolution in England. Whether this be true or not, it is true that often in his night-long wanderings about the streets of London, Dickens fed the poor and the deserted, and he was actively engaged in sponsoring new housing projects, and in various philanthropic endeavors. He did not believe that existing institutions need be changed, if only all men would be true to the native kindness each possessed within himself. Dickens in America Throughout his life, Dickens was easily excited to almost violent intensities, and never believed in doing anything by halves. When, therefore, he saw his publishers rapidly becoming wealthy from the phenomenal sale of his works, while he was hardly making an honest living, he raged at his publishers, but even more violently he attacked pirate publishers who copied his works as fast as they appeared without ever paying him a cent. While in England his novels sold for $2.50, in America they sold for twelve cents. In America, everybody waited on tiptoe for the next installment of his works, yet he. Profited nothing from their sale. In 1842 Dickens sailed for the United States, hoping to make some change in existing copyright laws. Though he was so busy being entertained by the great and the elite that he accomplished little, Dickens did satisfy his curiosity about this so-called new Eden about which he had heard so much. What he found was not pleasant to his eye, or to his nose. He found American table man- 699 ners almost as revolting as the common-place spitting, a practice found even among the so-called "best" people. Slavery was abhorrent to him, while the new West, in its... Forlorn and miserable appearance, baffles all description. I have not seen six cabins out of six hundred where the windows have been whole. Old hats, clothes, boards, fragments of blanket and paper are stuffed into the broken glass; and their air is misery and desolation. It pains the eye to see the stumps of great trees thickly strewed in every field of wheat; and never to lose the eternal swamp and dull morass, with hundreds of rotten trunks steeped in its unwholesome water.... It is quite oppressive, too, to come upon great tracts, where settlers have been burning down the trees, and where their wounded bodies lie about like those of murdered creatures. Americans bored him with their bragging, their violations of his privacy outraged him, and he returned to England convinced that "nowhere on the face of the earth is there less freedom of opinion on any controversial subject than in America." After the Americans had given him lavish dinners in New York and Boston, they were incensed that he should so regard them, and Martin Chuzzlewit, the novel he wrote concerning his American tour, was not popular in the United States. Yet, when he returned in 1867 to give a series of readings from his novels, people slept all night in the streets to buy tickets, and, in New York, Dickens' agent sold tickets for thirteen hours without stopping, taking in more than $120,000. Dickens loved the enthusiasm of this new audience, and repented of his rash first impressions of the United States. Again he was 700 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 he 4 sae vl {a hla A Raney Picture Copyright 1904 taken to America's bosom as few foreigners ever have been, and his second American tour was a great success. Dickens, the Actor From his earliest youth Dickens was aware of his great powers over an audience. Constantly throughout his lifetime he participated in home dramatics, and at his home he had erected a private stage, where he directed plays he had written, of course playing the role of hero himself. He gave a command performance before Queen Victoria, and frequently performed before select groups of his friends. But his real triumph came when he began giving public readings from his novels. In writing his novels he created his characters by living them himself. "I have just burst into Newgate Prison," he wrote while writing Barnaby Rudge, "and am going in CHARLES DICKENS' LIBRARY the next number to tear the prisoners out by the hair of their heads." Likewise, he "became" the persons in his readings, practicing some passages as many as two hundred times before presenting them to a group of his male friends in his study for criticism. During more than half the last decade of his life he was either preparing readings or on tour presenting them. When on tour he declined all social engagements, living for the moment when he had the audience in his power. And how he delighted in transporting his audience with his considerable dramatic powers! He gave his readings not for money or for benefit of worthy causes, but because "there's nothing in the world equal to seeing the house rise at you, one sea of delighted faces, one hurrah of applause!" During the last years of his life he began reading the murder scene LESSON DEPARTMENT from Oliver Twist. Usually, at the end of one of his performances, the audience would begin to cheer, and continue until after he had changed clothes and left the building, but after that terrifying imaginative experience, there was complete silence. During the reading of the murder scene, Dickens' pulse rose from 72 to 112 and 124, and during his American tour and later, he was so exhausted after this reading, that for a quarter of an hour he could not utter an intelligible sentence. Despite his endangered health, he fed upon his thrill of thrilling others, and he lectured almost until the day of his death in 1870. Dickens' Descriptions Thus, whether Dickens' weapon was tongue or pen, his great delight and his great achievement was the portrayal of characters. But he also created the scenes for his people with great effect. It was said that he could walk down a street, and years afterwards enumerate the articles as they were arranged in the store windows. He drew on this photographic memory to create' some of the most memorable beginnings in any novels, notably those found in Great Expectations and Bleak House. Resist, if you can, for example, a brief excerpt from his description of a room: It was a blotched, stained, mouldering room, like a vault; and there were waterpipes running through it, which, at unexpected times in the night, when other things were quiet, clicked and gurgled suddenly, as if they were choking. At various times Dickens tried writing in Germany, Switzerland, and Italy; but each time he hurried 701 back to London, which he lovingly called "the great oven," for only after he had absorbed the atmosphere of London's people and streets, did he write most effectively. Only one who loved London dearly could write such a descrip. Tion: The streets of London, to be beheld in the very height of their glory, should be seen on a dark, dull, murky winter's night, when there is just enough damp gently stealing down to make the pavement greasy, without cleansing it of any of its impurities; and when the heavy, lazy mist, which hangs over every object, makes the gas-lamps look brighter, and the brilliantlylighted shops more splendid, from the contrast they present to the darkness round. Dickens' Characters Always in Dickens the story begins and proceeds with people; plot is the mere machinery which enables his characters to exist and move about. In David Copperfield, as in Dickens' writings as a whole, how it turns out in the end is unimportant; along the way we have met unforgettable people; they stay with us forever. The first thing we notice in Dickens is the unusual names of his characters. Often their names characterize: Oliver Twist, a youth misshaped by society; Mr. Gradgrind, the impersonal slave-driving teacher; Murdstone and Grinby, grim murderous men, hard as stone; Pip, Little Nell, Dora, heroes and heroines; Mrs. Gummidge, grumbler; Wilson Micawber, ostentatious pretention. He also uses stage effects to characterize, as when Miss Murdstone arrives at the Blunderstone Rookery: her metal trappings define her essential self. 702 She brought with her two uncompromising hard black boxes, with her initials on the lids in hard brass nails. When she paid the coachman she took her money out of a hard steel purse, and she kept the purse in a very jail of a bag which hung upon her arm by a heavy chain, and shut up like a bite. Dickens also gives his characters identifying tags, which make them not only more easily identifiable, _ but more memorable to the reader. Old Mr. Peggotty says, "Ill be gormed," when he wants emphasis, and though nobody knows what the word means, it serves its purpose. The horrible pawnshop owner constantly said, "Oh, my lungs and liver, what do you want? Oh, goroo!"" (David Copperfield, page 194, Modern Library College Edition). Mrs. Micawber's refrain is, "I'll never desert Mr. Micawber," - while Mr. Micawber is always humming a tune or whistling (page 165 ff.), and Mr. Barkis' theme, carried out even to his death scene, is "Mr. Barkis is willing." The list could be extended almost indefinitely is more memorable than action or description. How these characters do "talk themselves alive," sometimes in little more than a paragraph! Read to your group, for example, the episode of the friendly waiter (chapter V, page 69 ff.), the ferocious bill collector, (chapter Xl, page 168), the brutal tinker and his woman (chapter XIII, page 196 ff.), and a host of others. Dickens' prodigal powers of invention, of investing each character with his own mannerisms, distinctive speech rhythms, diction, and philosophy, are a source of unending delight. 'As is true with actual people, talk - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 David Copperfield The most autobiographical of all Dickens' novels, David Copperfield, is also his best loved, both by author and reader. Years afterward Dickens 'wrote, "Like many fond parents, I have in my heart of hearts a favourite child—and 'his name is David Copperfield" (containing the initials of Charles Dickens in reverse order). Particularly is the opening section of the novel memorable, since it is told from the innocent viewpoint of a child with such power and truth that it is completely irresistible. Plot Summary In main outline, the novel parallels Dickens' own life (see the preceding lesson). The boy David is reared by a weak, sensitive mother, who sends David for a few weeks to visit the Peggotty's, kin of his beloved Peggotty, the Copperfield's servant. He is very happy with old Mr. Peggotty, Ham, his nephew, and Little Emily, Ham's cousin, in their home, an inverted boat. When Davy returns home he finds there a stern new father, Mr. Murdstone, and his sister, who, through cruelty, alienate the son from them and cause David's mother's death. Davy is sent to school under the tyrannical Creakle, but meets two fine chums, Steerforth and 'Traddles. After his mother's death he is sent to London to earn his way. There he lives with the indebted, but happy Micawbers. Hating his humiliating job in the dank, dark warehouse, Davy runs away to Dover to his Aunt Betsey Trotwood, who in kindness takes him in. He is sent to school, LESSON DEPARTMENT living at the home of Betsey's lawyer, Mr. Wickfield, whose daughter Agnes is Davy's own age. He studies law under Mr. Spenlow and marries his daughter, Dora, who cannot keep house or accounts, yet they are serene and happy until her death two years later. By this time he is a successful author. Steerforth meanwhile has met Little Emily, who is betrothed to Ham Peggotty. Steerforth induces her to run away with him, then abandons her. He returns to her home on a boat, and during a storm Ham sacrifices his own life trying to rescue Steerforth and the others aboard the stranded vessel. David marries Agnes Wickfield and with Micawber, saves her father from the evil clutches of Uriah Heep, his hypocritical clerk. At the end, the Peggotty family are shipped off to Australia, accompanied by Micawber and his wife, where all find success and happiness. Theme of David Copperfield The book begins in sheer delight. It was Dickens' first attempt to write in the first person and, once sensing the power of this new mode of approach, Dickens was carried away by his new creation, as is the reader who, following the emerging David through the first third of the book, is transported at Dickens' magic ability to create a book so filled with life that its characters stand erect from the page—indeed the page itself is hardly there, so intently does the reader live in the imagined world it describes. David Copperfield is probably Dickens' gentlest book. Truly Dickens looked into his own heart and 703 past as this tale unfolded. The basic tone is one of affection, domestic happiness, and unselfishness. If the novel has a theme, it is stated in Aunt Betsey Trotwood's parting advice to young David (she has renamed him Trotwood Copperfield) as he left for school in London: "Never be mean in anything; never be false; never be cruel. Avoid those three vices, Trot, and I can always be hopeful of you." Within the novel itself, how often these virtues triumph over cruelty, designed evil, and vice. How kind are Peggotty and her family to Davy; how kind is Aunt Betsey to take in David, an unknown orphan boy; how thoughtful is Mr. Dick to young David, and in turn how kind is Miss Betsey in saving "simple" Mr. Dick from an insane asylum. How self-sacrificing is Mr. Peggotty in his long search to find Little Emily and save her; how kind he is to save Martha from her life of shame. And how kind of weak, childish Dora, not to be unkind to her husband as he seeks to "form her" to what she should be, until, finally, he realizes the high wisdom of 'loving her for her good qualities, rather than rebuking her for her inconsistencies. Teaching of Friendliness Dickens, like the happy people in this novel, felt such a great need for friends that he could overlook the numerous faults in his friends rather than criticize them and thus destroy their mutual happiness. "Friendship is better than criticism," Dickens said, "and I shall steadily hold my tongue." This entire novel proves the wisdom of loyally standing by your friends, those who find joy in your company and to whom you feel an emotional attachment, no matter how foolish, childish, unrealistic, even simpleminded they might be when examined under the objective light of reality. Micawber is a cowardly dreamer who constantly chants his naive belief that "Something is bound to turn up," at the very moment that he goes to prison for debt and his household goods are pawned; yet he is a great friend with a kind heart. The newly wedded Dora's concept of her duties is to buy an entire barrel of oysters, and she serves them to company without their ever being opened (chapter XLIV, page 676). Later, as she dies, she lets her husband know that she knew her great weakness: I am afraid, dear, I was too young. I don't mean in years only, but in experience, and thoughts, and everything. I was such a silly little creature... (chapter LIT, page 808). Yet, knowing this all the time, she believed her husband should love her anyway, and, finally, David likewise came to see that life is so short, and happiness so fleeting, that no weakness is sufficient to prevent us from cherishing those we should hold dear. The book can be presented only in excerpts, but surely there should be excerpts from the first. Scenes between mother, son, and Aunt Betsey; present also Micawber, Creakle, and the Peggotty family, and Miss Emily, life with Dora, and sketches of whatever secondary characters most strongly dominate your memory of them. Remember to enjoy whatever you do decide to present, for if Dickens is to be read as a duty he is robbed beforehand of all chances to achieve his true stature. And Dickens should be known; he is too good to miss. Those who persevere, and meet him at his own leisurely pace, shall surely reap their considerable reward, one of the richest pleasures one can know in the realm of books. Note to Class Leaders If time permits, a reading of Dickens' impressions of a Mormon emigrant ship would be interesting. (Roserts, B. H.: A Comprehensive History of The Church V, PP- 91-93-) Questions for Discussion What justification was there for Dickens' attitude toward America? Do you think he was unfair? Discuss. 2. Why might Dickens be regarded primarily as an actor? 3. List various devices Dickens employed successfully in creating his characters. For you, which is most effective? 4. What is your greatest source of enjoyment in Dickens' autobiography, David Copperfield? Why is it one of the bestloved books in English literature? <> Women at Conference Matyhale Woolsey _ Their eyes lift reverently to Temple spires;. Their ears ate keened to hear a leader's voice, And peace is in their own low-spoken words. Let any doubter see, in these, their choice Has been a happy one. The sunset years For them are bright with faith, and free of fears. 704 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 Soviesl nen' iccrGarstituiion of the United States Lesson 3—The Place of the Constitution in History Elder Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, January 26, 1954 Objective: To review briefly the most important documents and events which preceded the Constitution and to show that the Constitution of the United States was the crowning achievement in man's struggle for freedom. N order to properly evaluate the Constitution of the United States, some attention to its historical significance is necessary. This evaluation should come early in this course of study, in order to provide perspective and background for the lessons which follow. Our aim is to enhance the appreciation of the members of Relief Society for the Constitution and the great concepts of liberty and justice which it embodies. An examination of its place and significance in history should add materially to that appreciation, and should further stimulate the interest and desire of Latter-day Saint women to learn all that they are able to learn concerncerning the Constitution. Historical Significance of the Constitution Historically, the Constitution should be viewed from two standpoints. First of all, we should be interested in the place which the Constitution occupies in history as an accomplishment on the long and difficult road which man has followed in his quest for freedom and opportunity to exercise free agency. Secondly, how does the Constitution, as a political document and framework of government compare with all of the attempts of men to organize governments or human societies which preceded it or which have since been attempted? Fistorical Documents Preceding Constitution It must be remembered that the Constitution by no means represents the first or only attempt of man to attain free and democratic government. History records many such attempts going back many centuries. In the brief space here available, we can do no more than very briefly refer to the more important historical documents which preceded the Constitution. The Constitution of the United States is first and foremost of Anglo-Saxon origin. It is true that certain very fundamental concepts of government which form part of our constitutional system came from countries other than England. We are deeply indebted to the great philosophers and thinkers responsible for those concepts. Thus, for example, the great Greek philosopher Aristotle, and de Montesquieu (Mon' tes ku), the great French philosopher, were among those who could and, possibly, should be named who made philosophical contributions on government which have become a very definite part of the system which we now enjoy. 705 A Perry Picture Copyright 1915 From a Painting by Rothermel (1817-1895) THE LANDING OF THE PILGRIMS For our purposes, however, we shall be largely concerned with AngloSaxon institutions and documents which formed the vast historical background of the Constitution. Anglo-Saxon Background In Anglo-Saxon history, perhaps the first recorded beginning relating to democratic government was the concept that people who are governed should have some voice in determining who should do the governing. This concept was given effect by the ancient Saxons before the Norman Conquest (1066 a. P.). They had a system of government which made provisions for the election of their kings. 'Those kingships were not hereditary, as has usually been the case. By this system the Saxons were able to prevent the perpetuation of despotic tule. If a king was a tyrant, the succession of the tyranny was, to some extent, controlled. One of the fundamental principles of democracy is the right of people to select those who are to govern. Thus we see that this principle had a very early beginning in the minds of men. Charter of Henry I After the Norman Conquest, the Norman kings ruled by divine right, and most of them refused to give any recognition to the democratic principle of giving the people a voice in the selection of their rulers or in government itself. However, these principles were given at least 706 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT partial recognition by Henry I about 1100 AD. In his reign there was promulgated what came to be known as the Charter of Henry I. In it the principle of constitutional tule, as it had existed prior to the Conquest, received re-affirmation. This charter was a political document of extremely great importance and far-reaching consequence. It deserves the recognition which it has received as a milestone on the path of liberty. After Henry died, his successors repudiated this charter and even went to great lengths to have it destroyed. The authors of the charter, with great astuteness and foresight, had one hundred copies of it made. It was well that they did so, because the successors of Henry hunted throughout England to locate and destroy the entire one hundred copies. They nearly succeeded, because by the time of Magna Charta there was in existence but a single copy. 'This one copy survived, hidden away in some place which was forgotten, until it was brought forth in the reign of King John to remind him of the guaranties of individual liberty which it contained. Magna Charta Magna Charta, or Great Charter (which is what its Latin name means) was written in 1215 A. D. This great charter is the foundation of constitutional liberty as we know it today. It was forced from a reluctant and stubborn king by his rebellious barons and subjects on the battefield. There followed a period of English history marked by arbitrary, cruel, and tyrannical rule. 707 From Magna Charta came, among other things, the concept of the right of an accused to a fair trial by a jury of his peers. It further repudiated the doctrine of absolutism, that is to say, the arbitrary power of kings and rulers to govern as they pleased without being answerable to anyone but their own private consciences. It sought to impose, to some extent, a government of laws in place of a government of men. In spite of all the efforts to destroy Magna Charta, even by papal bull [formal document of the ae having a seal (bulla) attached], i survived, and with it survived ay of the concepts of constitutional liberties which we enjoy today. Magna Charta marked the first time in England that an absolute ruler was forced to recognize the rights of common men. It was, in very truth, a magnificent beacon light of human freedom. Powers of English Courts and Parliament Expanded As time went on, other developments in England occurred which enlarged and extended the liberties and freedoms of Englishmen. Among other things, the courts of law gradually gained independence over the executive power which created and appointed them. It became established that judges should interpret the laws without regard to the wishes of the ruler, and even in cases where the king himself was a party, the law, and not the kingly desire or wish, must control. This, of course, gave great impetus and security to free institutions. 'The powers of the English Parliament expanded and finally became the lawmaking power, not merely advisory or consultive as in its early history. With the principle of divine right and arbitrary rule abolished, with the power to enact laws safely lodged in the hands of representatives of the people, and with the courts firmly established in their independence, the foundations of the great English democracy became secure, and upon these foundations there developed the great English common law and system of government which we know today. Concepts of Freedom Incorporated in American Colonial Governments By the time of the American Revolution, all of the essential concepts of free government had been developed in England, and these great institutions of democracy were brought to our shores with the first settlements in America. In addition to this, the colonists had further experience in self-government over a period of 150 years. Each colony had its own separate charter or grant of governmental power which the colonists exercised. Separated as they were from the mother country by a vast ocean, and communication with the mother country being, as a consequence, difficult and uncertain, the colonists developed even more pronounced habits of independence. Nurtured in an environment which encouraged independence, independence flourished and grew. As time went on, collisions and irritations occurred between the authority in the mother country, which was represented by its royal colonial governments, and the independent, spirited colonists. As these frictions grew, and as arbitrary attempts to override local wishes respecting government occurred, there developed in these hardy colonists the determination to cut all ties with the mother country. It is unnecessary to say more than to recall the great event of the Revolutionary War and the consequent independence of these colonists. Constitution—The Crowning Achievement of Man's Struggle for Political Freedom From it all evolved the Constitution. Its framers had a rich and wonderful heritage to draw upon. There were many precedents to follow. The debt to the precursors of the Constitution was great. The men who wrote the Constitution knew their history. They were well versed in the theories and philosophy of government. By experience they knew the kind of government which they wanted for themselves. 'They understood the essential elements of individual freedom. Giving due consideration to the greatness of the accomplishments on behalf of liberty which preceded the Constitution, that great instrument stands by itself, pre-eminent above all other accomplishments on the path of freedom. Most men will agree that, historically, the Constitution of the United States represents the crowning achievement in man's struggle for political freedom. It exceeds by far all previous attempts made by men to achieve that end. It was the product of a free people acting alone in _ its sovereign capacity to create a gov- 708 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT ernment of free men. Never before nor since has such a successful experiment in government been conceived or undertaken. 'There have been many other attempts made to write constitutions, and there are many nations in the earth today which have a constitutional form of government. Some of these constitutions, such as that of England, had their initial beginning in grants of power conceded by a sovereign to the people, either forcibly or otherwise. The Constitution of the United States, on the other hand, represents the greatest and the first constitution written and formulated by the representatives of a people acting on its own behalf for the purpose of creating the kind of government which it desired to have. Our Constitution has withstood the test of 165 years. It is the supreme law of the mightiest nation the world has ever known. Under it, common men have enjoyed the greatest measure of liberty and opportunity ever known. The verdict of history places this great charter of liberty upon the pinnacle of all time. Gladstone characterized the Constitution of the United States as "the most wonderful work ever struck off at a given time by the brain and purpose of man." Certainly as a political document, we would not be in error in wholeheartedly subscribing to the verdict of that great statesman. In conclusion, we would point out that the Constitution was the glorious final product of liberty and not the beginning of it, and we should remind ourselves of the great debt we owe to those great men '709 Xmas Marsir FOR LADIES THREE PART CHORUSES a Birthday of a King—Neidlinger.........15 a. Carol of the Bells—Wilhousky.............20 —_ Christ Child Divine—Schumaker.........18 — Christmas Song—Adam.......................16.. Christmas Bells—McCollin -................. 25 a In Bethlehem Is Born The Holy.. Innkeeper's Carol—Warner...............- 22 a. Jingle Bells—Pierpont -.....................-.....22 o™ O Holy Night—Adam........................ 615 — Silent Night—Epperson..-......................12 WE PAY POSTAGE Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY. 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the musie indicated above. [ On Approval 1] Charge CL] Money Enclosed Name... Ooo. Eeee eee eee e enero. Address......... City & State. C. Aims? UF Adk ~ RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH: é MAIN STREET SAL LAME CITY 9, UTAM Child—Scholin -__.......22.22.--2---------- 15 HAWAII Why not join our lovely Fall Tour to Hawaii? We shall leave in November. For Complete Details Write or Phone... VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Telephone 4-2017 or 5-9388 RS Wn be we } Fashion Fit Glasses No Appointment Necessary Salt Lake City Store vz. Te > Satiyctin guasanted oe your money back" YENDE 2:4 soutn stare RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 who fought and died for freedom in the long centuries which preceded the Constitution and which made it possible. References "Any good history of England or encyclopedia. Bowen, Albert R.: "The Constitution and The United Nations Charter," The Relief Society Magazine, August 1951, pp. 507-511. (If available) Costain, Thomas B.: The Conquerors—The Pageant of England, Doubleday & Co., 1949. Smith, Joseph Fielding: The Progress of Man, pp. 150-156. Questions for Discussion 1. Name the principal sources and events from which the founding fathers obtained their ideas on government. Z. What were some of the political concepts developed in England prior to the settlement of America? 3. Have there been other attempts, besides the founding of our government, to establish constitutional government? If so, how do such attempts compare with the United States Constitution? Autumn Gene Romolo Autumn has come To mountain and valley In splendorous beauty, Like a tropical bird Leaving hues of its plumage On every tree's foliage; And the voice of the wind 'Is filled with the echo Of ebbing swan-song. THE DEEPER MELODY The Deeper Melody (Continued from page 667) pretty poor, in spite of his good salary. The cost of help, of rent, food, and clothes, made a pretty tight race between the bills and payday. The doctor explained, "I wasn't worried about myself. I have to look out for the nurse, Miss Crain, since she won't look out for herself. Where's the telephone? [ll call her, and then the drugstore for some medicine. Here are her written orders." It seemed only minutes after he had left that the children came running to babble about a car and a pretty lady. Steve watched the nurse getting out of the cab, coming up the walk. She was in uniform, a navy blue cape over her shoulders, her white cap in one hand and a black case in the other. She walked with a swift grace and proud bearing. Steve looked at her with alarm and dismay. Such a creature as this would never stay in his miserable domain, perhaps wouldn't know the first thing about taking care of a sick child. Somehow he had expected—and wanted—a middle-aged, motherly woman, perhaps plump, but' certainly comfortable and capable. (To be continued) ee Sunflower Lesson Lucy Woolley Brown Fields of lovely sunflowers Dancing in the wind, Always face high toward the sun, Gladly follow him. I can find a lesson in your Golden, cheery faces: I will look up toward the sun From dark and gloomy places. 711 Now Available! The new S. S. A. Arrangement by Florence J. Madsen of "OH, MAY | KNOW THE LORD AS FRIEND" 20c per Copy This and other Suggested Numbers for the Singing Mothers Groups carried in our stock... ORDER YOUR MUSIC AND MUSICAL MERCHANDISE FROM THE HOME OF CHICKERING PIANOS AND HAMMOND ORGANS GLEN BROS. MUSIC COMPANY 74 South Main Salt Lake City, Utah You can still enroll for a full course FALL QUARTER at L. D. S. Business College Learn more and earn more! NEW CLASSES: @ IBM Key Punch Machine @ IBM Bank Proof Machine han " > Long- @ Gregg Shorthand, @ Typing (electric, Simplified too) @ Accounting @ and many, many others At L. D. S. You'll find a friendly student body... Helpful faculty... An outstanding job placement bureau. Write today. We'll help out-of-town students find living accommodations. Enroll at your CHURCH SCHOOL today! Brigham Young University L. D. S. Business College Branch 70 N. MAIN SALT LAKE CITY 712 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Fiamlin The Stradivari of Pianos KNABE The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera EVERETT Finest-Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built —« All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1953 Canning Magic Lydia Bennett Egbert There is magic in this summer chore My kitchen calls me to; When berries, lush, are mounds, Yet fresh with morning dew. Heaped in On fleeting moments I am borne Into a paradise, Where vapor rises, savory-sweet, From depths of tropic spice. Within this hour I am a queen Displaying gems of old In crystal vessels, translucent To rubies, jade, and gold. Oh, there is magic in this chore My kitchen calls me to, And I'm adrift in heavenly clouds Before it's midway through! The Pride of Your Library! Your Relief Society Magazines when handsomely bound into permanent yearly volumes acquire new value as excellent reference books, Just $2.50 Per Volume If necessary to mail them to you, the following postage rates will apply. Distance from Up to 150 miles _.. 25 150 to 300 miles 22... Ecececceee.28 300 to 600 miles 2c ccc ce econ.34 600 to 1000 miles............. 200 eee 1400 to 1800 a sees bscnnese seaceed tt -60 Over 1800 miles - 220s +. Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah ° @ Phone 4-2581 MAKE EXTRA MONEY this easy way $3 to $5 an hour. Full or part time. You may qualify as a Studio Girl representative in your community. Make big money taking orders for famous line of Hollywood beauty creations, approved by Good Housekeeping and the American Medical Assn. Choose your own hours. No canvassing. Free training. Immediate earnings. COMMITTEE ee WRITE OR WIRE TODAY FOR PM COSMETICS ys FREE TUBE % MEDAL we OF SHAMPOO and details of this unat O8 4 BtTuRD o> a Poocrateed by \ US ual money - making Good Housekeeping offer. Harry F. Taylor 2074s semana OEE President Studio Girl Hollywood Cosmetics Salt Lake City, Utah 1000 to 1400 miles.. Dept. R-103 Rate eceeeeosee thee ee Glendale, California Selections from the discourses of PRESIDENT McKAY GOSPEL "GOSPEL IDEALS saseonens, ner Derik OM 'toy | Oder 'Gonventenlly ty Mal IDEALS The selections offered in this new work enable Church members to find in one handy volume the essence of President McKay's fine insight into f gospel principles. Chapter headings give a key to the important subjects discussed, including: The Mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith, The Church a World-Wide Institution, Obligations of Members, Priesthood and Its Work, Ward } certainly want to own and study this | important new work,: Teaching, and many others. You will $ A President DAVID O. McKAY Preston Nibley Our ninth President of the Church has lived an abundant life, rich and rewarding. Here is his biography... A tribute to him and an inspiration to you who will read it. Bound in maroon suede, stamped in gold, this little book | will be one of your dearest treasures. Te wo... 44 East South Temple DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 E. So. Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Please send the following checked books: { ) GOSPEL IDEALS Name. Address _.. CO Residents of Utah please add 2% sales tax. ) l l | I | | l for which I enclose check ( ) or money order ( ) for $ | | | | I J ( ) PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY State ——S DEC Vi WY,., - Y a Clbrryyyr, a" founders of this new world carved their own security. Today Life Insurance stands ready to offer financial security to men of foresight and courage, Let your qualified Beneficial Life Underwriter assist you in planning for 3 iY your Insurance needs. OVER QUARTER BILLION OF LIFE INSURANCE IN FORCE David 0. McKay, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah Lessons for February =. || NOVEMBER _ —. —a MMR ce: ies Autumn oLens Dorothy J]. Roberts Autumn is beauty bannering the hills, Blazing its final breath against the frost, Piercing with lantern gold the creeping dusk, Lighting the shadows after sun is lost. Autumn is judgment ripened on the fields And in the jeweled orchard's pendant loot; The loaf returning to the givers' palm. To the diligent, autumn is the fruit. But to the wanton, autumn is a sign Of warning lettered by a flaming hand: That one less summer waits; with this one lies His substance, withered leaves upon the land. The autumn lens is ground by March and seed And by the bending back and April rain. Vision tempers beauty's meaning to the mind: Glory past declaring; death on the plain. The Cover: "Water Patterns on Utah Lake," Photograph by Willard Luce Frontispiece: Landscape on Boulder Mountain, Utah, a part of the high Aquarius Plateau, north of Escalante, Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Tear and Sar The Relief Society Magazine for August came today, so I haven't enjoyed every morsel of it as yet, but felt I should express to you a deep appreciation for the two lovely articles. Dr. Edwards' "Living More Abundantly on Your Income" should be read by every parent and child old enough to understand. I would, however, in all seriousness, like to have Dr. Edwards' menu when he states that he can feed a family of eight to a healthful breakfast for fifty cents in these days. Mrs. Longden's "Family Home Hour—Maker of Happy Memories' is lovely. It contains many excellent suggestions to make families enjoy this lovely occasion to the fullest. As a family we find our family hours very necessary and wholesome. Our five-year-old, Freddy, is the finest master of ceremonies and delights to call on each member of the family for a "part." Even nine-year-old Chris has taken his turn at the piano as accompanist, for our family song fest. —Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho In answer to Mrs. Yost's question on a breakfast menu, Dr. Edwards suggests the following: "The typical breakfast in our home... Costs about soc. It includes orange juice or tomato juice. Sister Edwards makes marvelous tomato juice, and of course it is an excellent breakfast food. We then serve a substantial bowl of whole-wheat cereal.: We buy wheat and have it in storage.... We eat the cereal with whole milk and without sugar."" —Ed. I think you have just published a true masterpiece. I don't know when I have ever read a more soul-stirring, beautiful, and uplifting story than "The Refuge" by Margery S. Stewart in your August issue. The artistry in it is superb. If people of the world could only read and vicariously experience something like that as I experience it each time I reread that story, how much better the world could be. I think this story is a rare and beautiful gem—truly great literature that speaks to the souls of each of us. Thank you so much for publishing it. —H. Carma Winterton Roosevelt, Utah Page 714 Grace M. Candland Jacobsen, of Provo, Utah, died in August 1953, at the age of eighty-one. Author of many poems, stories, and articles, she was greatly loved for her inspirational writings and for her kind and sympathetic personality. Her work has appeared in The Relief Society Magazine over a period of many years. She was a member of the Provo Chapter of the League of Utah Writers. The Magazine is very much appreciated here in Tasmania where we are so far away from Church headquarters. I have been a member of the Church for thirtytwo years, having joined when I was six years old, and now that I am a widow with four young children, the Church and all that it stands for are a great source of strength to me. _ —Rita Pugh Launceston, Tasmania I like The Relief Society Magazine because it is part of our home. It has given us many happy hours reading the variety of fine literature it has to offer—spiritual admonitions, poetic inspiration, practical information, and wholesome reading material. There is inspiration in each and every page for both young and old. I find it a great help in cooking, sewing, entertaining, and home management. "Notes From the Field" keep us informed with what is going on. "From Near and Far" often gives the name of a friend or a loved one, and is just like getting a letter from home. —Ardella Hackford Covina, California Words cannot express our appreciation for the Magazine and the high quality of material it contains each month. It seems that the further we are from the center of the Church, the dearer the Church is to us, and the auxiliary organizations and the publications. We have had a fine branch here in Tehran and some very inspirational Relief Society meetings. Our conference in March was especially fine, I thought. —Mrs. Helen Milligan United States Embassy Tehran, Iran THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - Marianne C. Sharp - - Velma N, Simonsen - - - Margaret C. Pickering - - Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith S. Elliott Mary J. Wilson Nellie W. Neal Florence J. Madsen Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Blanche B. Stoddard Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - = o a - =: - -. Associate Editor - < - = c C - 7.. _ General Manager - - - = a -: - - President First-Counselor - _ Second Counselor - Secretary-Treasurer Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred 8. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Marianne C. Sharp - Vesta P. Crawford - Belle S. Spafford No. 11 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Testimony, the First Resposibility of Relief Society Belle S. Spafford uae Report and Official Instructions 0... 22-22. Belle S. Fford 724 FICTION Just Like Edison Molly Johnson 738 The Deeper Melody—Chapter 2 2.0... CcscecceeeeeseeeeeesL See From Near and Far Alice Morrey Bailey 755 714 742 Sixty Years Ago...... Woman's Sp here Ramona W. Cannon 743 Notes to the Field: Price Increased on Textbook for Literature Lessons Marianne C. Sharp 744 745 Plays Fogeape: and Programs Notes From the Field: Relief ociety Activities FEATURES FOR THE HOME and Dressing of Dolls The Renovatin Thanksgiving Dinner Suggestions 74S Margaret C. Pickering 759 Thelma Standering 750 Ethel C. Smith 753 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: The Record of Zeniff - Leland H. Monson 765 Visiting Teacher Messages: "Let Not This Pride of Your Hearts Destroy oe ro Leone Jacobs 770 Work Meeting: Spending the Furniture Dollar.................. Rhea He Gardner 771 Literature: Thomas Babington Macaulay Briant S. Jacobs 773 Albert R. Bowen 777 POETRY Renie a Doroth Roberts 713 & ees 737 Toward Remembering Norma Vance 741 My Father's Sky Beggar Legion Hymn in Amber........ Marian Schroder Crothers 749 Ouida oes ener 749 Scott 752 Testimony Seed................... Walking Hand In Hand Winter Wheat Emily 'Garey. Allemen 782 Eleanor chow 783 Pride Autumn Is a Transient... Catherine E. Ad 783 Maude O. Cook 783 Quilt Pattern Mary Gustafson Le Ivy Houtz Woolle Will We Remember? Agnes Just slley 784 784 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. "Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. Page 715 Vol. 40 "For Every Man Receiveth Bieses" Charity—A Gem of Many Facets.. Life of President David O. McKay—A Few Highlights of a Busy Life.... Jeanette Moiay Editorial: Social Science: The Forerunners of the Constitution Autumn Lens — Frontispiece..... Suds The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. NOVEMBER 1953 Marianne C. Sharp 7! Velma N. Ae 760 orrell 730 Alter Much Tribulation Come the Blessings"': = =. Testimony, the First Responsibility of Relief Society President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 1, 1953] N the few moments that I speak to you today I pray that the spirit of the Lord will be with me; that what I say may be pleasing unto him and acceptable to you, my beloved sisters of Relief Society. Relief Society is now over 111 years old. Throughout its lifetime, it has been designated by various names. At the first meeting of the society, by vote of the sisters, it was given the name "Female Relief Society of Nauvoo." Following the exodus from Nauvoo, some time elapsed before it was formally organized. Again in the wards, then to be known as "The Female Relief Society." In 1872 the term "Female" was dropped. Still later the name "National Woman's Relief Society" was adopted. June 27, 1945, it was given the name "The Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," the name by which it is known today. We believe this name to be a most suitable designation since it identifies the society as an auxiliary of this great and wonderful Church. It is its position as the woman's auxiliary of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that gives to the Relief Society its influence, its power, and its strength. It is this, and this alone, which makes it preeminent among women's organizations throughout the world. The First Presidency, in a message addressed to the presidency, officers, and members of the Relief Society, July 22, 1942, our centennial Page 716 year, admonished the sisters of the Relief Society "never to forget that they are a unique organization in the whole world, for they were organized under the inspiration of the Lord bestowed upon that great Prophet who was divinely called, by a visitation of the Father and Son, in person, to open up this Last Dispensation, the Dispensation of the Fullness of Times. No other woman's organization in all the world has had such a birth." The constancy of its purposes, their suitability to the needs of each succeeding and changing era, the | consistency with which its basic programs have furthered and _accomplished its purposes, attest the divine inspiration attendant upon the society. To search after objects of charity and administer to their needs, to pursue study along lines of thought and action that tend toward the elevation, development, and advancement of women, to enlarge homemaking talents and increase homemaking skills, to implant and nourish testimonies of the divinity of Jesus Christ and the divine mission of Joseph Smith—these are the fundamental purposes of Relief Society. Among these purposes, the one which stands of paramount importance is the development of testimony. Having this, all else falls into place, both in our individual lives and in our organization pro- cedures. 'The gospel of Jesus Christ encompasses all that is good. Charity toward one's fellows is part and parcel of the gospel of Chnist. 'The sister filled with the spirit of testimony is impelled toward seeking after objects of charity and administering to their wants. Alma tells us:. If ye turn away the needy, and the naked, and visit not the sick and afflicted, and impart of your substance, if ye have, to those who stand in need—I say unto you, if ye do not any of these things, behold... Ye are as hypocrites who do deny the faith (Alma 34:28). The continued search for light and truth, eternal progression, is a basic teaching of 'The Church of Jesus Christ. 'The Latter-day Saint filled with testimony believes that: Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come (D. & C. 130:18-19). He follows the admonition of the Lord to "seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D. & C. 88:118). HE sister with a testimony knows the place and importance of the home and family in the eternal scheme of life. She knows "the earthly home has its pattern in the heavens," thus she strives to preserve her home at its very best. If every Latter-day Saint sister had a sure knowledge of the divinity of Christ and the truthfulness of his gospel, she would do the will of the Father; and she would gladly serve as the handmaid of the Priesthood in building the kingdom of God on carth; she would willingly work in any capacity in which the Church called her to serve. To have a testimony contemplates that one accepts, without reservation, that Christ is the Son of God; that he came to earth to redeem God's children; that he suffered and died to atone for the sins of man; that he arose from the dead, bringing to pass the resurrection; that he will come again in his glory; "that all men shall stand before him, to be judged at the last and judgment day, according to their works" (Alma 33:22). Testimony contemplates a full acceptance of all of the doctrines taught by Christ, and given again in this day by the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith. A concise summary of the doctrines of the gospel was given by Jesus when he showed himself to the people of Nephi as the multitude was gathered together in the land Bountiful. Said Jesus: And this is my doctrine, and it is the doctrine which the Father hath given unto me; and I bear record of the Father, and the Father beareth record of me, and the Holy Ghost beareth record of the Father and me; and I bear record that the Father commandeth all men, everywhere, to repent and believe in me. And whoso believeth in me, and is baptized, the same shall be saved; and they are they who shall inherit the kingdom of God (3 Nephi 11:32-33). Prophets, ancient and modern, have borne fervent testimony of these truths. Moses, the mighty lawgiver of Israel, sang of God's mercy and vengeance, declaring that TESTIMONY, THE FIRST RESPONSIBILITY OF RELIEF SOCIETY nT "the Lord alone did lead him, and there was no strange god with him" (Deut. 32:12). Job, in the midst of the sorest of afflictions, remained steadfast, proclaiming: "I know that my Redeemer liveth." Alma, in fervent appeal to his people, spoke thus: "Now behold, my brethren, I would ask if ye have read the scriptures? If ye have, how can ye disbelieve on the Son of God?" (Alma 33:14). The personal manifestation of God, the Eternal Father, and his Son Jesus Christ, in modern times to the boy Prophet brought forth a testimony that remained unshaken through martyrdom: "... For I had seen a vision; I knew it, and I knew that God knew it, and I could not deny it, neither dared I do ite." The Prophet Joseph Smith was martyred June 27, 1844, but apostles remained to bear testimony and apostles and prophets have been raised up since that day to. Bear testimony and carry forward the glorious work of the Redeemer. Al the last general conference of the Church, we of this day were favored and blessed in hearing our present beloved prophet and leader, President David O. McKay, bear testimony in words which rang with conviction: - acceptance of the divinity of Christ's mission and compliance with the principles of his gospel, give assurance of immortality and eternal life. I testify that a knowledge of his existence and of the truth of his gospel is the source of the greatest comfort and happiness to man. But testimony is not reserved for God's prophets alone; it is not alone for those who bear the Priesthood. It is for all God's children, his daughters as well as his sons. How then is this precious possession to be obtained? Alma says: But behold, if ye will awake and arouse your faculties, even to an experiment upon my words, and exercise a particle of faith, yea, even if ye can no more than desire to believe, let this desire work in you, even until ye believe in a manner that ye can give place for a portion of my words (Alma 32:27). Then he compares the word to a seed that planted in the heart must be nourished with great care that it may get root, that it may grow up and bring forth fruit unto us. In John 7:17 we read: "If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." Here, the key is given by the Lord. Following closely the path 'he marked brings us to the light. If we do not now know that Jesus is the Lord, it doesn't mean that he cannot be known to us. It means that it is our duty to find the pathway to the knowledge that Jesus does live. We are not justified in saying that we may not know, until we make every effort to know the most important truth in the universe—the divinity of Christ. The Lord has told us that we shall receive a knowledge of whatsoever things we shall ask in faith with an honest heart, believing that we shall receive. Those who. Seek in faith and sincerity are promised that the same conviction will come to them that came to Peter: "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God" (Matt. 16:16). To know this is life eternal. 718 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 ' This knowledge comes. To one through the Holy Ghost which shall come upon him and dwell in his heart. A testimony of the divinity of the Christ and of the truthfulness of the restored gospel has within it the power to make us completely happy. The fruits of testimony according to Alma are:... Most precious... Sweet above all that is sweet... White above all that is white, yea, and pure above all that is pure... Ye shall feast upon this fruit even until ye are filled, that ye hunger not, neither shall ye thirst (Alma 32:42). A firm and unwavering testimony is of first importance to a mother, not for her sake alone, but also because of her key position in the home and the potency of her influence upon her children. She is peculiarly situated to implant faith and build testimony, or to cause doubt and discount truth. Children are pliable, receptive to suggestion, direction, and teaching, but once habits of thinking and behavior are established, once beliefs are fixed, it is extremely difficult to modify or change them. Mothers everywhere today are seeking and praying for the safety and protection of their sons and daughters against the forces of evil and temptation so prevalent among us. The surest and _ strongest protective armor a child can possess is a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. A personal testimony in the mind and heart of the mother is the beginning place in the establishing of it in the mind and heart of her child. The Relief Society has always been concerned with testimony. The records, in speaking of the days in Nauvoo, report: "The women had recently accepted the restored gospel which stimulated study, discussion and testimony bearing, and directed their activities in accordance with the teachings of the Savior." Of the early days in the West we read: "One meeting a month was devoted to sewing and caring for the needs of the poor, at the other meetings the members received instruction and encouragement from the discussion of elevating and educational themes, and were comforted and strengthened in their faith in the gospel by bearing their testimonies." Today we are studying The Book of Mormon; we are encouraging all of our members to read it that they might know that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. Relief Societies are instructed to teach and to conduct all of their activities in such a way that the beauty and majesty of the simple truths of the gospel will shine through. A period is provided monthly wherein the sisters may bear testimony to these truths. The building of testimonies is our most important work. I am grateful for the knowledge which I have of the divinity of Christ and of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I love the gospel. Its truths grow in beauty and value in my life daily. My testimony lightens my load and brings peace into my heart. God grant unto you, my sisters, whom I love so dearly, the blessing of a testimony, that your burdens may be light and your souls at rest. TESTIMONY, THE FIRST RESPONSIBILITY OF RELIEF SOCIETY 719 "For Every Man Receiveth Wages" Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 1, 1953] HEN we think of wages \\y which we earn in this life, invariably there come to mind monetary wages which many earn and which are spent for the necessities of life and then, perhaps, for luxuries, if any money remains. Wage earners spend long hours at work, and dream and plan to find better ways to get results which will win the recognition of those over them and cause them to increase their wages. These increased wages may be reflected in a beautiful home, a new car, a yacht, or some other material possession. It is a sorry thought that earnings are often used merely to collect possessions which remain on the earth when we pass on. But every minute of every hour every person is earning other wages whose payment is sure and eternal. What these wages are, however, depends upon the one who pays us, and each person chooses for himself the master who will pay him his wages. Because we are all human and subject to the trials and temptations of the flesh, and because each person can act as he wishes, sometimes we may choose to obey one master, and again the other may gain the ascendancy over us. In the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord says: And thus did J, the Lord God, appoint unto man the days of his probation— that by his natural death he might be raised in immortality unto eternal life, Page 720 even as many as would believe; And they that believe not unto eternal damnation; for they cannot be redeemed from their spiritual fall, because they repent not; For they love darkness rather than light, and their deeds are evil, and they receive their wages of whom they list to obey (D. & C. 29:43-45)- Alma declared likewise, For every man receiveth wages of him whom he listeth to obey... (Alma 3:27). Thus, whether or not we are conscious of the fact, each day we are earning wages, paid by the principles and powers of light or of darkness, by the principles and powers of good or of evil, we taste either the sweet or the bitter. One action may be conceived in hatred or malice, and we receive the wages of the evil one for that hateful action. Again the good within us may prevail, and for a deed of love and mercy we are rewarded with good wages. An onlooker cannot determine | which master we are serving at a given time. Only the Lord, who knows all our intents as well as our actions, is cognizant of the wages we are receiving. Of two neighbors living side by side in affluence, one may be paid in the wages of eternal life, the other in the wages of sin. Of two neighbors living side by side in poverty, one may say to himself, if I had I would give to the poor, and receive wages of eternal life; the other, secretly coveting another's "FOR EVERY MAN RECEIVETH WAGES" wealth, may be earning the wages of sin. Man cannot judge. Neither can one man judge the wages of his neighbors by the calamities and trials he may be called upon to suffer. The Lord has said he will have a tried people and that those whom he loves he chasteneth. But some may ask, if we are called upon to suffer when we are good, why should we strive for wages from the powers of good rather than wages from evil? 'The latter often appear very alluring and attractive. But Alma reminds us:... Whatsoever is good cometh from God, and whatsoever is evil cometh from the devil. Therefore, if a man bringeth forth good works he hearkeneth unto the voice of the good shepherd, and he doth follow him; but whosoever bringeth forth evil works, the same becometh a child of the devil, for he hearkeneth unto his voice, and doth follow him. And whosoever doeth this must receive his wages of him... (Alma 5:40-42). Wwerat is there which each person who follows the Good Shepherd will be paid to manifest to his own soul that he hearkeneth unto the voice of the Good Shepherd? There may be other wages, but one which is paramount is that gift given to us by the Savior before he left mortality. In the upper chamber, before he crossed the brook Cedron on his fateful way to Gethsemane, the Savior, surrounded by his beloved eleven apostles, promised: Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid (John 14:27). He who is paid by the Good Shepherd, in the lonely hours of 721 silent darkness though 'he be in the anguish of sorrow, will still have an untroubled heart and be unafraid as he bares his soul to his Maker. On the other hand, the wretched soul whose master is Satan, will never find the peace that passeth understanding, unless he repents. The wages of goodness awaken the soul to better living, hour by hour. Thus the faithful Latter-day Saint woman has feelings of charity for the fatherless, the widow, the distressed, and the discouraged. She goes about doing good, loving her neighbor. She studies the scriptures and increases her understanding by learning. Her charity never faileth. Brigham Young warned: The best woman that ever lived on the earth has only just made her escape from this world to a better one, with a full assurance of enjoying the first resurrection. It requires all the atonement of Christ, the mercy of the Father, the pity of angels and the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ to be with us always, and then to do the very best we possibly can, to get rid of this sin within us, so that we may escape from this world into the celestial kingdom (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1925 edition, page 93). Since this is so, how carefully we should observe the great commandments given to women on motherhood and service, how zealously we should train and guide our children in the paths of righteousness, how anxiously we should strive to enlarge our souls to love our neighbors as ourselves. How humbly we should hearken to the voice of the Good Shepherd, and follow him that we may receive the wages of eternal life, That we may all do so, I pray. Charity—A Gem of Many Facets Counselor Velma N. Simonsen Scheduled for Delivery at the Annual General Relief Society Conference October 1, 1953 HE Relief Society is more T than one hundred and eleven: years old; it has a membership of more than 140,000. Throughout the world wherever there are Latter-day Saint women, almost without exception, there is a Relief Society organization. And for what purpose? To minister to those who are sick and in want; to give encouragement to the weary and heartsick; to strengthen the weak in the faith; to save souls. The Prophet Joseph Smith, himself, established our society for these purposes. For, said he "It is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence." Through the wise leadership of women of the past, the scope of Relief Society has ever broadened and widened, but charity is, has been, and always will be, the true spirit and genius of the Relief Society organization. It was inculcated by the Prophet in its beginning, and has been reiterated by the leaders of the Church and by the leaders of the organization. Appropriately, the organization chose for its motto: "Charity Never Faileth." Too often we think of charity in terms of the physical needs of people, of giving something big and generous, but Paul says, "Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor... And have not charity, it profiteth me nothing" (I Cor. 3:3). Page 722 Charity is a gem of many facets. Caring for the material wants of our brothers and sisters is only one of these facets. So, while we continue to do the big and generous things, let us also remember to do the little, everyday acts of charity which add luster and brilliance to the gem of charity. You Relief Society workers who can accept release from office and continue to. Be active, kind, and helpful, manifest real charity. You mothers who maintain homes where kindness and patience are taught and practiced, do 'so with charity that suffereth long and is kind. It is important for us to give tenderness and understanding to the weary and heartsick. The officers of Relief Society. Are constantly called upon for such service. We cannot all be officers but, we do not have to be set apart to do good. And though we can not all be officers of Relief Society, we can all be members. A good Relief Society member will seek out these needy souls and minister to their needs. Is there a blind sister in your ward who would enjoy regular attendance at Relief Society? Who guides her to the meetings? Maybe your neighbor has had an experience that has made her bitter and sharp tongued. Have you tried to brighten her up with a friendly visit, perhaps taking with you a glass of your delicious jelly or your new recipe for cookies? Many today are CHARITY—A GEM OF MANY FACETS truly sick at heart and need all the tenderness. And understanding possible. Building up the morale of a sister, giving her a desire for the things of the spirit, are quite as vital as food for her physical body. Often one of the devices of the evil one to destroy our happiness and our usefulness is to bring a spirit of contention into our midst. Sisters, the way to keep free from contention in our society, in our homes, or in our cominunities, is to develop charity. There can be no contention where there is charity. Seek out and find the good in your fellow men. AN artist, not long ago, was giving a talk on art appreciation to a group of women. He exhibited some pictures for their consideration. One picture was especially admired by the group. The artist said, "Point out some of its defects." Then, on second thought, he added, "Perhaps I had better not ask you to do that, or you might think more about the defects than the good points, and so your enjoyment of the picture would be marred." Is this not also true in regard to human affairs? When faults, or even the failings of an individual, are pointed out, they then seem to stand out more prominently than the virtues. We all cherish ideals of some sort, and most of us like to idealize our friends. It comes, therefore, as a shock when the uncharitable person begins to show how faulty the idealized one is in his estimation. When this experience has been repeated a few times in life, one begins to look upon all 723 people with more or less suspicion. How much better to think the best of others and to put into daily practice the thing so needful to make life desirable and beautiful, that great command, "Do unto others as ye would that others should do unto you." That, and the command which the Savior designated as the greatest of all commandments, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength," and "thy neighbor as thyself," are precepts which form the very foundation of a beautiful and charitable life. Those who are striving with all their might to fill their lives with good thoughts and noble deeds have little time or desire to criticize others or hold up another's faults for inspection. Who among your acquaintances are the most charitable towards the shortcomings of other people? Is it not those whose lives are most nearly perfect? Relief Society members, as a rule, are among the best women of the earth in observing these principles, probably the very best. But, sisters, we must ever be on guard, to continue to do so. We are told in Holy writ, "... The tongue... Is an unruly evil...." (James 3:8). ENVY, spite, and petty jealousies are the emotions which give rise to many of the hateful little things that are said and done, and the damage done to a reputation or to the happiness of some sister by an idle word is ofttimes irreparable. Unkind, cutting remarks have a deteriorating effect upon some people. Kind words, and a little apprecia- 724 tion, are as helpful and as needful to most people as is sunshine to most plants. It has been said that people who appreciate us can do almost anything with us. The Savior had the seeing eye, the understanding heart that could detect the good and the beautiful in everyone. He always emphasized the loveliest thing in man or animal or nature. He made people respect themselves, and they held their heads higher, feeling that there was hope in life. He showed charity toward those who were outcasts, because he could see something worthy in them. It is a worthwhile experiment to use his method to search RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 out and emphasize the good that is often buried so deep that few see it. Sisters, in these days of anxiety and strain, let us regard one another with tenderness, love, and sympathy; let us not feel that charity is only for the officers of Relief Society, or to be exercised by special assignment in order to get credit for so doing; let us continue to be thoughtful, kind, and good; let us seek with greater interest, greater enthusiasm, and greater love to be good Relief Society members, living up to our motto "Charity Never Faileth." Report and Official Instructions [Digest of an Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 30, 1953] President Belle S. Spafford N bringing to you. Today a brief report of the status of the Relief Society as shown in the annual report for 1952, together with a few official instructions, I first wish to acknowledge the splendid _leadership with which the society is blessed at this time in the stakes and missions of the Church. I also wish to pay tribute today to the members of Relief Society—the tens of thousands of faithful women who loyally lend: their support and co-operation to officers, devotedly accepting assignments and carefully fulfilling them regardless of the amount of time and work entailed. Narrative Reports _ The narrative sections of the annual reports, as well as correspondence received at the general office, together with reports of general board members, indicate obedience on the part of our sisters to the Priesthood authorities who preside over them; they disclose extensive support of stake and ward building programs and other activities initiated by stake presidents and ward bishops. They show substantial cooperation with welfare committees in obtaining and supporting welfare projects. General Boar«l Since our last general conference three members of the general board have found it necessary to be relieved of their general board re- REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS sponsibilities: Sister Achsa Paxman, who has served in this capacity for thirteen years, for health reasons; Sister Lillie Adams, who has served for seven years, who has been called to missionary work; and Sister Alta Vance, who served for five years and whose personal circumstances made it necessary that she be released. We deeply appreciate the contribution of each of these sisters to the work of the society. We are favored in having five new members added to the general board: Sister Gladys S. Boyer, Sister Charlotte A. Larsen, Sister Edith P. Backman, Sister Winniefred S$. Manwaring, and Sister Elna P. Haymond. We know you will learn to love and appreciate these sisters. Organizations and Reorganizations At the close of 1952 there was a total of 196 stakes, an increase of eight over the previous year. There was a total of forty-one missions, a decrease of one over 1951. (The Chinese Mission was closed.) There were 3,312 ward and branch societies, an increase of 135 over 1951. Missions Mission Relief Societies are to be congratulated on their progress. The percentage of potential members now enrolled and the increase in average attendance at regular meetings are particularly gratifying. The visiting teaching program is being continuously expanded, and organizations are drawing strength therefrom. The Magazine circulation has increased. 'There were twenty missions on the Honor Roll. Sewing and homemaking activities, the 725 compassionate and other welfare services, as well as the educational program, are receiving careful attention. Membership Membership figures for the society as a whole show consistent growth. We now have 140,354 enrolled members, an increase of 7,903 over 1951. We are deeply grateful for membership increases. Average Attendance There was an average of 49,255 women, or 35.09 per cent of the total membership in attendance each week at the regular meetings. This was a slight increase over 1951. Visiting Teaching Visiting teaching is growing in extent and effectiveness. There Were 2,240,244 visits made in 1952, an increase over the previous year of 184,441. These visits were made by 52,989 visiting teachers, an in-: crease of 3,780 over 1951. 'These figures represent a tremendous strength within the society that may be drawn upon to further some of its most important purposes. Educational Program During 1952 there were 85,497 or | 60.9 per cent of our members who participated in leadership activities. Of this number 11,360 were engaged in teaching the prescribed courses of study. Educational courses are designed to provide wellrounded, educational development for Relief Society members and to strengthen their testimonies of the gospel. During the forthcoming year we urge theology leaders to be painstaking in directing discussions so as to build testimonies of the divinity of the Messiah. We are convinced that The Book of Mormon reading project has contributed greatly toward this goal. Reports from 206 stakes and nineteen missions indicated that 61,695 women, or forty-four per cent of the membership, have read the section of The Book of Mormon covered by the lessons for the first two years of the course. 'This was an increase of 16,995 over 1952. We have been led to believe that better methods of keeping count would show that a greater number of women have actually read the Book of Mormon than has been reported to us. We urge a more careful accounting for 1954. Favorable reports are coming in regarding the literature course. Members are finding in the study of English literature enlightenment and enjoyment. We have learned of two stakes which have had the members choose their favorite selections from among those studied in 1952. These have been mimeographed and prepared in attractive booklet form for distribution to members. These booklets reveal the discriminating taste of the sisters and disclose that the literature is becoming a part of their lives. The new social science course, ""The Constitution of the United States," should be enthusiastically received by class leaders and members alike. This study should deepen appreciation of the struggle for freedom which preceded the adoption of the Constitution and give to the sisters a knowledge of the basic constitutional doctrines and concepts which safeguard our liberty. We feel] this to be an extremely important and significant course of study for our members at this time. Work Meeting Figures for 1952 show the work meeting to be the poorest attended of any of the regular meetings. 'This poses a problem for stake leaders in stimulating ward leaders and in suggesting to them ways and means of attracting the members. Counselor Simonsen has said: The possibilities of the day are as broad as a homemaker's life.... We need to teach each other to sew, cook, darn, and mend. We need to help each other to learn new and better methods of home management and more efficient and economical ways of performing homemaking tasks.... Thoughtful and long-range planning is the key to successful work meetings. Viewed from the point of its value to the sisters, the work meeting should be among the best attended of our meetings, but whether or not it accomplishes its purpose depends, in large measure, upon those who plan and conduct it. Church Welfare Throughout the Church the sisters continue to give excellent support to the Church Welfare program. We call to your attention once again the importance of having sisters who are assisted through the bishops sew for themselves rather than to draw from bishops' storehouses articles made by other sisters. An important part of your work is to train the teachable to sew. Compassionate Services The compassionate services show a gratifying increase. There was a total of 209,894 visits to the sick and homebound, an increase of 16,336. 726 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS There were 22,504 or an increase of 868 eight hour days' care of the sick given on a volunteer basis upon assignment of ward Relief Society presidents. 'The number of funerals at which Relief Society assisted was 6,474, an increase of 522. We appreciate the attention being given the aged and suggest that you do not lose sight of services Relief Society might render to those with some special affliction such as blindness. Nursing Activities As you know, throughout its lifetime of more than a century, Relief Society has regarded the care of the sick as a very vital and fundamental part of its work. In view of the general shortages of nurses today, we encourage you to provide instruction wherever possible in home nursing for Relief Society members. We suggest that you consult your local Red Cross Chapter to ascertain whether or not it is in a position to co-operate with you in conducting such classes. We also hope you will acquaint yourselves with available opportunities for both practical and registered nurse training and encourage sisters who are interested, qualified, and suitably situated, to take nurse training. We suggest that prospective enrollees of any nurse training course check with their local hospitals to make sure that the course they select will make them eligible to take State examinations and obtain a license to practice the type of nursing for which they have trained. Responsibility in Nursing and Domestic Service The question is frequently asked 727 as to the financial and other responsibilities of Relief Society in cases where prolonged bedside nursing care is required. The general board encourages the sisters willingly to help one another, particularly in times of emergency or where immediate, temporary assistance is needed. However, we do not think the sisters should be required to assume prolonged and burdensome tasks of nursing and domestic service on a volunteer basis upon assignment of the Relief Society president, except in cases of unusual emergency. Relief Society conforms to the policy of the Church that the family should do its utmost to help itself, both through its own financial resources and through family members and _ relatives. Where families can afford to do so, they should make their own financial arrangements to meet their responsibilities, and Relief Society should co-operate in helping to find persons to perform the required service. In cases of persons who need continuous or prolonged nursing care or domestic service and who cannot meet such needs from their own financial resources, the matter should be referred to the bishop who is responsible for the welfare of ward members. As you know, Relief Society is now relieved of maintaining or administering a fund for welfare purposes. Quilt for Emergency Use In 1949 the general board recommended that all ward and branch Relief Societies keep one quilt on hand for emergency use only, the materials to be provided from Relief Society funds. We repeat this recommendation at this time. We regard it as provident, motherly management for every ward and branch Relief Society to have a quilt on hand that might be used either for an emergency within the ward itself or elsewhere by the Church. Relief Society Magazine We greatly appreciate the excellent support given The Relief Society Magazine. We are very grateful for the large number of stakes and missions, mission districts, wards, and branches that attained position on the Magazine Honor Roll in 1952. We all know the importance of the Magazine to the society and to Latter-day Saint women and we acknowledge the outstanding service of Magazine representatives. Honor Roll to Be Limited It is with sincere regret that we now find it necessary, because of the ever-increasing number of Relief Societies and the limited space in the Magazine, to limit the Honor Roll listing in the Magazine. It will no longer be possible to include in the Honor Roll the names of wards and branches. The general board will send to the stakes and missions their respective Honor Rolls, which will list the wards and branches achieving seventy-five per cent or more of their enrollment, and the general board will recognize wards and branches in the stakes at the annual Relief Society conventions. We also suggest that these societies and also branch societies in the missions be honored within their own respective stakes or missions by stake or mission officers. Perhaps the preliminary part of a spring union meeting (or in the missions a district meeting) might be thus used. Wards may recognize their Magazine representatives and any who assist them at a spring work meeting. 'The Honor Roll sent you by the general board will provide the necessary information for stake and mission recognition. This change in the publication of the Honor Roll will not affect the award subscriptions. Indian Relations We acknowledge with grateful appreciation the devoted service rendered by many of our sisters to the Lamanite women living within their respective stakes. As you know, the Lamanite work, along with that of other minority groups in the stakes, is now incorporated in the Stake Missionary Program. 'There are no longer Indian relations committees.. The jurisdiction has been changed to the stake missionary committees. However, the work remains the same and must go forward. Sisters, do all in your power in support of the missionary program. Acquaint your stake president with any service you feel the society might render the Lamanite sisters and do all you can to create love for them and an understanding of their needs. In those instances where, in conformity with the Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society, page 13, stakes have appointed as a stake board member a sister especially for Indian relations work, this sister may now be used in meeting any assignments related to the In- 728 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS dian program coming to the board from the stake president, along with any other special assignment you may wish to give her. Upon the retirement of this sister from the board, however, the Lamanite work assigned to Relief Society should be carried by those remaining board members best qualified to assume it, with no new appointment being made to fill the vacancy. No appointment to the stake board should hereafter be made for the minority group. Financing Program It has become a tradition with Relief Society that the society independently meet expenses incurred in the conduct of the work. We are pleased to note that during 1952 the Relief Societies were able adequately to maintain themselves financially, functioning according to recommended procedures and meeting operating costs. We find the sisters very resourceful in their fund-raising activities. However, we remind you again that fund raising is not one of the primary purposes of Relief Society. It is not the intention that the societies should create for themselves large treasuries at the expense of overworking the sisters or at a cost of burdening ward members who are already heavily drawn upon financially to support other Church activities, nor should they engage in fund-raising activities that are out of keeping with standards, purposes, and character of the society. I also refer you to the letter on commercial selling sent to stake Relief Society presidents under date of May 11, 1953. 729 Entering into Contract With Commercial Companies We have recently had reports of Relief Societies being solocited by commercial companies to enter into contract with them to engage in certain projects such as the distribution of a cookbook or calendar. We advise all Relief Societies not to sign any contract without first consulting their Priesthood authorities. Wards should also consult their stake Relief Society presidency and they, in turn, may refer the matter to the general board. Monthly Reports We note a number of stakes calling for rather detailed monthly reports from their respective wards. We caution you with regard to this practice. Information essential in the successful conduct of the work can, in practically every instance, be obtained through the annual reports or through the regular channels whereby we acquaint ourselves with the work in the wards. General Board Endorsements It is our understanding that occasionally you receive letters or citculars urging your support of programs or activities sponsored by persons or groups outside Relief Society. If such programs are endorsed by the general board, the letter or circular will so indicate. Sisters, we thank you for the excellent service that you are giving to Relief Society. We pray that the Lord will bless you with health and strength and ability to continue your good work, that you will find joy and satisfaction in your labors. Life of President David O. McKay A FEW HIGHLIGHTS OF A BUSY LIFE [The third article of a series on the ancestry and life of President McKay] Jeanette McKay Morrell was set apart as a missionary to Great Britain by President Seymour B. Young, August 1, 1897. He was then assigned to labor in Scotland. The first part of his mission was spent in Stirling, where he made many lasting friends for the Church, as well as for himself. On June 9g, 1898, he received a letter from the presidency of the British Mission about which he wrote the following in his diary: | ae David O. McKay Upon opening the letter I found it to be an appointment to the Presidency of the Scottish Conference. Realizing to some extent what a responsibility this is, I seemed to be seized with a feeling of gloom and fear, lest in accepting I should prove incompetent. I walked to a secret spot in the wood, just below Wallace's monument, and there dedicated my services to the Lord and implored him for his divine assistance. He found the Conference House in Glasgow a large, poorly furnished place; so, with the assistance of the elders and the sister in charge, purchases of linoleum and necessary furniture were made to change it into livable headquarters, as a home for the missionaries, for their many callers, and for the saints and returning European elders, all of whom, at that time, sailed to the United States from Glasgow. During this mission Dr. James E. Talmage and Elder George W. Palmer gave lectures on Utah, with accompanying stereopticon slides in a number of cities in Scotland. Page 730 While these lectures were not financial successes, and the elders in the conference made up the deficits, they felt that much prejudice was allayed, and many who attended became interested investigators. On May 29, 1899, a memorable Priesthood meeting was held in Glasgow in connection with the Scottish Conference, and it illustrates the spirit of this mission and the love and sympathy existing among those who labored there. President McKay records the events in his diary, excerpts from which follow: A peaceful, Heavenly influence _pervaded the room. Some of the Elders were so affected by it that they expressed their feelings in tears. Just as Brother Young sat down after giving his report, Elder Charles Woolfenden said, "Brethren, there are angels in this room," and everyone present, impressed with the spirit of the occasion, and sensing the divine influence, could testify to the truth of his remarks. Elders wept for joy; sobs came from different parts of the room, and they were fitting, too, for it seemed manly to weep there. At the conclusion of the reports, all joined me in a prayer of thanksgiving to the Lord for his blessings and manifestations. President James L. McMurrin then addressed the meeting and said, among other things, "The Lord has accepted our labors, and at this time we stand pure before him." He continued, "Yes, brethren, there are angels in this room," and the announcement was not startling, but seemed wholly proper. Designating two of the brethren, he said their guardian angels were present, then turning to me he continued, "Let me say to you, Brother LIFE OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY BISHOP DAVID McKAY, FATHER OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY As a missionary to Scotland 1881-1883 David, Satan has desired you that he may sift you as wheat, but God is mindful of you, and if you will keep the faith, you will yet sit in the leading councils of the Church. AS it a coincidence that on July 17, 1887, when David was but thirteen years old, Patriarch John Smith had said, in his blessing, "For the eye of the Lord is upon thee—the Lord has a work for thee to do, in which thou shalt see much of the world. It shall be thy lot to sit in council with thy brethren, and preside among the people, and exhort the saints to faithfulness." President McKay said of this occasion, "It was a manifestation for which, as a doubting youth, I had secretly prayed most earnestly on hillside and in meadow. It was an 73] assurance to me that sincere prayer is answered, 'sometime, somewhere.' " On one of his regular visits to Edinburgh he witnessed all the pomp and splendor accompanying the annual visit of the Prince of Wales in Scotland. It was during this mission, also, that President McKay visited Thurso, the birthplace of his father. Here he met people who remembered his Grandfather and Grandmother McKay, as well as his father, Bishop David McKay, when he did missionary work there in 1881-83. Later he went from a conference in Liverpool to his mother's birthplace in Wales. It had been arranged that he and President McMurrin should attend the InternaDAVID O. McKAY AS A MISSIONARY TO SCOTLAND August 1897 - August 1899 PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY AND EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY Picture taken during their Weber Academy days when David O. McKay was president of that institution (1902 to 1908) tional Eisteddfod together, but the latter was not well enough to go, so David went alone to Cardiff, where the musical festival was being held. He had a letter of introduction from Professor Evan Stephens of Salt Lake City, to Doctor Parry, the presiding officer at this musical event, and he was kindly received by the great musician, and introduced to Doctor Edwards, assistant director, his two daughters from Pennsylvania, and, after enjoying the competitive events, to many others in attendance. He went from, here to Merthyr Tydfil, where he found relatives and friends of his mother, and wrote to her from the room in which she had been born. He was released from his mission in August 1899. Before leaving Scotland, he received a letter appointing him as a teacher in the Weber Stake Academy, so upon his return he took up his duties in this institution, as well as becoming a member of the Weber Stake Sunday School Board. In both these positions he made outstanding contributions to the Church. As second assistant to Superintendent Thomas B. Evans, his was the responsibility of the class work, and those who remember the methods used in Sunday School teaching at that time, will appreciate the great need for reorganization in preparation and presentation of lessons. President McKay's plan included a careful grading of students, and a definite course of study for each department, with an adequate teaching force in each ward, and corresponding supervisors for every department of the stake board. HE task of education really commenced when he instituted the outlining of lessons and co-operative 732 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 LIFE OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY discussions of the month's work among all stake teachers in their respective departments at monthly union meetings. 'This plan, and many others which he instituted and which are taken for granted now, were innovations in the year 1900. He worked in Weber Stake for six years, when he became second assistant to President Joseph F. Smith, who was General Superintendent of the Sunday Schools. Three years later he became first assistant to President Smith, and, in 1918, received the signal honor of being appointed General Superintendent, and the Sunday Schools of the entire Church began to feel the "vitalizing touch of his radiant personality, and the stimulating power of his leadership." On May 19, 1919, he was appointed Church Commissioner of Education, which added still greater responsibilities to an already busy life. David was married to Emma Ray Riggs on January 2, 1901. She had received her Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of Utah, and was an accomplished musician, having studied piano with her mother, who was one of the best piano teachers of her time in Salt Lake City. Later, she continued her musical studies at the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music. During their university days, Ray and David's sisters became good friends, and several years before their marriage, she visited at the family home in Huntsville, where she won a special place in the hearts of the McKay family—a place she has_ kept throughout the years. She has been a wonderful mother and a devoted wife, never complaining at neces- 733 sary absences from home, and waiting patiently for her husband's frequently late arrivals for carefully prepared meals. She has always been an inspiration in his work, and a constant companion in his many appointments, here and abroad. A great part of the responsibility of rearing their family has been hers, because of President McKay's frequent absences from home on account of Church duties, and the four sons and two daughters, with their families, are a monument to her training, as well as to that of her husband. S a teacher and as principal at Weber Stake Academy, David lived his ideals and influenced his PRESIDENT SUPERINTENDENT OF THE DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION _ (1918 - 1934) With his assistants Stephen L Richards (left) and George D. Pyper (right) McKAY AS GENERAL students by example as well as by precept. He gave the same intelligent preparation and concentration of thought and effort to his literature classes as to theology. As a result, a visiting principal from another institution made this remark after a visit to Weber: "Here is the true spirit of the Latter-day Saint schools.". Principal McKay gave sympathetic understanding to the problems of every student, and in this way gained the confidence and respect of all. During his tenure of office as principal, the departments of domestic arts and domestic science were inaugurated; a band was organized; Weber's colors, purple and white, were adopted, and the first issue of the school paper, The Acorn, was published. The school grew so rapidly that the existing quarters were inadequate, and when he applied to the board for additional housing facilities, they replied: "You may have a new building if you can raise the money to pay for it, but do not expect one dollar from us." Knowing that these board members had mortgaged their homes for the original building, Principal McKay did not blame them for taking this stand, but their decision did not alter his determination to have more classrooms and a larger auditorium. The problem was discussed at a special meeting of the faculty, and a plan to visit every ward in the stake, besides soliciting personal assistance, was adopted. In the history of education probably no faculty of its size ever worked more diligently or with greater determination than did Principal McKay and the teachers of Weber Academy. The result was the erection of the sixty-thousand dollar addition, and the board was not asked to contribute one cent. Through the years the building has served students and public alike as a community center for lectures, theatres, and assemblies, besides furnishing more adequate classrooms. Not one of that faculty group will ever forget the generous response of the "friends" of Weber Academy. N the meantime, April 8, 1906, David was chosen to become a member of the Quorum of Twelve Apostles, one of the greatest honors that can come to a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. He was ordained by President Joseph F. Smith, and assumed his duties of attending extra meetings in Salt Lake City and visiting stake conferences, besides those he was already carrying in Ogden City and Weber County. When he left the school in 1908, made necessary by the pressing duties connected with his call to the Council of the Twelve, the annual issue of The Acorn was dedicated to him, and the following is an excerpt from that number: Fortunate indeed are the students who have been registered in his classes; for when he taught religion, he gave truths he believed and had proved in practice. His lessons in literature were interpreted in the light of love and charity for all mankind, and his moral teachings had behind them all the force of a perfect moral life. On November 8, 1922, President McKay, his wife, and five children left Utah for England, where he had been called to preside over the 734 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY AND EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY " the park at Zurich Lake, Switzerland, 1922, while President McKay was presiding over the European Mission THE FOUR McKAY BROTHERS (Photograph taken in 1933) In front, at left, President David O. McKay; right, Dr. William McKay (deceased); at back, left, Elder Thomas E. McKay, now Assistant to the Council of the Twelve; right, Morgan McKay, now a resident of Kellogg, Idaho. European Mission. During the following two years President and Mrs. McKay traveled two thousand miles, held 525 meetings, and visited every mission except South Africa, addressing, in the aggregate, seven thousand people. It was at this time that the French Mission was re organized, and before the two years ended, was in a flourishing condition, with new interest awakened, and members being added. Probably the two outstanding accomplishments of this mission were the overcoming of the insidious attacks on the Church by the British newspapers, and the extending of missionary work to members, in addition to the elders called for that special purpose. For some time 736 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 LIFE OF PRESIDENT DAVID 0. McKAY previous to 1922, British newspapers had been publishing spurious articles about the Mormons, and had invariably refused to print refutations written by elders or members. After going into the records on this subject, President McKay decided that to continue the prevailing practice would be futile, and so decided on a change. Without giving any information to reporters, he wrote directly to the editors of the papers. Commencing with the editor of John Bull, one of the oldest and best of the weekly newspapers, he wrote a long letter appealing to English sportsmanship and love of fair play, and requesting only that the truth be told about the Latter-day Saints, instead of the untrue stories which had hitherto been published in that paper. To the amazement of all concerned, the issue of the next week contained the following large headlines: "A Daniel Come to Judgment," and under this caption appeared the letter of President McKay in full. Not another article in opposition to the Church appeared in the next two years in that paper. The result was the same 737 with other papers, and elders and members alike enjoyed a respite from this form of persecution. In one town in Wales, where members had been meeting in a public building, the town council decided to prohibit any further Mormon assemblies. A letter addressed directly to the council was effective in stopping the action against the Church. The same result was effected in Scotland. The second achievement was in his appeal to every member in each conference to become a special missionary, pledging himself or herself to bring one member into the Church during the year. It was suggested that the convert might be a relative, friend, working companion, or even an acquaintance, or a stranger. 'The result was that the increase in membership in the European Mission in 1923, excelled previous years by a large margin. 'That experiment, if put into practice in the missions and stakes today, might prove as successful as during that record year, and what a difference such an innovation would make to members as well as to the growth of the Church! Soward Remembering Renie H. Littlewood The road winds deep along the thin-worn track, The road where memories crowd every turn; Some sight or sound can ever Jead me back, Some vagrant thought will ever make me yearn To know again the things I came to know In days when eager time ran on apace. A snatch of song, a field where daisies grow, A welcoming smile that warms a well-loved face, A glimpse of hills afar, the pelt of rain, The way a swallow dips on outstretched wing; A sigh of wind, a sudden twinge of pain— These etch the roadway toward remembering. Just Like Edison Molly Johnson T was late November. Winter had stamped an icy foot on the rural community in northern Wisconsin where we lived, and the harvest had been gathered in. With all the heavy work finished for another year, the inevitable happened. My father began tinkering. Now we had seen father through many a tinkering spree. Doll cradles, magazine stands, bookcases, and even little chairs for us children to sit in, but this time it was different. It was worse, sort of grim and scary. My father wouldn't even talk to us while he worked, and this was so unusual we were frightened. Evenings, when play was over and everything would begin to turn velvety-black outside, Mama would call us in, and we would sit—all four of us in a line—on a basement step near the musty potato bin, and watch father while he stuffed batteries, wires, tiny nuts, and bolts, and all kinds of other things into a big oatmeal box. We were sitting there one evening with questions just about exploding inside us when my brother got up and slowly inched over to where Dad stood at his workbench. He had a bunch of wires in his hand and was staring so hard at a magazine we wondered if he was angry at it. Big brother watched him a little while, then asked in a voice you could hardly hear, "What's it gonna be, Dad?" We didn't breathe till we saw Dad's face soften a bit. He looked up and answered, "'A radio, son." Page 738 I sighed and thought i it must be | nice to be the only boy in the family and not be afraid to ask questions whenever you wanted to. But my sister, the one who was two and a half years older than I, gave a big gasp. "A radio. Golly!" She flew up the stairs, and my tiny sister and I tagged after. We ran to the kitchen stove where Mama stood mixing something that smelled wonderful. "Mama!" my sister cried out, "Mama, you know what Dad's doing? He's making a radio!" Mother looked at all three of us and nodded her head slowly. "Yes, I know. I asked him to buy us a radio for Christmas and he said, 'Buy you a radio! Hah, I'll make you onel'" After that things were worse than school at our house. Dad was silent and never played with us as he had before, and Mama was quiet, too, so we would be quiet. We were quiet because we had to be. Another funny thing was the way the news of Dad's contraption went all over town. He told us not to tell a soul what he was making, yet it got so I just never went anywhere without people asking me how Dad's radio was coming, unless Dad was with me. If he was there, they didn't say much of anything. T last the big day came, the Saturday when Dad would test his radio to see if it worked! He didn't tell us until that morning. He wanted to be sure. Twice before he had disappointed himself and us, too, by hinting of this a few days ahead of JUST LIKE EDISON time. In each case something had gone wrong, and each time he had had to go into town again and get a new part and then work late into the night fitting it in. But this time he was sure. He had hurried it up for Saturday night, he said, because that should be a good testing time. There were more programs on, and it was going to be a cold, clear night. Of course, he didn't tell us not to tell anybody. After all, who knew he was making a radio? We spent that afternoon in the crisp, squeaky snow and bright sunshine, sledding down School Hill with all the neighborhood youngsters. I don't remember now if we said much of anything about radios, but we could have, because an awful lot of people just happened to sort of drop in at our house that evening. They sat in the living room, the dining room, on the stairway going upstairs, and in the downstairs bedroom—strung along the edge of the bed where Mama would never let us sit. Most of them were packed in the big kitchen, though, where my father was seated at the table with his contraption. The ladies were talking about sewing and babies that had colic, so I shoved through them to where three men stood arguing in a corner of the dining room. "Tl bet you. My first spring calf that this thing don't work. You got to be a 'lectrician to make radios," one man was saying. I didn't know him well. "Takes courage to try something like that," another man mumbled, hardly opening his mouth when he talked. "You wouldn't catch me doing it." 739 The third one had a face that was round and red as a tomato. He had red hair, and he was always smiling. "You gotta hand it to that fellow, though," he laughed. "He never starts anything he doesn't finish. If it doesn't work tonight, it'll work some other time, and I'm going to tell him so right now!" He shoved through the tangle of people till he reached my father. "Look, Fred..." he began, and his hand made a big gesture. It hit the oatmeal box and spilled it to the floor. Crash went the biggest dream we had ever had for Dad's tinkering, and crash went the radio that was going to work for us tonight. For sure—in front of all these people! My father dropped his head into his hands and braced his elbows on the table. He wouldn't even look at the pile of spilled things on the floor, and for a long time everything was awfully still. Tomato-head mumbled again and again that he was sorry. Slowly my brother began to pick up the stuff. "Don't worry, Dad," he kept saying. "We'll put it together again. If you did it once you can do it again. Watch and see if you can't. And this time I'll help you." M* father didn't look up. He just sat there, his head in his hands, shaking it from side to side slowly. My brother set the oatmeal box with some of the stuffings still in it on the table. Next he picked up piece after piece and tried to fit them in. My mother came and made the people move back in a circle in case anything had rolled a little ways. "Is this how it went, Dad?" my brother asked over and over again. My father wouldn't look up. "Is this right? Dad? Look, the soldering is all right... Just these other pieces came loose." Father lifted his head. He looked as if he were sleeping with his eyes open as he straightened the box on the table before him. He didn't say a single word, just took piece after piece and began fitting them in. Some of them took a long time, and he wanted to give up, but my brother made him keep on working. It was getting late, and my mother came up twice to make me go to bed, but I wouldn't go. I wanted to see the thing work. My eyes hurt with heaviness as I watched my father and brother working with all the things that were growing out of the oatmeal box again. How long they worked! Dad tinkered and tinkered with them. Then he put on the earphones. He listened, turning buttons all kinds of ways for the longest while. Suddenly, he took off the earphones and then took part of the stuffings out of the oatmeal box and changed two little things halfway down to the bottom. My mother came up to me where I was sitting on a neighbor's lap and begged me to go to bed, but I shook my head and jerked my hand out of hers so hard she went away kind of angry. At last the earphones were on my father's head again. He wound up buttons on the contraption and waited. By now he looked like he had a gray and a brown tissue paper stretched over his face. All at once he smiled. "Yes! Yes... I think I hear something!" he said. Everybody in the whole house seemed to take a quick breath and move just a little bit. Dad put the earphones on my brother. I was standing close to him by this time, so I got them next. There was music coming over them. I was disappointed. After all that work it didn't even sound as loud as our old phonograph that stood in a corner of the living room. Mama must have read my face. She usually did because when Dad took off the earphones she said, "Just think, dear, that music is coming from Milwaukee, or maybe even Chicago. Three hundred miles away!" Then I realized what a wonderful thing my father had done. It took someone smart to build wires and things in an oatmeal box that could bring music from that far away without records or a phonograph— or a needle. The earphones had been on my big sister and were being passed around to other people now, and nobody spoke. I held on to Mama's skirt and tagged after while she moved somehow through all those people to put on the big, gray enamel kettle for cocoa. Next she cut up the cake she had made for our Sunday dinner. "Just like Edison!" shouted Tomato-head, pushing himself toward my father and shaking his hand. Then everybody was talking and laughing at once, and I just stood there feeling all warm inside to. See Dad laughing again—and thinking how proud we would always be of him. 740 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 Wayne Davis THE ROAD TO MONUMENT VALLEY, ARIZONA iy * * ¥ My Father s Shy Norma Vance I saw the spired church—the noble tree, Reaching to the heavens. I could see The trembling leaves, the turrets high, In the blue expanse of my Father's sky. I paused by a window, dingy and small In an office building, dark and tall; I stopped and looked, though I knew not why, Until I saw it—my Father's sky. I watched a restless wind-storm blow; I saw the clouds race to and fro, And heard the lightning's splintering cry Between me and my Father's sky. It lifts my heart for me to know That anywhere I'm called to go, To places great or small or high, It's always there—my Father's sky. Page 741 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1893 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL NATIONS" VANITY: We are told by an ancient Apostle that we are subject to vanity as the sparks fly upward; this being the case would it not be well to cultivate a sound mind, a sincere and devoted heart, that we may not lose the prize of our high calling through vanity, for this being called the spice of life, is there not danger that we flavour our lives or character too much with these spices so that the simple food so necessary to sustain life becomes to a degree hurtful, losing the nutritious quality which the plain food would give us? —Zion's Convert ITEMS FROM MESA, ARIZONA: I would like to pen a few lines in regard to our condition and prospects in this far off, sun-kissed land.... The Mesa society has a hall which the sisters have reason to feel proud of. It was built by the united efforts of our society with some backing from our good brethren. It is built of brick and neatly finished and furnished.... I can say with pride that our society has filled its mission faithfully in caring for the sick in our midst, frequently hiring experienced nurses to care for those who were not able to help themselves, and also assisting those faithful sisters in the Indian Mission. —S. M. Pomeroy SOMETIME WE'LL MEET AGAIN You'll greet me as of old, dear, And I'll remember you, Your presence shall uplift and cheer The heart that's ever true, And though the world is cold, dear, The tie which binds us two, Shall stronger grow each year And link my soul to you. —E. L. G. WOMEN AND HAPPINESS: Now I have thought much on some women, who want positions and do not appreciate being a wife and mother. Woman should make her home happy and beautify it, also take care of the little ones who are given unto us.... We should meet together and have our minds enlarged, and become more intelligent.... Our duties are not inferior to man's, but our natures are different, and our missions are different. Do not women bear the souls of men? The highest mission that can be given. Is not her kingdom her home? To keep that home orderly and well requires as much intelligence as anyone can attain to. She is a helpmate to her husband, and all honor to her in her sphere. —L. D. Alder A TRIBUTE TO LUCY STONE: In the death of Lucy Stone all advocates and ardent workers for the enfranchisement of women must indeed feel they have lost a friend and fellow laborer, whose strength and individual effort were felt wherever her name was spoken.... Honor and praise to the heroine Lucy Stone, her name is a talisman of good. —E. B. W. Page 742 S a girl, breaking through the barriers of conventionality for women by taking a degree at the University of Mexico, and since, as a writer and a teacher, Senora Amalia de Castillo Ledon, fifty, has worked toward improving the lot of Mexico's women. For years she has projected the message that the best way for women to overcome low wages and legal discrimination is through political action. Now, chiefly as the result of her efforts, the new president, Adolfo Ruiz Cortines, has presented to the Mexican Congress a _ constitutional amendment designed to give the women of Mexico full citizenship, including the right to vote. R. LOUISE PEARCE, a researcher at Manhattan's Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, recently received a $10,000 prize and other honors from King Baudouin of Belgium, for her work in the Belgian Congo in treating African sleeping sickness with the drug tryparsamide. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Ellen Peterson, ninety-nine, Logan, Utah, and Mrs. Lydia Ann Butterworth Cole, ninety-two, of Salt Lake City. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ECENTLY, Utah has had many distinguished women visitors. Among them was Mrs. Nazli Tlabar, member of the National Assembly of the Turkish Parliament, Ankara, who is enthusiastic about women's suffrage and advancement in her country. Another was Miss Aleyamma Mathew of New Delhi, India, brought to the United States with nineteen other foreign girls through the Ford Foundation. Many girls now work outside the home, and India is striving for universal education. Miss Margaret Bondfield, former British Minister of Labor, and first woman ever to become a member of a British Cabinet, reports finding Utah people pleasant and friendly. "THE figure we see on our telephone directories represents the "Genius of Electricity," a statue surmounting New York City's Telephone Building. The sculptress is Evelyn B. Longman, the first woman sculptor to be elected to full membership in the National Academy of Design. In the grounds of the Naval Research Laboratory stands a bust of 'Thomas A. Edison by Miss Longman. Five times lifesize, it honors Edison's ideas for setting up a government laboratory. Page 743 a> EDITORIAL ~~ VOL. 40 NOVEMBER 1953 NO. 11 After Mluch Sribulation Come the Blessings ' SOMAAN... Is of a few days, and full of trouble" (Job 14:1). So wrote Job who might certainly be called an authority on trouble. Yet with all his trials and afflictions, at the conclusion of the book of Job we read, "So the Lord blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning" (Job 42:12). In the life of each person trials and tribulations come as a test, but if the hand of the Lord is acknowledged in all the trials with faith, the spirit increases in wisdom and understanding. Sometimes years afterwards one can look back on a sorrow or trial and, even with limited, mortal vision, see good that has come out of an affliction. One man's wife was struck with a dread and terrifying disease. He was courageous and devoted through it all. She had always been a Latter-day Saint, but he was not a member of the Church. The months went by and even the years. The wife's recovery was remarkable, but the anxiety remained. However into the heart of the husband, little by little, faith entered and grew and blossomed into a testimony of the gospel. Forgotten are the trials of that home in the gift of the knowledge of the Savior. A young couple who had been anxiously awaiting their first-born were overcome by the loss of their baby soon after birth. As the saddened months passed, there was Page 744' borne in upon the husband the fact that their marriage had not been for time and all eternity, and that their baby would not belong to them. With the birth of a second child, the father began to set his house in order that he and his wife might claim both their children forever. In the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord made this promise to his saints, "For after much tribulation come the blessings. Wherefore the day cometh that ye shall be crowned with much glory" (D. & C. 58:4). One blessing that may enter with tribulation is the closeness to the spirit of the Lord. A tealization comes that the one person to whom one can turn is the Eternal Father, in the name of his Son. When days pass and the anxiety remains, advice applicable to any particular situation may be searched for in the scripture, "And again, be patient in tribulation until I come" (D. & C. 54:10), comforts the soul and brings fresh courage. If death strikes, one finds sure promises, "... He that is faithful in tribulation, the reward of the same is greater in the kingdom of heaven" (D. & C. 58:2). Why tribulation is needed to refine the soul, the finite mind of man may not fully comprehend, but ever before. One is the example of the Savior who descended below all things that he might rise above all EDITORIAL things, and "though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered" (Hebrews 5:8). If the eternal plan were clear before man's eyes, perhaps he might even rejoice in tribulation, because of the eternal blessings to follow one who remains faithful. 745 Know then that the soul that is anchored in a sure faith, will not rebel nor faint in the midst of tribulation, but ever forge a stronger chain for its anchor through submission, acceptance, and a looking forward to the eternal blessings to follow tribulation. —M. C. S. Notes TO THE FIELD Price Gnereased on Sextbhook for Aiterature alessons The Literature of England, volume II, by Woods, Watt, Anderson, which continues to be the textbook for the literature course, now costs $5.25, instead of $5.00 as previously announced. The book may be ordered from Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah, and 25c must be added for postage, making the total cost $5.50. Residents of Utah must also add a two per cent sales tax. The price is retroactive on all orders. Plays, Pageants, and Programs Issued by the General Board of Relief Society A list of plays and programs available at the general board office was issued to stake presidents recently, The general board is not instituting a new program, nor placing new emphasis on special programs. Where special programs are needed, the wards are still encouraged to use their own originality and resourcefulness. However, occasionally calls come to the general board for a play or program, and this list is intended to meet that need. A charge of fifteen cents will be made for each play or program to cover cost of mimeographing and handling. All plays and programs must be ordered by title as indicated on the list below: The Relief Society Magazine: 1. "Our Magazine," by Blanche Kendall McKey. Published in The Relief Society Magazine, 1935, page 214. Very short pageant on subject of Magazine. (A representation of Relief Society Magazine in center of platform large enough to hold three women in tableau necessary. ) Characters: Optional — Time: Approximately 20 minutes.. 2, "Grandmother's Teapot," by Isabelle S. McKenzie. Published in The Reliet Society Magazine, 1936, page 482. Very short light playlet in one scene, dealing with Relief Society Magazine. Characters: Four — Time: Approximately 10-15 minutes. 746 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 3. "Spirit of the Magazine," by Winona F. Thomas. Published in The Relief Society Magazine, 1934, page 477. Skit for use during drive for Magazine subscriptions. Characters: Fifteen — Time: Approximately 10-15 minutes. 4. "How Mother Does It," by Bergeta Williams. Published in The Relief Society Magazine, 1937, page 91. One-act playlet dealing with The Relief Society Magazine and giving one woman's method of saving money for her subscription. Characters: Mother and four children — Time: Approximately 15 minutes. 5. "Which Are You?" by Luacine S. Clark. Very short skit presenting two methods of introducing The Relief Society Magazine into home. Characters: 'Three — Time: Approximately 10 minutes. 6. "Through Its Pages," by Gladys Larsen. A personal evaluation of The Relief Society Magazine. Reader — Time: 10-15 minutes. VISITING TEACHING: 1. "Teacher's Visit to an Indifferent Member," by Leah D. Widtsoe. Published in The Relief Society Magazine, 1937, page 641. Characters: Four — Time: Approximately 10 minutes. 2. "Charity Suffereth Long and Is Kind," by Sylvia Musig Young. Playlet on subject of visiting teaching. Characters: Four — Time: Approximately 10 minutes. 3. "The Key," by Merla G. Thayne. A program consisting of a parable on visiting teaching presented with music. Characters: One reader — Time: Approximately 10 minutes. 4. "Streamlining the Relief Society," by Thora Page. Humorous skit dealing with the visiting teaching program. Characters: Four — Time: Approximately 15 minutes. 5- "The Unprepared Teacher," by Merling D. Clyde. Published in The Relief Society Magazine, 1936, page 432. Playlet on visiting teaching theme, seriously treated. Characters: Three — Time: Approximately 10 minutes. 6. "Her Husband's Religion," by Luacine C. Fox. Published in The Relief Society Magazine, 1937, page 646. Serious one-act playlet dealing with theme of visiting teaching. Characters: Three — Time: Approximately 15 minutes. 7. "A Message in Action," a playlet based on the story "A Message in Action," by Maggie Tolman Porter, published in The Relief Society Magazine, July 1952, page 450, arranged by Ethel W. Brothers. Visiting teaching principles put into action. Characters: Six women, three children — Time: 15-20 minutes. 8. "Charity Never Faileth," by Marion Clegg. A clever playlet dealing with the visiting teaching program. Characters: Five — Time: Approximately 25 minutes. GENERAL RELIEF SociETY PROGRAM: 1. "Spirit of Relief Society," by Ione Spencer Bennion. Pageant portraying the fact that the teachings of the Savior are exemplified in the spirit of Relief Society. Characters: Reader and a number of persons who speak from audience. Time: Approximately 20 minutes. 2. "Ma Learned That in Relief Society," by Thora Page. Humorous skit in three scenes, dealing with the Relief Society program. Characters: Seven — Time: Approximately 15-20 minutes. 3. "If You Do It Unto the Least of These," by Ida R. Aldredge. Published in The Relief Society Magazine, 1935, page 30. Playlet dealing with various aspects of the Relief Society program. Characters: Five — Time: Approximately 20 minutes. NOTES TO THE FIELD 747 4. "All in a Day," by Rosannah C. Irvine. Published in The Relief Society Magazine, 1939, page 252. Humorous play, dealing with the Relief Society program and its influence upon the newly married woman. Characters: Five — Time: Approximately 30 minutes. 5. "Rejuvenation of Adeline," by Edna May Irvine. Humorous skit in one act, three scenes. How Relief Society transformed the lives of two "stay-at-home" women. Characters: Four adults and one child — Time: Approximately 25-30 minutes. 6. "Results," by Dorothy Clapp Robinson. Published in The Relief Society Magazine, 1937, page 165. One-act playlet dealing with the diversity of the Relief Society rogram.: * Characters: Fourteen Relief Society women — Time: Approximately 20 minutes. 7. "Relief Society—Why?"' by Esther Olson. Humorous playlet about two women who felt they could not leave their housework to attend Relief Society. Good membership play. Characters: Five — Time: Approximately 30 minutes. 8. "This Could Be You," by Barbara Olson Gabbitas. Features of Relief Society program portrayed in three unrelated scenes. Each episode could be used separately. Characters: Three in first scene, two in each of the others. Time: Approximately 20-25 minutes complete. 9. "Birthday Program," by Elizabeth Hill Boswell. Dramatic program written in blank verse dealing with general Relief Society program. Characters: Two — Time: Approximately 25 minutes. 10. A group of suggestions for very short programs, based chiefly on material published in The Relief Society Magazine upon the following subjects: Family Hour — Music — Christmas The Home (Relating to the work meeting program) Freedom (Relating to the social science course) The Written Word (Relating to the literature course) Home anv Famiry Hour: 1. "We Found the Way," by Mary G. Judd. A dramatization in two scenes dealing with family life and contrasting the atmosphere and attitudes in two homes. Characters: Seven in each scene — Time: Approximately 10 minutes. THEOLOGICAL — Boox or MorMON AND BIBLE: 1. "Know the Scriptures." Theological playlet dealing with a New Testament reading project. Characters: Parents and four children — Time: Approximately 10 minutes. 2. "Book of Mormon Reading Project."" Program dealing with The Book of Mormon reading project with scriptural quotations, from II Nephi and Alma 34. Characters: Four — Time: Approximately 15 minutes. 3. "We Walk Today Where Jesus Walked." A religious program dealing with the life of the Savior with appropriate music. To be presented by a reader or several readers representing various wards of the stake. Time: Approximately 30 minutes. 4. "Other Sheep I Have." A pageant portraying the coming forth of The Book of Mormon and a resume of its contents. Musical numbers interspersed. Narrative continuity is given by a reader. A number of tableaux, involving important characters are suggested by author, i. E.: Joseph Smith, Lehi and family, Nephi, Mary and infant, Columbus, Washington, Mosiah, Jared, Coriantumr, Abinadi, Alma, etc. Characters: Reader — Time: Approximately one hour. ORGANIZATION OF RELIEF SOCIETY: _1. "A Great Day for Women." A re-enactment of the organization of Relief Society written in the spirit of the occasion, historically accurate, although not all statements are direct quotations. 748 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 Characters: Eight who speak, thirteen who represent others present. Time: Approximately 25-30 minutes. 2. "Relief Society Memory Book," script by Virginia Driggs Clark. Additions by Marianne C. Sharp and Alberta H. Christensen. Characters: Reader and nine women from album representing the different general Relief Society presidents. Time: Approximately 30 minutes. 3. "On Your Birthday," by Alberta H. Christensen. A very short playlet in one scene dealing with the organization of Relief Society in a generalized way. Characters: Three — Time: Approximately 10 minutes. LITERATURE: 1. "An Awakening," by Mona Wilcox Cannon. Published in The Relief Society Magazine, 1936, page 28. Playlet promoting interest in the literature course of Relief Society. Characters: Four — Time: Approximately 15 minutes. GENERAL: 1. "The Light Within," by Blanche Kendall McKey. Published in The Relief Society Magazine, 1932, page 216. Very short playlet. The effectiveness of this simple demonstration will depend upon the "earnestness and spirituality of the actors." | Characters: Five and other persons to represent a Relief Society meeting. Time: Approximately 15 minutes. MorHers AND MOTHERHOOD: 1. "Universal Mother," by Mary Grant Judd. Published in The Relief Society Magazine, 1934, page 259. Dramatization for use on Mother's Day program. Time: Approximately 10-15 minutes. 2. "Of What Is Woman?" by Clare P. Hansen. Short pageant dealing with the virtues of womankind and specifically with Relief Society, who is personified as exemplifying these virtues. Characters: Reader and four women who briefly characterize educational program. Appropriate tableau groupings suggested. 3. "Mothers of Our Nation," by Mabel S. Harmer. Published in The Relief Society Magazine, 1935, page 308. A pageant for Mother's Day, featuring a reader and costumed tableaux for the following scenes: Pilgrim, Washington's farewell to his mother, Pioneer, Civil War, World War, with the minuet dance by small group or single couple and a finale which is a general tribute to mother. Characters: Reader and tableau groups — Time: 15-20 minutes. MISCELLANEOUS: 1. "A Typical Case," by Edna May Irvine. Published in The Relief Society Magazine, 1936, page 167. Play in three scenes, depicting the life in home of a Relief Society president. Characters: Eight, including five children — Time: Approximately 30 minutes. 2. '"Let's Get on the Relief Society Train." A lively program with the object of increasing Relief Society membership and suitable for opening social. Characters: Twelve board members — Time: Variable, depending on whether it is used for a meeting or social. 3. "Pioneer Portrait," by Mary G. Judd. Dramatization from diary of a Relief Society woman. Planned for radio presentation. Time: Approximately 20 minutes. 4. "The New Luster," author unknown. Humorous playlet in two scenes portraying influence of Relief Society program on typical L. D. S. Home. Characters: Seven speaking — Time: 20-25 minutes. Music: 1. Hymn Festival "I Hear America Go Singing to Her Destiny," by Solva McLaughlin. Includes prologue and continuity between musical numbers for an evening's entertainment. Characters: A reader and singing groups as desired. Time: Dependent on musical numbers used. 2. "Come to the Fair," arranged by Alberta H. Christensen. Light musical with short humorous interlude. Characters: Two readers, one soloist, singing groups as desired. Time: Approximately 20-25 minutes. Beggar Legion Marian Schroder Crothers The trees were nearly bare.. Only a few red leaves still clung persistently, And rustled faintly in the winter wind. Through sharp, crisp air, Pale sunlight filtered down To touch the barren earth. With suppliant, gray arms outstretched They stood, a beggar legion, Waiting their winter's gift of snowy robes Borne on the wind's wings, through the night. X © %& & HAymn in Amber Ouida Johns Pedersen Hear now a surge of great thanksgiving Sung from the heart, and echoing from fields Suddenly silent after harvesting. The tattooing stubble Waits the white blaze of winter, And the orchards are steel engravings On the gray November sky. Sounds of peace break like colors Upon the horizons of the ear, As the moment after symphony. Silence after silence gathers Until the surge of great Thanksgiving Pours from the heart— Fruit of the spirit's harvesting. NOTES TO THE FIELD 749 one Renovating and Dressing of Dolls Thelma Standering most creative and inexpensive hobby and also a wonderful way to bring joy and happiness to little folks is the repairing, painting, and dressing of old dolls. Working Materials Before beginning the work on doll repairing, it is necessary to assemble the proper working materials, for they are very important in turning out a pretty and lovable doll. Most important is a work table on which to paint and assemble. I have found a card table covered with oilcloth is easily cleaned, a perfect place to work, the height is just right, and the table can easily be moved, if necessary. The best of quick-drying enamel is needed, along with good brushes —one large brush about one inch wide, and three or four smaller brushes, suitable for painting eyes, lashes, lips, and hair. For the body, use a flesh-color enamel, in pintsize cans, as it dries out in larger cans. Many bodies can be painted from this amount. Buy smaller cans of red, brown, black, and any other color you may wish to use. I use a pretty shade of paste rouge which I finger blend onto cheeks after the dolls' faces have been painted and are dryed. You will also need pliers, wire cutters, scissors, curling iron, quickdrying cement, glue, plaster of Paris, very fine sandpaper, paint thinner, a very large heavy crochet hook, and cotton batting, kapok, or any material suitable for the stuffing of cloth bodies. PAINTING THE UNASSEMBLED DOLLS Page 750 THE RENOVATING AND DRESSING OF DOLLS Cleaning and Painting Gather together your dolls, not too many at one time, eight or ten are enough at one painting. Take them apart, saving rubber and wigs, if usable. Then wash thoroughly with damp cloth and scouring powder and wipe dry with a clean cloth. Examine for missing fingers, toes, noses, or any small cracks that need mending. These may be mended with plaster of Paris, mixed with enough water to work with; let dry, then apply a thin coating of glue to the mended parts. This keeps paint from soaking into the plastered area. Sandpaper the rough spots, making sure the doll is smooth and clean. Now adjust the eyes, those that open and close; or, if damaged, replace with others taken from heads that are no longer usable. The dolls are now ready to paint. Apply the flesh-colored enamel to the body evenly and hang the doll 751 THE AUTHOR WITH COMPLETED DOLLS to dry on a clothesline with a string attached to the metal piece on the doll's body. Let dry thoroughly. In the meantime, paint the heads and set them to dry. Paint the faces carefully. Your own creative ability will determine fine shades of coloring. Paint on hair, if no wig is to be used. You may now reassemble your doll. If the doll is all bisque, use the crochet hook to attach rubber to metal bar in the head; pull through the leg slot in the body, and fasten a leg, clamping metal pieces together with pincers. Put into place the other leg, then attach the arms in the same manner. Make sure the rubber is tight. A little rouge may be blended on the knees, elbows, and the backs of the hands, if desired. You may paint fingernails and toenails with red paint. Assembling Parts of Various Kinds of Dolls There are many different kinds of dolls. The bodies may be made of bisque, rubber, plastic, or cloth, those with hair and those without. So assemble them according to material and size. If a cloth body is used, after the paint is dry, add as much stuffing as needed to properly fill the body, and adjust the head. It is sometimes practical to glue a piece of cardboard or cloth to the bottom of the head, so the stuffing will not go from the body into the head. Tighten wire, which is strung through the neck, with pincers and twist it several times until the head is on tight. Snip off the excess wire with wire cutters, and tuck under. Be sure to mend any holes in the body, so the stuffing will not come out. In assembling, you may use the good parts of different dolls so long as they fit properly and match. Always save all of the good parts of old dolls, as you may be able to use them later. Before putting the wig on a doll, comb it well, as it is much easier to handle then. Glue the wig to the head, tying firmly with a cloth under the chin until dry, and curl with curling iron. Dressing In dressing dolls study the type and facial expressions, then dress each one accordingly, with full skirts, puff sleeves, bits of lace, ribbon, old beads, flowers, or other odds and ends you may gather from friends or which your own sewing box may provide. Crisp materials are best—organdy, taffeta, nylon, net, or a pretty printed cotton. The tops of small children's wornout socks in dainty colors, or white, provide material for the doll's stockings. Cut off bottom of the foot part and sew the upper part to fit the doll's foot. Shoes may be purchased at dime stores for a nominal sum, usually ten to fifteen cents a pair. They give the doll a finished touch. If, however, you do not wish to go to this expense, a ribbon tied in a pretty bow over the socks and around the ankle is a pleasing substitute. Many individual touches may be added—a necklace of pearls or tiny beads, a flower, or a ribbon in the hair or at the waistline. A suggestion for dressing baby dolls is to cut out a square of outing flannel, a dainty print or plain, and crochet a simple stitch around it with yarn for a blanket, then crochet bootees to match and run a ribbon or crocheted string through them. This, of course, eliminates using shoes and socks. Bonnets do much to beautify the dolls. There are many ways they may be made, but fluffiness emphasizes daintiness. A gathering of net, organdy, or ruching may be used. Cutting with pinking shears saves the hemming of ruffles. Testimony Seed Cynthia A. Scott Unknown to me, it fell upon my heart, Peacefully, in strength and joy it grew. Timidly, the light shone forth—at first in part; Then truly, fully, gratefully, I knew. 752 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 Courtesy Florist Information Council Shanksgiving Dinner Suggestions Ethel C. Smith FOR hundreds of years people in many lands have held harvest festivals. The Ametican Thanksgiving Day probably grew out of the harvest celebrations of England. The first Thanksgiving Days were indeed harvest festival days, when people thanked God for the plentiful crops. In the United States Thanksgiving Day is usually a family day celebrated with a spirit of gratitude and joyous reunions with loved ones. For many of us the very mention of Thanksgiving calls up nostalgic memories of old farmhouse kitchens and pantries crowded with good things to eat. Our Thanksgiving dinner this year may be simple or elaborate, but whatever it is, let us remember with love and compassion in our hearts those whose tables are bare, and let us be deeply grateful for what we are privileged to enjoy. If turkey is to be the main attraction at your Thanksgiving dinner, be sure it is brought to the table golden brown, juicy, and well done. To flavor the turkey, a good stuffing is a necessity. Here is the recipe for one that is a favorite with us: Page 753 754 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 STUFFING FOR THE TURKEY 4 c. Bread crumbs (use dry bread and 1 tsp. Powdered sage grind it with the coarse knife of 1 tsp. Salt the grinder) pepper to taste " ¢. Finely ground onions; Y, c. Butter Simmer the ground onions in butter over low heat until they are soft (do not brown). Mix together. If not moist enough, add a little warm water or stock in which giblets are cooked. This stuffing may be varied by adding any one of the following. When this is done, the amount of sage shown above should be reduced. 1 c. Finely chopped celery % pint drained, chopped oysters 1 c. Boiled chestnuts, chopped chopped cooked giblets "2 ¢. Chopped celery a are most often an accompaniment to the main dinner course, and as such, they should be light and of medium-sized portions. The ever-popular grapefruit, orange, and avocado crescents make a tangy salad to serve with turkey. This is especially good served with the following French dressing: FRENCH DRESSING 1 tbsp. Sugar - Y% c. Vinegar 1 tsp. Salt % c. Salad oil " tsp. Dry mustard 1 tsp. (or more) finely slivered onion % tsp. Paprika Mix together and shake well dash of pepper Mo. LpED CRANBERRY SAUCE 1 pound (4 c.) cranberries 2 c. Hot water 2 ¢. Sugar Wash and pick over cranberries. Add water: cook covered for 10 minutes or until skins pop. Strain, add sugar, and stir until sugar is dissolved. Pour into ring molds and chill until firm. Unmold on crisp lettuce leaves. Fill center with salad made of diced apples, chopped celery, diced pineapple, mixed with mayonnaise to which has been added stiffly-whipped cream and some chopped walnuts or pecans. VEGETABLE SALAD Mix well-seasoned cream cheese and chopped pecan nuts. Fill green peppers which have been cleaned and dried. Chill and slice. Garnish with mayonnaise to which has been added some finely-chopped parsley and a few slivers of pimiento. To a salad made of sliced peaches and bananas, and green seedless grapes, add some peanuts. Serve with a cooked fruit salad dressing made as follows: Fruit Satap Dressinc Mix and cook together in top of double boiler until creamy and thickened: 2 eggs slightly beaten juice of 1 orange and juice of % lemon "A ¢. Sugar, When cool add 1 c. Stiffly-whipped cream % c. Pineapple juice CRANBERRY RELISH Most everyone has favorite ways of making cranberry jelly, sauce, or relish to garish the Thanksgiving bird. A popular relish is made by grinding 2 cups cranberries, one apple, and one orange (add a little of the rind when grinding the orange), with sugar added to taste. This can be made ahead of time and kept in the refrigerator. The Deeper Melody CHAPTER 2 Alice Morrey Bailey Synopsis: Steven Thorpe, 150 miles from home on a selling campaign, has intuition that something is wrong with his three motherless children left in the care of a hired girl. His home telephone goes unanswered. Leaving his work, he goes home, to find his children neglected and his baby ill with pneumonia. Margaret Crain, a registered nurse, is sent by the doctor to take care of the baby. His home with mingled relief at having help for the sick little Phyllis, alarm that she might not have the experience to give his baby sympathetic care, and chagrin at having the well-groomed girl see the confusion and actual dirt of his home. He felt his skin flush red, but made no apology. "You must be Miss Crain," he said perfunctorily, "the nurse Dr. Dunn sent." "IT understand you have a sick child," she said, by way of acknowledgement.: Her manner was a fine balance between concern and impersonality, a result of her training, no doubt. She did not look around the room with that quick look of appraisal Steve expected and dreaded, and he thought better of her when she stepped over Ilene's dollbed and Davey's dumptruck with equanimity. "T certainly do have a sick child," he agreed, and led her to the bedside of Phyllis. She probably saw homes like this often, neglected babies, too. He told her briefly what had happened, Sy oh welcomed the nurse to about his finding the children neglected and the baby sick. "Tt was all my fault," he finished. "T should have had the sense to know an untrained girl of seventeen could not possibly cope with the situation alone. Miss Crain flashed him a thoughtful look, but made no comment. She wasted no time, took off her cape and adjusted her cap without benefit of mirror, studying Phyllis as she did so. Steve watched her critically for signs of incompetency, wondering if he dared trust his baby's life to her training and care. Her hands were deft, taking the pulse and respiration, her eyes on the sweephand of her watch. Her hands had a sculptured beauty that came of capability, almost like machinery, with never a wasted motion. Her fingernails were short, colorless, and immaculate, and he compared them involuntarily with those of Miss Tate in the office, who wore hers long and painted. Miss Crain wore an engagement ring that was impressive in size, and which caught the light and reflected it in little prismatic points about the room. If she was in love, Steve thought, she probably wouldn't have a thought for anyone except her sweetheart. She stopped her work as if he had spoken his thoughts and faced him. "Mr. Thorpe," she said, "you are wondering if you can trust me." He was so taken back that he could think of nothing to say. Page 755 "T guess I have been peering at you rather critically. I didn't think you saw me." "It was a feeling," she said simply. "You were wondering if you could trust your baby with me. Please don't worry, Mr. 'Thorpe. Dr. Dunn is a fine doctor, and has exceptional success with babies. He gives the kind of orders a good nurse likes to follow, and I am well trained, with six years of experience —nine, really, counting my three years of training." "Nine years!" Steve gave the girl a quick reappraisal. She couldn't be the schoolgirl he had first thought, for Steve dimly remembered that a girl couldn't go in training until she was eighteen. "Tm twenty-eight," she said drily. "You're uncanny," countered Steve. "And almost as old as I. I'm thirty-one." Not that it had any bearing, he thought, and flushed suddenly. HE had spoken without egotism or heat, just statements of fact. Tension went out of Steve. "I must say," he told her, "that while I was watching you critically, it was with growing admiration. Now I feel that if anyone can make Phyllis well you can—you and Dr. Dunn." "That's good," she said. "Now I can do my best work." -When the medicine came he helped her, holding the baby, his insides turning to jelly when Phyllis strained. Back and screamed at having her throat swabbed, nose drops, and earache medicine, and when the. Hypodermic — needle pricked her. Miss Crain's face was impassive, showing no signs of emotion or sympathy, and she went unhesitatingly through the routine. When it was over, Phyllis settled back with obvious relief and closed her eyes with a little sigh. "It looks as if she knows she is in competent hands at last," Steve said. "I'd better go see why the others are so quiet and get lunch ready. When I can get away I'll have to go to an agency and get a housekeeper, so if you'll excuse me...." "Certainly, Mr. Thorpe," she murmured. "Miss Crain, I—do you think Phyllis is going to be all right?" he asked. She looked at him, compassion in her eyes. "I wish I could say," she told him. "It depends on so many things. She is a very sick child. I don't know how she will react to medicine and treatment. I can say this, though, I've seen sicker babies get well—and pneumonia isn't the terrifying disease it used to be—not with the new drugs." Steve had to be content. At least, she didn't try to give him false comfort, and that was good. In fact, everything she did was good. Dr. Dunn was certainly right when he said she was a fine nurse. Steve felt himself warming to her in real liking. She made a total conquest of Davey and Ilene. At lunchtime Phyllis was still sleeping, so Miss Crain came to the table. When Steve served the soup the children had pulled their chairs close on either side of her, where they announced they were going to sit. "Well, you can't do that," Steve said, putting them at the ends of 756 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 THE DEEPER MELODY the table. "Miss Crain has to have room to eat her soup." "Tlene likes the pretty lady," said Ilene, and Miss Crain colored with pleasure. "Well, I like you, Hene," she said. "You, too, Davey." "The pretty lady is my mama," Davy informed Ilene. "No, my mama," asserted Ilene. Steve wriggled in embarrassment. "Don't pay any attention to them," he said. "They call all women mama. They even called Gloria that." Miss Crain looked at their bright little faces with deep pity. "I'll be mama for both of you," she said, and they attacked their soup happily. "Tell me about their mother," she asked Steve. HE was matter-of-fact, as if asking about the weather, and he found it easy to talk, even good to talk. Somehow it eased the tight ache in his heart. His relatives and friends had considered it a subject not to be broached, fearing it would hurt him too much, but Miss Crain encouraged him with questions, probed gently until he poured out details that had long twisted pain within him. "Pardon me for being so personal, but aren't there any women in your family who could help with the children?" "Mother did, for awhile, but her health wouldn't take it. Ellen's mother died ten years ago. Ellen was the only girl. My sister, Ge neve, would take them, but her husband doesn't like children," Steve finished a little savagely, "the truth vad 757 is, I don't want anyone else to have them. I want them myself. This is my family." "That's rather an unusual attitude for a man,' Miss Crain observed. She looked at him with new interest, as if seeing him for the first time. "Thanks," said Steve, shortly. "The rebuke to the sex is well earned. You take a woman left with children like this, and she'll keep them together if she has to scrub nights for a living, but a man! He'll usually try to get out from under the load. You're always reading about a father deserting a family. When a mother does, it makes the headlines." Davey and Ilene were nodding over their empty plates, so Steve took them to the other bedroom and tucked them in for their afternoon nap. "Tm going right now to hunt a housekeeper," he said as he returned. "Tell me what time you will be leaving. Nurses work eight hours a day, don't they?" "I usually do," she answered hesitantly. "This time, though, under the circumstances, if you don't mind, I'll stay on until Phyllis gets better. It seems to me she has been left to new hands a few times too often. It builds a dangerous sense of insecurity in a little one, especially a sick child." "Then Tl pay you for three shifts," said Steve, beside himself with gratitude. "You may pay me for two," she decided. "You can sit with her while I sleep, but Tl be here if you need me. I've been thinking," she went on, "my mother is at my apartment. My father died a few months ago and she came to live with me. It's lonesome for her there, and I think she would dearly love to come and help." Steve looked at her, trying to find words to express his appreciation for such a magnificent solution to his complex problem. RS. Crain was a small, energetic woman, nearing sixty, with black eyes and iron-gray hair. She surveyed the house like a general anticipating a field of battle, clucked her tongue in disapproval, and attacked the vital spot, the kitchen. Steve put himself at her services, and the headway they made was phenomenal. Dinner, plans for sleeping, the routine of undressing the other children, all passed as in a dream. Steve sat with the baby until midnight while Miss Crain slept, only awakening her when it was time for medications and hypodermics. Watching Phyllis alone was an ordeal, for the child lay inert, her cheeks too bright. It seemed as if her whole strength went into breathing. Conviction that she was going to die, crept upon Steve. Self-blame was heavy upon him, and Miss Crain's coming at midnight to relieve him was a blessed reprieve. She told him to go to bed, and Steve went, for it had been a long twenty hours since he had awakened at the Kettle Creek mine. He went to sleep instantly on the living room couch, but jumped up in alarm several hours later, when the nurse entered the room. "The baby's temperature is down this morning," she told him. "She is tolerating the drugs, and if her temperature doesn't go too high this afternoon, it will look encouraging. Why don't you get back to your work?" "T will if you're sure it's all right," said Steve, relief flooding over him. Nevertheless, he didn't go to work. He had shaved, showered, and eaten breakfast, was just ready to step out the door when the telephone rang. It was J. T. "Steve, that Kettle Creek deal fell through," he growled. "J. T., ''m sorry. I thought it was a sure thing. I'll be right down." "You thought!" snorted J. T. "As for coming back, you can save yourself the bother. I counted on you to put that deal through. I knew you could do it, but an unreliable man is no better than an incompetent one." Steve had been on the verge of pleading his case, but these words stung his pride. "All right, J. T., so I'm fired," he said coldly and hung up. He sat staring at the telephone. The bottom had dropped out of his already leaky world. What was he going to do now, in a strange town, with a family to support, a sick baby, and no job? "Why didn't you tell him about the baby?" Miss Crain asked behind him. Steve jumped. "I wasn't eavesdropping,' she hastened to add. "I couldn't help hearing, and I think he is unfair." "T don't blame J. T. That would have been a twenty thousand dollar profit, and it is gone. I can't imagine what happened. That much (Continued on page 782) 758 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 From The F leld_ Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Hattie B. Maughan NEW ENGLAND MISSION, CAMBRIDGE (MASSACHUSETTS) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, December 1952 Left to right: Elaine L. Jack, Counselor; Romaine B. Romney, Counselor; Leonora B. Cox, President; Elsie Ann Unopulos, Secretary; Hattie M. Maughan, President, New England Mission Relief Society. President Hattie B. Maughan reports that this branch, the largest in the mission, is an energetic and enthusiastic group. '"We are delighted with the vigor and enthusiasm of this group, composed largely of young mothers." The Cambridge Branch, early in 1953, had an enrollment of forty members, an increase of twenty-four per cent over the previous year. The bazaar was a successful and happy occasion; the displays were varied, and the individual articles beautifully made. A baked goods sale was conducted, and a chili supper was served. Page 759 760 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 Photograph submitted by Arvilla M. Swindlehurst BEAVER STAKE (UTAH), BEAVER SECOND WARD VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION Seated in the front row, left to might: Arvilla M. Swindlehurst, President, Beaver Second Ward Relief Society, third from left; Floral Lee, First Counselor, second from left; Darle Smith, Second Counselor, fourth from the left; Caroline Smith, SecretaryTreasurer, fifth from the left. Every sister in this group has had a perfect visiting teaching record since the division of the wards in 1948. A number of the sisters have had a record of fifteen years of one hundred per cent visiting teaching. Eva Powell, seated sixth from the left in the front row (wearing corsage) was especially honored for personally having done teaching every month for ten years, having had a number of different companions. Bernice Thompson is president of Beaver Stake Relief Society. 4 Ah gprs ~ in *. *:: ine ST NOE Seton se Photograph submitted by Ilene S. Bagley SOUTH DAVIS STAKE (UTAH) CLOSING PROGRAM "WOMEN FROM THE PAGES OF THE PAST," May 21, 1953 Left to right: Blanche Ellis, reader; Doris Boggas; Margaret Carlson; Ruby Hansen; Hazel Child, seated; Marie Boulton; Florence Wakefield; Evelyn Thompson; Petra Hatch; Louise Hogan, seated; Florence Spendlove; Doreen Hatch, seated; Shirley Thompson; Beth Burningham; Maxine Belnap; Leola Hatch; Adeline Parker, seated; Gladys Pusey; Lila Glade; Elsie Logsdon; Leah Hansen, art and stage director; Edna Lunt, reader. This unusual program represented outstanding women from early history down to the present. The planning, staging, costumes, and dialogue were all of high quality, and the attendance at the pageant gave evidence of much interest. Ilene S. Bagley is president of South Davis Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 76) Photograph submitted by Nan A. Lindsay UNION STAKE (OREGON), ELGIN BRANCH HOLDS FIRST BAZAAR May 3, 1953 Seated, left to right: Eva Zeamer, Second Counselor; Lorena Manning, President; Ruth Whittekiend, First Counselor; Emogene Henry, Secretary. Many beautiful articles were displayed and sold at this successful bazaar. The variety of useful and fancy aprons was particularly outstanding, and the quilts were beautifully made. A large number of crocheted doilies and embroidered luncheon sets proved to be among the most popular articles sold by the sisters of this enthusiastic organization. Nan A. Lindsay is former president of Union Stake Relief Society and Mal B. Oveson is the new president. Photograph submitted by Elna P. Haymond BONNEVILLE STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE AND FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY SPRING SOCIAL — 1953 La Rue Tucker, chorister, is seated in front at the left of the microphone; Irene Platt, accompanist, is seated in front at the right of the microphone. Elna P. Haymond, now a member of the general board of Relief Society, is former president of the Bonneville Stake Relief Society. 'The new Relief Society president in Bonneville Stake is Mary R. Young. 762 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 Photograph submitted by Nina L. Riley LONG BEACH STAKE (CALIFORNIA), LONG BEACH FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OUTING Standing, in front, left to right: Mildred Johnson (in light-colored suit), First Counselor; Ida M. Holt, President; Elese Taylor, Second Counselor. A special bus was chartered for this occasion, and forty-seven women enjoyed an all-day trip. The moming was spent at Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Glendale, viewing America's largest religious painting, ""The Crucifixion" by Jan Styka. Each woman took her own lunch, and in the afternoon the group was taken to the Huntington Art Gallery and Library at San Marino, California, where they enjoyed the afternoon viewing the objects of art, original manuscripts, and the beautifully landscaped grounds. Nina L. Riley is former president of Long Beach Stake Relief Society, and Lenore G. Merrill is the new president. Photograph submitted by Miriam W. Knapp OAHU STAKE (HAWAII) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 1953 The chorister of Oahu Stake Relief Society is Sister Eva Newton, who ably directs a large and enthusiastic group of singers. Standing at right of organ, President Miriam Knapp; second from organ, First Counselor Christie C. Robertson. Back row, extreme left, Eva Newton, chorister, and standing next to Sister Newton, Barbara Buchanan Tuttle, organist for this occasion, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 763 bi 'Photograph submitted by Leah Kirk TWIN FALLS STAKE (IDAHO), TWIN FALLS FOURTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY SPONSORS MEMBERSHIP AND VISITING TEACHING PROJECTS Seated, left to right: Theda Grant, Second Counselor, and her four children; Laura May Galloway, First Counselor, and her two children; Millicent Jarman, Secretary, a grandmother; Mona Brown, President, and her four children. Leah Kirk, President, Twin Falls Stake Relief Society, reports the outstanding achievements of this executive group: "We feel they deserve some special recognition for their outstanding work in the past year and a half. Upon the division of the ward, they were released, and, except for the secretary, they were immediately re-appointed in the new ward. In their first year and a half of administration, a record of one hundred per cent visiting teaching was achieved every month but one, and only one district missed the one-hundred-per-cent mark that month. When the teachers could not make their visits, the presidency did. Theirs was a large ward, with 202 families to visit, which makes the record even more commendable. Under this presidency the attendance at Relief Society meetings increased twenty-five per cent—mostly young mothers. The sisters render many compassionate services and have wonderful work meetings." PASADENA STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE READING PROJECT Madge P. Fowler, President, Pasadena Stake Relief Society, reports an interesting and unusual project which was successfully carried out in her stake. "Our stake Magazine representative asked each ward representative in her department in union meeting to write a brief letter on the subject: "Why I Read The Relief Society Magazine.' She asked the stake board members to be judges, and she gave a prize to the winner. All but one ward turned in a letter, and it was a difficult task to choose the best. Sister Blanche Calvert, stake Magazine representative, asked if we could have a standing roll call each union meeting, asking how many had read the Magazine from cover to cover.... Many have told us they were glad we did this... As they were forming the habit, where before they read some of it, but missed many wonderful things." Ardella Hackford was announced as the winner in the letter-writing contest. 764 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 PHgiganaab submitted by Alice W. Carlisle ALPINE STAKE (UTAH), HIGHLAND WARD OBSERVES ONE-HUNDRED PER-CENT DAY March 24, 1953 Front row, seated, left to right: Henrietta Larsen; Mary Lee Myres; Kate Rogers, First Counselor; Marie Greenland, President; Verda Jepperson, Second Counselor; Maud Greenland, Secretary. Dorcas Hyde, author of the winning slogan and verses used on the poster, stands in the back row, at the left of the slogan. The sisters of this organization, realizing that their average attendance was low, decided to have a "One-Hundred-Per-Cent Day" during the Relief Society anniversary month of March. 'We had our social science lesson as usual,' President Marie Greenland reports, "as we wanted the. Women to see how our meetings are conducted and get them interested in attending and enjoying all the meetings, instead of just the parties and the special events. We had seventy-eight per cent of the enrolled membership attend this meeting." Alice W. Carlisle is president of Alpine Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Media C. Hochstrasser TACOMA STAKE (WASHINGTON) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION une 23, 19 One hundred twenty-five nud! Society been attended this convention, and five were especially honored for outstanding service. Four of the sisters are between seventy-eight and eighty-three years old and have served from twenty-nine to fifty years. They are still active in their wards. Luella C. Ricks is president of Tacoma Stake Relief Society. LESSON ie DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 21—The Record of Zeniff _ Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Mosiah 9-22 ) For Tuesday, February 2, 1954 Objective: To show the wisdom of following the admonitions of prophets. Zeniff Seeks to Possess Lehi-Nephi HE record of Zeniff is an account of the people who left Zarahemla (near 200 B. C.) and went to the land of Lehi-Nephi. Zeniff had made an earlier expedition to this land as a member of a large group. He had been sent as a spy among the Lamanites who possessed the land of their forefathers and was impressed with that which was good among them. He had returned to the camp of the expedition with the recommendation that they make a treaty of peace with the Lamanites, but this policy had been rejected by their austere and bloodthirsty leader. Many members of the group, however, joined with Zeniff in his pleas. Altercations arose, and soon the members of the expedition were in the throes of civil strife. Father fought against father, and brother against brother, until only fifty remained to return to the city of Zarahemla to report to wives and children what had happened. Zeniff, overzealous to inherit the land of his fathers, organized another group under his leadership, with the avowed intention of making a treaty of peace with the Lamanites in the land of Lehi-Nephi. Suffering from famine and other afflictions, because they were slow to remember the Lord, they journeyed through the wilderness to the place where their brethren had been slain. Zeniff Given Land by Crafty Lamanite King Zeniff took four men, went into the city, talked with the king of the Lamanites, and was granted the privilege of possessing the land of Lehi-Nephi and the land of Shilom in peace. With considerable pride he returned to the encampment and reported that the king of the Lamanites had covenanted with him that he might have the land of LehiNephi for his people. | But Zeniff had misjudged his man. He had taken for sincerity an action that was crafty and filled Page 765 with greed and malice. Zeniff had taken as sterling that which was but a base imitation. The king of the Lamanites knew that the industry of these Nephites would create much wealth which subsequently he could force them to yield to him. True to this covenant, the king of the Lamanites commanded his own people to leave Lehi-Nephi, and Zeniff and his colony moved in. They constructed buildings and repaired the walls of the two cities, Lehi-Nephi and Shilom. They began to till the fertile land, to plant corn, wheat, barley, neas, sheum, and all kinds of fruit. For twelve years these Nephites were given every opportunity as a free and independent people. War With the Lamanites Then the Lamanites, lazy and idolatrous, showed signs of wanting to make them captives. In the thirteenth year, a numerous host of Lamanites made war upon those who were on the south of the land of Shilom as they were quietly feeding their flocks and tilling their land. The Nephites, who escaped, tushed to Zeniff in the city of Nephi and called for help. Zeniff armed them with bows, arrows, swords, clubs, cimeters, and slings, and they went forth to battle against the Lamanites. In the strength of the Lord they went. Three thousand and forty-three Lamanites lost their lives in a day and a night, and two hundred seventy-nine Nephites were slain. The Lamanites were driven from the land. As Zeniff said, 'And God did hear our cries and did answer our prayers" (Mosiah 9:18). Realizing that he could no longer depend upon the covenant that King Laman had made, Zeniff prepared for war. He stationed guards roundabout the land and manufactured weapons of war. For nine or ten years more they lived in peace. 'The men carried on their agricultural pursuits, and the women made all kinds of fabrics for clothes. Then King Laman died, and his son ascended the throne. By means of spies, Zeniff soon discovered that the new king was stirring his people up in rebellion against the Nephites and was preparing for an attack. Armed with bows, arrows, swords, cimeters, stones, and slings, and dressed in leather loincloths, they attacked the Nephites north of the land of Shilom. Zeniff made hasty preparations, had the women and children hidden in the wilderness, and equipped all men who were able to bear arms, both old and young. The Nephites, fighting in the strength of the Lord to protect their wives and children and property, drove the Lamanites out of their lands. Those Lamanites were a wild and ferocious people, who were filled with a spirit of hatred and revenge. From childhood they had been taught that the Nephite forefathers had wronged their forefathers, that Nephi had assumed authority over them, and had stolen their records. This spirit of envy and hatred was a result of training from infancy. The contrast is striking between the two people. The Nephites fought for that which was just and true, and knew the Lord was on their side. The -Lamanites were 766 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT fighting with the spirit of hatred and murder, seeking to make others suffer that they might have revenge. Noah Becomes King As a result of the battle, the Nephites were able again to settle down to their peaceful pursuits, to tend their flocks, and to till the ground. It was about 160 B.. When Zeniff found it necessary, because of old age, to confer the kingdom upon his son, Noah. But Noah who received the kingdom, did not walk in the ways of his father and was not fitted to rule a people. He dismissed his father's tighteous priests and installed wicked men in the priestly offices. Noah and these wicked priests refused to obey Nephite law, which required that one man should have but one wife and that he should not have any concubines. For the purpose of satisfying their lustful desires, they had many wives and concubines; and they felt that the people should support them in luxury, which they did by paying a fifth tax of their gold, silver, ziff, copper, brass, iron, fatlings, and grain. King Noah built many elegant and spacious buildings. He planted vineyards throughout the land and his people became wine-bibbers. Abinadi the Prophet Cries Repentance One man named Abinadi went forth among the people calling them to repentance, saying, | Behold, thus saith the Lord... Go forth, and say unto this people... Wo be unto this people, for I have seen their abominations, and their wickedness, and their whoredoms; and except they repent 767 I will visit them in mine anger.... I will deliver them into the hands of their enemies; yea, and they shall be brought into bondage; and they shall be afflicted by the hand of their enemies.... And none shall deliver them, except it be the Lord the Almighty God. Yea, and it shall come to pass that when they shall cry unto me I will be slow to hear their cries.... And except they repent in sackcloth and ashes, and cry mightily to the Lord their God, I will not hear their prayers, neither will I deliver them out of their afflictions (Mosiah 11:20 ff.). Noah was wroth and said: Who is Abinadi, that I and my people should be judged of him, or who is the Lord, that shall bring upon my people such great affliction? (Mosiah 11:27). He planned to take the life of Abinadi, but the Lord delivered him out of their hands. Two years later Abinadi returned in disguise to warn the people again according to the commandment of the Lord. This time he was more specific as he prophesied, saying: It shall come to pass that this generation, because of their iniquities, shall be brought into bondage, and shall be smitten on the cheek; yea, and shall be driven by men, and shall be slain; and the vultures of the air, and the dogs, yea, and the wild beasts, shall devour their flesh. And it shall come to pass that the life of King Noah shall be valued even as a garment in a hot furnace.... I will smite this my people with sore afflictions, yea, with famine and pestilence.... I will cause that they shall have burdens lashed upon their backs; and they shall be driven before like a dumb ass (Mosiah 12:2 ff.). The people were angry, and they delivered Abinadi to King Noah, who had him committed to prison, and finally brought before him and the priests for questioning. Abinadi withstood them in all their questions, and confounded them in their 768. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 words. One of the priests, in order to trick him, asked him to explain a quotation from the scriptures. Abinadi responded: Are you priests, and pretend to teach this people, and to understand the spirit of prophesying, and yet desire to know of me what these things mean?... Ye have not applied your hearts to understanding; therefore, ye have not been wise. Therefore, what teach ye this people? (Mosiah 12:25, 27). He then reproved them bitterly for not keeping the law of Moses, for setting their hearts on riches, and following harlots. After Abinadi rebuked the king and priests, Noah said, "Away with this fellow, and slay him" (Mosiah 13:1). Abinadi withstood them, however, and said, Touch me not, for God shall smite you if ye lay your hands upon me, for I have not delivered the message which the Lord sent me to deliver (Mosiah 13:3). The people dared not lay hands on Abinadi for the Spirit of the Lord was upon him and his face shone with luster. Abinadi finished his message. He read to them the ten commandments, asserting that the people had not lived them, and gave them another prophecy, saying: But this much I tell you, what you do with me, after this, shall be as a type and a shadow of things which are to come (Mosiah 13:10). Abinadi then told them that the Lord had given the children of Israel the law of Moses, "A law of performances and of ordinances... To keep them in remembrance of God and their duty towards him" (Mosiah 13:30) but he warned that without the atonement people "must unavoidably perish, notwithstanding the law of Moses." He quoted Isaiah (compare Isaiah chapter 53) to establish the fact that Isaiah had prophesied that God himself should come down and redeem his people. Abinadi delivered a powerful and wonderful discourse. He said that the Son would offer his life to expiate the sins of all men who would repent, and would redeem all mankind from the grave, and he taught of the resurrection and judgment. Abinadi Burned at the Stake When Abinadi finished his sayings, Noah commanded the priests to have Abinadi slain. After three days in prison they bound him and scourged his skin with faggots. Amidst the pain of burning at the stake, he made his final prophecy, saying:... Ye shall be taken by the hand of your enemies, and then ye shall suffer, as I suffer, the pains of death by fire (Mosiah 17:18). Abinadi sealed the truth of his words by his death. King Noah Slain by Fire Contention crept among the people, some being for and some against King Noah. Gideon fought against King Noah, who climbed the tower to save his life, but Gideon pursued him. However, seeing the Lamanites coming to battle against them, King Noah pleaded for his life, and Gideon spared him. King Noah commanded his people to rush for safety into the wilderness with their women and children. 'The Lamanites soon over- LESSON DEPARTMENT took them and began to slay them. As a precautionary measure, and as a means of saving his life, Noah commanded the men to desert their wives and children and to flee. Those who refused to flee and remained with their wives and children had their fair daughters plead with the Lamanites to spare them. The hearts of the Lamanites were softened and they agreed to let them live in Lehi-Nephi if they would deliver up King Noah and forfeit one half of all their property. Limhi,. A son of King Noah, was among this captive group. He did not wish his father to be destroyed, but Gideon and his men secretly searched for King Noah. They found his followers, except for the wicked priests who had escaped by fleeing, but they had already burned Noah, thus fulfilling the prophecy of Abinadi. Limhi Made a Tributary King These Nephites now returned to the land of Lehi-Nephi with Gideon. Limhi had the kingdom conferred upon him by his captive people. He covenanted with the Lamanites to pay one half of all they possessed as tribute. The Nephites had peace for a period of two years at the expiration of which time the wicked priests of King Noah spirited away twenty-four of the daughters of the Lamanites. The king of the Lamanites, supposing the Nephites to have committed the crime, sought revenge of Limhi and his people. In the battle which 769 followed the king of the Lamanites was injured and left behind. The Nephites cared for his wounds and took him to Limhi. Soon the misunderstanding was cleared up. The Lamanite king pacified his people, and the Nephites returned to their land. Subsequently the Nephites fought three battles with the Lamanites in an effort to free themselves from captivity, but each time they failed. 'These struggles and their captivity humbled the Nephites, but the Lord was slow to hear their cries because of their iniquities. He did, however, begin to soften the hearts of the Lamanites. Only after a period of hardship and trouble in captivity did the Lord bring Ammon and his fifteen strong men to help the Nephites throw off the Lamanite yoke that they had been required to bear. Disciplined mightily by adversity, they secretly escaped under the leadership of Ammon, to Zarahemla. Questions for Discussion 1. What is the central theme of this lesson? 2. Discuss the relationship between the moral deterioration of a people and destruction. 3. If it is true of a nation, is it true of individuals? 4. How is laxity on the part of persons occupying positions of responsibility conducive to lower standards among the people? 5. Why did God exact a high degree of repentance as a basis for forgiveness? A Visiting Sleacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 21—'"Let Not This Pride of Your Hearts Destroy Your Souls!" (Jacob 2:16). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, February 2, 1954 Objective: To encourage the cultivation of humility. "THROUGHOUT the scriptures, mankind has repeatedly been admonished against pride and its degenerating effects. Oft quoted from Proverbs is: "Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall" (Proverbs 16:18). Ruskin said, "In general, pride is at the bottom of all great mistakes." From the pages of history, we learn that pride has been the initial step in the downfall of many peoples and nations. Particularly in Book of Mormon history is this evident. The rise and fall of different peoples chronicled therein, closely parallel the absence or presence of' pride. Wars and tribulations have been preceded by this pernicious evil. Typical of many similar quotations are these: And — in this two hundred and first year there began to be among them those who were lifted up in pride (4 Nephi 24). They persecute the meek and the poor in heart, because in their pride they are puffed up (2 Nephi 28:13). And also the people who were called the people of Nephi began to be proud in their hearts.... And from this time the disciples began to sorrow for the sins of the world (4 Nephi 43, 44). Pride is the forerunner of many other evils. It is a contributing facPage 770 tor in the downfall of many societies. How may one's soul be destroyed by pride? Pride has always been a stumbling block in the way of righteousness. When it infects the human heart, the very essence of Christianity is crowded out, which is the true love of one's fellow men. Pride leads one to become selfish, and selfishness is not righteousness. When one is proud, he is inclined to show preference for social prestige, wealth, the worldly acclaim of men, and to set aside the things of God. Thus pride cankers the soul. Pride leads some to exercise unrighteous dominion over those less fortunate, to be lifted up in their own estimation above others, to expect special privileges and consideration. Such a spirit is not in harmony with the gospel of Jesus Christ. "Think of your brethren like unto yourselves" (Jacob 2:17), said Jacob, in The Book of Mormon. Elder Albert E. Bowen said, "There is no aristocracy with the Lord except the aristocracy of righteousness." Pride is a destructive force, while humility fosters and builds righteousness and nobility of character. Humility induces one to give credit and thanksgiving to his Maker for LESSON DEPARTMENT every blessing received and to accept, with fortitude, the trials that inevitably come. It induces one to seek out the suffering and downtrodden and render loving service, 77\ with an eye single to the glory of God. "Be thou humble; and the Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand" (D. & C. 112:10). Work Meeting—Family Money Management (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 5—Spending the Furniture Dollar Rhea H. Gardner (For Tuesday, February 9, 1954) HE amount of money a family spends on furniture is not necessarily a measuring guide to its beauty or the satisfaction derived from its use. Wise and careful planning, before buying, can save hundreds of dollars and countless regrets. Before deciding to buy new furniture, consider what you can do to modernize what you have, or _ what you can make yourself. Much of the modern furniture is easy to copy if there is a handy man or woman in the family. In many homes there are treasures of priceless value in old pieces of furniture. The real beauty may be hidden by numerous layers of varnish, but this can easily be removed. Know exactly what you need and want and the price you can afford to pay before going shopping. You will want the new piece of furniture to seem a part of all your other room furnishings. It need not be of the same period style, but should blend with the rest of the furniture. It is important to observe the size scale, taking into consideration the space available and the comfort and convenience of the persons who will use the piece of furniture. Take with you, on your shopping tour, space measurements and, if color is involved in the purchase, samples of the colors already in the room. When you shop, go to several stores. Shoppers often pay too much because they do not shop enough. Compare quality, styles, comfort, and prices. Ask questions, examine the furniture on all sides, and read the labels. You may soon find a piece that pleases you very much, 'The size, style, and color may all seem just right, and even the price may be one you can afford, but how about the construction? Is it sturdy, well built, and able to take the kind of wear you will expect of it? If it is a piece that will get hard and continuous wear, it is economy to get the best you can afford. Furniture construction comes down to two items—the quality of the materials used, and how these materials are put together and finished. The way wooden pieces are fitted and fastened together is most important. There are two important and equally satisfactory types of corner joints. 'They are mortise and tenon and dowel joints. Dovetailed corners are indications of sturdy drawer construction. In very inexpensive pieces nails and glue are used to hold the drawer together. Fitting and grooving of wood panels contribute much to strength. In. The best drawer construction, bottoms are fitted into matching grooves on the four sides of the drawer. Center drawer guides and dustproof panels between drawers are further marks of high-quality construction. Never buy a piece of upholstered furniture without knowing what materials are used on the inside. Strong interlaced webbing, hightempered steel springs—held securely in place with strong twine, have long marked the best quality upholstered furniture. Over these is placed such padding materials as curled hair or moss. 'Today, foam rubber is also being used in a most satisfactory way, in most cases. Also, today, woven webbing is being replaced by flexible metal strips and other devices which lessen the amount of hand work required. This means lower prices and better quality. The outside covering of a piece of upholstered furniture represents a high percentage of the total cost, but high quality top covering is a poor substitute for good under construction. Make sure that it is of a quality that will serve your needs. Long threads will pull and wear quickly. Cotton and rayon soil more readily than wool and do not wear as well. Many rubberized plastics stretch and tear along stitching lines where there is extra strain. Heavily textured weaves are currently in high style. With the great simplicity of line in contemporary furniture, texture of both wood and fabric is relied on for interest more than in the past. Today's fashion permits the choice of individual pieces that blend instead of match. A spring and mattress on legs can be much less expensive than when the frame is purchased. The money saved might well go into a better set of springs or mattress. 'The headboard may be a piece of plywood padded and covered with quilted glazed chintz or other suitable material. Or, you may want to build a functional headboard of shelves and storage space above for books, a lamp and radio. Do not be mislead by labels regarding the kind of finish. "Walnut finish" means that a less expensive wood has been stained to look like. Walnut. Most of the fine furniture available in stores today is made with veneered plywood construction. Excellent bonding materials make the veneer of today the most durable of all furniture woods. 'They are about eight per cent stronger than solid wood. Veneering also adds immeasurably to the beauty of the wood grain. Tubular steel, wrought iron, plastic, and metals molded at the factory into drawers, magazine racks, and end tables, are fast replacing materials and methods that have involved the use of much expensive hand labor. The result should be better made, less expensive furniture. 772 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT Regardless of all you can do to learn sound buying practices, you must trust somebody. Buy from a reliable dealer who understands your needs and who makes your interest his. 773 Thoughts for Discussion 1. Explain why the best in furniture does not necessarily mean the most expensive. 2. Discuss the construction of good veneer and tell why it is stronger than solid wood. Dutoraiome— We Literature of England Lesson 37—Thomas Babington Macaulay (1800-1859) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, PP- 418, 419, 427-444) For Tuesday, February 16, 1954 Objective: To relate Macaulay's theory and practice of literature and history to the Victorian period for which he spoke. T some time or another all reading adults should have asked themselves the questions, "What is history? What good is it? I never liked it, yet I had to take it in school. Why?" Or, "I like history, even though it is just some man's opinion, but can I accept someone's opinion or editing of facts as the whole, fair truth?" Basic questions, these, particularly to a "record-keeping people" as are the Latter-day Saints. Can we believe, with Mme. Bertin, that "There is nothing new except what is forgotten?" Or should we agree with Napoleon who said, "All history is a lie," and then exemplified his definition by sitting in his island exile and deliberately falsifying the facts of his life to make his past appear as he would like it to have happened? How terrifying would be the thought that no written account of the past can be trusted, because all history constantly is being revised to flatter the present regime and to prove that it can commit no error or evil! When we come to realize how rampant are systematic perversions of history in our own day, we turn with a larger gratitude to such writers as Macaulay, the most popular historian of the Victorian age, and one of the great historians in the English tradition. Life Sketch Thomas Macaulay was born in 1800, the son of a country minister who was as conservative in his Tory political views as he was devout in his religion. The senior Macaulay risked his entire future security by campaigning vigorously against slavery in the British colonies and gave large sums of money to the cause, yet at the same time he gave full support to the home government in its refusal to improve in any way the unhuman lot of English workingmen. Long before the young Macaulay became a Member of Parliament at thirty, he had changed from Tory to Whig (Conservative to Liberal). Throughout his life he stated his belief in new laws which gave the new commercial classes more control of their country, stating his views so vehemently that at the time of his death he was the most powerful spokesman for Victorian progress. His views dominated British policy until the first World War. At the age of four Macaulay demonstrated unusual mental powers, and before his seventh birthday he had written a compendium of universal history, a long narrative poem, and numerous hymns. At Cambridge he was awarded prizes for his outstanding record, and in his twenty-fifth year his first published essay on Milton appeared in the Edinburgh Review. Immediately he was famous, and for the next twenty years he was the most popular contributor to this influential periodical. In 1834 he was called to be a member of the Supreme Council of India for four years. There he did outstanding work in prison reform and in establishing the British system of education. A glimpse into his study habits while there reveals that in three years he read The Illiad and Odyssey, Virgil, Horace, Tasso, Don Quixote, Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, Mill's India, all the seventy volumes of Voltaire, Sismondi's History of France, and seven thick folios of Biographia Britannica. Later in life Macaulay stated that he could repeat all of Paradise Lost and Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress from memory. Thus we can realize more fully that his being described by his admiring friends as "a book in breeches" was not a chance phrase. From his annual salary in India of ten thousand pounds, (about $50,000 then) he had saved enough that, with an additional ten thousand inherited from an uncle, he was financially independent for life at thirty-eight. Returning to England, he was re-elected to Parliament, then to the office of Minister of War. When the Whigs were forced out of office in 1842, he retired from public life to devote all his energies to his life-long interest: the writing of a history of England in the late 18th century. This was Macaulay's major achievement. His history remains one of the most readable accounts of English history ever written. Let us proceed to discuss these three phases of Macaulay: his style, his theory and practice of historical writing, and his value as an accepted representative of Victorianism. 1. Macaulay's Style Throughout today's schools the cry (by the teachers, of course) is almost universal that our students cannot express themselves clearly. Yet for generations in the excellent English schools "every schoolboy" (a phrase made famous by Macaulay) was trained for years in writing clean, direct sentences, tight, guided paragraphs, with the writings of Macaulay as the model. His most characteristic construction is the balanced sentence identified by the use of but, yet, or a semicolon. The following examples are from the first three pages of his "Essay on History" (text, pp. 429, 431): 774 ~ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT A perfect historian must possess an imagination sufficiently powerful to make his narrative affecting and picturesque. Yet he must control it... Absolutely.... [Herodotus] has written something better perhaps than the best history; but he © has not written a good history; he is, from the first to the last chapter, an inventor.... No picture... And no history, can present us with the whole truth; but those are the best pictures and the best histories which exhibit such parts of the truth as most nearly produce the effect of the whole.... For his ability to dramatize a person we must quote from his essay on Boswell, the immortal biographer of Samuel Johnson. Consider how 'much more intimately you know Boswell after reading the following: [Some] men attained literary eminence in spite of their weaknesses. Boswell attained it by reason of his weaknesses. If he had not been a great fool, he would not have been a great writer. Without _all the qualities which made him the jest and the torment of those among whom he lived, without the officiousness, the inquisitiveness, the effrontery, the toad-eating, the insensibility to all reproof, he never could have produced so excellent a book.. He was... An unsafe companion who never scrupled to repay the most liberal hospitality by the basest violation of confidence... And because he was all this, he has, in an important department of literature, immeasureably surpassed such writers as Tacitus, Clarendon, Alfiery, and his own idol Johnson. How better can one know seventeenth century London than to read Macaulay? The houses were not numbered. There would indeed have been little advantage in numbering them; for of the coachmen, chairmen, porters, and errand boys of London, a very small proportion could 775 read. It was necessary to use marks which the most ignorant could understand. The shops were therefore distinguished by painted or sculptured signs, which gave a gay and grotesque aspect to the street.... The walk from Charing Cross to Whitechapel lay through an endless succession of Saracen's heads, Royal Oaks, Blue Bears and Golden Lambs. When the evening closed in, the difficulty and danger of walking about London became serious indeed. The garret windows were opened, and pails were emptied, with little regard to those who were passing below. Falls, bruises, and broken bones were of constant occurrence. For, till the last year of the reign of Charles the Second, most of the streets were left in profound darkness. Thieves and robbers plied their trade with impunity: yet they were hardly so terrible to peaceable citizens as another class of ruffians. It was a favourite amusement of dissolute young gentlemen to swagger by night about the town, breaking windows, upsetting sedans, beating quiet men, and offering rude caresses to pretty womCH... 2. Theory and Practice of Historical Writing As well as demonstrating the logical precision of his words and thoughts, the above excerpts reveal Macaulay's remarkable ability to narrate the realities of the past until history becomes exciting and alive. This zestful style of writing had never before been used in English history; few have employed it with such skill since. And by writing this new type of history, Macaulay merely applied the principles of historical writing which he praised in his Essay on History some twenty years earlier. (See text, pp. 428-439.) The modern historians, says Macaulay, excel the ancients in realism, but they have been "seduced from truth by reason." Instead of looking at facts impartially, pre-eminently they have slanted the facts to prove some favorite thesis or bias which possesses the author. Furthermore, the moderns have shown an unfortunate contempt for minute bio- ~ graphical detail and for the skills of narration (page 434). How is one to decide whether a fact is important? Macaulay writes: No past event has any intrinsic importance. The knowledge of it is valuable only as it leads us to form just calculations with respect to the future (text, page 535). Macaulay says that, to tell the true history, the writer must know the average man, because in the average man's home the true, quiet revolution is born before ever a shot is fired. He points to Sir Walter Scott as having usurped the tools of the historical romance from history, and that, before great histories can be written, the technique of the novelist and the historian must once again be blended into one. Both the imagination and the reason must be employed. Then, Macaulay prophesied that the history book would be written which would cause the circulating library to be mobbed while the latest novel would lie uncut. How exactingly Macaulay worked out the fulfillment of his own prediction! Macaulay, Representative Victorian It is self-evident that Macaulay wrote what many Englishmen of his day believed. His early poetic work Lays of Ancient Rome sold more than 100,000 copies, his history was almost fabulously popular, and, for more than twenty years, his writings dominated the influential A Perry Picture—Copyright 1904 THOMAS BABINGTON MACAULAY Edinburgh Review. We might well ask for an explanation of his appeal. The values of his style have already been discussed. A related virtue was his strong belief in order, and system, and thoroughness. Previous to writing his history he spent almost a decade reading letters, journals, minutes. His diligence in digging out facts was tremendous; it made possible the _ realistic, authoritative tone of his writings. He said that sometimes he read as many as twenty books, that he might write one accurate sentence. When he could find no accurate population figures for English villages in the seventh century, he spent years in digging out the actual statistics, yet his findings were stated in one modest paragraph in the history. 7716 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT Even more important than his diligence was his ability to sketch the psychology of a character until he seemed real and immediate; he could also attain this same living reality in re-creating scenes and events based on historical fact. For changing, uncertain Victorians his positive, forthright, even belligerent statements had a solid appeal. Once he had proved a fact to himself, Macaulay proclaimed it with fierce certainty, never doubting, never accepting the possibility that anyone else was right. As Lord Melbourne said, "Would that I could be as certain of one thing as Macaulay is of everything." He was completely at ease in England, the promised land, and believed passionately in her destiny of inevitable material progress. Rarely interested in intangibles, Macaulay likewise held little esteem for any person or achievement not English. A liberal Whig who believed in distributing more wealth and power to the middle classes, he nevertheless still distrusted democracy as practiced in America; for him Jefferson's contribution to civilization 777 was a negative, almost a dangerous one The keystone of his life, his history, his literary standards and his age might well be found in his statement, "The history of our country during the past one hundred sixty years is eminently the history of physical, moral, and of intellectual improvement." Such a statement, fearlessly uttered with no qualifications, might also prove to be the keystone of his popularity with his contemporary Victorian world. -Note to Class Leaders A special assignment might be given to a class member in regard to "Lays of Ancient Rome" which is not in the text. Questions for Discussion 1. In writing his History of England, what did Macaulay hope to prove to his contemporaries? 2. Was Macaulay for or against the idea of progress? 3. Why may Macaulay's history be described accurately as "literary"? 4. To what extent is the writing of history a science (or objective)? An art (or subjective)? Social Sctence—The Constitution of the United States Lesson 4—The Forerunners of the Constitution of 1789 Elder Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, February 23, 1954 Objective: To trace the history of government in the United States beginning with the colonial charters to the issuance of the Declaration of Independence, through the loose confederation of states which fought the Revolutionary War, and culminating in the founding of a National Government. ANY study of the Constitution of the United States would be incomplete without devoting some at: tention to the practices, institutions, A Perry Picture—Copyright 1904 INDEPENDENCE HALL, PHILADELPHIA and documents which formed a great American laboratory of experience in government and out of which the Constitution, as we know it, emerged. It has been pointed out that, historically, the Constitution is principally of Anglo-Saxon origin, and reference has been made to some of the great historical events and developments which preceded it. The following deals more specifically with the background materials with which the framers worked and _ concerning which they had had actual experience. Political Background of English Colonists When the American colonists, who were almost all of English origin, came to this country, they, of course, brought with them the institutions of government which they had known in England. This was both the obvious and natural thing for them to do. These institutions are part of a common heritage which is common to all English-speaking -peoples. Many such ideas and institutions are still current. To name a few will suffice. Thus the county, borough, and parish were governmental units of almost ancient origin. The sheriff, coroner, and justice of the peace were offices of government playing well-known and definite roles in the old country. The ideas of popular elections and of a_ representative legislature, limited executive power, 778 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT the common law, jury trial, habeas corpus, the right of the people to assemble and to petition government, and of equality under the law, were but some of the concepts of government which came to these shores with the first settlers. 'They all stemmed in the England of the Bill of Rights and Magna Charta. Formation of Colonial Charters Of necessity, the colonies, when settled, had to have governors. 'The colonial charters of various forms were the fundamental basis for such governments. Some were royal grants of authority from the English crown. Some originated under companies chartered to trade in the New World. Other developed under individual proprietors. In all, they formed the pattern of state governments which are, to this day, known in all the forty-eight states. Examples of the proprietary charters were those which were conferred upon William Penn and Lord Balltimore, the founders of Pennsylvania and Maryland. Virginia was founded by a trading company which planted the first colony at Jamestown. On the other hand, Rhode Island and Connecticut had charters which were directly conferred upon the colonists by the English government. Growth of Independence With the establishment of the framework of government as embodied in the charters, the colonists proceeded largely to govern themselves with little or no restraint from abroad. They were not backward in exercising independence. They enacted laws and executed them with very little restraint or 779 interference. By the time the home government became seriously aware of their existence, the habit of independent action had become so strong that all attempts to control it were doomed to failure. The colonists, in the beginning, had no thought of establishing an independent government or of severing their connection with the mother country. These ideas came later and grew out of the rather clumsy attempts of the English Crown to impose authority upon the new colonies. 'These attempts caused friction which deepened and grew as time went on until, finally, the government of George III decided to employ force to bring the Americans under, what George III and _ his ministers considered to be, the natural authority of the government which had created the colonies. After all, had not the powers of government been conferred upon these colonists by British authority? And was it unreasonable to suppose that the power which had created these various governments should have some control over them? Furthermore, were they not all under the protection of the British military forces and thus obligated to pay at least a part of the cost of their protection? The final result of these disputes and clashes was, of course, the Revolutionary War. In exasperation and almost in desperation, there came a parting of the ways. The Declaration of Independence The break with England did not come about as the result of any desire of the colonists to discard the great institutions of government 780. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 which they had brought with them to this country, nor because they did not look upon themselves as Englishmen. Rather, the — break came because these people would not tolerate what they regarded as the persistent violations of their tights as Englishmen. The Declaration of Independence was nothing more than a statement of grievances and a recital of what the colonists regarded to be the basic and fundamental rights of free men, and, in particular, of free Englishmen. It is to be observed that by the time of the Declaration of Independence the colonists had come to think of the colonies no longer as such, but rather as free and independent states. 'The Declaration itself is couched in terms of independent sovereignty. Thus these colonies were declared to be independent states. It is highly recommended that the Declaration be read, because it is a document of tremendous significance of freedom; and it details in wonderful and concise language those fundamental concepts of freedom which had come to be regarded by those early Americans as indispensable. Reframing of Colonial Governments In 1775, with the Revolution just beginning and the consequent severance of the authority of the British crown, it became at once necessary for the local governments. Of the thirteen independent states to assume independent authority. At first these governments (and it must be borne in mind that, as yet, there was no national union) functioned under their legislative bodies or conventions which were hurriedly assembled. For the most part these assemblies were of a more or less irregular nature with no actual or clearly defined authority. 'They were temporary expedients to fill a gap until each state should have time to deliberate and reconstruct its government. 'The Continental Congress advised each colony to effect such a reorganization along the lines most suited to its own particular needs. In some instances—notably in the cases of Connecticut and Rhode Island, which had very liberal charters, few changes or modifications were necessary. In any event, each colony went about the process of reframing its government, and by 1780 this had been accomplished. Most of the state constitutions which resulted were rather short. They defined the source of authority as the people themselves, and made liberal provisions for the protection of civil liberties. Under most of them suffrage was rather sharply limited to property ownership. Also, it is noteworthy that there was a very sparing grant of authority to government. The experiences of their recent past were such as to discourage any sweeping or broad power over the people. 'These state constitutions also followed the common pattern of dividing the functions of government among the executive, the legislative, and the judicial. Especially were the powers of the executive limited. Only in one case—that of Massachusetts—did the governor have an independent veto power over the legislature. In ten instances his term of office was for only one year. The legislatures, on the other LESSON DEPARTMENT hand, enjoyed rather extensive powers. First Continental Congress Fall of 1774 On the national level, the first organized attempt at government was the Continental Congress. Its first meeting was held in Philadelphia in the fall of 1774. It consisted of delegates, irregularly chosen, from each of the states. Its purpose was to consider the common peril and to plan co-operation among the colonies. Resolutions were formulated for the various legislatures to consider, and a declaration of rights was adopted and provision was made to call a similar congress if the need should arise in the future. Second Continental Congress May 1775-1781 Before the Second Continental Congress convened in May of 1775, the war had actually commenced. In the absence of any other authority this second Continental Congress had to assume. The powers of a national government and to Iaise armies and wage war. 'This Congress was the only national governing body in existence, and it served as the sole national authority until 1781. It was never more than a revolutionary assembly. It had no legal basis for existence, and it exercised power only by having assumed it with the tacit consent of the various states. It met the needs of a temporary emergency, without which the Revolution would never have been brought to a successful conclusion. 781 Need for National Government It was soon recognized that there was a need for a national government. When the war should end it would be necessary to make provision for treaties, especially a treaty of peace with Great Britain. Commercial intercourse and trade among the nations would require the management of foreign affairs. Some arrangements for national finance, military defense, and other requirements made plain the necessity for a permanent national government. In short, out of a very practical situation was born the idea of a strong and enduring union. Out of this situation developed the concept of an American nationality. These necessities were to find expression in the Articles of Confederation of 1781 (to be studied in lesson 5), and in the Constitution of 1789 (to be studied in lessons 6 and 7). In conclusion, let none suppose that the art of self-government is learned overnight. Under the colonial charters and out of actual experience extending back into the ancient past, were developed the foundations of democracy which finally culminated in the Constitution. References Any good history book dealing with this period or an encyclopedia. Bowen, Albert R.: "The Constitution and the United Nations Charter,'' The Relief Society Magazine, August 1951, pp. 507-511; September 1951, pp. 580-585. Smith, Joseph Fielding: The Progress of Man, pp. 281-288. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Name the various types of government which existed in colonial America. 782 Xmas Muzic FOR LADIES THREE PART CHORUSES a Birthday of a King—Neidlinger...........15 —_ Carol of the Bells—Wilhousky.............20 = Christ Child Divine—Schumaker.........18 = Christmas Song—Adam........................16 eS Christmas Bells—McCollin...................25 In Bethlehem Is Born The Holy Child—Scholin -_....2..02....22.----eeeeeeeeeee 15.. Innkeeper's Carol—Wanrner................ 22 = Jingle Bells—Pierpont.................-....--..22 — O Holy Night—Adam.................0...2.. 015 ree Silent Night—Epperson.......................12 WE PAY POSTAGE Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah | ' \ ' Please send the music indicated above. \ 1] On Approval 0 Charge 1) Meney Enclosed ' I! } i a Ke < go wn ss a Sh ) #iRST OF 45-47 SOUTH | Wu r) ALL — RELIABILITY MAIN STREET SALTY LAKE CITY 1, UTAN C RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 2. What type of authority did the English Crown exercise over the colonies? 3. What basic conflicts and disagreements led to the separation between England and the colonists? 4. With what type of national government did the colonies wage the Revolutionary War? 5- On what political principles did the colonists lay greatest stress and importance in formulating the governments of the thirteen independent states? ~ The Deeper Melody (Continued from page 758) money doesn't grow on trees. It isn't the first time I've had to leave company business because of family affairs. Maybe I'm wrong not to give the children up to Geneve, Felix or no Felix." "No! You're not wrong!" said Miss Crain forcefully. Steve shrugged discouraged shoulders. "I have a baby sick through neglect, and I've been fired, which would seem to prove it." (To be continued ) > Walking Hand in Hand Emily Carey Alleman Hand in hand, together, Traveling life's highway; We find the journey pleasant, Sharing, day by day. Sharing the joys and sorrows, Sharing the pleasures and pain; We take the sun with the shadow, Laughing at the rain. Laughing at stormy weather, Seeking to understand; We find the fruits of life sweeter, Walking hand in hand. Win ter Wheat Eleanor W. Schow Harvest to sow; To keep life green and growing; But few have known The full worth of sowing. Plant the late crop That the world is needing; Someone will reap From your autumn's seeding. Only by faith In the seed God has given Can your heart love earth And your soul know heaven. Pride Catherine E. Berry Too late—the August moon slips low, And dips to some far outer land, Too late—to tell you not to go, That I am wise and understand. For pride can be a bounding wall, Holding the heart in silent pain, Letting love slip beyond recall, Just as an August moon may wane. > Autumn Js a Sransient Maude O. Cook When Autumn spreads her crimson Along the wayside trails, And distant, fluted mountains Are wearing soft-blue veils; When days are crisp and heady, Then is the time to go To flaming slopes and byways, Rich with chromatic glow; For Autumn is a transient, And soon she will depart— She leaves behind the beauty That is captured by the heart, 783 The Pride of Your Library! Your Relief Society Magazines when handsomely bound into permanent yearly volumes acquire new value as excellent reference books. Just $2.50 Per Volume If necessary to mail them to you, the following postage rates will apply. Distance from Up to 150 miles: 25 150 to 300 miles........ 28 300 to 600 miles wes.34 600 to 1000 miles -42 1000 to 1400 miles 51 1400 to 1800 miles.60 Over 1800 miles: 69 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah @ e Phone 4-2581 Quil t Pa ttern Mary Gustafson Take the scraps from the crux of years, And piece them in with today To make yourself a memory quilt To keep the drab away. Piece in the pink of happiness, Stitch with some golden dreams Into a shining coverlet From which the sunlight gleams. Quilt in a piece of childhood's day, And a bit of autumn rain; Quilt in a hint of patient smiles, And blossoms in a lover's Jane. Block in the quietness of peace, The laughter of children, too, This will hold the warmth of years Quilted and pieced by you. Salt Lake City, Utah Rate 784; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1953 *% * % \ % % % % * gy aK oY a % z we % % % * oh * CF ARR AR ROR RAR ARR RAZ COR ARC Se SAC i lie Sie Wi Se Vie Sh Sie Vie Get that great al A % L. D. S. Family game of * % ote % oe Og: EMIGRATION: ote ' * ee % = The most beautiful game on the ¥ Km % market for only $2.95 a %. X oe ' % % Order it from Ea % % * THE DESERET * x J * BOOK COMPANY: 4 we te 44 East South Temple 3 Ey SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH x ote % he rfe ofa fe ofa she ole ale ole ole fe ole she ole ale ole ale ole ofe re ole ake ole ake ole ke lor Christmas: The popularity of an Electric Clothes Dryer is skyrocketing! Be Thrifty -Use Electricity UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY Suds Ivy Houtz Woolley She stood up there; a wisp of hair Hung wet against her face, Warm drops of sweat were standing yet, Where smiles could find no place. Her wrinkled hands, like open fans Were pressed upon her hips, The tub of clothes where bubbles rose Brought murmurs to her lips. What need was there to even care If things were never clean, For Jan had gone, before the dawn, His words were harsh and mean. She would leave the tub, and never rub Another sock or shirt, Then where she stood, some other would Wash out his grime and dirt. How drab her fate! She heard the gate Drag on the graveled walk— Her Jan stood there, with smiles to share Loaves, too, and celery stock. He touched her dress, a mute caress, Her heart sang all athirst; Above the clothes, air castles rose— She prayed they would not burst. Will We Remember? Agnes Just Reid When wintry winds begin to shout And blow the dead leaves all about, I wonder if we'll still remember The golden sunshine of September? When snows of winter come in March And no leaf shows on birch or larch, Will we recall the calm September? Deep in our hearts will we remember? When June frosts come to blight and kill Before we're robbed of every thmill, We might just struggle to remember The cloudless skies of last September. Church History AND MODERN REVELATION Joseph Fielding Smith A two-volume reference work for use with the seven-volume "Documentary History of the Church"... Made very usable by a most complete index. Easy to read and understand, it is an important addition to every Church library. Set of two volumes $7.50 ANCIENT AMERICA and The BOOK of MORMON Thomas S. Ferguson and Milton R. Hunter An important work for Book of Mormon students, this book _ cites striking parallels with a 16th century Mexican history, Works of Ixtilxochitl, further confirming the divinity of the Book of Mormon. The authors have added historical and doctrinal information to clarify the comparisons and aid the reader in his search for truth. Fascinating, informative, this book is a "'must'' for Book of Mormon ¢ 4 00 e J. GOLDEN KIMBALL Claude Richards The telling wit, good humor and genuine greatness of J. Golden Kimball are captured in this biography, along with priceless selections from his talks and sayings. The refreshing story of a 7 e wy = BH rt ---------------- DESERET BOOK CO. 44 E. South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me the following checked books: CL] CHURCH HISTORY AND MODERN REVELATION [] ANCIENT AMERICA & THE BOOK OF MORMON LC) J. GOLDEN KIMBALL for which I enclose check ( ) or money order ( ) Conventenlly ty Matl RwNO9 woh 3 GITY......... SescancenoeeeseaneeeneeneeSTATE... Soo Residents of Utah please add 2% sales tax. ¢ Fe Vice cms cee ne ED SES SS OS OS GS GS God-fearing man who liked to laugh. $3 5) U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid PERMIT No. 690 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH JUL why change the milk they thrive on? It is a wise mother who knows — as her physician knows -- that Sego Evaporated Milk, the same good milk that nourishes her child in infancy, is good milk to drink all through life! Your children who have grown strong and sturdy on Sego Milk are accustomed to this good milk... To its taste and nutriment.. And they readily accept it as a delicious milk to drink! And it's easy to prepare! Just pour a tall can of Sego Milk into a quart jar, add water to almost full, and chill to refreshing beverage temperature. Yes, Sego Milk is so good for your children after weaning because of its unfailing sterility, easy digestibility, and low cost. FREE TO YOU! A handy, 64-page book that makes it easier to care for and train your baby. Approved by a well-known doctor. Send for your free copy today. €S6l YddWIDI0 yrJew Joy suossay HOMOGENIZEO Ey, GEN APORATE Mita wrt ney MIN 9 400 Ure Sa RAED Oi! J STH yy ae aA) wtte pyat ( * fae sper we Sego Milk Helps Build Sturdy Bodies... After Weaning, Too! Hundreds of children today continue to thrive on Sego Milk long after weaning from bottle to cup. Wise mothers know that the same qualities recommend it — unfailing sterility, easy digestibility, retention of food values and economy! Sego Milk is so easy to prepare after infant bottle days, too... Just mix it with an equal amount of water, with no formula or any fuss. Keep your child on thrifty Sego Milk all through his growing years! Free To You A handy, 64-page book that makes it easier to care for and train your baby. Approved by a well-known doctor. Send for your free copy today. Address: Sego Milk Company Dept. R-2 Salt Lake City, Utah DOWNSTAIRS STORE DELIGHTFUL STYLES OF MULTI-FILAMENT CREPE PERFECT CHRISTMAS GIFT 1° LACE-DECKED LOVELY A. Wide Chantilly lace top and hem. Pink or white. In sizes 32 to 40. PLEAT-TRIMMED BEAUTY B. Dainty lace and Purmatuck trim on bodice. White in sizes 32 to 40. ZCMI LINGERIE—Downstairs Store Mail orders to: MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please send the following slips: AQ BO Color Name 20.0.0... 00 cece ce cece es csc er ee seen eecnaece te eeesors (IATHEISS «iio ns wv ca escent etRe es eaten creo eees City voces. Ccesseecunees LOME.... SATS... 0000 include 15c postage for first slip and 5c for each additional. Utah residents please add 2% state tax. Quan. Size Srom Near and Sar I must say a word about The Relief Society Magazine. All my life I have read it, but never with such eagerness and interest as I do now. It is just like a letter from home, and I hurriedly scan it for material we might use here in the mission, and then I sit down and read it from cover to cover.... The August issue arrived yesterday, and with committee meetings and with six elders leaving for home, I was so busy that I didn't get to read the Magazine until late. At midnight I was reading the wonderful article on the Family Hour by Sister Longden, and the beautiful editorial, 'Psalm of Summer." We are hoping for the day when the women of the five Spanish-speaking missions of the Church may have access to these lovely things in a Relief Society Magazine all their own and in their own language. —Amy Y. Valentine President, Argentine Mission Relief Society Buenos Aires, Argentine Every new Magazine I open gives me a new inspiration, for there is sure to be a picture of one of our Relief Society sisters who have so many skills that they are displayed in the proper place in the Magazine, to give us all the incentive to learn and to do everything we are capable of ourselves. The fine articles about "The First Ladies of Our Land" (July and September 1953, by Elsie C. Carroll) give us intimate glimpses that weave romance into our history and give us pleasure and pride in womanhood. The stories are splendid, the poetry well chosen, and we do enjoy the editorial pages immensely. —Clara Horne Park San Mateo, Cahfornia I have read and enjoyed the Magazine since I could read and have received so much help and inspiration from it. 1 couldn't keep house or rear my family without its teachings. —Mrs. Dora B. Whitaker Ellensburg, Washington Page 786 Many Relief Society Magazine contributors are represented among the two hundred poets in volume III of Utah Sings, recently published in Salt Lake City, by the Utah Poetry Society. Maryhale Woolsey acted as general chairman. It was interesting to me to note that the following contributors to The Relief Society Magazine acted as heads of publication committees: Ora Lee Parthesius, Pansye H. Powell, Ouida Johns Pedersen, Ruth H. Chadwick, and Eva Willes Wangsgaard. The art work was done by Lael W. Hill, also a contributor to the Magazine. —Mrs. Kate P. Jensen Sandy, Utah Always I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine, all of it, but I have especially enjoyed "First Ladies of Our Land" (July and September 1953, by Elsie C. Carroll) and "Portraits of the Signers of the Constitution of the United States" (October 1953). In all my teaching experience or my student days, I have never found anything as informative and _interesting. Also I have enjoyed the articles on the life of President David O. McKay (September, October, November, and December 1953). The accompanying pictures are priceless. I could say much about the beauty of each poem and story. My teen-age daughter surely enjoyed "Special for Redheads" (by Hazel K. Todd, July, August, and September 1953). —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho Frances C: Yost, well known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine, has again been honored by the National Federation of Press Women. Her story "The Wearing of the Gay," which appeared in the March 1952 Magazine, was awarded second place in the Press Women's an nual contest. This is the second time Mrs. Yost has received this honor, both times with a Relief Society Magazine story. THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - ~ - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - _ Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Mary J. Wilson Nellie W. Neal Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young ' Helen W. Anderson Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate ale - - - - - = = - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 40. DECEMBER 1953 NO. 12 Conten fs SPECIAL FEATURES Woman's Influence 0.2... Esesecccecceeesceenensnenecseanscenccsenennenenaceccoeeccessees President David O. McKay 790 The Annual General Relief Society Conference—1953 000200Margaret C. Pickering 796 The Relief Society Building Ground-Breaking Ceremony 798 Elder Richard L. Evans Appointed a Member of the Council of the Twelve.... Antoine R. Ivins 805 Elder Hugh B. Brown Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve...... George Q. Morris 807 Marion Duff Hanks, New Member of the First Council of the Seventy............ Richard L. Evans 816 Life of President David O. Maliay ~Peaty! I eeJeanette McKay Morrell 813 "Good Will Toward Men"............ Voscetstesvisteessivsvstatviiswwu Helen Hinckley Jones 832 FICTION Journey for Christmas 0.0.0.2... Cecececee nee cosvteiwliwew Katherine F. Larsen 826 The Deeper Melody—Chapter 3. Venesectveststttssustssvwse-e.-Alice Morrey Bailey 836 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far............... Ae _ 786 Sixty Years Ago = ——_ a. 922 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 823 Editorial: The 124th Semi-Annual Church Conference once ceccesssssevesseecesceeesMarianne C. Sharp 824 The Precious Things of Earth 222.22....---.---scececeeeeceneeeeeeecee ence eeee ee eeeeeneeeeeVesta P. Crawford 825 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Make Interesting Blocks for Children nn oa caneecocettrrananec Thalia Black 831 Making Cloth Books en, Elaine C. Nichols 834 Christmas Givimg.20.......22.-2ncecccecccecec ence cecceneneensneseecececeseneesscecenenneceeeaeceeensesesecsnuneaeseseeevecsosssaeesLuella N. Adams 835 A Spice Cake for Special Occasions Rose A. Openshaw 841 Gifts for Yourself and Others Eva Willes Wangsgaard 842 Pumpkin Pie = Rose A. Openshaw 862: LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Alma the Elder Leland H. Monson 844 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''Ye Have Not Applied Your Hearts to Understanding"............ _ Leone O. Jacobs 848 Work Meeting: Spending the Home Furnishings Dollar—Curtains and DraperyCE eos Rhea H. Gardner 849 -Briant S. Jacobs 851 Literature: Robert Browning Social Science: The Articles of Conferation Albert R. Bowen 856 POETRY The Broken Caravan—Frontispiece..........--.---..-.-seeeee-eeee-eoMargery S. Stewart 789 Chistian eee cee cece eece eee ee eecn enna cee cesenenceneeseeseceseeesseeeeeecacees. Marilyn Odell 797 First Christmas........ Sasossesssotallesescectecase terseenennencesnesvensvecees oohLael W. Hill 804 9 20 O) Ce Os (05s. Jeanette McKay Morrell 821 Fashion Note Fs sccvcsentencecenateMarian Schroder Crothers 831 SmoOwlaal] o. N. Neeeecncaeacecececceec cece eecenceneceseseeentacnececocasessuselesecsseeceesseneceseceaesecasaeessassecteceeeneanensencetesesEnola Chamberlin 833 Remuneration =... Lydia Bennett Egbert 840 The Gift She Liked the Best en anc csnscnnesveonenceFrances C. Yost 841 Consolation 0.....-. ScocecececsceencecesensneceeseeecneescoscessneneesescaeeenenececccoseceeeseaeeacetqeneseneseanseseneneeceeCatherine B. Bowles 861 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of 'October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 787 She (Broken Caravan Margery S. Stewart The world, tonight, in pilgrimaye Goes seeking down Judean plains, Along the beaten, dust-held paths For trace of angels' lost refrains. "Peace on earth! Good will... Good will Oasis words to thirsting men, Manna, for longing no bread can fill, The echoes of echoes surround us still. (|i There is no peace in Bethlehem, Or elsewhere in this restless night Except where men's hearts build the scene Of straw and stone, of light on light, A young boy's clear and glowing cheek Beside the doctors' grizzled beards, The lost words when he rose to speak, The hungry soul goes back to seek. In humble minds the shepherds kneel, In winging thoughts the wise kings ride; The star shines, lighted miracle, In all where dreams of him abide. Oh, world, not faithful and not wise, Yet turning ever back to this, Pray him to give us thoughts to rise On caroled ladders to the skies. The Cover: "Madonna" from a Painting by Feruzzi Frontispiece: "Christ in the Temple With the Doctors" from a Painting by Hofmann, a Perry Picture, Copyright 1912 Cover Design by Evan Jensen Woman's Influence President David O. McKay [Address Delivered at the Annual General Rehet Society Conference, October 1, 1953] few months over one hundred and eleven years ago, the Prophet Joseph Smith met with the newly organized Female Relief Society. It was Apmil 28, 1842, on which occasion the Prophet said: I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and _intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth. This is the beginning of better days to the puor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads. On that occasion divine sanction was bestowed upon the Relief Society by the Prophet of the Lord. No wonder you have wielded and will continue to wield such influence in the Church and country. Today, I have nothing but commendation in my heart for the work of the Relief Society of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I congratulate the members of the presidency and general board particularly, and you presidencies of stakes and wards upon the increased enrollment during the past year. Nearly 8,000 new members have joined the ranks to render service to the poor, to increase testimonies, as we have learned, and to improve and stabilize our homes. I was pleased to note in one of your reports that 8,422 women participated in weekly welfare sewing and work meetings, and nearly 4.000 took part in sewing at sewing centers—a real service to the needy, preparing the necessary clothing and equipment for those who need your Page 790 assistance. 'Ihis service was rendered by 12,358 women, and that is only one project. Nearly 9,000 were active in other projects, or a total of 21,343 women rendering voluntary service for the good of others. "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." When I think of the influence you are exerting upon the lives of your fellow sisters in the various Relief Society meetings throughout the Church, my heart is filled with gratitude, and I look upon you as benefactors in very deed to humankind. Your lessons in social science, in literature, in nursing, in The Book of Mormon, so frequently quoted this afternoon—who can estimate the good, the cultural inHluence, of these teachings upon the Church and upon the communities! There is not a remote hamlet in any part of this Church but is benefited by the lifting influence of the Relief Society. Anybody who travels from stake to stake, or from mission to mission is impressed with this universal uplift. Anybody who goes into the homes in any part of the Church, if he opens his eyes, will see the beneficial effects, probably in better housekeeping, in neatness of dress, in the tone of conversation, in care and training of children, etc. Truly when the Prophet turned the key in the name of the Lord, he bestowed a power upon that organization which has wielded an influence beyond comprehension by any individual. WOMAN'S INFLUENCE Sister Spafford and your counselors, members of the general board, you presidents of Relief Societies, and you members, to you all I say, God bless you! Especial Appeal I feel at a loss to give you any specific instructions regarding the various phases of Relief Society work, but I have in my heart this afternoon a feeling, a desire, to make an especial appeal to you assembled and to all women in the Church—an appeal which is based upon the realization of your influ- | ence. 'They say that man is mighty, He governs land and sea; He wields a mighty scepter O'er lesser powers that be; But a mightier power and stronger Man from his throne has hurled; And the hand that rocks the cradle Is the hand that rules the world. It is because I believe in the potency of woman's influence that I am making an appeal this afternoon. It is because I believe with Tennyson that it is "the woman who makes us most" that I am going to ask that we make a special effort, not only in teaching our young people, but in guarding them. Someone has truly said: Into the hands of every individual is given a marvelous power for good or evil —the silent, unconscious, unseen influence of his life. This is simply the constant radiation of what a man really is, not what he pretends to be. Every man, by his mere living, is radiating sympathy, or sorrow, or morbidness, or cynicism, or happiness, or hope, or any of a hundred other qualities. Life is a state of constant radiation and absorption; 'to exist is to radiate; to exist is to be the recipient of radiation. 7 Man cannot escape for one moment from this radiation of his character, this constantly weakening or strengthening of others. He cannot evade the responsibility by saying it is an unconscious influence. ITe can select the qualities that he will permit to be radiated. He can cultivate sweetness, calmness, trust, generosity, truth, justice, © loyalty, nobility—make them vitally active in his character—and by these qualities he will constantly affect the world. I was deeply impressed with the appeal of your president, Sister Spafford, in that masterful address on testimony, wherein she said, "Mothers, you must feel your testimony before you can influence or give of that testimony to your children." | am not presuming to repeat the exact words. How fundamentally true that is! Of the responsibility of women in wielding this influence, Ruskin writes: There is not a war in the world, no, nor an injustice, but you women are answerable for it; not in that you have provoked, but in that you have not hindered. Do you remember reading in Marmion, how the young woman who accompanied him in his wars, dressed as a page, buckled on his armor? Commenting on that custom, Ruskin says: The buckling on of the knight's armor by his lady's hands was not a mere caprice of romantic fashion. It is the type of an eternal truth that the soul's armor is never well set to the heart unless a woman's hand has braced it, and it is only when she braces it loosely, that the honor of manhood fails. Believing with all my heart upon the mfluence of woman, and_particularly upon her influence in the home, I am going to ask for your co-operation in counteracting one or two dangerous, threatening evils. I 792 am not presuming that you need this. | am merely appealing for you to exert an influence upon our young, whom you love and whom I love, whom you trust as I trust. After turning the key, to which I have already referred, the Prophet, in the very next thought, gave instruction regarding the attitude of wives toward husbands, and _husbands toward wives. At the turn of the contiry in 1901 there was distributed throughout the Church with the approval of the presidency and general board of the Relief Society, a book entitled Woman, one paragraph of which I think is so applicable I am going to read it: As for woman, wherever she goes and whatever her mission—for travel or for service—her native instincts draw her homewards. She may have unusual power and be distinguished for versatility; she may have artistic ability and attain distinction on the stage or in the studio; she may make bargains behind the counter or "be mighty in ledger and great upon change," she she may serve as shop-girl, toil as fieldhand or in factory, be typist, ticket agent, street car conductor; she may write with the power of George Eliot and Elizabeth Barrett Browning; she may skillfully wield the pen and prove a very magician in journalism and in the nobler literatures; she may possess great persuasive power in the pulpit or on the platform; she may display diplomatic ability in the lobby or cabinet; she may fill the professor's chair or preside over college or university; she may, like Joan of Arc, be the heroine of many battlefields, or, like Victoria, reign with "all the royal markings of a queen," but wherever a woman is, or whatever a woman does, she is at her best, her divinest best, at home! There is the center of her power. Amiel says, ""Woman is the salvation or destruction of the family. She carries its destiny in the folds of her mantle." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 It is wonderful what a responsibility each wife and mother carries. A successful wife and mother is responsible, first, for the physical welfare of her children. Second, she must have the qualities of a teacher. She should be, indeed is expected to be, not only a disciplinarian but one who wisely guides her children in their quest for truth and knowledge. In this she becomes a confidant—she warns—she protects. Third, she must be a business woman. Fourth, upon her, even more than upon the father, depends the child's guidance in spirituality. God bless our mothers! If we had in the world all good mothers, we could soon hasten the millennium. For me to comment even briefly upon these responsibilities would occupy more time than I have at my disposal this afternoon, so I shall confine my remarks to the second named responsibility—woman's influence as teacher, disciplinarian, guide, protector. After a lecture by the late Francis Wayland Parker, a great Chicago educator, a woman asked: "How early can I begin the education of my child?" "When will your child be born?" asked the educator. "Born?" she gasped. "Why, he is, already five years old." "My goodness, woman," he cried, "don't stand here talking to me— hurry home; already you have lost the best five years." Control of Children Do you know, I believe that it is absolutely true. If mothers would get control of their children throughout childhood and youth, WOMAN'S INFLUENCE they should get control of the child before he is five years of age. That is fundamental, and it can be done in kindness and in love. -Now, so much for influence, so much for the responsibility and opportunity of mother. I do not want to be a pessimist, but I must speak as I feel, and warn if necessary, and I am going to take you into confidence and speak, however, of something which is just as apparent to you as to anybody. A few years ago there was carried on in the United States a campaign of advertising of cigarettes that resulted in from two-fifths to threefifths of the women and girls in our nation taking up the habit of smoking. You will remember how artfully that campaign was carried on. Incidentally there was evidence in that, indirect evidence at least, of the divinity of the Prophet Joseph's mission. In the first paragraph of the Word of Wisdom, he said, "In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you," etc. Designing men! That campaign, I repeat, was one of the most clever, ever carried on in these United States, and the result was what the designing men intended to attain, that nearly three-fifths of the women in America took up the habit. Today, there is spent over four hundred billion dollars annually on tobacco in one form or another. Whether the smoking of cigar- 'ettes causes cancer or adversely affects the heart; whether cigarettes irritate the throat, or interfere with 793 digestion, are questions that draw forth divergent answers. But upon one thing all authorities seem to agree, and that is that, aside from whatever pleasurable effects the smoker might experience, there are no beneficial effects derived from the habit. One looks in vain for any measurable good that comes from this expensive indulgence. However, for members of the Church—and here is our message— there is one outstanding reason for not using it—the Church speaks against its use, for the Lord himself has said, "Tobacco is not good for man." The world has a right to expect that a person or an organization will live up to his or its pretentions, and -we have an obligation to the Church to refrain from the use of tobacco and strong drink, and if we cannot live up to that pretention, we merit the censure and condemnation even of those who are not of us. Mothers, members of the Relief Society, let us wherever possible exert an influence, silent it may be, active it should be, against our young girls taking up this habit— and our young boys, for we have no double standard of morality. You, my dear sisters, may be responsible by not hindering or not exerting an influence against the campaign to induce smoking among women. It is not easy for some of our girls to say no when the cigarettes are passed, but let us, in our homes at least, win such confidence of our daughters and sons that we can influence them to refrain. How happy they will be some day that you did it. Some day they will be mothers, and T fancy that there is not a gul living who would not have her child, her daughter or son say: She of whom you speak, My mother, looks as pure as some serene Creation minted in the golden moods Of sovereign artist; not a thought, a touch, But pure as lines of green that streak the white Of the first snowdrop's inner leaves. I love to think of my mother just that way. I may be old-fashioned, but I think I could not if I felt she had the stain of nicotine in nerve, or sinew, or muscle. Evil of Unchastity There is another evil which threatens the welfare of the individual, the home, and the Church, and that is the evil of unchastitv. When an alleged "most sensationally. Publicized book in_ history" draws the following conclusions from an inadequate survey, it behooves fathers and mothers to become enlightened regarding what their sons and daughters are thinking. To name one or two of these conclusions will justify this reference: 1. That what we have been teaching our daughters about sex is all wrong. What a glaring statement to give to the world in an alleged "most sensationally advertised book." 2. That chastity may often do ~ more harm than good. 3. That premarital sex relations may help toward adjustment maritally, psychologically, or socially. My dear sisters, I have no hesitancy in denouncing such statements with all their implications as false, pernicious, and destructive to the virtue of true womanhood. Such evil practices will tend to bring to trusting young -women only disappomtment and remorse. 'They will destroy the sacredness of the marriage covenant, and termite-like — undermine the foundation of the home. It is not just because of the pubicity given to this new book, but because of letters that I have received recently from trusting young women who disclose a condition in courtship which to me is astounding, In our boyhood we would no more think of suggesting what these young girls tell me their companions suggest, than we would think of injuring, or doing them bodily harm. I hope these cases are exceptional, but even if exceptional, they justify a united front against the evil. Today, as always in the past, unchastity has led to misery. Selfcontrol through boyhood and young womanhood gives strength of character and lays the foundation of the future happy home. The girl who keeps herself true to her future husband is the girl who will live a happy life. If her boy friend does not admire her for her virtue, he is not worth her companionhsip. Such a young man has no sense of the value of purity of life. Better ten thousand times she would be without him! A young man who will say that the marriage ceremony, and I am quoting, "is nothing but a 'formal document" may some day leave that sweet girl because he thinks he is in love with somebody else. 794 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 WOMAN'S INFLUENCE Protection of Homes Yes, you wield a mighty influence. Let it be felt even more potently in the future than in the past in the protection of our homes from the impurities that are now sweeping the nation. I do not wish to be understood as implying that woman's ability to occupy and to reign in the domestic realm precludes the occupancy of other spheres and the discharge of other duties. Other than purely domestic engagements may and indeed must occupy her attention. She must attend Church and contribute to the charms of social entertamments. She must be interested in local philanthropic reform. She must pursie courses of reading and research. She may use pen and brush or chisel in the worlds of literature and art. She must examine, according to her endowment, opportunity, and responsibility, political, social, and scientific questions, and according to her ability render service in all. But she must account every: other thing as beneath the domestic in importance and power. She must feel that in passing from any one or all of these she ascends when she enters or resumes the domestic life. The Prophet Joseph Smith, in speaking to the Relief Society, said that one principal object of the institution was to "purge out iniquity." In our Relief Societies we should "seek to be in harmony with the Priesthood of the Church; to contribute peace and harmony in the organization, and to refrain from back-biting, evil-speaking, and fault-finding. The Rclief Society," continues the Prophet, "should be a select society of the virtuous and those who would walk circumspectly." We have cause for gratitude to- 795 day for the influence for good wielded by the general board of the Relief Society, particularly by our President, Sister Spafford. Her influence is felt not only throughout the Church here, but as many of you know, throughout the entire nation, and I say in your presence, God bless her for the responsibihties awaiting her. We should be grateful today, and I know we all are, for the presence of these lovely mothers, the Singing Mothers, and for the ability of Sister Madsen to bring out such expression and harmony from their souls. I think it is a little short of marvelous that this great musician can bring these sisters from the various stakes, and with one or two practices, give us such harmony and inspiration as that to which we have listened today. 'The Lord bless all of you, every mother, every woman. Truly the "hand that rocks the cradle is the hand that rules the world." God bless our boys and girls, that they may be wise and strong in maintaining ethical standards, that they may be truly exemplary to young people in all the world. | believe in them. I believe they will do it, but let us not shut our eyes to the men who are intruding themselves into the lives of sweet, pure girls, and seeking to destroy their characters by claiming as_ their authority the false doctrines which are now being promulgated. May this power to prevent -evil and to guard our young people be vours in the homes, i mav the influence rachate from your socicties mto other homes, I prav in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen, The Annual General Relief Society Conference—1953 General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering HE annual general Relief Society conference held in the Tabernacle, Wednesday, September 30 and Thursday, October 1 was the largest of record, there being 1730 stake and 45 mission officers present, total 1775. Several General Authorities attended the sessions. One stake, Santa Barbara, was not represented. Mission presidents were not in attendance at the conference, but a number of missions were represented by district presidents. The general session filled the Tabernacle to capacity, with many standing. The officers meeting on Wednes- - day was addressed by President Spafford who gave Official Instructions; by Bishop Carl W. Buehner of the Presiding Bishopric; and by Blanche B. Stoddard. Jean D. Wright, former president, reported on the South African Mission Relief Society. The Oquirrh Stake Singing Mothers chorus, Coy Manning, director, and Ireta Arvae, accompanist, furnished two beautiful numbers. At the Wednesday afternoon meeting from 1:30 to 2:30 PM., President Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve and an advisor to Relief Society gave an address. An instrumental trio composed of Ann C. Larson, violinist, Lota P. Lamoreaux, cellist, and Florence S. Allen, pianist, rendered "Melodie" by T'schaikowsky, after Page 796 which the theology department program was presented. In the afternoon department sessions were held simultaneously for work meeting, secretary-treasurers, Magazine, and music departments. The annual reception was held Wednesday evening in the Lafayette Ballroom, Hotel Utah. The music for the occasion was furnished by Ann C. Larson, Lota P. Lamoreaux, and Florence S. Allen. The discussion of the education courses was continued in the Thursday morning session when the programs for the visiting teaching, literature, and social science departments were presented. Music was furnished by the Davis Stake Singing Mothers chorus, Mary Grant Clark, director, and by Clara W. And J. Stuart McMaster who sang a duet "Crossing the Bar." The general session held Thursday afternoon included addresses. By President David O. McKay, President Belle S. Spafford, Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, and Louise W. Madsen. Counselor Simonsen was unable to attend this meeting, but her address appeared in full in the November Relief Society Magazine. The Singing Mothers chorus of more than 500 from Alpine, Carbon, East Provo, East Sharon,. Emery, Kolob, Lehi, Nebo, North Carbon, Orem, Palmyra, Provo, Santaquin-Tintic, Sharon, 'Timpanogos, Utah, and West Utah stakes furnished the music. It was directed by Florence J. Madsen who also directed the congregational singing of the conference. Elder Alexander Schreiner was organist. 'This chorus also sang at the Friday sessions of the semi-annual conference of the Church. Following the close of the conference, the ground-breaking ceremony for the new Relief Society building was held at 4:15 P. M. At the site on the southeast corner of Main and North Temple Streets. President Spafford conducted the brief ceremony which was witnessed by most of the General Authorities, special guests, and representatives from the stakes and missions. The program of this thrilling event, so long awaited by the sisters of the Church, is published in full in this issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The Official Instructions given by President Spafford and the addresses by the general presidency appeared in the November issue of the Magazine. President David O. McKay's address appears as the feature of this issue. The address by President Joseph Fielding Smith will appear in the March 1954 issue; by Bishop Carl W. Buehner in January 1954 issue; by Blanche B. Stoddard and Louise W. Madsen in the February 1954 issue. —> Christmas Marilyn Odell New fallen snow and frosted windowpanes, Hurrying crowds and homebound trains; Carols in the street, bells jingling by, A wreath on the door, a star-studded sky— These are things of Christmas. Shimmering trees, a sprig of mistletoe, Cards in the mail, candles aglow; A roaring fire and good things baking, Laughter, good will, and cheer for the taking— _ These, too, belong to Christmas. A Savior in the hay, a brilliant star, People to worship, from near and far; The glory of God, the joy of man— This has been the meaning since Christmas began. Oh, holy night! THE ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 797 The Relief Society Building Ground-Breaking Ceremony Maltin AND Nort TEMPLE STREETS, SALT LAKE City, UTau THURSDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1953, 4:15 P. M. President Spafford: Members of the First Presidency, General Authorities, Dear Sisters, and Friends of Relief Society, I think this is the happiest day of my life, and I am grateful for your presence. I welcome you to this ground-breaking ceremony. We are greatly honored to have with us today President David O. McKay, President Stephen L Richards, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr; our advisors in the Council of the Twelve: President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen; as well as other General Authorities and their wives and special guests. We are very happy that we have with us today our dear former president, Sister Amy Brown Lyman. We will begin these services by the invocation being offered by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith. Invocation: President Joseph Fielding Smith Our Father who art in heaven, we have assembled here this afternoon for the purpose of removing earth to begin the foundation for a building for the Relief Society members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. And at this time we present ourselves unto thee, grateful in our hearts for all the accomplishments of this great organization founded in Nauvoo on the 17th day of March, 1842, and given by revelaPage 798 tion to the Prophet Joseph Smith. We thank thee for all the great performances, the untiring labor, the continued success, faithfulness, and obedience on the part of our sisters who have been connected with this organization from those days in Nauvoo. We pray thee, Father, that thy spirit may be present with us on this occasion to bless those who shall speak, to be with those who take part in the exercises of removing earth for the commencement of the Building in which our sisters may assemble in matters pertaining to the welfare of the Relief Society of the Church. We bless them for their integrity and their faith. We pray that the accomplishment of this Building may not be retarded, but that it may go forward to be completed; that it may serve all the purposes for which it is intended as a home for the Relief Society where they may hold their meetings, engage in all their exercises, where they may look after the interests of the society and conduct its affairs from this point throughout all the courses of Zion. Let thy peace be with them and thy blessings upon them, and we pray thee that all pertaining to this Building may be in perfect harmony with thy purposes, and we ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING 799 PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY TURNS FIRST SHOVEL OF EARTH FOR RELIEF SOCIETY "HOME," Thursday, October 1, 1953 Left to right: Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; President Belle S. Spafford; President Stephen L Richards; President David O. McKay; President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. The white stake in foreground marks the southeast corner of the Building. President Spafford: There are a few chairs that you might fill in up to the front. A choral group led by Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen will sing for us "Father in Heaven in Thy Love Abounding." 'The members of the group are Alene Peterson, Emily Weeks, Elodia Goss, Fern Eyring, Norma Cannon, Ethel Wilson, Lillie Lloyd, and Florence Madsen. Singing: "Father in Heaven in Thy Love Abounding," by choral group. President Spafford: This is a happy and history-making occasion. The hearts of all of us assembled here 800, ~ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 today are filled with thanksgiving and with gladness. 'Tens of thousands of Relief Society women throughout the world, learning of this event, will rejoice with us. And it is my conviction that today women of the past are mindful of us and are looking geen us and sharing our Joys. We are deeply orateful for the goodness of our Heavenly Father to his daughters in opening the way whereby we might have a home of our own. We remember with gratitude the kindness of President George Albert Smith and his counselors President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and President David O. McKay when, in 1945, they sanctioned the Building program and, in 10947, authorized us to go forward with the fund-raising program. We are very grateful today to our present First Presidency—President David O. McKay, President Stephen L Richards, President Reuben Clark, Jr., for their understanding of our needs and our desires, for their personal interest in Relief Society, for the wisdom of their counsel, for their support in our many problems and our many activities. We are grateful for their generosity in being willing to help us financially as they do the units of the Church. We are grateful for this beautiful building site which has _ been granted us. This site fulfills the dreams and the expressed design of our sisters of the past, that our Building should be in the shadow of our great temple. It is the opinion of the Relief Society presidency that no more choice site exists for a Relief Society home in all the world. Many, many prayers have been offered and countless hours of time have been spent in perfecting the plans for our Building. We acknowledge with great appreciation the part of many in the perfecting of these plans. We thank all who have taken part in the study or the preparation or the drawing of the plans. - Particularly at this time, we wish to mention our architect, Bishop George Cannon Young. The Building will include the administrative offices of the general board, a beautiful general board room, with committee rooms for the board members. It will have space for the Temple and Burial Clothes Department, the Magazine, and the Social Welfare Departments. It will have a beautiful library. It will also have an auditorium and a social room with a large kitchen adjoining, and a beautiful lounge room for the benefit and use of the sisters. We feel that it will be a building different, perhaps, from any other building of which we know. Today, we take the first step toward the erection of the Building. Ground will be broken. We earnestly pray that inspired wisdom, painstaking effort, and consummate skill will go into the erection of this edifice. And may those who build it bear in mind the dreams and the desires of countless numbers of Relief Society women throughout the world, and the labors and sacrifices incident to the raising of the funds. May there remain fresh in the minds of those who build, the ideals of this great organization and the worthy purposes that the Building is to fulfill, And when the day of THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAFFORD BREAKS GROUND FOR RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING President David O.° McKay at left, President Stephen L Richards and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. At right, and former President of Relief Society, Amy Brown Lyman, back of Sister Spafford. Dedication comes, may all who have had any interest or any part in the planning and erection look upon our Building with happiness and with satisfaction. May our Father in heaven be pleased with our labors and may he pour forth his blessings upon all of the activities that shall take place within its walls. This is the prayer of the general presidency and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. As you know, the Relief Society presidencies all lean heavily upon their bishops, so the general presidency leans heavily upon the Presiding Bishopric. 'This has been particularly true as we have gone forward with our building program, 801 and we have asked Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin to speak to us today. Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin: President McKay, Sister Spafford, and All Members of this great women's organization and my Brethren of the Priesthood, the Presiding Bishopric ate thrilled with the opportunity of participating in this most important and historical event. Over the years we have observed with a good deal of inspiration the persistence and the energy that our sisters have put forth in providing the funds to assist in financing this great Building. We understand now that the plans are completed and the next phase of the work will be that of commencing construction. The Relief Society to the Presiding Bishopric of the Church has always been a great source of inspiration because of the outstanding work they do in Israel. In the homes of some of us we had. Mothers who were Relief Society presidents; we know something of the work, and we know something of Relief So- -ciety's achievements. The Relief Society organization is quite unique in that it was organized by divine direction through the Prophet of God. In all history there is not an event of this kind where a women's organization came into being by divine revelation. It is unique, again, that it has been given specific assignments in Israel in that its first assignment, of course, is to assist and bless those who are in distress, and provoke the brethren to good works. As I think of the ideals and of the typical Relief Society mem- ber, I think of the words of Solomon wherein he said: Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. She will do him good and. Not evil all the days of ler life. She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchants' ships; she bringeth her food from afar. She riseth also while it is yet might, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. She considereth a field, and buyeth it: with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard. She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms. She perceiveth that her merchandise is good: her candle goeth not out by night. She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy. She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet. She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; her clothing is silk and purple. Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among the elders of the land. She maketh fine linen, and selleth it; and delivereth girdles unto the merchant. Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to come. She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her. Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all. Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates (Proverbs 31:10-31). I am sure these words of Solomon are applicable to the lives, the ideals of the membership of this great divine. Organization. 'The Presiding Bishopric wishes them every success in this endeavor, assures them of our help and assistance in any way. May God bless them and inspire them that their plans, their ambitions may be brought into full fruition, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. President Spaftord: President David O. McKay will now speak to. Us, and following his remarks, President McKay will turn the first shovel of dirt. We have provided three shovels, and we are also asking President Stephen L Richards and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. To turn a shovel of dirt, and then the general presidency wish to try their hands at it, and then we are going to ask our advisors, President Joseph Fielding Smith and Brother Mark E. Petersen, so that we may actually begin our Building. (Laughter) President McKay: Sister Spafford, brothers and _ sisters. As already stated in your presence here and in the Tabernacle, over 111 years have passed since the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key in the name of the Lord to the Female Relief Society of the Church. Over one hundred years! I believe that this edifice will be the first home, permanent home, of the Relief Society of the Church. We have had many Relief Society houses in our wards; the Relief Society building in Huntsville is as familiar in my memory as the old rock schoolhouse. We have had Relief Society houses in other wards, but the general organization has not heretofore had its home. Is that right? (Laughter) A better illustration — how we leave to the last and for the last those whom we love most. One glorious feature of this oc- 802 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING casion, one that reflects great credit upon those who have preceded as presidencies of Relief Society and particularly upon the present presidency and general board of the Relief Society, is the fact that as we break ground today they have over half a million dollars in the bank ready to pay the expenses. 'That's what women do. (Laughter and clapping) They deserve your applause. That's an achievement. Men undertake propositions of this kind and borrow the money (Laughter) with the hopes of paying, largely because they know the sisters will help them pay it. (Laughter) But our sisters have set an example worthy of emulation. Before even we break ground, they have their share of the expense of the estimated cost of this edifice. One other thought. No matter how commodious it may be, no matter how well furnished the rooms, no matter how great the convenience of the furnishings, the house itself, with all its equipment, is but a means to an end, and that end the establishing in the hearts of the membership of the Church a testimony of the truth of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. 'This old world is itself but a means to that end. "This is my work and my glory," said the Lord, "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." It is a means to a glorious end, the salvation of our Father's children. I will just leave this question with you. What would this whole creation be to the Creator himself if it weren't for his children? What a useless world! Truly, his glory rests with his children and in his children, and so 803 this house becomes a means of furthering the work of the great Relief Society, the very heart and purpose of which is to bring happiness, peace into the homes, and the hearts of the Latter-day Saints. God bless those who have put forth the effort consummated in this occasion. May the Lord bless those who now have the responsibility in the Relief Society of carrying this work to completion, and may future generations rise up and call you blessed who have contributed, howsoever small an amount or howsoever great, towards this great edifice, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. We RK President Spafford: I don't suppose you can see, but four white stakes are placed to mark the position of the Building, and we will now invite those who are to turn ground to proceed with that part of our €XEICises. (Those participating left the stand and proceeded to the spot where the ground was to be broken. ) President McKay (as he turned the first shovel of dirt for the new Relief Society Building): I now turn the first shovel of dirt for the new Building for the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. President Stephen L Richards, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., President Joseph Fielding Smith, and Elder Mark I!. Petersen, President Spafford, and Counselor Marianne C. Sharp also turned a shovel of dirt. Amy Brown Lyman (as she turned a shovel of dirt): In memory of the women of the past. President Spafford, upon returning to the stand: Before you leave, Sister Madsen will lead us in singing "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," the song that was sung at the first meeting of Relief Society in Nauvoo. Sister Madsen. Singing: "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning" by the congregation. President Spafford: We are very sorry to tell you that the reason Sister Simonsen did not turn her shovel of dirt is because she has been ill all afternoon. Nothing serious, but she was not able to stand long enough to take her part. The benediction will now be pronounced by Elder Mark E. Petersen one of our advisors in the Council of the Twelve. Elder Mark E. Petersen: Our Father in heaven, at the conclusion of these impressive exercises, we come to thee with gratitude in our hearts. We do thank thee for this great organization. We thank thee for the opportunity now of building this Building as a home for it. We pray that thou wilt speed the construction of this Building and let no untoward thing interfere, and may thy peace and benediction be here in this place; may it be more than ever an hallowed piece of ground and may thy spirit be here throughout the construction and then for the many years to follow. Dismiss us now with thy blessings we ask in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. First. Christmas Lael W. Hill He will not understand the festive glare Of brilliant lights, nor tinsel on a tree Festooned with glassy baubles everywhere, Nor toys designed to bring a baby glee. And yet, perhaps because he is so new To mortal life, he may remember far Singing of angels on a night that few Pause now to tell of, and a shining star.... The shouting, laughter, and the bells and cries Will bring but new and strange bewilderment To a wee son whose staring, dazzled eyes Look out at this first Christmas he has spent. 804 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 Elder Richard L. Evans Appointed a Member of the Council of the Twelve Antoine R. Ivins Member of the First Council of Seventy ELDER RICHARD L. EVANS HEN, at the last general W conference of the Church, Richard L. Evans was sustained for ordination into the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, the First Council of the Seventy and the Seventies of the Church gave over to a more extended service of the Church one of its most loved and appreciated members. In going into the Council of the Twelve, Elder Evans becomes one of a group of three brethren who have been taken from the First Council of the Seventy to serve the Church in another capacity. In 1889, Abraham H. Cannon, who had been a member of the First Council of the Seventy for seven years, was ordained an apostle, which position he held for an equal term of seven years until his death. In 1854, Jedediah M. Grant, father of our recent President Heber Jeddy Grant, was taken from the First Council to become a counselor to President Brigham Young. Now Elder Evans becomes a third to. Receive such recognition. The Council feels highly complimented and extends the best of wishes to Richard L. Elder Evans was thirty-two years of age when he was set apart to the First Council and has served it fifteen years. Abraham H. Cannon was twenty-three years of age when set apart to the First Council, while Jedediah M. Grant was twenty-nine when he went into the First Council. It is highly probable that no member of the Church today is more widely known than Brother Evans. His development from youth has been noteworthy, but it is not our purpose to follow him through its many ramifications. It may, however, be noted that he was an excellent student through high school and college; an excellent missionary for the Church in Great Britain; is a devoted husband and father; has had a most important part in the development of the radio business of this State. Page 805 ELDER RICHARD L. EVANS AND HIS FAMILY In front, center, Elder Richard L. Evans and son William; At right Alice Thornley Fans; at back, left to nght: Richard L. Jr., John, and Stephen. It is in this field that he has become most widely known. His direction of the 'Temple Square Mission, together with his Tabernacle Choir broadcasts, has given him opportunity to teach the gospel to many thousands of people. His appeal is always uplifting. It is not because of this, however, that the members of the First Council have loved and admired him, for he has brought to the counsels of this body a quiet serenity, dignity, and excellence of judgment that are rare indeed. If he may ever be annoyed or ruffled, he rarely shows it; he is calm, considerate, deliberate, and wise in consideration of such questions as may arise in the Council. He loves his fellows, always desiring to be helpful. He has been intensely devoted to the betterment of the Seventies of the Church. Is it any wonder, then, that we shall miss him from our counsels? We shall, however, feel that he may now have greater opportunity to aid and influence for good a greater number of people. May the Lord extend his life and crown his labors with even greater success. 806 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 Elder Hugh B. Brown Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve _ Elder George Q. Mortis Assistant to the Council of the Twelve LDER Hugh B. Brown, sustained as an Assistant to the Twelve on the closing day of conference, October 4, 1953, enters into his new duties as a General Authority of the Church with a rich background of Church service in important and varied callings during the past fifty years. In these 'callings as a missionary; a bishop's counselor in the Cardston Ward for six years; a co-ordinator of servicemen in the European theater of war; co-ordinator of veterans service at the Brigham Young University; a president of two different stakes, Lethbridge and Granite; and twice president of the British Mission, he comes eminently qualified to render valuable service to the Church and to the people in his new calling. Owing to his wide and intimate contacts with the youth of the Church, as co-ordinator both to servicemen and veterans, as Professor of Religion at the Brigham Young University, as bishop's counselor, and as stake president, he has rendered great service to the youth of the Church and as speaker and counselor to youth has been widely sought. Born in Salt Lake City, October 26, 1883, the son of Homer M. And Lydia Jane Brown, Elder Brown ELDER HUGH B. BROWN passed his boyhood days in Salt Lake City until his middle teens when he went to Canada with his parents. There, at the age of twenty-one, he was called upon a mission to Great Britain, from which he was released in 1906. He served with distinction in the first World War, going overseas in command of a squadron of mounted riflemen, and returning home as a major in the Canadian Army. Upon his return from the war, Elder Brown took up the study of law and entered into the practice of his profession. Page 807 808 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 ELDER HUGH B. BROWN AND SONS Left, Hugh Card Brown, killed in 1942 while serving in the Royal Air Force; right, Charles Manley Brown, member of Brigham Young University faculty, now studying for his Ph. D. In education at the University of Southern California, Los Angeles. SISTER ZINA CARD BROWN AND DAUGHTERS Upper panel, at left: Zina Lydia (Mrs. G. P. Brown, Altadena, California); center, Sister Brown; at right, Zola Grace (Mrs. W. G. Hodson, Downey, California). Lower panel, left to right: Mrs. LaJune B. Munk (Alhambra, California); Mary Myrtice (Mrs. Edwin R. Firmage, Provo, Utah); Margaret Alberta (Mrs. Clinton L. Jorgenson, Long Beach, California); Carol Rae (Mrs. Douglas Bunker, Provo, Utah). HUGH B. BROWN Two years after Elder Brown's return from his mission, June 17, 1908, he was married to Zina Young Card, daughter of Charles Ora Card and Zina Young Card. Sister Brown's father was founder of Cardston, having gone with a group of pioneer settlers, in 1887, to Canada. Sister Brown's mother was a daughter of Brigham Young. Brother and Sister Brown had eight children, six daughters and two sons, all living and all married, except one son, Hugh C. Brown, who was lost in the Royal Air Force Combat Service In 1942. Sister Brown was born in Cardston, Alberta, and the family tresided there after their marriage until 1921, when they moved to Lethbridge, Alberta. The Lethbridge Stake was organized in November of that year, it being the third stake in Canada, and the eighty-fourth stake in the Church, and Elder Brown was made its president. He continued his practice of law in Lethbridge until 1927, when the family moved to Salt Lake City, where Elder Brown was and is now a member of the Utah State Bar. In 1928, he became president of the Granite Stake, where he presided until 1936. In 1937, Elder Brown and Sister Brown and five of their children went to England, where he presided over the British Mission until 1940. Upon returning 809° from the British Mission he became co-ordinator for the servicemen for the Latter-day Saint Church and a member of the Servicemen's General Committee. He returned to England in 1944 as president of the British Mission and co-ordinator in the European theater of war, looking after the interests of the Latterday Saint men in the service in Europe. Upon his recent return to Salt Lake City, in 1946, he joined the faculty of the Brigham Young University in Provo where he taught and acted as co-ordinator of servicemen who were attending the "Y." In 1950, Elder Brown resigned this position and went to Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, being retained. By an oil company as attorney and later was made president and manager of the Richland Oil Company, Ltd., in which position he was serving at the time of the present call. Such has been the important and valued service rendered by Elder Brown in varied and important callings during the past years. He has served with integrity, distinction, and unfaltering devotion during all this period. His rich natural endowments and outstanding spiritual qualities, will enable him to render a consecrated and inspiring service to the Church, in his present calling. & Marion Duff Hanks, New Member of the First Council of the Seventy Elder Richard L. Evans Of the Council of the Twelve ELDER MARION DUFF HANKS T is sometimes strikingly significant to see how early in life the course and character of a man become manifest. This is a sobering thought for young people who may think that the early years do not matter too much. The young man who was made a member of the First Council of Seventy at the general conference of the Church on October 4, 1953, is one whose early life indicated a definite direction. Marion Duff Hanks was a Sunday School teacher at the age of fifteen —teaching boys not much younger than himself. Always active in the auxiliaries, he served on the Salt Page 810 Lake Stake Sunday School and M. I. A. Boards before he filled his mission. In the Northern States Mission (1942-1944), his record again was one of leading out. Serving as a field secretary, he traveled the mission with President Leo J. Muir. On occasions of the mission president's absence or illness, he conducted district conferences. He spoke in over a hundred non-Mormon churches. Wherever he has gone, he has lived a well-rounded life, and the Church has been his chief interest. World War II found him enlisted in the Navy where he served two years. As a First Class Petty Officer aboard a submarine chaser, he was selected by the ship's captain to serve as chaplain. And for most of the time on extended South Pacific duty, he was the only Latter-day Saint among some two hundred officers and men. Before this he had been a group leader of some six hundred Latter-day Saint men at San Diego Naval Base. Brother Hanks' broad interests consist of many sides, with a whole- "ness of spirit, a humanness of heart, a genuinely fine sense of humor, and a deep love and understanding of life that make him always choice company and an effective associate in any assignment. Civically, he has served as a president of the Sons of the Utah Pioneers (Emigration Chapter); three MARION DUFF HANKS years as chairman of the speakers' bureau of the Community Chest; and recently as Salt Lake County co-chairman of the Cancer Society. For more than five years he has served as assistant director of the Bureau of Information on Temple Square in Salt Lake City where he has been active as a guide since 1946, and has left an unforgettable impression upon many thousands of people concerning the mission and message of the Church. He has also conducted the evening outdoor 'Temple Square meetings for tourists, which, in recent summer seasons, have attracted hundreds of visitors each evening. He is a Master M Man, and has performed a number of special services for the General Board of the M. I. A. He was an active member of Delta Phi at the University of Utah. At the time of his present appointment he was serving as advisor to the teachers' quorum in Wasatch Ward. Brother Hanks has also been much in demand as a fireside speaker, and has served for two years at the L. D. S. Mission Home in Salt Lake City, where he has conducted a course on "difficult questions." Ilis activities have been well balanced. In high school he was an all-star basketball player and _ later an Intermountain A. A. U. All-star player. He was a member of the Church championship M Men basketball team in 1947, representing the Nineteenth Ward, where he was born and lived most of his life. He has also engaged in sports broadcasting. 811 The physical side was supplemented by editorship of the school paper, debating, and presidency of the student council. He was a scholarship student, and nine years after he was valedictorian of his high school, he was invited back to West High in Salt Lake City to give the commencement address. Marion Duff Hanks was born on October 13, 1921, in Salt Lake City, the youngest of seven children (six surviving). His father, Stanley Alonzo Hanks, a municipal judge in Salt Lake City, died when Marion was two years of age. The teachings and life of his faithful mother, Maude Frame Hanks, are reflected in her family; one son, Lincoln, now serving as president of Salt Lake Stake, and two, Bruce and Marion, having both filled missions. The three girls, Maurine, Jeannette, and Beulah have also followed the family tradition for faithful service. As the sons of widows often do, Marion worked at many occupations from his earliest years to finance himself through the period of preparation, which included graduation from the School of Law at the University of Utah in 1948. In the Hawaiian Temple, in 1949, he married Maxine Christensen, the daughter of Brother and Sister Elwood Christensen of Honolulu, who themselves once served together in the Japanese Mission. Susan Gay, three, and Nancy Marie, two, are Brother and Sister Hanks' two young daughters. One of Brother Hanks' greatest satisfactions and services has been the teaching of young people, including his position as principal of ELDER MARION D. HANKS AND HIS FAMILY Left to right: Nancy, Maxine Christensen Hanks, Susan, and Elder Hanks West High Seminary, which he has held for some six years. Scores of high school students have faithfully come to his 7 A. M. Book of Mormon classes. More than 150 students are currently attending like classes at the L. D. S. Institute of Religion, adjacent to the University of Utah. And outside the classroom, young people have constantly sought him to talk about their problems. With the principles of the gospel, the standards of the Church, and an_ understanding heart, he has satisfied the souls of many, and sent them on their way with the spirit of peace and purpose and promise, with his solid and forthright counsel. This young man, short of thirtytwo years old when his present call came, can be counted on to add strength and understanding and courage and conviction, and humility and positive leadership in the council of which he is now a member, and in all the calls and assignments that may come to him. His life has followed a consistent course. His character and capacity were early in evidence. He is loved, and he has loved the Lord. May he be blessed with a long lifetime of effective and satisfying service. 812 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 Life of President David O. McKay [The fourth article of a series on the ancestry and life of President McKay] Jeanette McKay Morrell NE of the most important missionary ventures of the Latter-day Saint Church was instituted when, on December 2, 1920, Brother David O. McKay of the Council of the Twelve and Brother Hugh J. Cannon were set apart by President Heber J. Grant to make a tour of inspection of the missions and schools of the Church in every part of the world. From the date of their leaving until they returned, December 24, 1921, they traveled 24,277 miles by land, and 32,819 miles by water, which is two and one half times around the earth's circumference. Among the intensely interesting experiences in every country and island visited, only a few can be mentioned in this article. Christmas was spent in Japan, and after visiting the principal cities of that beautiful country, and spending a short time in Korea, the trav- - elers entered China, with its ancient wall still standing as a bulwark, if not as a protection, as it once was. Before leaving home, President Grant instructed them that, if they felt so impressed while in China, to set the land apart for the preaching of the gospel. As Pekin is really the heart of the country, they decided it would be an appropriate place for this sacred ceremony. On Sunday, January 9, 1921, in a small grove of cypress trees, Brother McKay dedicated and set apart the Chinese realm for the preaching of the gospel. He wrote: "Thus was the key turned that unlocked the door for the entrance into this famine-stricken land, of the authorized servants of God to preach the Glad Tidings of Great Joy as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith." | Not until they returned to Tokyo, to sail for Hawaii on January 21, did they receive letters and Christmas messages from home. In Honolulu, they received a royal welcome, and were shown the beauties and points of interest on all the islands of this group. Brother McKay wrote in his diary: I cannot describe the beauty of this tropical paradise, the trees, the gorgeouscolored hedges, the profusely blooming flowers and shrubs, the sky and the ocean, with the bright, fantastically colored fish, all add interest to' this wonderland of beauty. Later, I told a reporter who came to interview us, that I had realized more than I ever thought possible, my childhood dream of fairyland. After holding conferences, attending feasts given in their honor, and blessing little children and members who were ill, it was necessary to return to the mainland to take a boat for the islands and continents of the South Seas. The Tahitian saints were visited, and_ several weeks were spent in New Zealand, In every town and village where meetings were held, members and Page 813 Elder David O. McKay, right, a mem. Ber of the Council of the Twelve, and Hugh J. Cannon, left, in Tahiti, 1921. Non-members alike, city and government officials, joined to welcome their distinguished guests, entertained them royally, and showered them with flowers and lovely gifts. Everywhere there was beautiful music furnished by bands, choruses, and island serenaders. There were also many spiritual manifestations which strengthened the testimonies of missionaries and island people alike. The month spent in Samoa passed all too quickly, with some of the largest conferences yet held, in preparation for which every detail had been carefully arranged. Missionary meetings were as satisfactory as the larger meetings, attended by members, investigators, and friends. When the time for farewells arrived, genuine friendships. Had been formed, and the parting was a sad one for these people who had never before had the privilege of meeting any of the Church General Authorities. T the last party, there were real interpretations of the beautiful island dances, in native costume, singing, and instrumental selections, and then, as they returned to the mission home, fathers and mothers brought their children to be blessed, occupying the last moments before the necessary departure. Of these last experiences Brother McKay recorded the following: As we came out, we found the people standing in a double column from our door out across the lawn to the street. They had prepared a farewell song for us and all began to sing. As we passed through the lines shaking hands with them, sobs interrupted the _ singing. Staunch old Papo, the head of the village, sobbed like a child, and clung to us as though we were his sons. As we mounted our horses we looked back and saw the crowd, headed by the band, coming toward us for one more parting handshake. From that spot to the dugway leading to the ocean, there is a straight, grassy roadway, lined with tall native trees and tropical vines. As we rode slowly up the gentle incline, the band leading, the people followed, as though they could not yield to parting. We had gained, perhaps, a quarter mile ahead of them, when I felt impressed to say, 'Brother Cannon, I think we should return and leave our blessing with them here in this beautiful grove." 814 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY, CENTER, AND HIS COUNSELORS, STEPHEN L RICHARDS, LEFT, AND J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., RIGHT Page 815 As we approached the sobbing crowd, I was thrilled with the picturesqueness of the beautiful setting. Hanging my folded umbrella on an overhanging limb, Kippin, our interpreter, told them why we had come back. Their sobs were louder than my voice when I commenced the prayer, but they became more subdued as I continued, and their "Amen" was distinct and impressive at the close. An elder who remained with the crowd reported what followed after the visitors left: The villagers watched as long as they could see their friends, then returned sadly to their homes. Kippin, the interpreter, immediately sat down and wrote the prayer as he remembered it. He and some others then conceived the idea of burying a copy of it on the spot where Apostle McKay had stood, and covering it with a pile of stones to mark the place. The town bell was rung, the people reassembled, and the plan was presented and approved. A copy of the prayer, together with an account of the entire proceedings, was. Sealed in a bottle and placed in a hole which was covered with stones, each of the heads of families throwing a handful of soil to assist in the covering. The branch on which the umbrella hung was taken back to the village as a souvenir, and steps were taken to erect a monument at the sacred spot. Another month was spent in visiting the missions of Australia, then on to Java, India, Egypt, and Palestine. Traveling through the Holy Land was like passing familiar towns, villages, rivers, lakes, mountains, and gardens, because of Brother McKay's long and intimate association with these places in Old Testament history, and especially because of his love of the life of Christ and his apostles. EFORE leaving home President Grant had expressed a hope that these two missionaries might visit the Armenian Mission, which had received such harsh treatment during the great World War. On a special fast day several thousand dollars had been contributed for the relief of these suffering people, but almost a year had passed since the brethren had left home, and they had no recent information about conditions in this part of the world. Cablegrams to the president of the European Mission and to the United States Consul at Aleppo brought only information that J. Wilford Boothe was on his way to Aleppo. Brother McKay's diary, under date of November 2, 1921, reads: We have no idea where President Boothe is. We shall leave Jerusalem for Haifa enroute to Aleppo tomorrow morning. Have concluded to go by auto through Samaria, visiting Bible scenes. At 3:30 P. M. Of the same day we ascended the Mount of Olives, and choosing a secluded spot near where Jesus is supposed to have stood, we knelt in humble supplication and thanksgiving to God, asking that we might be led by inspiration on our trip to the Armenian Mission. Upon returning to the hotel, I felt strongly impressed that we should go to Haifa by train instead of by auto. When I said as much to Brother Cannon, he replied, "If you feel that way we had better take the train." Our greatest desire as we neared this mission was to meet Elder Boothe. Indeed, it seemed that our trip to Syria would be useless unless we should meet him. We were strangers. We knew no one. The branches of the Church in Syria were disorganized, and the members were scattered. During all our travels, besides giving excellent addresses at every meeting, Brother Cannon had assumed the responsibility of arranging for train and boat tickets and hotel accommodations, and had never failed in a single instance; but shortly after leaving Jerusalem, when asked if he had the name of a hotel in Haifa, he said he had forgotten to ask about it, 816 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 LIFE OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 817 PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY AND EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY Photograph taken on President McKay's Eightieth Birthday September 8, 1953 * but would contact the Allenby Hotel runner when the train stopped at Lud. When they changed trains at that station, and were again on their way, they both realized that they had forgotten to speak to the hotel representative. Arriving at Haifa, Brother Cannon remained with the luggage while Brother McKay left to make inquiry regarding a suitable hotel. After some difficulty, he returned in about ten minutes reporting that there seemed to be two fairly good ones, and they would take the one whose runner appeared first. The delay caused by locating a hotel brought them to the station office door just at the same moment that another traveler reached it. He said, "Isn't this McKay?" Brother McKay writes: Brother Astounded beyond expression to be thus addressed in so strange a town, I turned and recognized Elder Joseph Wilford Boothe, the one man above all others whom we were most desirous of meeting. 818; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY ADDRESSING SAINTS AND MISSIONARIES AT THE DEDICATORY SERVICES ON THE SITE OF THE TEMPLE TO BE BUILT IN GREAT BRITAIN At New Chapel, near London, England, August 10, 1953 We had met, too, at the most opportune time and place. Having known nothing of our whereabouts, he had come from the Western part of the world hoping in his heart to meet us. We had come from the East praying that we might meet him, and there we had met at the very time and place best suited to our convenience and to the success of our mission to Armenia. As we recounted to each other our experiences, we had no doubt but that our coming together was the result of divine interposition. If we had taken an auto from Jerusalem, or if we had remembered to secure the name of a hotel before we left the Allenby, or if we had thought to ask at Lud, we should not have met Elder Boothe. It is true he would have been in town that same day, but he had intended to stay at a hotel across the city from the one we decided upon, where we should never have met him, and our visit to Armenia would have failed. After visiting missions in Italy, Switzerland, Germany, and _ the - British Isles, they sailed for home, arriving on Christmas Eve of 1921, and these two men who had been as one during this eventful year, made a complete report with their recommendations to President Heber J. Grant, and received an honorable release. On January 15, 1936, President McKay was again sent to visit the missions of the Hawaiian Islands, and in February 1948, made a tour of the Mexican Mission. On June 1, 1952, he left New York City by air to visit the European Mission, including Scotland, Wales, England, Holland, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Germany, Switzerland, and France. N addition to his earlier educational activities, President McKay has held many responsible positions, LIFE OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY and has been honored by many universities. On June 2, 1922, he received an honorary degree of Master of Arts from the Brigham Young University. Later honorary degrees were conferred upon him by the Utah State Agricultural College, by the University of Utah, and by Temple University at Philadelphia. He has served as a member of the Board of Regents of the University of Utah, a member of the Board of Trustees of the Utah State Agricultural College, and has long been 819 a member of the Church Board of Education, over which organization he now presides. President McKay has been a member at important conferences in Washington, D. C. The White House conference he attended was called by President Herbert Hoover, at which he was appointed State Director of Child Welfare for his own State. On October 22, 1951, he was invited to a conference in the White House by President Harry S. Truman, and on June 5, 1953, he PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY TURNS FIRST SHOVEL OF EARTH AT TEMPLE SITE NEAR BERNE, SWITZERLAND, AUGUST 5, 1953 Left to right: Elder Wilhelm Zimmer, First Counselor in the Swiss-Austrian Mission Presidency; Elder Edward O. Anderson, Church Architect; President William F. Perschon, Swiss-Austrian Mission; Dr. Llewelyn McKay; President David O. McKay; Sister Emma Ray Riggs McKay; President A. Hamer Reiser, President, British Mission; Sister Elizabeth B. Reiser; Elder Samuel E. Bringhurst, former President Swiss-Austrian Mission. attended a conference on United States Foreign Policy, called by Secretary of State Dulles. On July 17, 1953, he spoke at the National Council, Boy Scouts of America, in Los Angeles, where he was awarded scouting's highest honor, "The Silver Buffalo." Another important event was the dedication of the Mormon Pioneer Memorial Bridge, at Omaha, Nebraska, attended by a large group of Church Authorities and members, at which he was the principal speaker and offered the dedicatory prayer. An important appointment came to him when he was made Chairman of the Utah Centennial Exposition Commission, in April 1938. This organization planned and cartied to completion one of the greatest celebrations Utah has_ ever known. Every county and city in the State participated, with a grand climax in Salt Lake City on July 24, 1947. N September 8, 1944, he was chosen as Second Counselor to President Heber J. Grant and on May 21, 1945, in a reorganization of the First Presidency, he was appointed Second Counselor to President George Albert Smith. This position he held until the passing of President Smith, when, on April 9, 1951, he was sustained in solemn assembly in the Salt Lake 'Tabernacle, as President of the Church, with Stephen L Richards as First Counselor and J. Reuben Clark, Jr. As Second Counselor. Since he has been President, his activities have been reported in the Church Section of the Deseret News and other Church periodicals, and it would require many pages to record even the highlights of his very busy life. Probably the most important of these is the great building program which is now being carried on in the Church. Hardly a week passes which does not record the dedication of a ward chapel or a stake house. The membership of the Church is being thrilled with the ground breaking for the new Relief Society Building, and the promise of its eatly completion. 'The long-await-. Ed Ogden Tabernacle is also becoming a reality. As always in the his- - tory of ancient and modern churches of our God, temple building has been considered of the utmost importance. On September 22, 1951, the dedication of the site, and ground-breaking exercises marked the beginning of the erection of the Los Angeles Temple. The greatest innovation, however, came when, on August 5, 1953, a site was dedicated for the construction of a temple at Berne, Switzerland, and immediate- - ly following, a similar ceremony for one to be built at New Chapel, County Surrey, in England. The joy these events will bring to our members across the water cannot be estimated. On January 2, 1953, President and Sister McKay celebrated their fifty-second wedding anniversary, and they are seen together at all the President's appointments here and abroad. May they be blessed with health, wisdom, and the Spirit of our Heavenly Father as they continue the great work of him who is at the head of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 820 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 LIFE OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY 821 McKAY HOME IN HUNTSVILLE, UTAH She Old Home Jeanette McKay Morrell The walls are thick, the ceiling high, The fireplace wide and deep; The chimneys with tall. Poplars vie, The sheltering roof is steep. The two who built and made the home Have long since passed away; Their names are on a granite stone Where memorial wreaths we lay. Upon the walls their portraits hang; Their presence lights each room, The organ around which they sang, Their chairs left all too soon. The moss-rose china used with care, The album velvet lined; Bouquets designed from loved one's hair, "The Book" with names enshrined. The echoes of their lives are there, For all who knew them hear Father's voice in family prayer, Mother's gentler — vibrant, clear; Inspiring words of honored guests, The laughter of young friends, Exchange of spiritual quests And literary trends. They stood united as one head, And with decisions fair— Unchangeable, they gently led With admonition rare. A haven still of peace and rest, The place now plays its role. To those who know and love it best The old home has a soul. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1893 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF Att NatIons" M. ISABELLA HORNE: President Horne had the honor of belonging to the Relief Society in Nauvoo, which was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and had the unspeakable pleasure of listening to the melody of his voice, giving instruction to the daughters of Zion, he having turned the key for the redemption of women.... Long and often has this woman (Sister Horne) raised her voice in exhortation, instruction and love, to her sisters, many of whom can testify that from her lips has fallen the soft word that first caused them to think, and inspired in them the desire to reach out to more glorious possibilities of intelligence and progress. Her instructions to maid, wife and mother, explaining the mission of woman, in bearing the souls of men, her duties to them, her home and her husband are beyond price. —Lydia D. Alder - THANKSGIVING We thank thee for all of life's seasons, For springtime, for winter and rain; We know that in time all thy reasons To our wond'ring souls will be plain, We thank thee for hopes thou hast given Of a life immortal and free, That beautiful respite in Heaven, When again we come unto thee. —E. R. Shipp BLACK FRUIT CAKE: Cream together one pound of brown sugar and one pound of butter. Beat the yolks and whites of ten eggs separately. Add the yolks, with one pound of seeded raisins, one pound of currants, and a half pound of sliced citron, one third of an ounce each of ground cinnamon and nutmeg, and one-quarter ounce each of ground mace and cloves, also one pound of flour that has been slightly browned. Add the whites of the eggs. Mix and beat well. Tum into a mold and bake for five hours in a moderate oven. Before using ice and decorate with candied fruit. MEXICAN ITEMS: Perhaps some of our dear brethren and sisters in more. Favored and civilized places wonder if our Heavenly Father would stoop to care for those poor exiles in this far off land, but it is so, and here in this place I have learned the sweetest lessons that the Gospel has ever taught us. Here under a lonely roof I have had an opportunity of learning to thank God for blessings, thank him for trials, and suffering.... But we will learn in the end that one blessing we never have been deprived of, and that is the tender watch-care of our eternal Heavenly Father.; —S. T. Brimhall LESSON Thus anciently were holy women taught, By Christ's Apostles, great, inspired men; Today are glimpses of those lessons taught; Apostles, Prophets teach the same again. —L. Lula Greene Richards Page 822 AMONG the new books written by women about women are the following: Willa Cather, by Elizabeth Shepley Sergeant, a memoir of the eminent novelist of the American scene; Until Victory: Horace Mann and Mary Peabody, by Louise Hall Tharp, the life story of a New England schoolteacher, sister of Mrs. Nathaniel Hawthorne, who married the great pioneer educator, Horace Mann; How Tolstoy and His Wife Lived, by their daughter Alexandra Tolstoy, life of one of the world's greatest novelists and his wife, who could not share his dreams; Woman at Work: The Autobiography of Mary Anderson, as told to Mary N. Winslow, achievements of the Swedish immigrant girl who became director of the Women's Bureau, United States Department of Labor, and devoted her life to national and international efforts for the betterment of women workers. N September, two months before turning one hundred years old, Mrs. W. N. B. (Emily M. Phipps) Shepherd, Salt Lake City, passed away. She was the mother of ten children—all musically gifted—of whom three, Arthur, Charles, and Albert, have won national reputations. AULINE (POLLY) OLSEN, eighty-three, of Annis, Idaho, Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon died in August 1953. Born without arms, she trained herself to use her feet, and she made her own living, with the exception of a small pension, and cared for herself until shortly before her death. Courageous and happy, her life has been an outstanding example of a woman's triumph over a_ great handicap. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Ann C. Milne, Murray, Utah, one hundred and five; Mrs. Ruth May Fox, one hundred; Mrs. Amanda Sanderson Jones Pritchett, Fairview, Utah, ninetynine; Mrs. Mary Ann Carver Geddes, Plain City, Utah, ninety-six; Mrs. Mary Ellen Alston, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-five; Mrs. Harriet Irene Ranck Olson, Salt Lake City, ninety-four; Mrs. Martina Thompson Sorenson, Draper, Utah, ninety-four; Mrs. Jeanette McAllister Reynolds, Salt Lake City, ninety-one; Mrs. Mary Christine Olsen Newton Peterson, Ephraim, Utah, ninety-one; Mrs. Lucina Call Perkins, Salt Lake City, ninety. LINGUIST ELIZABETH HANUNIAN, of the Legislative Reference Service Library, Washington, D. C., translates from nine different languages the great amount _of mail that comes to senators and representatives in those foreign tongues. Page 823 O—>) EDITORIAL <2 VOL. 40 DECEMBER 1953 NO. 12 She so4th Semi-Annual Church Conference N speaking of the 124th semiannual conference of the Church, which convened in the Salt Lake Tabernacle on October 2, 1953, President McKay characterized it as an epoch-making session in that for the first time in history thousands outside Utah had the opportunity to meet in worship with the assembled congregation. Through television, thousands of people living on the Pacific Coast shared in the proceedings of the Sunday morning session. Each year the sessions are broadcast over an ever-increasing area. This year participating radio stations were located in the states of Utah, Colorado, Arizona, Idaho, Nevada, Washington, Oregon, and California. Radio station KSL and KSL-TV originated all broadcasts and telecasts. Added significance to the words "The law shall go forth from Zion" was felt as one speaker averred, "Here is the spiritual capital of the world." Twice a year the world is given the opportunity of learning the will of the Lord to the inhabitants of the earth, but still the words of the Savior apply, "Having ears, they hear not." Words of counsel in wisdom, however, enter into the ears of those who will hear. None need be left in doubt as to the law, as he is admonished and blessed by the General Authorities, one after another, for the space of the three-day sessions. The brethren selected to fill the vacancies occasioned by the deaths Page 824 of Elder Albert E. Bowen of the Council of the Twelve and Elder Stayner Richards, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, resulted in | three new appointments. President Richard L. Evans, of the First Council of Seventy, was called to be a member of the Council of the Twelve; Elder Hugh B. Brown was made an Assistant to the Twelve; and Elder Marion D. Hanks was called to fill the vacancy in the First Council of Seventy. There was general approval and rejoicing in each of these new appointments. Faithful Latter-day Saints privileged to be hearers of the proceed- — ings were fed the bread of life, as one after another of the brethren voiced, with profound conviction, the particular principles of the gospel which to him seemed of most worth to the members of the Church today. Again and again the speakers avowed their love and devotion to President McKay and to the other presiding brethren—those men who have been called by the Lord to be the servants of the people, dedicating their lives to lead those who have ears to hear back into the Father's kingdom. The prayer was silently voiced and revoiced in the hearts of Church members, "O God, bless all these humble and mighty men, thy leaders, and ever give unto thy children of the covenant the strength to sustain them." —M. C. S. She Precious Shings of Garth ae. And when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts; gold, and frankincense, and myrrh... (Matthew 2:11). WHEN the Magi, who had traveled over the high mountains and the bleak deserts. To whitewalled Bethlehem—when these "dividers of the stars" bowed before the infant Jesus, the custom of Christmas giving came to earth. The Wise Men brought to the young child gifts typical of that time and place, commodities precious in the sight of the people of Palestine and adjacent countries. Strange gifts, perhaps, to be brought to a child, but the Wise Men offered them as symbols of great and lasting worth. It is inevitable that a person who loves another, whether it be a family member or a friend, will think of gifts, and the essential element in the giving is this very thoughtfulness and love—never the monetary value nor the lavishness of the offering. It is the richness of love which makes the gift a precious thing of earth. One of the sweet mysteries of life is the wide variance in values which appeal to different people and to the same person at different stages in his life. 'There is no complete explaining of that which will appear as wedges of gold to some individuals. It is for us to have wisdom and understanding in our hearts when we become the bearers of gifts. Once a young mother bent over a Sleeping child and saw the small pink fingers clasped tightly around some object apparently of great worth. Carefully the mother unlocked the little fingers and found a small black button in her baby's hand. As an elderly woman this mother remembers that which was precious to her child. Some little girl, who loves best of all her treasures the armless doll which has lost its golden curls, knows in her heart the strange reason for her devotion and her childish appreciation. Two women who had served for several years as officers in a ward Relief Society were parted when one of them moved to a distant state. When the traveler came to tell her associate goodbye, she placed in her hand a yellow linen handkerchief with the recipient's name embroidered in the corner. After many years, and many experiences, the woman still treasures the handkerchief as a symbol of love and association. So it must ever be with the gifts which are of the heart and of the spirit of devotion. 'Two girls had been inseparable companions throughout their college days. One of them later made her home on the Pacific Coast far away from her friend, but her Christmas letters seemed to be borne on wings of nearness, for they were filled with precious thoughts. There was no money for gifts, she said, but her friend received the great and sufficient offering. A grandfather, knowing that his days upon the earth were drawing to a close, presented, upon the last Christmas of his life, a precious gift to his granddaughter. It was a little (Continued on page 863) / Page 825 Journey for Christmas Katherine F, Larsen HE cold began early that fall. School had been going for only two or three weeks, and already the mornings were hoarfrosted, with glassed-over puddies and a wintry feel to the air. It was on one of those perceptibly shortened afternoons when the green beetle of a school bus let us out up on the highway, that I bore the heavy, new, brightly colored Sears-Roebuck catalogue homeward, _ Ruthie crowding at my elbow teasing, "Please, Kathy, let me look at it second after you, please... Please," while I, full of the importance of good tidings, did not deign to answer. Every school day I had to call for the mail, including the previous day's newspaper, before noon lunch was over, at Fingal Barman's small general store and branch post office a quarter of a mile from the schoolhouse. Winter catalogue arrival was an event at our small isolated farmhouse. It meant that mother would order our long winter underwear, new stocking caps, mittens, and perhaps a new coat for me, passing my outgrown one down to Ruthie, and—best of all to us children—we could pore over the Christmas toys lithographed in tempting splendor therein. Oh, the dolls, the lavish array of dimpled adorable dolls! No Christmas could possibly be Christmas without a new one apiece to join the old family in the corner of Ruthie's and my bedroom. This exciting night, after supper Page 826 dishes, Ruthie, Larry, and I sprawled on our stomachs before the glowing Franklin stove in the front room to look at the catalogue, pointing and shrilly debating which toys we wanted; but Larry quickly lost interest when we turned to the doll section. I read the descriptions aloud to Ruthie, because, being just six and in first grade, she could read scarcely at all. Larry, not yet five and a boy, was of course interested only in things like toy tractors, wagons, sleds, and miniature farmyards; and Dorrie, at two, was caught up in the excitement without quite understanding what it was all about. At the first page of the doll section I nudged my sister and shrilled, "Look, oh, look at this gorgeous © doll, Ruthie! Isn't she a love?" She was pictured in color, and was according to the description, ""T'wenty-four inches high, sleeping eyes | with real lashes, cries, 'Mama!' when tipped forward, daintily dressed in red dotted swiss trimmed with val lace, leatherette shoes, white socks...." We gasped at her brown hair, Dutch-cut like ours. And ineffable magic, crowning enchantment, she had a little music box inside her stuffed body, with a little crank coming out of her side up under the dress, and when you turned it music played. Then I saw the price—$4.95—almost five dollars! Enchantment took on a never-never quality. Our dolls could not cost more than two dollars, and, especially, this year. Because of the early cold, moth- JOURNEY FOR CHRISTMAS er's hens had almost quit laying the eggs which she depended on selling for the money to buy our winter clothing and the Christmas things. She looked worried when she confided to me that our toy orders would necessarily have to be sent much later than usual. Being nine-and-a-half, I had understood about Santa ever since I began geography in the third grade. Logic told me that no one could travel all over the world in one night, and when I taxed mama with the problem, she explained it to me, and, afterward, we conspired to keep the other children believing. Knowing took the edge off anticipation in a way, but it made me feel more grown-up and more a part of the adult world. AFTER Ruthie and I had admired the music-box doll again and again, I turned the pages to where the less expensive dolls were pictured in black-and-white, and, after consulting with mama several times, we each picked out ours. Mine was described as "Daintily dressed in pink lawn, lace-trimmed; sleeping eyes; composition head and arms; painted life-like hair; cries 'Mama'; eighteen inches tall; soft stuffed body; $2.19 plus postage." And in small print, "Satisfaction guaranteed or your money refunded. If item ordered is out of stock, a better grade of similar merchandise will be sent." It always said that, but the only time we ever sent anything back was when Mama was wrong on the size and had to exchange stockings or something. The snows started early, too, after the unseasonable cold. By Thanks- 827 giving there was over a foot on the ground, and it continued to fallintermittently with cold snaps severe for so early in the season. Mother's hens remained reluctant, and, consequently, it was only two weeks before Christmas Eve when she finally got off the order for our dolls. Everything else was either on the way, or had already arrived and had been stored on the high shelf in mama's and papa's bedroom. Larry had ordered a small tractor from Santa, and together with Ruthie's and my dolls and a woolly white lamb on wheels for Dorrie, made up the large items of our Christmas. For the rest, there would be one or two games and books, hardtack candy, and nuts, a very satisfactory array, in our eyes. Excitement ran higher and higher as the days grew shorter. I awakened one night from a confused dream of Christmas to the yip-yipyip-yii-i-i, long drawn out, of yelping coyotes outside. Sometimes in the cold they crept very near, sounding as if they were right beneath our window. Mama always reassured us, saying they sounded much closer than they really were. I tucked the quilts closely over my exposed ear to shut out the eerie sounds, but it was a long time before sleep came again. Time dragged more and more slowly for us children, although, inevitably, drawing nearer to the day. Now mother made her divinity loaf, heavy and creamy and rich with walnuts, wrapping it in waxed paper and leaving it on the cold, back-screened porch to ripen for several days. 828, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 At last, at last, it was only two more days until Christmas! Papa would go after the tree that very morning, trying for a fir from the hills above the upper pasture. It would take most of the day, because of the deep snow. Ginger, the cow pony, could only flounder through the drifts with difficulty, and would require frequent rests. Mama got the box with the tree ornaments down from the attic hole in the ceiling, and we happily rum- _maged through it, unwinding the red and green ropes and tarnished tinsel, finding the star for the tip, and peering at the fragile glass balls in their little nests of cotton-wool. Tomorrow evening we would trim the tree! We were beside ourselves with excitement. In the midst of the merry hubbub mother beckoned me aside. She looked worn and troubled. "Kathy," she said, "the dolls didn't come yesterday when Mr. Williams brought us our mail." I knew what that meant. The postman came on his horse only once a week, and school being recessed for the holidays, I wouldn't be bringing any mail home on the school bus until after the holidays. "Couldn't papa...?" Mama. Shook her head. "He won't be back from getting the tree until too late, and, besides, Ginger will be too tired to go six miles after such heavy going through deep "But, Mama, can't he go tomortow?" Mama said regretfully, "Look at the calendar, dear; Christmas Eve comes on Sunday this year, and Barman's will be closed all day. It has to be today. Kathy, I hate to ask you, it's such a long way for a little girl not ten years old, but the snowplow has been through on the highway, and Ruthie wouldn't understand if Santa forgot her doll. Besides, yours will be missing, too." Panic held my throat for a moment. Over six miles... Walking... And all that snow! But I knew mama was right. Ruthie just couldn't wake to disappointment on Christmas day.. We looked at each other, horrified at the thought that the parcel might not even yet have arrived. After noon dinner, mother bundled me against the cold, because even though the sun was shining, the temperature had been a record forty degrees below zero at the railroad station three nights before. "Unbutton your coat if you get too warm walking," Mama said, "but not the sweater. And leave your cap and mittens on." HE kissed me goodbye, and I stepped outdoors into a nearly unbroken dazzle of white. I floundered awkwardly across the slight decline that marked the frozen brook, and trudged on up to the highway. The snowplow had pushed the packed snow higher than a. Tall man's head on either side, and it was work to scramble over the top and down into the hard-packed trough of the road. My eyes soon became accustomed to the noonday glare on snow, and I amused myself for the first half mile to Rosehill cottage imagining that I was a princess, and all the acres of dazzling diamonds winking in the sun were my jewels. Down JOURNEY FOR CHRISTMAS the hill into Mathews' hollow was easy, but up the other side and slowly rounding the long hill, the going began to be harder. After awhile, halfway there, I could see the cottonwoods down by the river in the distance, shivering gray ghosts of the trees that made a green oasis in summer. Above them, to the north, huddled beneath the bald hills, was the Peterson village store, ramshackle, with peeling yellow paint. A sign said "Barman's,' and, below, "U. S. Post Office." I was much too far away to see the signs, but I knew they were. There. By now I was numb with effort and the monotonous rhythm of walking, and for the last long mile, with legs like wooden posts, I blundered on. Fingal Barman was waiting on a customer, whose team I had vaguely noticed hitched outside, but the customer finished his business and left before my vision cleared enough to make out the familiar bedraggled, gray mutton-chop whiskers and theumy blue eyes under the bald and shiny dome. He rasped out in his bleared voice, "Well, gal, what d'yew want? D'ja come with yer dad?" I shook my head, too shy to tell how I came, and asked, hesitantly, if there was a package. It seemed an interminable time he took shuffling to the post-office section, and an age before he waddled back — empty-handed. He peered at me, shaking his head. I fought down the lump that suddenly blocked my speech, and the sickening feeling of disappointment. "Oh, Mr. Barman, I've walked all ~ we won't have our Christmas.... 829 this way, and Ruthie..." I choked, my eyes filling with tears, ""... And I couldn't go on. Mr. Barman pulled at his whiskers. "Mail train got through late. Sure, now, maybe it's in the stuff the man just brought from the station. Haven't had time to go through it yet." He shuffled back once more, and I could hear him muttering and pawing through the mail sacks. At last he emerged, bearing the precious package. "This it?" he asked, handing it across the counter to my eager hands. I read the return address. "Oh, yes, thank you, thank you, Mr. Barman." Then I turned and burst through the door, eager to be home and the bearer of good news. ON the steps outside I paused. The sun was still quite high, and I was so hot inside with all the sweaters, mufflers, heavy leggings, and coat, maybe I'd better rest my tired legs awhile before starting the long way back. I sat down, leaning my head in its heavy woolen cap against the rail post, and it felt so good! I must have been sound asleep, for I was roused abruptly from a dream of climbing, climbing over glacial ice and snow in some alpine fastness, a pack of gray wolves howling on my trail and gaining fast. "Sakes, child, yew still here?" It was Mr. Barman's rasping voice. I rubbed my eyes and looked around, bewildered. He was peering down the steps from the door, to which he was affixing a padlock. Closed read the sign hung askew from a rusty nail near his head. I started up stiffly, shocked to see the sun now gone behind the mountains. It would be dark in less than an hour! I muttered goodbye, clutched my parcel, and stumbled down the remaining steps. Chill had penetrated my layers of clothing, and I hurried on my way with difficulty. What would mother think if I was not back by dark? Freshened by my nap, after I got warmed up again, the first mile around the long hill was quite easy, except that I had to change the bulky parcel from one arm to the other quite often. But before I reached the hollow, dusk obscured _ the familiar landmarks, and I dreaded to go down into the silent dark, where bushes loomed on either side, where coyotes might be lurking to pounce on me as I passed. My overactive imagination had them sneaking at my heels for the next quarter mile or so. I pushed ahead, down into the hollow and up the other side as fast as my legs would go. Then another worry overtook me. My side felt as if a redhot poker had been thrust under my ribs, and I» gasped for breath with every step. Soon, gaining the crest, there were small sharp knives slashing my straining chest. I had to rest. At the top of the hill I halted, climbed the snow bank, and looked to the right to see the cheering lights of Rosehill cottage, a quarter of a mile off the highway. How I longed to stop there instead of pressing on, but it was very dark now, and mama and papa would think something had happened to me. I sat down abruptly on the snow and began to whimper. I was so tired I wanted to sink down and go to sleep, but the cold, biting through my clothing, reminded me that people froze to death if they went to sleep in the snow. Witha last regretful look at the shining windows of the cottage, I slid down to the road again, to trudge the last half mile. About halfway I cattle heard heavy feet crunching the snow just around the bend ahead. 'Then a circle of light danced before a tall looming figure. I turned with a sob and began to run back toward Rosehill cottage. "Kathy!" the figure shouted in dear papa's voice. "Kathy, is that you?" How comforting his arms were around me, as I sobbed with relief,' and how lovely it was to be carried, pick-a-back, the rest of the way home. (CHRISTMAS morning we were, as usual on that day of days, up and in mama's and papa's room long before daylight, teasing: and pleading with them to get up. Finally, they arose. Larry hopped up and down, Dorrie clapped her hands, and Ruthie and I clutched each other blissfully when they went into the living room to light the candles on the tree. We waited breathlessly for an age by the closed door before they sang out, "Ready, now," and "Merry Christmas!" as we at through the doorway, smallest first, me last. The glory of the shining tree 830 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 JOURNEY FOR CHRISTMAS stopped us for a moment. Ruthie clasped her baby doll with both arms, her face alight. How happy I was that my trip had not been in vain. Then I saw my doll sitting under the tree, demure in red dotted swiss—no, it couldn't be.... Slowly I bent and picked her up. "Oh, Mama, the music box doll! How....?" I turned to mother, bewildered. Her brown eyes shone as she turned me aside from the busy smaller children. 831 "Sears Roebuck were all out of the doll I ordered for you, so they sent this one, with a note saying they hoped it would do instead. Aren't you glad?" I was speechless with the wonder of it. Slowly I tipped the princess over to hear the plaintive "Mama!" I touched the real eyelashes with a careful finger, then smoothed the brown hair, and, finally, I reached up under the red dotted swiss skirt, found the tiny crank, and began to play a merry, magic, tinkling tune. Mlake Interesting Blocks for Children Thalia Black MaArTERIALS paste saw sandpaper paint clear varnish floor wax magazine pictures scraps of lumber Step 1: Saw the corners of the lumber straight, leaving the general lines very much as they are. Step 2: Use sandpaper to smooth. Step 3: Paste pictures cut from magazines to all the flat surfaces. Step 4: Apply clear varnish to the entire surface of the block. Step 5: Finish with a coat of floor wax. -- Si, ashion Note Marian Schroder Crothers The fence posts march across the snow, Precisely patterned, row by row, Their long, slim shadows, softly dark, On silvery whiteness make a mark Of alternating black on white, Till lost in velvet folds of night. Now winter writes a fashion note: "This year, earth wears a zebra coat!" "Good Will Toward Men"' Helen Hinckley Jones HE familiar "good will toward men" of the angels' Christmas song took on a new and sweeter meaning for our family the year that Emilie, a vibrant young French student, lived in our garden apartment, and all roads seemed to lead from Pensacola, Florida, to Altadena, California. When we invited Emilie to share our family Christmas, she said with real regret, "I'd love to, but I'm expecting a friend from Pensacola." "Bring him, too," Ivan, my husband, urged, knowing that a young cadet away from his beloved France for the first time might be a little homesick for a family. At one o'clock on the morning of December 24th, an urgent chiming of our front door bell awakened us and, sleepily, Ivan stumbled to the door. I lay listening. A greeting in halting English.... Lvan's response in easy French (Ivan served his mission in France).... A relieved torrent of French from the stranger.... Acall to Emilie.... Her high-pitched bubbling speech added to the men's voices. I have a listening acquaintance with French, but not at that distance nor at that speed. My curiosity practically pushed me out of bed before Ivan returned. Louis had arrived, and Emilie had directed him to Cal Tech's International House. "Why didn't you put him to bed in the guest room?" I asked. "Didn't think of it," Ivan confessed, and added, "he had a ride Page 832 back down town, anyway. He came with an American cadet on his way to Fresno." Four o'clock. Again the door bell. Again Ivan. Stumbled sleepily through the house. Again a conversation in French. Louis back? I wondered. But no. This voice was softer, younger, the accent different, the upward inflection more pronounced. Finally — footsteps mounted our uncarpeted stairs. Returning to bed, Ivan said that Jacque, another cadet, had hoped that Emilie could direct him to a French hotel. He had her name and address from Louis. Since Jacque "had no English," Ivan had felt paternal and had sent him up to our guest room. Our daughters, six and nine, watched Jacque at breakfast with much the same expression that they gaze through the bars at the wonderful animals in the zoo, as Ivan and Jacque—by this time Ivan and I were affectionately calling him Petit Jacque, not because he was really small, but because he seemed so terribly young — chatted and laughed and demolished a platter of pancakes and sausage. FTER breakfast we took him over to Hollywood to meet a "friend by mail" who had offered to show him the town. We gave him exact instructions for returning to us by bus, but when evening came and we had to leave for a family dinner engagement, we went reluctantly, after pinning a French note for him to the front door. "GOOD WILL TOWARD MEN" When we returned a few lines had been added to the note, giving a telephone number and an address. Ivan called the number, "Have you a French cadet from Pensacola?" "Yes. We picked him up hitch hiking from Los Angeles. We took him to your place, but you weren't home. He's waiting here for you." We drove about a mile to the address on the note. 'There was a French cadet, all right, but not our Petit Jacque. This cadet was older, his accent showed he was from the north of France, not the Midi, as Jacque was, and his name was Michel. He had hoped that Emilie could direct him to a French hotel. HRISTMAS Eve, and our house was a French hotel! Louis and Michel occupied my study, Jacque, the guest room. What a wonderful day Christmas was from stocking-emptying time to the bedtime carol sing around the lighted tree, with Emilie and the three French cadets from Pensacola. We heard little of French customs or politics, much of rapid 833 fire banter, gay young laughter. All over the house were lively French faces, willing French hands. Our home was their home, our country their country for this blessed day at least. When the day was over, and our girls went to bed, Jacqueline sighed. "T think we won't ever have another Christmas as good as this one!" And Sammie, with six-year-old simplicity, added, "Daddy, I knew people spoke French, but I didn't know they talked it." And as she was just about to go to sleep, "Jacqueline, don't -you just love them? They don't talk like us, but they feel like us." "Good will toward men" the angels sang. And it's easy to feel good will when people from other parts of the world are folks, not statistics, not populations. Always, I think, when France or the French are mentioned, our little girls will find it hard to believe anything ill about them. They'll think, instead, about that "very best" Christmas, when all roads seemed to lead from Pensacola, Florida, to Altadena, California. Oo S. No wh a lf Enola Chamberlin There is no beauty like the falling snow— No loveliness like flakes succeeding flakes Until the clouds in downy whiteness flow To earth; and distance, like a crystal, breaks Before the eyes. The hills are lost, the trees, Unpatterned shadows in a misty world, Could be great giants crouched upon their knees, Or seaweed from Sargossa oceans swirled. And it has fallen, fallen through the years, From dusk to dawn and back to dusk again, Has fallen on the laughter and the tears, The love and hate, the rise and fall of men. And now today once more quite silently It brings its beauty for the world to see. Mlaking Cloth Books Elaine C. Nichols anon A APPLE C) IN. B BOAT A: Cc CAT e, SS eee | wet mother doesn't have some mementos of her children, especially from the time when they were very young, perhaps a dress, a bonnet, or a well-loved toy of some kind? In the case of toys, they are often used by a second generation of children, and sometimes by even a third, as grandmother or great-grandmother brings them out. My own grandmother has just such treasures, and among them are some old books, worn, gray, and faded with many washings, but nonetheless enchanting for a very small child who likes to look at the pictures and name each object. Remembering from my early childhood my delight in these books, I determined to make a cloth book for my eighteen-month-old son to enjoy now, and perhaps for others to enjoy later. Since making such books I have found that they sell well at bazaars, and that they are simple enough for young girls to make to help fill honor badge requirements in Primary and Mutual. Nieces and nephews enjoy these books. So, as a gift from the heart, requiring some thought and effort, as a bazaar item, or as an idea for helping others learn creatively, try making cloth books. Materials One yard unbleached muslin Six-strand embroidery thread One set of transfer patterns Directions. Cut 4, 5, or 6 pieces of muslin, 16 inches by 10 inches. Fold in half and crease to form center division. Unfold and stamp a pattern on each section. Embroider with appropriate simple stitches. Fold again in half on crease with folded edge becoming the right edge of the age. Trim cut edges (top and bottom of pages) with pinking shears to form a book. Sew pages at the left one-half inch from the edge. WN awe = Variations A. In Makinc THE Boox 1. The book may be pinked on top and bottom and a piece of bright-colored material one inch wide sewed down the left side to form a bright strip of material which covers the unpinked edge and makes a most attractive finish. 'Page 834 MAKING CLOTH BOOKS 835 2. The book pages may be turned wrong side out and sewed three-eighths of an inch on the top and bottom, then turned right side out, and a one-inch strip sewed down the left side when all the pages are assembled., 3. Whatever way the book is finished, put a title on the front cover, such as "My Book," "'Baby's Book," "Toys, "A B C's," or "My Dolls." These little books can be washed and ironed as often as needed, and they will last and last. B. In PATTERN 1. There are many transfer patterns of animals, flowers, dolls, houses, and other objects which can be found by looking through the pattern books in stores. 2. If you are an artist draw your own objects. 3. If you're not an artist and can't find a pattern for what you want, look through your magazines until you find the picture you want and then trace it. This is especially helpful when you want a picture of a spoon, a chair, a dress, a flower, or some other simple object familiar to a child. C. In Materiats Usep 1. Objects may be made of gay prints or plain colors or combinations of these and appliqued on the muslin either by hand or by sewing machine. 2. Objects may be painted on the muslin with textile paints. 3. If the objects are simple enough in outline, bias binding or rick rack may be used. 4. Combinations of any of these may be used. >- CGhuaisvmas Giving Luella N. Adams I° Christmas losing its true significance? Originally, gifts and happiness were intended to symbolize the birth of Christ. As time has passed, this important holiday has largely become a time of celebrating and gift giving, and it has become far too commercial to many of us. Commemorating the birth of our Lord and Savior, having peace, happiness, and good will in our hearts should be the purpose of Christmas—a time to bind family and 'friends. These precious values cannot be purchased. The gifts given us by Jesus have brought more real joy to mankind than all the worldly gifts money can buy. - To many people, the Christmas season has become a time of frustration and strain, physical strain, nervous strain, financial strain. Of course, Santa Claus will always bring gifts to children, but children are often confused with too many things. Start early to prepare for Christmas, remembering "the gift without the giver is bare." A great-grandmother makes aprons all during the year for her family and friends. Think of the happy memories as she stitches, and how the aprons will be appreciated. A letter or note to friends rarely seen will bring joy. These could be written days ahead. A word of greeting written on the Christmas card gives a personal touch. In purchasing these cards remember the sacred theme of the season. ' 'The true spirit of Christmas comes through being generous in love and friendliness, not so much in material gifts. Most of all at this glorious season, we must not forget to remember him whose gift to all mankind was the supreme gift. The Deeper Melody CHAPTER 3 Alice Morrey Bailey Synopsis: Steve Thorpe, who has encountered much difficulty in caring for his three motherless children, is grateful for the efficient care given his sick baby by Margaret Crain, a registered nurse. Margaret's mother, a widow, temporarily accepts the position of housekeeper in Steven's home, and he feels that his most immediate problems are solved. However, his employer, angry over his leaving a selling assignment, tells Steven that he is fired. TEVE went apprehensively into the sick room next morning. Miss Crain's back was toward him, and she was reading her thermometer. Little Phyllis looked very sick, without the bright red cheeks of yesterday. Steve's mouth went dry with fear. While he had been worrying about such trivial things as losing his job his baby was dying. He tried to speak, but his voice was a crack. "Miss Crain!" Miss Crain turned a radiant face _ toward him. There was joy and suppressed pride in her expression. When she saw his face she came closer and looked anxiously at him. "Your baby is much, much better," she said. "Really and truly, Mr. Thorpe. She is practically out of danger—and going to be well. You'll be amazed how soon." Her urgency convinced Steve. Miss Crain joined him, and _together they laughed from joy and release from strain. It was a bond of wordless understanding between them, and a high moment to share Page 836 with anybody. With little Phyllis well, he could do anything! Yes, it was amazing. It was amazing also how two women, the nurse and her mother, had made order and safety out of chaos, routine out of disorder. It was wonderful to see Ilene and Davey blossom into good-child behavior, with confidence replacing the hungry orphan look in their faces. It wrenched Steve's heart. How he wished it could continue! "You will be amazed to see how soon Phyllis will be well," the nurse had said, and added, when Steve pressed her, "a week at most." Much as he wanted Phyllis well, he knew too surely how it would be. There would then be no nurse, and no Mrs. Crain. There would be again the nightmare of finding suitable people to care for the children, with this time the added strain of finding a new job. "Look," he asked brightly at dinner, "why couldn't you two make this your home? You could come here between cases, Miss Crain, and your mother could stay on. You would have no expenses of living, and, Mrs. Crain, you could earn a good salary." The two of them looked at him blankly, while he floundered out his difficulties, his dread of new arrangements. "That is a very generous offer," said Mrs. Crain finally. "I'm sorry we can't take it. Margaret is get- THE DEEPER MELODY ting married the first of June to Dr. Rex Harmon, and we have preparations to make. Then I have promised my son's wife I will come there. She needs me just at that time, following Margaret's wedding." "It wouldn't be fair for us to stay until the children get attached to us, or we to them," Miss Crain added. "'Already I can hardly bear to leave them, they are so adorable. The sooner you make permanent arrangements, the better they will be? ER eyes were troubled and compassionate, and she seemed so sincerely concerned that he regretted having brought the matter up. "You can't blame a man for trying," he said lightly, and changed the subject to cover his disappointment. He was staring glumly out the window of the living room later when Miss Crain came in. She was silent on her nurse's shoes, but Steve felt her presence and turned, smiling a welcome, and indicated a chair. "Sit down, Miss Crain. I don't think you have been off your feet all day." "The children are all asleep. I told Davey and Ilene a bedtime story. Mother has gone to bed, and I will, too." She seemed suddenly diffident. "Talk awhile if you aren't too tired," invited Steve, to put her at ease. "I keep thinking of you—your problems." "So do I," Steve said, smiling wryly. "I seem well supplied at the moment, and just now seemed to have touched bottom. I've been 837 there before, though, and after a night's sleep I'll be able to see my way out, so you don't need to worty about it. You've solved the biggest problem I had, getting Phyllis on the road to recovery: I should be able to take care of the rest!" He tried to speak with a confidence and calmness he did not feel, in order to reassure her, but she sat primly on the edge of her chair, like a good child about to speak a piece. He was amused. He was thinking, she is like two separate individuals, competent and in her element in the sick room, timid outside. He watched her intently, and finally she suggested, "Mr. Thorpe, I can't see any good future in a succession of hired help. Why don't you marry again? You need a wife." "A wife!" Steve said, with deep hurt. Some of his anger was against this slim girl, who could tear away his defenses to the bare thought, and some of his resentment was that she should presume to advise him. He wanted to ignore her, not to betray his feelings, but she was vitally and irritatingly there. _ "A wire! I had a wife, Miss Crain. I loved her and I lost her, so what is there left for me? Besides, who would want a widower with three babies?" They sat in silence until Miss Crain apologized, "I have gone far beyond my duties as a nurse to presume to advise you, please forgive me!" "Nonsense! Naturally, being the conscientious person you are, you felt you had to do something after what I said at dinner, but remarry- ing ls something I won't even think about. Nobody could take Ellen's place." "Pm not suggesting anyone. Could," persisted Miss Cain. "I was trying to tell you that people can love more than once, and. "Now wait a minute," cael Sieve, amused at her earnestness, "you speak with a good deal of authority, and I'm going to get personal, too. Is this wisdom from experience?" ) GHE turned suddenly to the window, staring into the blackness beyond as he had done, her back toward him. For a moment she didn't speak, and when she did her voice was quiet. _ "The man I loved was killed on Iwo Jima." "Oh!" said Steve, remembering what he had read of the fury of that island—the beaches, the lava hills, and the stark heroism which still, after the years between, left its tragic scar across a nation. Now his prying question had sought it out where it lay quivering in a girl's heart. "Would you care to tell me about it?" he asked humbly. She told him, and he had understanding for every word, for it was like living again the blinding beauty of his courtship with Ellen, the discovery of first love, the romance and the despair, the heartache and the heart joy. "He was sensitive and tender, a musician and a poet," she finished. "He had no business in a war. He was one of the first casualties. He would be." "You still love him," Steve said, and she gave him his own answer. "Tl always love him. Some day, somewhere, I'll see him again!" "And now you love this Rex— this Dr. Harmon?" "It is different—a different kind of love, because he is a different _ person; I am, too, for that matter. At first I felt as you do—that there was nothing left of me to give." "I didn't say that," marvelled Steve, "but it was what I meant." "Rex knows about Adrian, and he doesn't mind, so I am not robbing him. He doesn't care about a hereafter, because he doesn't believe in God, or any of the things I believe in.' "That's not a good basis for a marriage,' observed Steve, dismayed. "Rex is brilliant, with a wonderful future. He saves many lives, and that should balance in some way, his unbelief. I can help him." Steve shook his head. "It sounds fine, but there's something wrong about it. This is marriage you're talking about." "Is there any chance of your getting that contract back? The one at Kettle Creek?" she asked, changing the subject abruptly, as she had once before, to avoid talking of her fiance. The girl was uncanny, he thought. Something like a nefarious plan had been crossing his mind all day. Now it took hold, sharpened by her words, and gripped him in spite of himself. He was certainly as disappointed as J. I'. Must have been to lose that sale. It was a point of personal pride, as well as the money. More than that, it was his conviction that Pikes Peak had the best machinery 838 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE--DECEMBER 1953 THE DEEPER MELODY for the Kettle Creek work—or for any work in mining for that matter. Making his living selling any other machinery seemed impossible to Steve. It was more than a job he had been fired from—it was his main interest in life, outside his family. Perhaps he could still sell them the machinery! It would make a great deal of difference, even if he didn't get his old job back, in lifting his feeling of guilt toward the company. Chances were that. The Kettle Creek officials had not been advised of his dismissal, and would still accept him as J. T'.'s representative. "Tm sorry, Mr. Thorpe. I can't seem to help interferig with your - ey" She had evidently mistaken his long silence for disapproval, and Steve leaped up in consternation, so suddenly he collided with her. His hands caught her shoulders to right her, and for a moment her face was quite close. He saw her then really for the first time, as her sweetheart must have seen her, her clean freshness, even after a trying day, the sweet blue of her eyes, the sweet upturn of her lips. He felt a magnetism about her and resisted a sudden desire to kiss her. "Is she all right to leave—Phyllis, I mean?" He was shocked to hear the normal tone of his own voice, when his hands still retained the feel of her shoulders, round under his palms. "T'm sure she is," she replied smiling. "You can leave instructions for me to reach you in case of emergency, but I don't expect one." 839 O kiss Margaret Crain had been an impulse, but the vision of her mouth stayed with him, try as he might to think of other things the next day on the way to Kettle Creek. Maybe he was not at all the sort of person he thought himself to be, and his mother had been right after all. "You'd better plan to remarry," she had said after Ellen's funeral, "when it's decent, of course." "Mother, you may as well understand that I could never feel anything for anyone else, or love anyone but Ellen." "Stuff and nonsense!" his mother had replied. "You'll see differently later on." Certainly he had never anticipated a desire to kiss another woman or such a thing as last night's experience. It was more than that, however. Neither had he anticipated finding an intellectual companionship, the comfort and compatibility he already enjoyed with Margaret Crain, or to feel the agreement, the approval, and admiration of another personality such as hers. After last night's conversation he detected hidden depths in her thinking that he longed to explore. Well, whatever it was, such thinking would get him nowhere. It was another thing to put a clamp on, to push away into the darkness, along with his loneliness for Ellen. From long practice, Steve knew exactly how it was to be done, and threw himself into the never-failing work, When he presented himself at J. T's office three days later he was weary to the bone, but it was a good weariness, ribbed with a sad sort of triumph and a real regret at leaving Pikes Peak. He had put the quietus on a desire to go home first and tell Miss Crain about his success, and had driven straight to headquarters instead. He needed some papers from his office and was half afraid to go there for fear it would be cleaned out and his successor already installed, but Miss Tate was in the outer chamber as always, and her nervous hands flew to her hair as always. He had meant to have her ring J. T., requesting an audience, but instead he went directly in without announcement. "Tell Mr. Holden I am here," he said to the surprised secretary. At that instant the door to the inner sanctum opened and he met J. -T. Face to face. For a moment J. T. Looked as the father must have looked on seeing his prodigal son arrive safely home, but he quickly controlled the expression on his rugged features.: "Come in," he said, and retreated into his office, closing the door when Steve followed. "Sit down," he said, waving Steve to a chair. "No thanks, J. T.," Steve said, unloading his pockets onto the older man's desk. "I just brought this in for a parting gift. It's the Kettle Creek contract for a complete changeover to our—your machinery." He had the satisfaction of seeing J. T.'s jaw drop open, as incredulous delight spread over his features. "How'd you manage this, boy?" J. T. Boomed. "It wasn't easy," Steve confessed. "T've never talked faster than I have these last three days. It was a hoax, too. Too bad you can't fire me for it. I took a chance they didn't know I'd been fired already, so now, if I can get a few of my personal belongings out of my office...." "Sit down!" ordered J. T. Steve sat, wondering what was to come next. "I never had a son," J. T. Said hoarsely. "I never wanted one till I saw you. I'm an old man, Steve, and one day I'm going to die of one of my attacks. Then what will happen to Pikes Peak? I think of it night and day. You stay here— humor my bad temper in my old age a bit, boy, and I'll leave you the business." (To be continued) —+-<i Stamuncnation Lydia Bennett Egbert I sat beside a singing stream And listened to its song, That gladdened all the world around, While summer days were long. When winter frosts had come, I found My stream in peaceful sleeping; In ermine cloak, the world, in turn, Was silent vigil keeping. 840 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 A Spice Cake for Special Occasions Rose A. Openshaw If you are looking for a special cake, simple and inexpensive, yet one that rivals the most expensive and delicious cakes, your search can end right now, for here it is! This cake is universally liked, and you will be besieged by people requesting the recipe. SpectaAL Spice CAKE 1 Cc. Sugar: - 1 tsp. Vanilla % Ib. Butter or butter substitute - 41. Tsp. Cinnamon 2 eggs 2 heaping tsp. Baking powder 1 ¢c, milk _1 pt. Chopped walnuts (about 2% to 3 cups) (about 3% c.) Cream the sugar and butter together, add the baking powder and other dry ingredients to the flour and sift into first mixture. Add milk, eggs, and vanilla and beat together. Then add raisins last of all. The mixture should be beaten up and down vertically, to admit air, and insure a fine, velvety texture.? The batter should be placed in the oven as soon as the oven is slightly warm and allowed to bake slowly to a golden brown. It is more satisfactory baked in long narrow tins. The recipe is sufficient to fill three 3% by 8% inch tins. When cool, cakes should be covered completely (with exception of bottoms). With a frosting made of one package powdered sugar to which is added vanilla to taste, evaporated milk to thin, and 1/6 cup well-crushed walnuts (a rolling-pin is excellent for crushing). When frosting is set, wrap cakes in waxed paper and place in cake box. Cakes can be kept indefinitely. The exotic flavor which both delights and baffles is obtained by placing one "navel" orange and one "Delicious" apple in the cake box. (Other varieties of oranges or apples do not impart this same unusual flavor.) ~~ She Gift She Liked the Best Frances C. Yost Grandma's birthday rolled around, Rolled to eighty-six. Friends and family brought her gifts — Clothes and candy-mix. Folks gave paper, ink, and pen— Things to keep her writing, Warm wool hose, and paisley shawls. Oh, it was exciting! One gift made her face illume— Glamorized "sweetheart" perfume. Page 84] flour enough to form a firm dough _ %, qt. Seedless raisins (dampened ) Gifts for Yourself and Others Eva Willes Wangsgaard Janet Knowles NOW that I have made two useful and decorative chests, it seems to me that the ideas used in their construction might have a wider application — these chests, or similar ones could be given for Christmas presents. Do you keep a number of things in a box in the basement and wish that you had a storage chest? Why not make one out of the box? For years, I stored kindling in a large book box. The lid was a heavy oak table top which was difficult to lift and more difficult to replace in its narrow confines behind the stoker. Consequently, | dreaded having to make a fire either in the furnace or the fireplace. Then, suddenly, one morning as | lay abed looking over the day ahead Page 842 of me, I was seized with a wonderful idea. My fingers could hardly wait to accomplish what my mind had conceived. I could see a handy, easily moved, attractive chest where the old kindling box had stood. The box dimensions were 23" by 39" and 19" high. There was plenty of used lumber piled in the garage for cleating together for a lid. I could even remember one piece which had a beveled edge. J debated whether or not to buy a length of glued shelf-lumber wide enough fora lid. Such material had been used by the carpenter who altered my cabinet. A lid all-of-apiece would make a smoother job, and the edges could be beveled by planing at home or by power machinery in a shop where the lumber GIFTS FOR YOURSELF AND OTHERS could be bought. But my pioneer thrift accepted the cleating in preference to the expense and argued that the finished unevenness made the chest look antique. The ornamental hinges and handle for the lid were purchased at a variety store at a small price. 'The casters were bought at the hardware store. They are the type attached to a flat plate to be screwed on. In applying the hinges I first, affixed one three-inch board at the rear of the top and nailed it stationary. This makes hinging easier for the amateur and provides a natural support for the lid when opened. The lid measurements then are twenty inches, and, whether made of separate boards or one glued-together piece, cleating gives it strength as well as holding it together. Ordinarily two cleats are sufficient. The cleats should be two inches shorter than the lid is wide to provide clearance and are secured to the lid with screws. "THE casters may be screwed to the bottom, one to each corner, either before or after the lid is attached. Care must be taken to select screws short enough to hold the casters without penetrating to the inside. Now the chest is ready to paint. However, if you wish to store clothing or small articles in it, you would be wise to paste a wallpaper or oilcloth lining inside to prevent sliver mishaps. If it is to be used, as mine is, for storing kindling and fuel for the fireplace or furnace, no lining is necessary. The first coat of paint should be -an_ undercoat. 843 When dry, sand well for smoothness. The final coats can be Chinese red, peacock blue, or any color that fits your fancy or keys to the room where it will stand. I chose black enamel, two coats, with light sanding between, then decorations of decals in Chinese themes. It seems incredible to me as I lift this handy lid or give the chest a fingertip shove to roll it with ease, that I dragged that old box around for fifteen years! I also make a smaller chest by scale of twelve-inch lumber, 12" x 12' x 24'. It has pin hinges and may be upholstered. The handles were bought at a variety store for ornament as well as utility. The legs are the black pot-lid handles which appliance and _ hardware stores carry. The enamel is black, and the decals are sprigs of ivy. The whole was designed to sit on the hearth and hold fuel for the fireplace, but it now holds the rags and uncompleted braids for my latest rug. If it were upholstered, the same foundation box might serve as a hassock chest. Gift possibilities are only as limited as one's imagination. A bright-colored chest, decorated with cut-outs from a picture book, would make a child happy and add to the furnishings of his room. Any woman would like to have a handy chest for the sewing room to use as a container for cloth and patterns and such notions as elastic, zippers, buttons, and thread. Original, home-made Christmas gifts are always welcome. Try your hand at making useful and decorative chests. Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 22—Alma the Elder Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Mosiah, chapters 18, 23-26) For Tuesday, March 2, 1954 Objective: To show how Alma established the Church of Jesus Christ and the influence and power for good which were exercised by Alma following his repentance. Alma Repents of His Sins Among the wicked priests who clamored for Abinadi's life, was a young man named Alma, who was a descendant of Nephi. The fiery words of Abinadi had made him think and feel. 'The spirit of the Lord penetrated his hardened heart, and he believed the teachings of the prophet Abinadi. Sympathy for Abinadi and for his message led Alma to plead with King Noah not to be angry with Abinadi but to allow him to go in peace. Wrathful by nature, the king could not brook this interference with his command. He cast Alma out from among them and sent his servants to slay him. Alma, however, fled to a place of secrecy. Concealed for many days, he wrote all the words which Abinadi had spoken. These words entered into Alma's heart. He sincerely repented of his many sins and iniquities and went about privately among the people to teach them the words of Abinadi. PerPage 844 haps, he followed much the same procedures as our early missionaries to the Scandinavian countries when they were forbidden to call public meetings and preach to the people. These missionaries secured employment and talked individually to workmen and to their friends in the evening. Alma told them of things to come, about the resurrection of the dead, and about the redemption of mankind "through the power, and sufferings, and death of Christ, and his resurrection and ascension into heaven" (Mosiah 18:2). At the Waters of Mormon Alma was so sincere and so convincing in his missionary activity that many believed what he had to say. Those who did believe went with him secretly to a place which was called Mormon, a place named after a king. It was located in the borders of the land, and was at certain times and seasons infested by wild beasts. LESSON DEPARTMENT There was in Mormon a fountain of pure water. Near it was a thicket of small trees in which Alma hid in the daytime from searchers who were sent out by the king. Many who believed Alma followed him to this spot to hear him expound the gospel as he understood it. After many days there was a goodly number of those whom Alma had converted assembled at the waters of Mormon to hear him speak, "Yea, all were gathered together that believed on his word, to hear him." He said: Here are the waters of Mormon... And now, as ye are desirous to come into the fold of God... And are willing to bear one another's burdens, that they may be light; Yea, and are willing to mourn with those that mourn; yea, and comfort those that stand in need of comfort, and to stand as witnesses of God at all times and in all things, and in all places... Even until death, that ye may be redeemed of God, and be numbered with those of the first resurrection, that ye may have eternal life—Now I say unto you, if this be the desire of your hearts, what have you against being baptized in the name of the Lord, as a witness before him that ye have entered into a covenant with him, that ye will serve him and keep his commandments, that he may pour out his Spirit more abundantly upon you (Mosiah 18:8-10). The people were sincere in their desire to follow Alma. They expressed great joy and satisfaction with the possibility of making such a covenant and witnessing it by means of baptism. "They clapped their hands for joy, and exclaited: This is the desire of our hearts" (Mosiah 18:11). Alma took Helam, one of the first converts, and the two of them walked into the waters of Mormon. 845 Alma prayed saying: "O Lord, pour out thy Spirit upon thy servant, that he may do this work with holiness of heart" (Mosiah 18:12). The Spirit of the Lord rested upon Alma, and he said: Helam, I baptize thee, having authority from the Almighty God, as a testimony that ye have entered into a covenant to serve him until you are dead as to the mortal body; and may the Spirit of the Lord be poured out upon you; and may he grant unto you eternal life, through the redemption of Christ, whom he has prepared from the foundation of the world (Mosiah 18:13). After Alma had said these words, both Alma and Helam "were buried in the water." They came forth, filled with the Spirit and rejoicing. Alma used the same words in baptizing the others, but he did not bury himself in the water again, though he immersed each candidate. He baptized about two hundred and four persons in the waters of Mormon. Alma Organizes the Church Alma then proceeded to organize the group into a church. They were called the Church of God, or the Church of Christ. Having been commissioned of God, Alma ordained priests, one to preside over each group of fifty converts. He instructed these priests to teach the people the things which he had taught them. He commanded 'them not to teach anything except repentance and faith in Jesus Christ who should come to redeem his people. He further commanded them "that there should be no contention one with another, but that they should look forward with one eye, having one faith and one baptism, having their hearts knit together i unity and in love one towards another" (Mosiah 18:21). He instructed the priests whom he had ordained that they were to labor with their own hands for their support, and were not to rely upon the membership for their livelihood. Alma commanded al! The people to observe the Sabbath day and to keep it holy. He further instructed them to assemble together as often as they were able to receive instructions and to worship God. Alma did more than to provide for the spiritual welfare of his people. Like Joseph Smith, Alma felt that if the people were not equal in temporal things, they would not be equal in spiritual matters. He therefore commanded the people to "impart of their substance, every one according to that which he had" (Mosiah 18:27). And now it came to pass that all this was done in Mormon, yea, by the waters of Mormon, in the forest that was near the waters of Mormon; yea, the place of Mormon, the waters of Mormon, the forest of Mormon, how beautiful are they to the eyes of them who there came to the knowledge of their Redeemer; yea, and how blessed are they, for they shall sing to his praise forever (Mosiah 18:30). But Alma could not keep this much activity from coming to the attention of the king. One day as they were gathered together to hear the word of the Lord, "they were discovered unto the king." Alma was accused of stirring up the people to rebellion and Noah sent an army to destroy them. By this time the group had come to number about four hundred and fifty members. Cognizant of the coming of the king's army, they took their tents and families and fled eight days into the wilderness. Land of Helam Becomes in Bondage to the Lamanites In a land they called "Helam," Alma and his people pitched their tents, constructed buildings, and began to till the earth. The people wanted Alma to be their king, but he forbade it saying, "Ye should stand fast in this liberty wherewith ye have been made free and... Trust no man to be a king over you." Alma, as founder of their Church, however, becamc _ their high priest. Nevertheless the Lord seeth fit to chasten his people; yea, he trieth their patience and their faith. Nevertheless—whosoever putteth his trust in him the same shall be lifted up at the last day. Yea, and thus it was with this people (Mosiah 23:21-22). Alma and his people were not free for long, for the Lamanites, in company with the wicked priests of Noah, took possession of the land of Helam. Before this time, the Lamanites had discovered the priests of King Noah, who had made Amulon their leader. When the Lamanites came upon the priests, Amulon had pleaded with them and sent forth the wives who were the daughters of the Lamanites to also plead, that the Lamanites would not destroy their husbands. Because of their wives the Lamanites allowed the priests of Noah to join them. The Lamanites were returning to the land of Lehi-Nephi from pursuing Limhi and his people, when they discovered and took into captivity the people of Alma. Most of the Lamanites left, but Amulon was 846 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT made king over the land of Helam. Soon Amulon began to exercise unrighteous dominion over Alma and his brethren, to persecute them and their children. Knowing that Alma at one time was one of King Noah's wicked priests, Amulon was wroth with Alma. He assigned tasks to be performed, and put taskmasters over the people. So great were the people's afflictions that they began. To cry unto the Lord. Then Amulon commanded them to stop their cries and he put guards over them so that whoever was found calling upon God should be put to death. The Lord Delivers Alma and His People From Bondage Then Alma and his people did not raise their voices to the Lord, but they poured out their hearts to him. And the voice of the Lord came to them in their afflictions saying that he would deliver them from bondage and would ease the burdens they were required to bear, until they would not be able to feel them on their backs. The people submitted "cheerfully and with patience to all the will of the Lord." "So great was their faith and their patience that the voice of the Lord came unto them again" and told them that they would be released from bondage on the morrow. And he said unto Alma: Thou shalt go before this people, and I will go with thee and deliver this people out of bondage (Mosiah 24:17). The people prepared during the night for their departure. 'The next morning the Lord caused a deep 847 sleep to come upon their oppressors, and Alma and his people escaped. That night they pitched their tents in a valley which they called the valley of Alma, and poured out their thanks to God for delivering them from bondage. They were then told to hasten out of the land for the Lamanites had awakened and were pursuing them. The Lord promised to stop the Lamanites in the valley so that they could pursue the people of Alma no further. After a journey of twelve days through the wilderness, Alma and his people arrived in the land of Zarahemla, where they were received with joy by King Mosiah. Mosiah then gathered together the Nephites and the people of Zarahemla (who was a descendant of Mulek) in two bodies, and Mosiah read and caused to be read to them the records of Zeniff and Alma. Those who were the children of Amulon and his brethren who had married the daughters of the Lamanites "were displeased with the conduct of their fathers and they would no longer be called by the names of their fathers, therefore, they took upon themselves the name of Nephi" (Mosiah 25:12) and were numbered among the Nephites. And now all the people of Zarahemla were numbered with the Nephites, and this because the kingdom had been conferred upon none but those who were descendants of Nephi (Mosiah 25:13). Alma Given Authority Over Church Mosiah granted to Alma the right to establish churches throughout the land of Zarahemla. Alma organized seven different bodies called churches, each one of which had priests and teachers, and every priest preached the word as it was delivered to him by the mouth of Alma. All were instructed not to teach anything but repentance and faith in God. ' The people who repented and confessed their sins were forgiven; those who would not repent were not numbered among the Lord's people, and their names were blotted out. Persecution of believers or non-believers was forbidden, and equality among all men was enjoined. Alma had repented and from a wicked priest of King Noah he had come to be the religious leader of all the people in the land of Zarahemla. He had become one of God's chosen servants. If men like Alma, by repentance and by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, can be transformed into true citizens of the kingdom of God, and can come to be leaders in that kingdom, we can begin to see that the gospel is indeed the power of God unto salvation. Alma was a great exponent of forgiveness, knowing that the man who cannot forgive others is in no position to ask forgiveness for his own sins. Questions for Discussion 1. By what power could Alma receive forgiveness for his sins? 2. How tolerant and forgiving should we be of the mistakes of others? 3. Can you see a comparison between Alma and Paul? Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 22—"Ye Have Not Applied Your Hearts to Understanding; Therefore, Ye Have Not Been Wise" (Mosiah 12:27). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, March 2, 1954 Objective: To urge that a conscious effort be made toward understanding the word of the Lord. HAT a precious possession is understanding! It tempers one's thoughts and actions, develops patience and kindness, removes prejudice and selfishness from one's heart. From the context of the quotation from Mosiah, it is apparent that Abinadi was arraigning the priests for their lack of understanding the word of God to teach the people correctly. Surely if one is to be wise he must apply his heart to understanding the word of the Lord. A concious effort must be put forth, otherwise we may so easily become confused or led into erroneous beliefs. The great number of interpretations of the Lord's word that exist today attest to this fact. Understanding the word of God correctly does not always come naturally to man, therefore, there 848 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT is the necessity of applying one's heart to understanding. "Search the scriptures" (John 5:39) we are com- ~ manded. "I leave these sayings with you to ponder in your hearts... Seek me diligently and ye shall find me" (D. & C. 88:62, 63). How do individuals receive a testimony of the gospel? It comes, in the final analysis, through an understanding heart. It is not enough to acknowledge the soundness of logic or argument. The logic, the reasonableness of the gospel, may be the initial step in conversion, but the heart must be touched and must acknowledge its truth through the power of the Holy Ghost. The counsel concerning the study of The Book of Mormon found in Moroni 10:4-5, is a guide also to the understanding of other words of God: And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will 849 manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost. And by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things. Many people testify to reading the scriptures over and over and, each time, of receiving a fuller understanding of them. New vistas of thought are opened up in their minds, new light is presented to them, deeper meaning is realized. One may say, for example, "I have read The Book of Mormon fifteen times and each time I have received a clearer insight into the principles of the gospel." When we do not apply our hearts to understanding the word of God, it is as though "we see through a glass darkly" (I Cor. 13:12). False doctrine and varied interpretations may be accepted under such circumstances. If we are teachable, if our minds and hearts are unprejudiced and we seek the truth, then the truth will come to us. Solomon admonishes us: "With all thy getting, get understanding" (Prov. 4:7). Therein lies wisdom. WVork Tleeting—Family Money Management (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 6—Spending the Home Furnishings Dollar—Curtains and Drapery Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, March 9, 1954 INDOW treatments today are more simple than those of even a few years ago. Then, several layers of window hangings often were thought necessary. Now, there may be fabric only, or fabric and blinds er shades. The trend is to relate the indoors and outdoors and to let light and air in, not to block them out, other than necessary for comfort and privacy. The kind of window treatment you choose will depend on the purpose it is to serve. Avoid overdressing your windows or giving them a cluttered look. Today, espec- ially, it is poor taste. It is also an limnecessary expense. Plain panel, sheer curtains may be combined with either side or pull drapery. It is the general practice, today, to hang drapery panels so that the inner edge comes only to the beginning of the glass. The purpose is to make the window appear as large as possible and not to obstruct the view. Hanging them against the wall, rather than over the glass as was done formerly, makes lining unnecessary, unless it is desired for greater beauty in hanging. Beautiful window hangings harmonize with all other furnishings in the room both in style and quality. They are a point of interest, but only one of many in the room, and so do not attract attention away from other decorative features. Harmony with furnishings in the room is not enough. Window hangings must also harmonize with the exterior of your home in color and style.; As a tule, good quality fabrics cost less over a long period than do 'those of poor quality. They do not become limp when washed or cleaned; they are free of sizing that is easily shaken out or removed by cleaning. They are also guaranteed preshrunk or sanforized, colorfast to washing or dry-cleaning and to light. Read the labels, so that you will know the special qualities of the material and how to care for it. Before you buy a fabric for window treatment look at the fabric in folds. If it is a sheer material, look through it at a window, to be sure it is well woven, that it lets the light through, but softens glare and provides privacy if that is desired. Be sure the design of a patterned fabric is equally pleasing when hung in deep or shallow folds, if it is to be drawn across the window, part — of the time. Following are some of the newer curtain and drapery fabrics and an outline of what you can expect of each of them: Nylon is outstanding for tensile strength. It washes easily and requires a little ironing with a warm iron. Draping qualities are poor, and it is only moderately resistant to wrinkling. Sun rots it. It may lose as much as forty per cent of its strength in three months in a sunny window. This still leaves it as strong as rayon marquisette, however. A_ little starch added to nylon curtains, while laundering will give them a little body and increase their resistance to soil. Orlon is considered to be one of the best curtain materials on the market. Good quality should last from eight to ten years. It has good resistance to sunlight, and its draping qualities are better than nylon. It sometimes shrinks when hung over radiators. The fiber is difficult to dye, and the woven fabric is not fast to strong light. Orlon is gradually being woven into drapery material, and has great potenial values as an upholstery fabric, but as yet the supply is short. It is easily washed and requires little pressing. It should be remembered that orlon is highly flammable. Fiberglass is one of the most satisfactory of all fabrics for curtains, but is high in cost. The color is an integral part of the fiber. Resistance to abrasion is low, therefore, curtains or drapery made of it should not be used where they may be handled or brushed against excessively. Never rub or press fiber-glass over several thicknesses of material as in pinch pleats, as it will break. A caronizing treatment is now being given fiberglass to prevent breakage of fibers. Clean fiberglass before the material becomes very soiled, by soaking the curtains in a mild soapsuds and lifting them up and down in it. Never 850 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT tub fiberglass. It requires no ironing and lasts indefinitely. Ceron is a new and highly promising drapery fabric, but is still in the testing stage for many qualities. Dacron has recently come on the market as curtain material, but the supply is short. It has less run resistance than orlon and resembles nylon in wearing qualities. It has more static electricity than most other fabrics. Acetate Rayon has good draping qualities, and pleasing luster, but the tensile strength, while the material is wet, is low. Know what the instructions for cleaning are before buying acetate rayon. Most acetate rayons must be dry-cleaned. Ruffled curtains that cannot be home laun- 851 dered may prove to be very expensive, regardless of a low initial cost. What You Can Do to Lengthen the Life of Curtains 1. Rotate curtains between sunny and less sunny windows, and from top to bottom. 2. Never let curtains or drapery "flip" at open windows. 3. Prevent curtains from being rained on. 4. Clean regularly. Soil, dust, and grime are much harder on curtains than is cleaning. If you must economize in some way, let it be in qualitv of material, rather than quantity. Few things make a room Jook cheap and skimpily furnished as do wmdow hangings drawn taut, or with only a shallow fold or two. Oe Literature of England Lesson 38—Robert Browning (1812-1889) Elder Briant S. Jacobs Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 655-709 For Tuesday, March 16, 1954 Objective: To study Browning's life and works, that we might come to sce more fully the unifymg values they contribute to each other. N 1871, when he was fifty-nine, Browning expressed amazement that poetry of the sort which he wrote should have sold 2500 copies in five months. Although Browning societies were widely organized during the last two decades of the poet's life for the purpose of appreciating and understanding him communally, the poet had comparatively little recognition during his own lifetime. He has been revered far more in the sixty odd years since his death than he was in the sixty before. He has been acknowledged as one of the greatest Victorian poets; certainly he was the most modern, since his writings appeal to us more than they did to his own age. Life Sketch The outward events of his life are well-known (see text, pp. 655- 657). His wealthy banker-father was a man of expanding intelligence and liberal view who had amassed a lhbrary of more than 6,000 books. Here, under his father's approving eye, Browning first began reading so widely that he became one of the most learned of English poets. Here he first learned to love the classic writers; here he came to know European history so well that in his later poetry he could catch in a few lines the essence of an entire his- 852 torical age or culture. And so successfully during his life did he "ransack all the ages" for poetic material that he is generally acknowledged our greatest historical poet. From his father he also acquired a sane balance, a lack of affectation, and such an air of practicality that to his contemporaries he appeared a prominent business-man. Browning had a strong social instinct. He loved crowds, conversation, dining out. Indeed he was "the poet of personality." From his mother he inherited a desire to create, and an intense love of music and the sister arts. She appears to have been highly sensitive and nervous; so was Browning, as revealed in his cryptic, staccato poetic style and in his occasional social irritability and impatience. He never gave a public speech, claiming his nerves could not bear the tension. After his marriage, despite his social nature, he never once dined out alone during those innumerable evenings when his wife was not well enough to accompany him. Most important, his mother bequeathed him her religious fervor and her idealistic belief in the goodness of life, love, and the God above. Before Pauline, his first book of poetry, appeared in 1833, when he was twenty-one, Browning had already dedicated his future to art, and his wise parents approved. But, felt Browning, in order to communicate truth, he would have to break free of the current restraints of poetic form and create within his lines the effect of actual speech. Before his marriage to Elizabeth Barrett in 1846, at the age of thirtyRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 par * A Perry Picture ROBERT BROWNING 1812 - 1889 four, Browning continued writing at his usual slow rate of twenty-five or thirty lines a day and polishing himself as a citizen of the world by trips to Russia, Northern Europe, and three trips to Italy, of which he often said fondly, "Italy was my university." He read deeply and probed with zest into what later he defined as the seven major interests of his life: philosophy, history, poetry, painting, politics, Greek, and music. Never did he pose; his life was normal, healthy, and full. After the death of his wife, he wrote of death, "Let me taste the whole of it." This was his' creed for life. With radiant enthusiasm he_ believed that life should be lived intensely and that he should.. » paint man man, whatever the issuel Make new hopes shine through the flesh they fray.... It was with this honest rapture LESSON DEPARTMENT and patient kindness that he won Elizabeth Barrett, and saw her weak body become rejuvenated by the power of love. As a budding poet, Browning had burned with impatience to proclaim his mind to the world; now, as lover, he proclaimed his love for Elizabeth with the same surge of power. For many reasons their choice of Italy as a sanctuary was inevitable. Here for thirteen years they lived a creative, married love. Each respected the other's character and poetic gifts, though Browning was convinced that his wife's talent far outshone his own. Browning himself had small means in his own right, and his wife had been disinherited, but they lived on money left her by an aunt. Then, when their son was born, their mutual friend, Kenyon, insisted on giving them a hundred pounds annually, and, when he died in 1856, he left Browning his large fortune. Elizabeth immortalized their marriage relationship in her "Sonnets to the Portuguese." When she died, in 1861, Browning returned to England to supervise his son's education. At first he withdrew from society, but he realized this was a denial of his true self, and soon Wordsworth, lLandor, Carlyle, Leigh Hunt, and Dickens were among his friends. He made several pilgrimages to Italy, the shrine of his remembered happiness, but never could he visit Florence, their Italian home. For five years he gave himself completely to creating The Ring and the Book, surely his masterpiece, and one of the great poems in English literature. Using brilliantly his de- 853 vice of the dramatic monologue, Browning tells of a Roman murder case as seen through the consciousness of eleven different persons, illustrating how various and relative and illusive is human truth. The length and complexity of The Ring and the Book make it difficult for study in this course in Relief Society, but anyone who desires to make a detailed study of the petiod it portrays and of Browning's technique as a poet, will find it most interesting and rewarding. Browning continued to write during his 60's and 70's and his publications met with increasing success. Late in 1889, in his 77th year, he was visiting at the home of his artist-son in Venice. Chilled, and nursing a weak heart, Browning was confined to his bed in the afternoon when a telegram came from England announcing the excellent sale of "Asolando," his most recent book. That evening he died. Fittingly, the epilogue to the book applies to Browning himself, particularly the stanza: One who never tured his back but marched breast forward, - Never doubted clouds would break, Never dreamed, though right were worsted, wrong would triumph, Held we fall to rise, are baffled to fight better, Sleep to wake. ' (text, "Asolando," Epilogue, stanza 3) The Believing Browning Throughout his lifetime Browning did not have the rightful audi- 'ence he should have had because of the words and the style he used. His rough, disconnected sentence patterns bewildered readers accustomed to 'Tennyson's easy clarity and polish. Once this barrier of form and word was dissolved through patience and understanding of Browning's intent, his readers found in_ his poems two qualities which filled two of their most urgent needs: first, his power to dissect and analyze, and second, his strong affirmation of moral might and of God's kindness and justice. In 1855 Browning wrote to Ruskin, "A poet's affair is with God, to whom he is accountable and of whom is his reward." In the final analysis, the origin of Browning's power lies within his spiritual, creative self. Since he believed it so invincibly, Browning had to proclaim that God's in his heaven— All's right with the world! (text, "Pippa Passes," page 657) His poetry is filled with tragedy and human weakness, yet it is never tragic nor pathetic. He was indeed interested in humanity, and no richer set of characters exists in English literature outside Chaucer and Shakespeare. He never satirized the weakness of his characters; instead, his desire was to "'paint man man," but always he remembered that no person is entirely bad, and that immortality inevitably follows our present existence. "Man was made to grow, not stop," wrote Browning in "Death in the Desert'; therefore the grievous sins in Browning's opinion are those sins which prevent him from _ progressing eternally above his present state, namely despondency, sluggishness of spirit, indifference, and intellectual pride. According to Browning, life is a great testing ground. How base, then, he believes it is to attain all one's aspirations! Ah, but a man's reach should exceed his grasp, Or what's a heaven for? ("Andrea Del Sarto," 97, 98) page 695, lines Thus speaks Browning through Andrea Del Sarto, who exemplifies "failure-in-success." Acclaimed, arrived, having achieved all he set out to do, this technically skilled but soulless painter has failed in life, says Browning, because he has asked too little of it, and of himself. As a result, "successful" though he is, he loses everything of worth. This doctrine' of '"'failure-in-success" ls also prominent in "Rabbi Ben Iza," (to be studied in the next lesson) and "Saul," which we. Shall now briefly discuss. Saul Browning himself said "in Saul are some of my best lyrics." 'The Biblical inspiration for the poem is to be found in First Samuel 16:14- 23, which tells how King Saul, deeply troubled in spirit, sent for the shepherd boy, David, who played and sang for the king until he was restored. The entire episode is being recalled later by David, once more alone amid the beauties of nature based upon divine law. David recollects how, summoned by the king's messenger, he was greeted outside Saul's tent by Abner, cousin to the king, who tells how, for days, Saul has hovered between life and death, making no sound nor motion within the tent. Bolstering himself with prayers, the boy David enters the tent to discover there: 854 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT A something more black than the black: ness—the vast. The upnght. Wok Ke eo HIce stogd as erect as that tent prop, both as stretched out wide On the great cross-support in the center, that goes to each side; He relaxed not a muscle, but hung there.... Saul, drear and stark, blind and dumb. (text, "Saul," pages 672, 673, lines 24, 28-30, 33) Accompanying himself on his harp, David sings shepherd songs, songs of death and of marriage, and Saul finally groans (section 7, page 673). Encouraged, David's spirit leaps to praise.. Our manhood's prime vigor! * Ke ke oR HTow good is man's life, the mere living! How fit to employ All the heart and the soul and the senses forever in joy! (text, page 674, lines'68, 78, 79) To this statement the lost Saul responds, recovers somewhat, allowing David to sing further of life's past joys and future hopes. David praises the hope arising from the knowledge that we live most truly in the deeds we do (lines 163-171). Slowly Saul recovers, sees David, and tenderly bends the boy's face back and looks at him full on: Thus held he me there with his great eyes that scrutinized mine— And, oh, all my heart how it loved him! (text, page 677, lines 231-232) The full truth of God's love and goodness bursts upon David, and, discarding his harp, David speaks with burning power of God's love, based on law, whereby man may achieve success and know God's love, if he but uses the highest fac- 855 ulties within himself. The lyrical power mounts through section 17, and in 18, God is acknowledged the giver of man's highest gifts: the will to action and belief in his goodness. Realizing this, says David, man cannot despair since... Tis not what man Does which exalts Him, but what man Would do! (text, page 678, line 294) Finally he says: "Tis the weakness in strength that I cry for! My flesh, that I seek In the Godhead! I seek and I find it. O Saul, it shall be A Face like my face that receives thee; a Man like to me, Thou shalt love and be loved by, forever; a Hand like this hand Shall throw open the gates of new life to thee! See the Christ stand! (text, page 679, lines 307-311) As contrast to this tremendous spiritual and dramatic climax, David tells quickly of his retreat through the crowds to the reassuring peace of his hills. Surrounded by the harmonious workings of nature, he comes finally to realize that God's law is responsible for all peace, whether within such a tormented soul as Saul's or within his own. ~ This poem achieves irresistible power when read aloud, providing the reading is done with reciprocating power, sincerity, and belief. If time runs short, sections 5, 6, and 14 would surely be among those omitted first, but if too much cutting is done the unifying picture of the powerful whole will be spoiled. "Saul" is a fortunate sample of the poet Browning's strength, both as a poet and as a man. This poem achieves its lofty stature by embodying in its lines the firm, enthusiastic convictions of a man who possessed the wonderful gift of poetry—Robert Browning, singer to the saints of all time and space, pinnacle of the best in the English spirit. Questions for Discussion 1. How does Browning illustrate his own definition of what the poet should, be? 2. In light of his education, wMfat factors contribute to the excellence of Browning as an historical poet? 3. Why was Browning little read by his contemporaries? 4. How does Browning's philosophy compare with that of Latter-day Saints? Social Setence Whe Ganentman of the United States Lesson 5—The Articles of Confederation Elder Albert R. Bowen For Tuesday, March 23, 1954 Objective: To review the Articles of Confederation and the reasons for its failure as a framework of national government. OU will recall from lesson 4, that the first organized attempt at government was the First Continental Congress whose first meeting was held in Philadelphia in the fall of 1774. The Second Continental Congress convened in May of 1775. This was the only national governing body in existence and it served as the sole national authority until 1781. Richard Henry Lee of Virginia, Virginian delgeate to the Second Continental Congress, on June 7, 1776, introduced a resolution in Congress which declared the Colonies to be free and independent states and moved the appointment of a committee to draft "Articles of Confederation." Previous attempts in this direction had failed to attract interest or support. This time, however, the proposals were adopted. The situation was such that the importance of providing for a national government could no longer be ignored. Accordingly, a committee of five was named to draft the Declaration of Independence, which was adopted on July 4, 1776. Another committee was named at about the same time to draw up suitable plans for the new union. The Articles of Confederation This committee drafted what was called the Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union. These Articles were finally approved by Congress November 15, 1777, but the adoption by the states was not accomplished until 1781. The approved draft of the Articles of Confederation was completed in about eight days' time. These Articles were shortly to prove to be entirely inadequate for the new nation. Indeed, under the Articles of Confederation the union almost perished. One of the prin- 856 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT cipal reasons for this was the fact that the National Government possessed no strong central, independent authority. Ostensibly, powers were conferred on it, but these powers really only existed on paper. Weakness of the Articles of Confederation The Articles of Confederation provided for no national executive or judiciary. The affairs of the new nation were placed in the hands of a Congress of one house composed of delegates named and paid by the states. Voting in Congress was by states and not by delegates. Each state could have from two to seven delegates as it saw fit, but, as stated, was only allowed one vote per state. These delegates could be changed at pleasure and were appointed for only one year, and could not serve as delegates more than three years out of six. The new government rested not upon the people but upon the states. Therein lay another of its most inherent weaknesses, which Washington, Madison, Hamilton and others feared would make the new experiment a failure. It was not long before the worst fears of these men were made plainly manifest. For example, the new government could exercise no power over the people or the states. It had no courts in which it could enforce its laws, nor could it bring coercive action to bear upon its citizens or the states. If the government wished to sue, it had to resort to the courts of the state for relief. Even worse, the government was financially helpless. It could borrow and requisition taxes and issue 857 money, but had no way in which to collect the taxes levied. As time went on, many of the states ignored entirely, or only partially filled, the requests for money which the Congress made upon them. Only New York and Pennsylvania. Made any serious attempt to meet the financial requirements of the Government. In short, the Federal Government was made dependent upon the governments of its constituent member states, and, consequently, it was at the mercy of the states. In effect, Congress was only an executive and management committee of the states to manage foreign relations, conduct war, and to perform other functions as an agency of the states. These states could and did grant or withhold help and assistance with impunity. Congress was supposed to exercise the exclusive right to regulate commerce among the states and with foreign nations and with the Indian tribes. Instead, the states continued to make commercial arrangements among themselves and with the Indians, ignoring entirely the mandate of the Article of Confederation. Problems of National Government As a result of this impotence, the National Government soon was without credit, having borrowed money which it could not repay, and was driven to the brink of bankruptcy. Its money became practically worthless, although paper money had been issued in what, for those days, was enormous quantities. This currency was, for all practical purpose, fiat money with no credit or solvency behind it. 'There was much talk about how to solve the difficulties of the Union, but nothing constructive was accomplished. Many _ expedients were debated. Many unthinking people clamored for the issuance of more and more paper money to meet the demands for credit and finance. This latter proposal bears a strong resemblance to what we have seen in our own times. Then, as now, too many people were willing to borrow themselves out of debt. The new nation was racked by inflation and deflation. The situation became so bad that dissolution of the new nation became perilously imminent. The Articles of Confederation called for perpetual union, but the states took it for granted that they had the power to withdraw at their pleasure. When it is remembered that there was a deep-seated suspicion of strong central authority among those early Americans, as a result of experiences with the English government, and also coupled with the strong jealousy of the states for the new powers and independence which they individually enjoyed, it is easy to understand the motives and reasons which prevented the Articles of Confederation from being an effective instrument of government. Articles of Confederation, Our First Written Constitution Though the ensuing result was a weak and impotent Government, the union provided for by the Articles of Confederation, was an improvement over that of the Second Continental Congress. 'The Articles of Confederation constituted the first written constitution of this nation. Further, they constituted yet another step in the direction of a sound system of government. They were part of the process of evolution. Government in Danger of Dissolution Throughout this period of difficulty, the advocates for a strong national union were working quietly to bring about a revision. 'This movement had to be discreetly conducted in order not to arouse its antagonists to thwart it. Even before the Articles went into effect, it was foreseen that a government so devoid of power could not succeed. Men who had the welfare of the country at heart, such as Washington, Hamilton, Madison, and Jay, hoped that a brief experience with the new order would convince the people of its futility and lead to a stronger system. Efforts to remedy the situation by agreement all failed, but, by 1784, Congress had begun to discuss the issue. In 1786 Congress appealed for an amendment to the Articles which would empower it to lay import duties. The people were told that the Government was at the end of its resources, that the Nation had _ become disunited, and, further, that only immediate action would save the country from ruin. Steps Leading to Revision At about this time a convention of delegates representing Virginia and Maryland met at Annapolis, Maryland. Its purpose was to solve certain long-standing disputes and 858 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE--DECEMBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture—Copyright 1916 859 WASHINGTON AND LAFAYETTE AT MOUNT VERNON controversies between these two states respecting navigation upon the Potomac River. Attempts to solve these difficulties by negotiation had begun as early as 1777. Later, at a conference held at Washington's home at Mount Vernon, an agreement was finally reached. The Maryland: delegates then suggested that discussion of other matters be taken up in the hope that they, too, might be solved. The idea was then born that if two states could negotiate their difficulties, then other states could also be invited for the purpose of discussing and solving difficulties common to all. As a result, Madison, in 1786, persuaded the Virginia Legislature to adopt a resolution appointing commissioners to meet with the representatives of any other states who might wish to do so for the purpose of considering "how far a uniform system in their commercial regulations may be necessary to their (the states') permanent harmony." Other states were invited to send as many delegates as they might wish to a convention to be held in Annapolis in September 1786. Only five states responded to this invitation, and the outlook seemed very discouraging. The thought of the majority was to abandon further efforts along this line. However, Madison 'and Hamilton persuaded the delegates to call another convention to meet in Philadelphia in May 1787. The purpose of this meeting was to be not merely to promote discussion of commercial regulations, but to "take into consideration the situation of the United States." Recommendations were to be considered for subnussion to Congress for amending the Articles of Confederation to make them more effective. Sacred Mirsir FOR CHURCH PIANISTS Me: Chapel Echoes—Peery...............-.-.----- 075 - Chapel Musing—Peery.......................85 ——_ Concert Transcriptions of Favorite Hymns—Koliimann a a as 85.. Famous Sacred Songs—Peery............1.25 ro Lorenz's Church Piano Classics..........1.10 - Lorenz's Church Pianist Volumes i. EeEach 1.10 = Peery's Piano Voluntaries..................1.25 = Piano Hymn Voluntaries—Lorenz......1.10 4 Sacred Piano Album—Gahm..............1.25 a Sunday Piano Music—Presser -...........1.00 WE PAY POSTAGE Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY! 45-47 South Main \ Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send the music indicated above. ' j — On Approval (0 Charge!! C] Money Enclosed:! DIGTG a a II er i LN CO) CIS ee ea eee eres: } Da timst OF Ala — REWABILITY 45-47 SOUTH au MAIN STREET oy SALY LAKE CITV 1, UTAM Calling of Philadelphia Convention, May 1787 On February 21, 1787, Congress, in desperation, glad for any opportunity which might successfully bring about the result so desperately needed, formally called a convention, specifying that its sole function and purpose was to consider revision of the Articles and to report its recommendations to Congress for approval. Congress would then submit the proposals to the state legislatures for ratification "as shall, when agreed to in Congress and confirmed by the states, render the federal constitution adequate to the exigencies of government and the preservation of the Union." Because the plan was sponsored by Washington, Franklin, Madison, and others, it was accepted. Congress, by itself, would probably have failed in attempts at revision without the prestige of these national leaders. With this impetus behind the congressional drive for revision, all of the states named delegates except Rhode Island. Very little or even nothing was said publicly about writing a new constitution. If some expected that this would be done, they kept discreetly quiet. It doubtless was recognized, at least by many if not all the delegates, that Madison's appraisal of the situation was correct and that unless something drastic was done the Union would "quickly tumble to the ground." The convention did not assemble on schedule on the second Monday of May 1787, as planned, because by then only a few delegates had arrived. A majority finally arrived so that the first meeting of 860 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1953 LESSON DEPARTMENT the Philadelphia Convention was held on the 25th of May, 1787. References Any good American history book dealing with The Articles of Confederation or an encyclopedia. Smith, Joseph Fielding: The Progress of Man, pp.. 291-293. Questions a Discussion 1. From what source did the National Government, under the Articles of Confederation, derive its authority? 2. What were some of the factors which made it impossible for the National Government successfully to function under the Articles of Confederation? 3. In what condition did the National Government finally find itself under the Articles of Confederation? 4. From what events did the idea for a constitutional convention finally develop? Consolation Catherine B. Bowles There is a sadness in my heart For loved ones gone beyond, Yearning, longing, wishing ever For their presence to return. Yet there's light upon the mountain, Coming slowly, clear and bright, Climbing up the snow-capped hilltops, Bringing forth the morning light, Chasing out the darkest shadows, Painting them in colors gay. Oh, how beautiful the sunshine On this cold and wintry day. For your promise shines, dear Father, Lighting up the darkest way, Casting out the cares and sorrows That so often fill my day. And I know I need not fear, For it fills my heart with sunshine Just to know that thou art near. 861 '3 2 For Christmas Get that great L. D. S. Family game of EMIGRATION The most beautiful game on the market for only $2.95 3 % * * % x Mt fe He te fe oho nfo the oe oh Order it from THE DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH aero fe sles feoleole ole ole ale rie ole nfo sfeake sfefeafesteaie she she she sleskeslerierle tere Serle nde sfenfenfenteofe ofa ole ofa ole ole sla fe cfc ole ale ele ale ale ale se se sfeofe ole ake sfenge ofeate ale ale rfeaeslealeateste hehe oerkerferlerferferferlerlenerfesers % % %e % te oye % Og % % % * % PX) * %, x "4 % Xe Og % of % % A Small Deposit Will Hold For Christmas Delivery ""Musiec's Richest V oice"' THE HAMMOND ORGAN The Ideal Gift for the Entire Family © Simple To Install ® Low Operation Cost ® Small Space Required © Just Plug Into A Light Socket You Can Play Simple Tunes With A Few Moments Practice Priced From $995.00 And Up Terms Can Be Arranged For full particulars, write or call SELDON N. HEAPS GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 South Main SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH HERE ARE THE IDEAL FAMILY NIGHT BOOKS Now! The Third Volume In Emma Marr Petersen's Children Series The Story of Our Church FOR YOUNG LATTER-DAY SAINTS Now! The only book in print that provides your children with an insight into the Church history and enhances their appreciation of their heritage. The -. - full meaning and forcefulness of the restoration of truth about comic books Young hearts will thrill to the accounts of the early featured in Ladies Home years of the Church and the events that took place. Igimmct, November, LS "What Parents Don't Know ( About Comic Books." $300 Each | nnn * BOOK OF MORMON STORIES / | The enclosed check in the amount of | for Young Latter-day Saints )! $--onsceeenscceeneni i covers the cog ® BIBLE STORIES ) | of the following books: for Young Latter-day Saints ( a, Ne I a! A EE creer | ————— Bookcraft / | Address] EE 1 ) 1 Gitye:---ccnccccceeneo-nc--20Ota:-.-.. STING =... Ae | 1186 South Main Salt Lake City, Utah —_ SSO OOS Pumpkin Pie Rose A. Openshaw IIere is a pie so simple to prepare, yet so unusually palatable as to elicit exclama-. Tions of pleasure from every guest. The ordinary pumpkin pie, more difficult to make, can in no way compare with it in my. Estimation. PumMPKIN Pie FILuinc 1 qt. Cooked pumpkin 1 tsp. Cinnamon (level) 1 C. Sugar 3 eggs 1 can evaporated milk pinch of salt 6 level tbsp. Flour / pint whipping cream for topping 1 tsp. Vanilla The filling for this pie is cooked separate from the shell. Mix ingredients together, except for eggs. Cook % hour in double boiler, stirring frequently. The well-beaten eggs should be stirred in slowly just before mixture is removed from fire. When cool, the mixture may be placed in jars in the refrigerator until ready to fill shells. This recipe makes three medium-sized pies. The shells for the pie may be made either from prepared pie crust, or from any good recipe, and may be stored until needed. The crust bottoms, before baking, should be well pricked with prongs of a fork to admit air and insure against swelling. The half pint of whipping cream for the tops should be whipped until stiff, sweetened, and vanilla flavored, then spooned on the cut pieces of pie just as they are to be served. Page 862 Don't miss the _ startling the Gospel has been beautifully and richly presented. lay. Y¥ Winter— §eS Another Harvest Time When snows lie deep youth can reap the richest harvest — mental and spiritual development. Winter Quarter at Utah State offers much: 600 courses... Cultural lectures, concerts, art.. Co-curricular drama, debate, music, athletics. School of Home Economics provides departments of Child Development and Parent Education; Clothing, Textiles, Related Arts; Foods, Nutrition; Household Administration; Home Economics Education. Other schools: Agriculture, Arts and Sciences, Commerce, Education, Engineering, Forestry. WINTER QUARTER: JANUARY 4-MARCH 12 UTAH STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Logan, Utah The Precious Things of Earth (Continued from page 825) silver stamp box which had traveled with him from the green valleys of England across the arid plains to the mountains of the West. Then it had been taken back with him thirty years later when he returned to his homeland as a missionary. Thus, the little stamp box had made three journeys across the Atlantic Ocean and three journeys across the American continent, and for many years of his long life the dear grandfather had kept the stamp box. It was a precious gift to a granddaughter who was proud to be a partaker of the English heritage in America. It is not the cost of the gift, but the spirit of the giver which imparts the value. It is the feeling of being remembered, of being esteemed. Relief Society women in bearing their daily gifts of love and charity have learned that the supreme gift, available to all, is the gift of one's self, the bestowal of one's time and interest and love up on another. Page 863 The Pride of Your Library! Your Relief Society Magazines when handsomely bound into permanent yearly volumes acquire new value as excellent reference books. Just = $2.50 (Cloth Binding) $3.50 (Leather Binding) Per Volume If necessary to mail them to you, the following postage rates will apply. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up. To -lS5Oamuesterre..-..... 5 -..-2 2 eee 2 150. To?*300) miles Sete ee eee ee.28 300 to 600 miles _........... © oe 600 to 1000 miles.42 1000 to 1400 miles 2... Eee eee 51 1400 to 1800 miles 2020 eee eeteeeeeeeeeeee 60 Over 1800 miles 69 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office.. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah te Y) THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos KNABE The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built ie All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Phone 4-258] Give Poetry— Gift of Endless Delight Give "UTAH SINGS" Volume III 200 poets — 411 poems Including many you have loved in The Relief Society Magazine And others of your favorite authors A book to treasure for enjoyment and inspiration — Use or copy this easy-order coupon — oS SS Utah Poetry Society, c/o Zion's Book Store 65 East Second South, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send me............... Ssscssseseeeeeeeeescopies UTAH SINGS; | | | | | | | @ $3.00, plus 2% (6c) Utah sales tax. | | (If a resident of Utah) | | |! | | | I enclose ( ) Check ( ) Money Order Name Street and no. Or P. O. Box.........20--eeeeeeeeeeee | City, Obst Oh: > 6-6 So es ne a Zone........ 1 State.... Page 864 l I l al ALL the SHOPS SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO. IN ONE BIG CATALOG! There's still plenty of time to gift shop from Sears Catalog Order Desk. Tens of thousands of wonderful gift items await your selection. Helpful personnel will assist you in making out your order. Basement — Salt Lake City Store There are Catalog Order Desks in Ogden, Logan, Provo — many smaller towns, too. Treasured - Gilts... Special! 1. Documentary HISTORY of the CHURCH Seven Volume Set Taken from the manuscripts, records, and notes of Joseph Smith and other early Church leaders, this carefully documented work contains, in their entirety, 101 revelations of the Prophet Joseph Smith, plus many little-known, important facts of his life and the growth of the Church. Individual volumes... $2.00 ea. (plus 15¢ postage.) Complete set regularly $15.00. NOW $10.95 (plus 65c postage) 2; THE GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES Milton R. Hunter A new edition of a popular Church book, by a distinguished authority on the Gospel as revealed to Adam, its meaning and significance. $3.50 3. CHURCH HISTORY AND MODERN REVELATION Joseph Fielding Smith A two-volume reference work for use with the seven-volume "Documentary History of the Church"... Made very usable by a most complete index. Easy to read and understand, it fulfills a need long recognized by Church history students. Set of two volumes—$7.50 "Deseret li Book Co. 44 Fast South temple -- Salt Lake City. Utah DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me the following circled books: 1 (If ordering single volumes, state volume desired) 2 K: for which I enclose check ( ) or money order (_ ) for $...............- Residents of Utah please add 2% sales tax. HOW TO GIVE YOUR SON A college education FOR christmas You can put a Beneficial Life Policy under your Christmas tree this year. Within its pages will be the guarantee of an insured savings plan which will; provide those education dollars you | need, when you need them. SOO WRBRLOREL, A Awe N The value of a college education for a boy or girl is measured in thousands of dollars of additional earnings over a working lifetime — yet for a premium that is small in comparison, you can guarantee there will be no financial reason why your child must stand on the doorstep, waving goodbye to his high school friends as they go off to college! SWS Z Z \ The life insurance plan combines the advantages of spreading college costs over the years until college time, plus a contract to guarantee the money will be there when college time comes— whether you are or not! Parents will agree that this 'gift with a future' is the best way to express the deep affection they feel for their loved ones. For further information write BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Dept. 1-A, Salt Lake City 1, Utah BENEFICI x Ge ae Pop! Sy making sure of you've insured my David O. McKay, President Salt Lake City, UME chance to make good! College for me, Pop, INSURANCE (7) © OAPANY
