Courtesy The Deseret Front row, Counselor Vy. Elm left to right: Edith § > Mary R. Young: I<; Layton; Mildred B GENERAL BOA Christine H. Robi. Haymond: nson, Margaret C, P; RD OF RELIEF SOCIETY ckering; Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; Boyer; Annie M E] Manwaring; Alberta H. Ch "Ilsworth President Belle § rist; Aleine M ensen Spafford Young;; Helen w., Tew Year's Greetings THE general board extends love and felicity at the new year and reminds Relief Society members that "men are, that they might have joy." Glad hearts, cheerful countenances, love, hope, and charity in the souls of Relief Society sisters will reflect themselves in the lives of others and show forth to our Heavenly Father our gratitude that we are privileged to enter into the marvelous days of 1957, illuminated by the light of the gospel and the blessing of Relief Society. While the Lord enjoins us to "be sober," he also promises us, "And inasmuch as ye do these things with thanksgiving, with cheerful hearts and countenances, not with much laughter, for this is sin, but with a glad heart and a cheerful countenance... The fulness of the earth is yours" (D. & C. 59:15, 16). As the new year is born, the general board wishes for every Relief Society member, deep, abiding joy throughout 1957. Affectionately, Wane tre E Sharf/ Uthus 2. Dim The Cover: The Floating Gardens, Xochimilco, Mexico Photograph by Otto Done Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Near and Sar I am so happy to start my subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. We have always had this Magazine in our home, and since a young girl I have read the wonderful stories and marveled at the information contained therein. My husband and I are in Germany in the service and so enjoy our Church activity here. It is a joy to be a member of Relief Society and to be able to have the Magazine for my own now. —Shirle Debenham Weisbaden, Germany The story "One Bright Star" by Myrtle M. Dean, in the November 1956 Magazine, is so sweet, and makes the reader feel glorified with its humbleness. Many homes throughout the world will be blessed by this story of the real Christmas spirit. —Ruth M. Penrose Salt Lake City, Utah May I thank all concerned who have so kindly sent me The Relief Society Magazine all this year. I have really enjoyed reading all the lovely things, for in them I find I can learn quite a lot. I have looked forward to receiving the Magazine each month from so far away. I do not belong to your Church, but I have some very dear friends who do. —Mrs. L. Carrington Leeds, England I can't begin to tell you how much I appreciate our wonderful Magazine. I only wish it were bigger or came more often. I especially enjoy the wonderful recipes. They are so easy to follow and call for items that are readily available. 'The stories are always very enjoyable and of great benefit. Our Relief Society has only four members, but we do receive much inspiration from the Magazine. —Alice M. Mann Iwakuni, Japan I should hate to miss a copy of The Relief Society Magazine. I find every copy a wonderful incentive to better living. —Mrs. Maude E. Grable Southgate, California Page 2 As I was looking through some of the Magazines, I noticed the lovely poems, especially the ones that come as frontispieces at the beginning of the Magazines. I also enjoy the lovely stories, particularly the continued ones. I have found the editorials most interesting. I am_ sure that everyone who subscribes to the Magazine gains something worthwhile. —Mrs. Viola Wasden Rexburg, Idaho With the November issue of our inspiring Magazine, I say "Best yet." May I spotlight my special eulogies on storywriter and poet Margery S. Stewart. 'To me, there is always such warmth and such a fine message in her story themes. And in the poem "November Afternoon," I recall rich color pictures her words and phrases gave to me. —Helen L. Backman Ogden, Utah We have received the extra copies of the Magazine which you have so generously assigned to this mission. The copies that are sent for use in the servicemen's groups are put to good service.... The other subscriptions we have used to send to the district Relief Society presidents, of whom we have eleven. These sisters take advantage of... Members in their districts who speak English, and have these sisters read the articles and stories and present them to some of their groups in German. In that way more of our German sisters have the advantage of the messages and inspiration from the Magazine. Let me tell you how much the Magazine means to me personally. I read it from cover to cover each month, and the messages I find in the stories and articles give me a_ spiritual boost for which I am very grateful. Then I love to read about the activities of the other missions and stakes, because it gives us a feeling of belonging, even though we are a long way from home. —Bernice O. Dyer President West German Mission Relief Society THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp ~ - - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Edito - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford Assistant to the Editor - - - - - - - - - June Nielsen General Manager - 5 Vol. 44 JANUARY 1957 No. 1 - ' e. = 5 - - - Belle S. Spafford Contents SPECIAL FEATURES INGWaNVeCIIS mGnee insets st scans ee ee ete Se nn. Pen ccc 1 Homemaking, the Ideal Career for Women...........0.2.....-; Annie M. Ellsworth 4 Award Winners — Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest -00........: ce: ceeeeeceeeee- 8 Remembering the Handcarts — First Prize Poem oo... Eeeeeeceeceeeeceee cee eeee eeeChristie Lund Coles 9 Christmascope — Second Prize Poem W000...... Frances Carter Yost 10 Benediction to Summer — Third Prize Poem ooo... EsceececcscsseseeceeeceeseceeccecesenteneeceeeeseesJoanne B. Rose 12 Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest 220.002.222.212 13 Sirengthetor thee wey —— EATSt "PLiZe' OTOL Ys eck. Ce cccceccteccsscstteceseteicasebocecttncceeaseeenensSylvia Probst Young 14 ThegMemican sMissiions -82 6. Ses. B thn ns. SORES LAE ee eedPreston R. Nibley 20 Jumolemelgrimege: Umtoy the POSty sccce ete ce ere Men cccceeee es te oses-sonesceye tecsshaectnsstte-oeeaenssseeseNell Murbarger 26 Great Men Pray 6 Oecd Seer see. Beers ieee en Bee ora ad ed Net) Dee Oded ieee oe 30 Polio and the March of Dimes.000.0..02222-eteeece cece eee ies = seseeeseeeeee-e-e-Basil O'Connor 35 Biographical Sketches of Award Winners in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and First Prize Winner in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest 45 FICTION Bitte yyMedicine.~—pPart) jl | M.. 238 eke cticad ck eal Olive W. Burt 22 AeDoll Buggy tor Christmas...... Rlorence S. Glines 40 ) GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far —— 2 Sixty Years Ago <a A ne RENE EL ERT eit32 Womans iSphere, 2:77! Ramona W. Cannon 33 leelixaycledls ILS yorbuy |Livsy eligi Stops Slavbas yet seat 5 baad pi Mle dal LN oa ah ial iVesta P. Crawford 34 Notes to the Field: Relief Society Assigned Evening Meeting of Fast Sunday in March 3 Award Subscriptions Presented in April ooo cetcesccssscsesecesesesssecesesesessssssseessestecersnenseeeees Bound Volumes of 1956 Relief Society Magazines Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 20..... CccceccscsscesssssscessesessesseeeeeeMargaret C. Pickering Birthday Congratulations 4 7 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Sina Bishop Reid Makes Her Own Crochet Designs...; wy Recipes Gromy Mexico fit oe iesepierpiereii is El Pw) ayJennie R. Bowman 38 Recipesmtom Bevis aa ance Ee aoc So Baan oct Rhea H. Gardner 46 ' LESSONS FOR APRIL Theology: A Review of Outstanding Characters of The Book of Mormon et ee ee ee ee ee ee —_ Leland H. Monson 54 =. Oe Leone O. Jacobs 59 Work sMeennge "peveriges" een en eee fe ee. Rhea H. Gardner 60 Literature: "'A Midsummer Night's Dream'' ets» AUIE seetive o2 en aEBriant S. Jacobs 61 Saciclesciencesssccanrcheourme Canis. Ee eee ek eeJohn Farr Larson 67 POETRY The Monuments, Hazel Loomis, 19; Phantoms, Bessie J. Peterson, 29; Birthday, Genevieve Groen, 31; An Afterthought, Gene Romolo, 37; Enduring Beauty, Maude O. Cook, 44; Gifts, Catherine E. Berry, 53; Mountain Snowstorm, Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 58; Prayer for a New Year, Vesta N. Lukei, 72; Today, Elsie Chamberlain Carroll, 72. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 16, Utah, Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for ansolicited manuscripts. Homemaking, the Ideal Career for Women Annie M. Elsworth Member, General Board of Relief Society OMEMAKING,, in its truest sense, iS Woman's greatest career. No other profession occupies the attention and efforts of more women than that of homemaking. 'There is no vocation so important and so challenging as successful wifehood, motherhood, and homemaking. It is the sphere in which women can find the most happiness and render the greatest service. 'The making of a home is the highest and best in woman's realm. Today, homemaking is a much more complex task than it was in the days of our grandmothers. While women have been released from much of the physical drudgery in the home because of human ingenuity and inventions, many more complex problems and responsibilities have been added. In the eyes of trained home economists, if homemaking is to maintain its central position in human life, and to be permanently satisfying in a world of economic freedom and beckoning outside careers, it must take on professional standards and secure professional recognition. Regardless of the circumstances in which a woman lives, whether alone in an apartment, with or without children, she can still make a true home to which she can invite her relatives and friends, and in which she can be a gracious homePage 4 maker and extend warmth and hospitality. Her home can also be a place where her varied talents, purposeful accomplishments, and manysided personality find satisfactory expression. A marked difference exists between homemaking and housekeeping. Homemaking, in its highest form, is a creative calling. Housekeeping is more or less a static occupation, the ministering of the physical comforts of life to the family, and has less to do with the production of values. Where the ideal is to make life better for the family and for friends and neighbors who may enter, the homebuilder has a dynamic responsibility in homemaking. A person can keep house and yet not make a home. Real homemaking requires a resourceful mind, ingenuity, and thoughtful consideration. There are various types of homemakers. Included are those who have a sincere desire each day to excel in their sphere of homemaking and those who consider each day just another day of drudgery. It rests in the point of view. One person may view a gorgeous sunrise with ecstasy and gratitude for the glory and beauty of God's creation and for the challenge of a new day. Another may view it as just another daily appearance of the sun. A person may go into one home and leave with a desire and determination to be a better person because of the hospitality and uplifting influence radiating within that home. A visit to another home may have an entirely different effect on the same person because of a lack of warmth and friendliness. 'This latter home is soon forgotten. To the true Latter-day Saint woman, the gospel can have a refining influence in her life which will be reflected in the home, in the lives of the members of her family, and may even be carried into the lives of her neighbors and friends who may enter her home. FoR successful homemaking one of the important qualifications is a sense of its challenge and a sense of true values. As homemakers, are we interested in ease and pleasure, or in work, real joy, service and hospitality? Which are the greater possessions? It is the true homemaker who excels in the challenge and makes people want to return to her home, whom we now wish to consider. The following worthwhile values in this ideal career — homemaking — may be worthy of consideration: the spiritual, the cultural, the aesthetic, the physical, and personality development. Each is a component part of the integrated whole, and each should find lodgment in successful homemaking. The ideal homemaker reflects a deep sense of spiritual values in her home — humility, compassion, an understanding and forgiving heart, reverence, courtesy, kindness, and the worth of character. Her home will take on this refining, spiritual influence which will be felt by those who enter it. The atmosphere or spirit of the home is greatly improved where religion plays a dominant role. Someone has rightly said: "There is something about religion and spirituality in the home that clears the atmosphere and makes the home a delightful place in which to live." The cultural atmosphere is enhanced with good books, selective magazines, and discriminating music. People notice it. Hospitality is increased and a person's heart is warmed by these friendly contacts. One develops a high regard for the homemaker and leaves inspired, lifted, even with a feeling of kinship. In the career of homemaking one must not lose sight of the aesthetic values which enrich and glorify the atmosphere of a home — the lovely needlepoint on the dining-room chairs or on a footstool, the fine choice of pictures on the walls, the handmade rug, the heirloom, the attractive house frock the hostess is wearing, and, by all means, the colorful flower garden in the backyard. Nothing creates more warmth and beauty in the home than an attractive arrangement of flowers from one's own garden. 'The following verse typifies the feelings of a lover of flowers: If thou of fortune be bereft And in thy store there be but left Two loaves, sell one and with the dole Buy hyacinths to feed thy soul. —From "Not By Bread Alone," by James Terry White Art creation and appreciation in the home enrich the lives of each member, and carry the influence beyond the home into the community. HOMEMAKING, THE IDEAL CAREER FOR WOMEN 5 6 A humble pride in her accomplishments brings contentment and satisfaction to any homebuilder. The physical satisfactions are many and varied. The aroma of freshly baked bread, spicy apples, pumpkin pie, fruit cake, or the smell of savory soup reflect upon the atmosphere of the home. 'Today, when so many of these delectable foods are purchased over the counter by housewives, it makes one wonder if fine cookery is becoming a "lost art" to the home. Do we as homemakers invite our friends in for home-cooked meals, or do we take them out to dinner? Nothing glorifies homemaking more than for a happy group to gather around the dining-room table, spread with delicious home-cooked food, and enjoy a meal together, enhanced with delightful conversation. Or, is the dining-room table and its many happy, festive occasions also passing into oblivion? A dinner in the dining-room, served with leisure and in a tidy surrounding, would be a continuous and potent means of bringing the family closer together, likewise, friendships. LD-fashioned homemade merrymaking in the home is not so frequent as it used to be, due, perhaps, to the present struggle of making a living. A committee on homemaking, called by President Hoover during his administration, said: "If the home is to function as it should in encouraging friendships, in broadening the social horizon of the family, and in making its members feel themselves a part of the community, there must be an effort to bring back some of its old-fashioned hospitality." 'The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 challenge is great. I knew of one homemaker and her husband who held open house on Saturday nights for all of the Latter-day Saint servicemen from two aviation fields, serving them with fresh homemade bread and jam. Was that a phase of real hospitality, bringing sweet memories of mother and home to those boys? Personality development is ever a challenge to the homemaker. Through effort, observation, love, service, and sharing, she unconsciously develops strength in personality which has its reward—a better homemaking career. Every homemaker owes it to her family to look her best, as it will reflect upon the home atmosphere. Good grooming, proper care of her person, correct posture, cleanliness and neatness in dress, observance of health rules, all add up to a delightful personality and create poise and charm. A sense of humor is another valuable asset. Elizabeth MacDonald, in her book on homemaking, said: "The woman who has a gallant attitude is seldom long-faced." The value of a smile cannot be over-estimated. 'The memory of it may last a lifetime. Dr. Royal L. Garff (University of Utah), in addressing a large group of women, said: "There is nothing like the magic of a smile to turn on the brakes of personality." Success in home finances must have a place in good homemaking. The ability to use money wisely is quite as important as the power to earn it. 'Through budgeting and record keeping, the homebuilder can acquire frugality in spending the family income. Budgeting of one's time is an- other important aspect in an orderly home. The final result should be an increase of leisure time. An occasional change in the regular routine of duties, constructive imagination, and executive ability should invent new and better ways of doing things which should result in more time for other accomplishments. 'This time should give the homemaker moments for selective reading, personal hobbies, social functions, community and Church activities, which help to cultivate an appreciation for interests beyond her own household and have a stimulating effect in the home as well. Truly, the challenge of good homemaking is great and the dignity of successful home management is unexcelled. In a talk on homemaking, Mrs. Sterling Ercanbrack* said: "A home, like a person, has a body and a soul. House furnishings, heat, light, food, clothing, etc. Make up the body. The thoughts, feelings, attitudes and purposes which pervade the home constitute the soul." Regardless of show elaborate or how humble a house may be, a spirit of hospitality, friendliness and charm can radiate within its walls and characterize home entertainment. If the homemaker would perform well in this career of homemaking, she must assume these responsibilities with integrity and courage. "Abundant living evolves primarily from the happy family. Such objectives have their roots deep within the culture of the Latter-day Saint people. Family life is the matrix of spiritual development, the foundation of society, and the basic unit of the Kingdom of God" (Dr. Marion C. Pfund, Dean of College of Family Living, Brigham Young University ). And now, just one more visit with the "ideal" homemaker who has chosen homemaking as the "ideal" career. 'Today, as always, you are greeted with a ready smile and a warm friendliness. Regardless of how busy this homemaker may be, there is a feeling of calmness, serenity, and charm. You sense a feeling that you are the only one that matters. 'The same reflection is felt throughout the home of a charming, hospitable, gracious personality. This is one of the greatest attainments of a homemaker in homemaking. You go away relaxed, lifted in spirit, determined again to be a better perYes, the homey, friendly, hospitable, and son and a better homemaker. Spiritual atmosphere is what characterizes the ideal home. *Member of the Board of Trustees, Utah State Agricultural College, Logan, Utah HOMEMAKING, THE IDEAL CAREER FOR WOMEN 7 A eral Winters Eliza KR. Snow Poem Contest THE Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1956 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1956 issue of the Magazine, and closed August 15, 1956. The first prize of twenty-five dollars is awarded to Christie Lund Coles, Provo, Utah, for her poem "Remembering the Handcarts." The second prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Frances Carter Yost, Bancroft, Idaho, for her poem "Christmascope." The third prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Joanne B. Rose, West Jordan, Utah, for her poem "Benediction to Summer." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society general board since 1924 in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader. The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the general board. The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the poems Page 8 submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Mrs. Coles appears for the third time as an award winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Mrs. Yost and Mrs. Rose are first-time winners. There were 143 poems submitted in this year's contest. Entries were received from twenty-three states, with the largest numbers coming in order, from Utah, California, Idaho, and Arizona. Six entries were received from Canada, three from England, and one each from Nova Scotia, Panama Canal Zone, Yugoslavia, Australia, and South Africa. The general board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. 'The general board wishes, also, to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize - winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the general board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and _biographical sketches of the prizewinning contestants, are published in this issue. PrizeWinning Prems Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest CHRISTIE LUND COLES First Prize Poem Remembering the Ha ndcarts Christie Lund Coles It was not worth the cost, the cynics said, Reading again the names of those who died, Remembering the graves of lonely dead, Covered by rocks against the rushing tide Of elements... The snarl of wind, the snow; The sharp, relentless beat of sleet and rain; The fang and claw of wolves whose hungers know No pity... Not worth price of blood and pain. Yet, we who stand within the valley's arch, Green as the Eden of another day, Watching each temple spire rise like a torch Of truth, of verity, to guide man's way, We, travelers upon the path they laid, Thank God they found it worth the price they paid. Page 9 Page 10 FRANCES C. YOST Second Prize Poem Christmascope Frances Carter Yost PART I: Walk With the Shepherds Though paper angels dangle on each tree, And frosted cherubs string each neon light, The world, in tawdry tinsel, does not see, Or even sense, a Gabriel, in white. Come! Walk along the paths of Galilee. Where Virgin Mary, favored of the Lord, And humble Joseph, her own covenantee, Counseled by angels, walked with one accord. They stroll the shepherd's starry hill and dell, Don robes of meekness, take the staff of faith. Hear the archangels sing with Gabriel, The sacred carolers, a holy wraith. While jeweled starlight guards each woolly fleece Walk with the shepherds to the shrine of peace. PART II: Come Be a Wise Man Though glistening stars festoon each Christmas tree, And asteroids bedeck each store and street, The world, bent on quick-witted repartee And selfish merriment, almost delete The pointed meaning of the yuletide star. Come! Be a wise man, take the road to him. (Be not a Herod who sees not afar.) As they, let not the light of love grow dim. As they, take gifts; the gold of gratitude; The myrrh of mercy and of charity; The frankincense of faith and hope renewed. A gift too worldly, is as filigree. We can be wise men, too, and go with them. Follow the star that leads to Bethlehem! PART III: Bend Low to Him Ebony leather, and the rhinestone heel Now point and pivot in each wayside inn. Proud men and haughty ladies sip with zeal Strong nectar, while the world is clothed in sin. Have we forgotten whose birthday is this? Have we forgotten star and angel song? We, too, have filled our inn with avarice, As lusty Romans drank their cup of wrong. Bend low to him, though time is now far spent; Kneel as the shepherds, worship at his feet. Only through him can we find real content. Only through him life's lyric can repeat. Although the world seems bent on trumpery, Accept his gift of immortality. Page 11 JOANNE B. ROSE Third Prize Poem (Benediction to Sanumner Joanne B. Rose What captive power is fettered to the wing That lures the feeding gull from sea-sucked shore; What sad, relentless song does autumn sing Compelling the restless birds to wheel and soar? Flocking in gray-white clouds behind the plough They gorge themselves where rich black soil's unfurled; Skimming the earth they scream a parting vow To leave this plain till trees are blossom pearled. Theirs is the cry that ushers winter's breath... The cry of motion spent—of purpose lost; Theirs is the cry of gulls at summer's death As mourning earth is draped in a veil of frost. Note: For biographical sketches of the award winners in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, see page 45. Page 12 Award Winners Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1956 issue of the Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1956. The first prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, for her _ story "Strength for the Way." 'The second prize of forty dollars is awarded to Edith Larson, Manton, Michigan, for her story "Mother's Shoes." The third prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Vera H. Mayhew, Berkeley, California, for her story "The Slow Hurry." Mrs. Young is a first-time winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, although she has received two awards in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Mrs. Larson was awarded third prize in last year's story contest. Mrs. Mayhew is a winner in the story contest for the second time. The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society general board in 1941, as a feature of the Relief Society centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latterday Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relicf Society Magazine for 1957. 'T'wentyfive stories were entered in the contest for 1956. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. 'lhe general board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Prize-winning stories are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except on written permission from the general board. The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. The general board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories. The general board also acknowl edges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee in supervising the contest. Page 13 Sirst PrizeWinning Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Strength for the Way Sylvia Probst Young OFTLY, so as not to awaken S Jim, Anne Hadfield slipped out of bed and stole from the tent into the night stillness. Over the bluffs moonlight lay lke a mantle, but not a breeze was stirring and the air was heavy and almost as hot as at midday. With a weary little sigh, she sat down on a nearby log. Council Bluffs—wagons and tents; the lowing of cattle; the smoke of campfires —a camp of Israel. How long it had been since she had known the comfort of her Nauvoo home. It was February when they had left Nauvoo with the first company of saints—February and this was July— only five months. But living outof-doors, knowing cold and hunger, being deprived of all of the easy living she had known in Nauvoo had made her young heart yearn so much to be back there again. Still, with Jim beside her, with his strong, young love to warm and comfort her, she hadn't minded so much the hardships or privations on the way. Jim's courage and fine sense of humor had been like a staff in her hand. But now —now, Jim would not be here. A tear stole down her cheek and she brushed it away. Before her stretched wagons and tents of men—recruits for the United States Army—fathers, husbands, and sons from Mt. Pisgah Page 14 SYLVIA PROBST YOUNG and Garden Grove, who had come to join with the men from Council Bluffs. 'Tomorrow they would leave for Fort Leavenworth. Less than a month ago Captain James Allen had come to Council Bluffs to see President Young. He had asked for five hundred men to help defend the United States in a war against Mexico. It seemed almost ironical that he should point out the governmental protection offered them when they had been driven from state to state, and had suffered untold persecutions. But President Young, with loyal patriotism, had begged the saints to dis- STRENGTH FOR THE WAY tinguish between the conduct of the states separately and the conduct of the states collectively. 'lhe nation, he said, was not responsible for their present outcast condition. So patriotism had won because of President Young, and Captain Allen was getting his men. But in Anne's heart, there was a bitter resentment toward the President, and she wondered how he could have seemed so willing to let the men go. Jim had enlisted, of course—and tomorrow he would be gone. She would be quite alone then, with not even a relative near. Here in this wilderness she would bear Jim's child, and he would be far away in the barren country beyond.... She covered her face with her hands and let the warm tears flow. NNE — Anne, darling." It was Jim's voice. She turned to look at her husband. Fim Hadfield, tall and brawny and straight as a pine, was as fine an example of clean, Mormon manhood as the battalion could have. He came to sit beside her, his protective arm around her waist. "Honey, what are you doing out here?" His words were full of tender solicitude. "T thought you were asleep, Jim, so I came out here." "I was asleep until I discovered you weren't beside me. Anne, you have to get your rest, dear." "I couldn't | sleep — tomorrow you'll be gone." He put a hand under her chin and looked down into her eyes. "But I'm here tonight — right here beside you," he made an effort at speaking lightly. "Jim." 15 "Yes?" "Did you know that Jennie Peters is going with the battalion? She enlisted as a cook. Jim, if I weren't having the baby I could be going, too." He looked at her gravely then. "Anne, are you sorry about the baby?" "You know I'm not." Her tone was fringed with impatience. "I've been as glad about it as you have, but your going makes everything so different." She wanted to add—"I don't see the reason for it, either," but she didn't. She had argued on that before and it only upset Jim. He was convinced that President Young had no alternative. "It's being alone that will be so hard." She tried to keep her voice steady. "Anne." He put his other arm around her and held her close, his voice was husky. "Leaving you will be the hardest thing I've ever done. I've thought about it constantly. One thing gives me comfort. I say to myself: 'Anne's the kind of girl that can take it with her chin up; she's as good a soldier as ['ll ever be.' You've already proved that, dear." For a long moment he looked searchingly into her upturned face. "I want you to remember something always — I'll be with you all the way. Across the miles that separate us I'll be asking God to bless and comfort you," he spoke earnestly, "and my every thought will be with you back here." Anne looked into the dark, serious eyes so close to her own, eyes full of love and tenderness for her. She answered with lips brushing his 16 brow. Then gently Jim gathered her in his arms and carried her back into the tent and to bed. In the still darkness he led her to talk about the future when he would be back and meet her and their baby in the promised valley of the mountains; of the home they would have and of the wonderful years before them. His gentleness lifted the load from her heart, and, peacefully as a child, Anne closed her eyes and went to sleep, not knowing how great the weight on her husband's heart. HE following day, July twentieth, was a busy one for the saints at Council Bluffs. Jim Hadfield, as a corporal in the newly formed battalion, met with all the other officers in a private council with President Young. The President gave them a farewell blessing, he counseled them to remember to be clean, virtuous, and prayerful. Prophetically he promised them that they should not be required to shed human blood. In the afternoon there was a farewell ball in honor of the departing men. It was a gay party; to the canto of fiddles and the jingle of bells, young and old danced the Virginia reel and the Copenhagen jig beneath the shelter of a bowery prepared especially for the occasion. Hand in hand, Anne and Jim Hadfield watched the dancers, smiling and gay as the others. No one would have guessed that it was a time of parting for all of these merrymakers. When the sun dipped behind the Sharp skyline of the Omaha hills, the dancing ceased, and a farewell RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 quartette sang a_ parting Goodbyes were said then. Anne and Jim clung to each other for that brief moment. "Tll be praying for you always," he whispered, "take care of yourself —and the baby." Then he kissed her gently and smiled into her shining eyes. She returned as brave a smile as his. "That's my girl, no tears, darling." No tears — she had shed them all the night before, and she had resolved that he would not see her cry today. They took up their line of march then, tramping to the strains of the band with the Stars and Stripes waving above them. Five hundred men marching toward Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, where they would receive their uniforms and supplies. Standing with those who were left behind, Anne watched until her eyes could no longer distinguish anything but a cloud of dust. Then she turned toward her own wagon, the heart within her heavy as stone. "Everyone will be good to you," Jim had said. 'They were. Sister Hansen, who was camped next to them, brought her a dish of beans and a slice of corn bread for her supper., "I told Jim I'd keep care of you," she exclaimed, "and I mean to do so. Peggy could come and sleep here with you, if you like." Anne smiled at this big, motherly neighbor. "T'll be just fine," she said, "just knowing you're close by." song. But long after the camp had settled down for the night she lay staring into the darkness. Last night Jim had been here with her— tonight she was alone. It was the STRENGTH FOR THE WAY most heart-tearing experience she had ever had, being without Jim. It had only been hours since he had gone; it seemed an eternity. The western movement would have to stop now, without the men they could not go on. Here they would build quarters for the winter, and here their child would be born —hers and Jim's—with no kin to give her comfort. How much must they all bear for this new belief? Her thoughts turned to Nauvoo then; ever since Jim had enlisted Nauvoo had been in her semiconscious mind. Back in Nauvoo there were those who still worshiped God—those who had stayed with Emma Smith—her own father and Aunt Carrie. If she could be in Nauvoo when the baby came. A sudden idea made her sit upright in her bed — Nauvoo — if she could go back to Nauvoo. Surely between now and November there would be wagons returning to help the sick and needy to evacuate. She had heard some talk of it. 'They could have her team and wagon for the privilege of a ride back. She was strong and healthy and young; she could easily make that trp. In Nauvoo, her baby could be born in a house with a doctor and Aunt Carrie by her side. In Nauvoo, she would not be alone or afraid. When Jim was discharged from the army he could come back for her. He would understand and he would not disapprove—he loved her too much for that. The idea grew and took possession of her. She would go to the President himself. She would tell him why she wanted to go back. How could he refuse her wishes, 17 wasn't he directly responsible for Jim's absence? With a little smile, Anne closed her eyes and dreamed of Nauvoo and the happiness she had known there. She awoke before dawn the next morning, the idea still paramount in her thoughts. All morning she toyed with it. The one disturbing thing was Jim; she was not at all sure that he would be pleased. But Jim was gone, she argued with herself, and she had to make her own decisions. ESOLUTELY she dressed in her best brown calico dress and her pink sunbonnet, and wearing high courage, in the early afternoon, she went to see President Young. But her heart was beating rapidly, she had never talked to the President before. On the various occasions when she had heard him speak he seemed quite stern, and his manner brisk. Would he be displeased to have her take up some of his time? But the voice that greeted her was gentle and friendly. Anne looked with surprise into the rugged face of the man who was leader of the entire company. He didn't seem surprised to see her; it was almost as if he had been expecting her visit. Inside of his tent he found a chair for her. "I don't believe I've had the pleasure of meeting you before," he said, holding out his hand. "Tm Anne Hadfield," she answered. "My husband is Corporal James Hadfield of your battalion." A look of gentle compassion softened the stern lines of his face. "Those men," he said, "are the 18 cream of Israel. There are no braver men on earth, but not one of them is any more courageous or valiant than the woman he has left behind. "Sister Hadfield," the President's face grew grave, "it was not easy for me to send your corporal away from you, I had no other course. We have known great trials, perhaps none greater than this. But, my dear sister, remember — we are never alone. 'The God of heaven is guiding us as he has always done. He is forever mindful of you and of me — of all of us. He is at the helm. With trust in him you can endure whatever trials may come your way. God will provide for you here the same as he did in Nauvoo. "Back in Nauvoo there are men and women who have chosen not to follow — the way is too hard, the sacrifices too great. But it is God's chosen course for us, and, if we remain true to that conviction, we shall reap blessings that they who stay behind shall never know." As he spoke his face reflected wisdom and calm assurance, and the truth of his every word sank deep into Anne Hadfield's heart. It seemed he could read her very thoughts, and she felt strangely uncomfortable in his presence. BRIGHAM Young, a prophet of God—there was something majestic about him. And suddenly she remembered the conference in Nauvoo. It was as if she were seeing him now as she had seen him then, when the mantle of Joseph had fallen upon him; when he had spoken in the voice of the martyred one. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 She could never forget the spirit of that conference — how Jim's hand had gripped her own. She could feel that same spirit now, in the presence of this man. In that moment she was ashamed — ashamed of the weakness that had brought her here. Jim had spoken of her courage, what would he think of her now? A tear stole down her cheek — a tear of remorse, but a tear of relief, too. She raised her head, courage had returned; faith had been rekindled; doubt had gone, more quickly than it had come. It was almost as if the President had pronounced a special blessing upon her head. She knew, as she had known at the conference in Nauvoo, that the way was here with this chosen prophet of God; there could be no turning back. But now she didn't want to turn back, for her strength had returned, and a warm, comforting peace filled her soul. The President's face relaxed then, and he smiled down at her. "Sister Hadfield, I didn't mean to give you a sermon. Now tell me how can I help you?" Anne looked at him with shining eyes. "I needed a little strength for the way," she answered, "and you have given me that. 'Thank you, President Young." She held out her hand and he took it in his big, roughened one. "God bless you," he said. With her head held high, Anne went out of the tent, her eyes looking across the prairie to the future that lay beyond. Note: See page 45 for a biographical sketch of Sylvia Probst Young. Willard Luce MONUMENT VALLEY, ON THE UTAH-ARIZONA BORDER In the heart of the Navajo Indian Reservation She Monuments Hazel Loomis I saw you spread your velvet robe. I saw the curtain drawn As night came down. I closed my eyes, And even dreaming knew, when come the dawn, Like loyal friends, You would be there Unchanged, Unmoved. Page 19 She Neca limon Preston R. Nibley T the October conference of the Church, held in Salt Lake City in 1875, Elders Daniel W. Jones, Anthony W. Ivins, Ammon M. Tenney, James Z. Stewart, Helaman Pratt, Robert H. Smith, and Wiley C. Jones were called to open a mission for the Church in the Republic of Mexico. As they were requested by President Brigham Young to explore Arizona and look for possible places for settlement by the Mormon people on their way to their field of labor, they traveled on horseback, taking their food, bedding, and camp equipment on pack animals. After enduring many hardships while making their way across Arizona and New Mexico, they arrived in El] Paso, 'Texas, during the first week of January 1876, and crossed the Rio Grande River, where they began their labors. 'They worked their way southward as far as the city of Chihuahua, held meetings and distributed their literature. In the fall of the year they returned to their homes in Utah. At the October conference of the PLAZA OF MOUNTAIN VILLAGE, EL CHICO, MEXICO Page 20 THE MEXICAN MISSION Photograph by Otto Done 21 EL TAJIN PYRAMID IN THE STATE OF VERA CRUZ, MEXICO Church held in Salt Lake City in 1879, Elder Moses Thatcher, a member of the Council of the Twelve, was appointed president of the Mexican Mission. Shortly afterwards he established headquarters in Mexico City, and with Elders James Z. Stewart and Meliton G. Trejo, began a vigorous campaign to make known the gospel message. The first baptisms took place in November and soon a small branch of the Church was established in Mexico City. Except for a brief period (1889 to 1901) missionary work in Mexico has continued since that time. In June 1956, under the direction of Elders Harold B. Lee and Spencer W. Kimball of the Council of the Twelve, the Mexican Mission was divided, and the Northern Mexican Mission was formed. Claudius Bowman presides over the Mexican Mission and Joseph 'T'. Bentley over the Northern Mexican Mission. Before the division there were approximately 9,300 members of the Church in the Republic of Mexico, located in sixty-one branches. In December 1955, before the mission was divided, fifty-six Relief Society organizations were reported, with 1,183. Members. Jennie R. Bowman presides over the Mexican Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine is a view of the Floating Gardens, Xochimilco, Mexico. See also "Recipes From Mexico," page 38. Bitter Medicine Part | Olive W. Burt ELEN Lund was just a bit | breathless as she hurried up the school-building stairs and into the auditorium where the P. T. A. Meeting was to be held. As she opened the door, however, the buzz of conversation and the confusion of moving people told her that she was in plenty of time. She glanced quickly about to see where Lettie Young, her particular friend, was sitting. Lettie was off to one side, standing by a group of talking women. She was looking down at them, but not joining in the conversation. Helen strolled over to her friend's side. "Hi, Lettie. I see I'm early for once. It's such a chore to get Jill cared for for the evening. I don't know how you manage with three!" Lettie smiled. "You'll find it gets easier with each one," she said. "Come on, let's find a seat before they're all taken. It looks like a real crowd tonight." As they started toward the rear of the room, May Turner, who was the center of a chattering knot of women, looked up. "Hello, Helen!" she called eagerly. "I'm so glad you've come. We were just talking about Tess Carlson's new car. You know they've just bought a new Cadillac, and I can't see how they can afford it. They live right by you, Helen— what do you think? Give us the Page 22 low down. Know...." Lettie gave a slight tug on Helen's arm and _ started to whisper something. But Helen looked down at May's upturned, eager face with eyes glinting in anticipation of what she thought she was about to hear. And Helen spoke pleasantly enough, "T don't know a thing, May." May's voice showed no disappointment; in fact, it was even more urgent. "Don't pretend with me, Helen. You and Tess are good friends—and close neighbors. You must know what goes on over at their house. Where did Jim get the money for a_seven-thousanddollar car?" Helen's voice was cool now. "I'm going to find a seat before they're all taken and I have to stand during the meeting. I'm too tired to do that, May," she said, and moved toward the rear of the big room. "She's been talking about that Car ever since she came into the room," Lettie said softly, "trying to make something of it. She's a born gossip." Helen smiled with amusement. "Come now, Lettie!" she teased. "What do you call that remark of yours?" Lettie flushed slightly. "It's catty, I know, and I shouldn't have said it. But if you'd been here the past ten minutes...." She stopped abruptly, shrugged, and ended firmWe're just dying to BITTER MEDICINE ly, "Skip it. Seats together." They settled themselves, nodding and smiling at acquaintances around them. Then Principal Gleason stood up and called the meeting to order. Here're a couple of T was an interesting meeting because the Parent-Teacher Association wanted to promote a project for raising funds to provide eye, ear, and dental care for the children who could not afford the proper treatment. Nearly every parent present had some scheme to suggest, and the discussion was animated and enthusiastic. Helen listened attentively, because she knew she would have a large part in whatever project was decided upon. But, though she was listening, one half of her mind was still occupied with May 'Turner. May was becoming a real problem, and Helen was deeply concerned about it. For it wasn't as if May were just a gossip and nothing else. She had many fine qualities — was cheerful and generous and a willing worker. She could be counted upon to do her share in any school or neighborhood project, and to do more than her share, if someone was in trouble or had sickness in the house. And yet she did gossip — had gossiped ever since she moved into the neighborhood five years ago. At first, the other women had just smiled at her eager questioning, her quick interest in all their affairs. She's just trying to get acquainted— to be one of us—they had said charitably. She's new, and has to sort of catch up on the neighborhood background. 23 But as her prying became more and more determined, and the stories she retailed grew more and more fantastic, they had gradually come to leave her alone as much as possible. She wasn't too close to them, anyway, as most of the women in the neighborhood were Church members and had their Relief Society and other Church activities to draw them close together. May Turner did not belong to any of these groups excepting the P. T. A. But she was a neighbor; they met her at the market, on the corner waiting for a bus, in various neighborhood activities. And it had always been such a pleasant, friendly little community that none of them wanted really to "cut" the newcomer. 'They had just hoped that their example would cure her of her shortcoming. But it seemed that the very opposite had happened. 'The more they avoided May, the more careful they were what they said in front of her, the more persistent and malicious grew her stories, until now she was truly unwelcome in their little friendly gatherings on porches of a summer evening, or at the back-yard barbecues, or the small neighborly get-togethers around a living-room fireplace on a winter night. ELEN was abruptly awakened from her reverie by the buzz of conversation as the women around her stood up and began the inevitable chatter that followed every meeting. Lettie laughed down at her. "Did you drop off to sleep, Helen?" she asked, amused. ro Helen, too, stood up. "No, I was just thinking...." They started toward the front of the room, stopping to speak to a friend here and there. As _ they reached May 'Turner's seat, they found her standing in the aisle, blocking their path. "T just couldn't let you go, Helen!" she gushed, "until I wrung out of you the story behind the Carlson's car. I know Jim's just a young lawyer — and young lawyers don't make much money in this town — not unless they're in some sort of racket. What's Jim's, Helen? Only thing I can think of is some crooked uranium deal!" Helen tried to sidle past the woman, but May stood her ground firmly. "Look, May," Helen said reasonably, "I don't know a thing about Jim Carlson's business, and I wouldn't even try to guess. It isn't any of my affair, you know. Now, if you'll just let me get by, I'll skip along home. Jill had a little cold, and I'm a bit worried...." "Oh, no, you don't!" May laughed, still good-natured, though Helen thought there was an undertone of stern determination. "I can't understand you, Helen. This is all between friends, you know. I wouldn't breathe a word...." "No?" Lettie said sarcastically. "Then why...?" May's look was suddenly angry. "I don't understand either of you! Why should you be so closemouthed? Everyone can see that big car—it's no secret, is it? And if Jim got it honestly, he shouldn't care if the whole world knows about it. I'm sure that we don't have RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 anything to be so cagey about. My life's an open book—and so is Ted Senior's. Anyone can ask us where we got anything — we live within our means! 'The only reason I can see for anyone's being so scared of telling about his affairs is if there's something shady — either in his present activities or in his past." Helen smiled wryly. ""There's such a thing as privacy, you know...." And Lettie added maliciously, "And the invasion of privacy!" May ignored Lettie and looked at Helen. "What have you got to be afraid of, Helen Lund? Is 'Tony mixed up with Jim Carlson's deal? Or is there a skeleton hiding in your own closet that you are afraid someone will stumble across?" Helen managed a short laugh. "I guess that's it, May. Come on. We'll have to get out or we'll be locked in here for the night." She and Lettie pushed by May, and as they went on toward the door, they heard her mutter to the few stragglers who had stood by, listening to the exchange of words, "These pious people make me sick. If you could only see what's behind their pretense of righteousness, you'd be surprised!" AS they walked down the pleasant street with its well-kept lawns and gardens, its neat houses and friendly atmosphere, Lettie said crossly, "Something ought to be done about her, Helen. Really!" Helen shrugged. "I don't know what we can do, except ignore her. I don't think she really means any harm." "IT wouldn't be too sure of that, Helen. 'lhe way she looked at you BITTER MEDICINE —and those remarks about skeletons in closets." Lettie laughed a little. "If you do have anything to hide, Helen, better hide it well or she'll dig it out." "Tm not worried!" Helen answered quietly. 'They parted on the corner and Helen walked on to her own house, her brow' wrinkled in thought. Maybe she should be worried about May's gossip, for the woman could certainly concoct a fantastic yarn out of nothing. Uneasily, Helen reviewed Lettie's last comment. Lettie — her best friend — had there been a slight hint of a doubt in her voice? Had May's poison already tinged _Lettie's thoughts? Tony was in the living room reading the paper. He laid it aside as Helen came in, got up and came toward her. "How was the meeting, honey?" he asked, and then, seeing her face, "something go wrong?" "No, nothing," Helen answered. "We really got a lot done — the whole plan for a three-day bazaar laid out. I'm on the sewing committee." "As usual!" Tony teased. Why the frown?" "Oh, Tony, was I frowning? It's nothing...." She stood silent a moment and then looked up into her husband's eyes. ""lony, I was just trying to think — trying to remember if there's anything — if I've ever done anything that could cause talk among the neighbors...." Tony's concerned look gave way to an amused smile, as he ran an exploring finger along the smooth arch of her brow. "You, honey? Well, if you had, "But 25 you wouldn't have to cudgel your brain to remember it. It would be such a weight on your conscience that you'd be thinking about it all the time. Why the probing, anyway?" He sat down on the settee, gently pulling his wife down beside him. "Come on, sweetheart. 'Tell me what this is all about." Helen tried to laugh. "I know it's silly, but May Turner was at the meeting. She's upset about Jim Carlson's new Cadillac — began tossing hints around that he'd been in some shady uranium deal. Said he couldn't afford a car like that on honest earnings. Well, when I would not talk about it, she began on me — said I must have something to hide, and then Lettie said that if I did, I'd better hide it well — and, well, I just began to wonden. A Tony's laugh was hearty and genuine. "You women!" and _ then more gently, "you little goose, Helen!' He kissed the top of her head. "That's just May Turner — don't think about it. And if she finds anything in your past that should be kept a deep, dark secret, Pll treat the neighborhood to a barbecue supper. And speaking of supper—I'm hungry!" Helen jumped to her feet. "Oh, darling, I'm sorry. I completely forgot about dinner. But it's all ready — won't take a jiffy to get it on the table. You get Jill." She dashed into the kitchen. 'Tony was right—forget May 'Turner and her gossiping. Feeding her hungry family would certainly help. She tied an apron over her good dress and set briskly to work. (To be continued) Jungle Pilgrimage (Gant the Past Nell Murbarger of Mexico, bound for San Blas, on the Pacific Ocean, we dropped nearly 4,000 feet in elevation, and the cool air of the mountains was succeeded by the warm moistness of the coastal jungle. Groves of waving bananas and papayas now occupied every pocketsized clearing on the steep hillsides, and small plots of sugar cane lay like green scatter rugs on the floor of the valley. Along either side of our road rose giant coquita palms, their trunks so closely spaced that we seemed to be traveling through a narrow and endless corridor of smooth, gray columns. Beyond the jungle we entered upon a wide salt marsh cut by calm estuaries that wound back from the sea through dense thickets of mangroves. On the down-dropping branches of the mangroves lived matted clusters of white oysters, and busy multitudes of small glossy crabs, spotted and _ striped like agates. White egrets, rose-tinted flamingos, and tall herons stalked silently through the shallows, like judges on parade; and twice we saw the dark surface of the water part, momentarily, to reveal the long, gray-green snouts of cruising alligators. After leaving the jungle and the salt marsh and crossing a_ wide, clear river, where men fished with hand-knotted nets and women knelt on the banks and washed their garments as in the times of Ruth and Page 26 1: our traveling to the west coast Rachel, our road dropped down to the Pacific Ocean and meandered to its end in the old town of San Blas — the Mecca of our jungle pilgrimage into the past. Drawing to a halt in the shade of the plaza, we ranged inquiring eyes over this place where, in centuries gone, had been drafted so many of the blueprints of Western American history. But if we had supposed that San Blas would be different in appearance from any other of the many Mexican villages we had visited, we were destined to disillusionment. San Blas was no different. Here was the same old stone church; the same tiny, square shops looking out on the plaza; the same complement of tired, thin-bodied old men; the same tinkle of lonely music. In the cobble-paved streets and the well-swept yards, played the usual bevies of fat, brown babies; the usual gray burros and dogs and long-legged roosters drowsed in the shade of adobe huts and walls; and the same patient, Madonna-faced women were performing their housewifely duties in the same gentle fashion. S we ranged our eyes over the quiet, commonplace scenes of this commonplace village, we found it impossible to imagine that here had been the first shipping port on the western shores of both North and South America. Equally difficult to accept was the fact that this small town had once bustled with more JUNGLE PILGRIMAGE INTO THE PAST than 30, cco inhabitants, and had ranked as one of the most important cities of the New World! If San Blas chooses to drowse in the sun, that should be her privilege, for San Blas is a very old lady! Founded in 1537—less than twentyfive years after Balboa's discovery of the Pacific Ocean—these same cobbled streets were echoing to the wheels and hooves of commerce 27 when naked savages still roamed the site where New York would one day rise, and the fathers of the Pilgrims were yet unborn. In the middle of the sixteenth century, with Sir Francis Drake and other British privateers preying on ships of the Spanish Main, San Blas had become a haven for great treasure galleons outward-bound from the Orient with cargoes of gold and Charles K. Crawford ABANDONED CUSTOMS HOUSE, SAN BLAS, NAYARIT This flat-topped building, with interlocking arches, was a busy place in the days when San Blas was one of the main ports on Mexico's west coast. 28 Nel] Murbarger RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 PALM-THATCHED HUTS AT THE JUNGLE'S EDGE, NAYARIT, MEXICO (Outskirts of San Blas) silver, and silks and carved jade worth a king's ransom. With the Panama Canal still more than 300 years in the future, it was necessary that the long sea voyage from Manila to Spain be made by way of Cape Horn. Not only was this a time-consuming course, but with pirates and privateers menacing the shipping lanes of the world, the long route added greatly to the potential hazard of every voyage. T'o combat these factors — particularly the danger of piracy — the Oriental treasure galleons were unloaded at San Blas and their rich cargoes repacked on burro back to be freighted overland, under heavy military guard, to Vera Cruz. Here the booty was placed on other waiting ships for the remainder of its 13,000- mile journey to Spain. In connection with this monumental portage, San Blas had_ become the western terminus of one of the most incredible treasure roads in the history of the world. UILT nearly 400 years ago, this great portageway had extended from the Pacific coast to Nayarit, all the way across Mexico, to Vera Cruz, on the Atlantic — a distance of more than 600 miles, over high mountain ranges and through deep valleys and wide jungles. Nor was this continent-spanning road a mere trail packed down by the sandaled JUNGLE PILGRIMAGE INTO THE PAST feet of men and the hooves of animals. It was a true highway. Every foot of its 600 mile length was paved with cobblestones, fitted together in a tight mosaic; and every foot of that cobble-paved way was flanked on either side by stout stone fences! San Blas later became headquarters of the Spanish explorer Gasper de Portola; and on March 16, 1768 —after the town had been already prospering mightily for some 230 years — the Franciscan priest, Fray Junipero Serra, had sailed out of San Blas harbor aboard a 300-ton vessel built in one of the several shipyards then doing business in the town. The vessel was La Purisima, and Father Serra's destination was Alta 29 California where he would subsequently establish his famous chain of missions — now the Golden State's oldest and most famous antiquities built by white men. During this same period, San Blas had been site of an important foundry for the manufacture of church bells, and many of the original bells used in the California missions had been cast here. But Time was not good to San Blas. The day of the pirate ended, the treasure road was abandoned; other shipping ports became more favored, the harbor silted full. And, finally, this place where thousands of men had lived and _ prospered, declined in vigor until only a few hundred souls remain. Phantoms Bessie I. Peterson The warmth of firelight is not warm alone— It casts a spell in soft and friendly tone. Cheerfully the clean wood crackles its delight Glad to be the fuel of fire.... And builds a phantom city, turrets blazing bright, Ever changing, ever moving, quivering with light. But suddenly the hungry flames, eager for their prey, Consume the golden spires and towers And crumble them away.... And so it is with dreams— Fair is the hope that builds our castles high, But, left untended, they flicker out and die, P? Be Honest with Yourself G reat ITlen Pra y / REAT and wise men and women of all the ages have sought and teceived help through prayer and have found an unfailing source of strength. Washington at Valley Forge — Lincoln before Gettysburg — Eisenhower on D Day — Joseph Smith in the Sacred Grove — Jesus at Gethsemane and at Golgotha — all these have prayed! Page 30 "Grant us liberty"; "Preserve the nation"; "Give us wisdom"; "Deliver us from evil"; "Thy will be done." And these, too, are proper petitions to an understanding Father in heaven: The trust of a child at a mother's knee. The prayer of a father for the return of a wayward son. The student's honest seeking for answers to an examination. A young man's reverent request for strength to do his best in a ball game or business venture. The young woman's plea for guidance in choosing a husband. The earnest soul's sincere desire. That he answers these petitions (though in his own time and way) is a truth to which millions can daily testify. What about you? Do you ever need help from a Higher Source? Then follow the example of the great and good and wise men of all the ages. Ask and receive. "In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths." Pray. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF >_> B irthday Genevieve Groen I hear them sing the celebration Of his birth, the children caroling The ancient Yuletide themes. I seem to leave my log-fire, flaming In its place, and find the frosted window Where their voice-candle beams. The lighted tones of their lyric pageant Are sounds to me of blue veiled innocence That chord the blessed scene. In the cold night air their warm breath Fables hills of lamb-fold where staves Of shepherds are the notes unseen. My fire's haloed burning reflects an Infant Purity born and song-cradled in the hour Of hymnal light. Until the embers flash white-robed against The blackened grate, a vision of choirs Echoing in the night. GREAT MEN PRAY 31 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF Ati Nations" CHARLOTTE BRONTE: A fragment of a letter written in Charlotte Bronte's own hand, shows her character as well as anything she ever wrote. It is the ending of a letter to Miss Nussey, and these are the lines: 'Submission, courage — exertion when practicable — these seem to be the weapons with which we must fight life's long battle." —Exchange RELIEF SOCIETY IN CHICAGO: A notable event of the new year is the organization of a Relief Society in the great city of Chicago — so near to the place and in the same state where the first Relief Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The following notice appeared in the Deseret Evening News of Jan. 9, 1897: "A Relief Society has been organized here lately with Sisters Bengta Benedict president, Sister Charlotte Esterbloom and Christena Soderland as first and second counselors, and Sisters Erekson and Brumley secretary and treasurer...." —News Note It is always pleasant and gratifying to have young people marry happily.... In our belief we have not only a desire for union here, but for the eternal marriage in which we most firmly believe, and undoubtedly hope that all the young people in whose marriages we are so deeply interested may be so happy that they may continue throughout the eternal ages to come. —Editorial THE YEAR OF JUBILEE Ring the bells for ninety-seven— Let's have a great rejoicing; Forgiveness, love and peace abound The ancient custom voicing.... —R. M. F. THE WOMAN'S CONGRESS IN BERLIN: I cannot help saying it was a success... I am compelled to proclaim it.... During the seven days' Congress nearly all subjects connected with the woman question were touched, and not a single one lacked interest. 'The foreign delegates were agreeably surprised at the coolness and cleverness with which the German women delivered their speeches from the platform... But there is no denying the fact... Ours was the good fortune to be enchanted by the magnificent and splendid speeches delivered by the foreign, especially by the English and American delegates... Mrs. Ormiston Chant, who gave us in her musical voice, a most interesting account of the temperance question... Mrs. Belva Lockwood who spoke in a most interesting manner on the political rights of women in the United States.. —Eliza Ichenhauser Page 32 MARIA MENEGHINI CALLAS, one of the greatest living singers, appeared in Bellini's opera "Norma," at the opening of the Metropolitan Opera season in New York City in November. Born in New York City, Maria Callas received her musical education in Italy and has sung many difficult and triumphant roles at the La Scala Opera House. Her voice has extraordinary range and versatility, and for a singer still in her early thirties, her musicianship has been extolled as unrivalled among her contemporaries. MBE. LORRAINE WASHINGTON, of Memphis, Tennessee, is founder and president of a very successful collection agency, dedicated to the interest of the debtor as well as the creditor. She learns why people are not paying their bills, then helps the debtors, sometimes even finding employment for them when they are out of work. The firm, with its friendly methods, is expanding into many states. AREN HANTZE, of San Diego, California, although only thirteen, has more than fifty trophies for her tennis matches and has won some of them in competition with adult women tennis stars. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon AUDE ADAMS, one of America's greatest actresses, is presented with charm and authenticity in a new biography Maude Adams: An Intimate Portrait, by Phyllis Robbins. Miss Adams, a granddaughter of Barnabas Lothrop Adams, a member of Brigham Young's first pioneer company, received her start as an actress in Salt Lake City. At a high point in her career (1902), she wrote from Switzerland: "The Alps are inspiring, but not friendly like the mountains that protect the lovely valley of Salt Lake. My childhood was guarded by the kindly Wasatch Range, and the Rockies were friends from my beginning." Miss Adams died in 1954. OROTHY CLAPP ROBINSON of Boise, Idaho, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, is the author of The Mystery of Contrary House, an adventure story for the early teen ages. Vantage Press, New York City, is publisher of the book. TRupI BUXTON, eight years old, played Beethoven's Concerto No. 1 (for piano) with the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra at a student concert. She is the youngest soloist ever to appear with this noted organization. Page 33 C— EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 44 JANUARY 1957 Let Your Light So Shine™ Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify pour Father which is in heaven (From Christ's Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5:16). HE New Year is the early morning of the seasons, and it comes to us radiant with opportunities for increasing our joy and usefulness. Self-appraisal and resolutions need not be empty words nor fleeting thoughts; rather, they may become the open doors of a bright beginning and the windows of direction for all the days of the unfolding year. It is a responsibility and a blessing for us to realize that we are the reflectors and the transmitters of light. Our beliefs, our faith, our ideals, can be revealed and "shine before men" only through our attitudes, our words, and our actions. We know that we have been given a great light, "for the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light." If that light fails to shine through us, we may be shadowed and limited by doubt or negligence, disappointment or sorrow. The light may be dimmed by too much concern with our own problems which confuses the directions of the beams and restricts the areas of illumination. Relief Society women have been given a guiding light which can direct their own lives and shine into all the far places where their influence and their service may reach. In the beginning of the organization, Page 34 charity and sisterhood were the qualities most beautifully expressed. The sisters shared the blessings of the gospel; they shared food and shelter, poverty and bereavement, accomplishment and _ rejoicing, standing together in strength and bowing together in humility and prayer. They were particularly concerned with children — the beginning of life — and the care of the aged — those near the journey's end. They learned that a woman who stands alone is limited in her individual development and in her field of service, but in united effort, each one is strong in the strength and courage of the group — in the circle of the sisterhood. Once the Prophet Joseph Smith took his wife and family to visit Emma's sister who lived in a lonely place on the prairie. 'That night Elizabeth set a large candle in the window, saying that it might serve as a light for someone lost on the prairie, and the Prophet remarked that the window was an example of a light shining in darkness. Among our pioneer women there was a saying: "We all have something to give; we must reach a little deeper into the bin." In those days of uncertain harvests, the frugal women tried to keep a supply of flour in their homemade wooden EDITORIAL flour bins, and the symbol of reaching deeper into the bin was real to them. They clothed the saying with a spiritual meaning, and, if there was no flour in the bin and no other food to share, they gave of themselves in compassionate service, in days of home nursing, in hours of companionship with the aged, in comforting and caring for children. They learned that encouragement, compassion, and faith may be given to others, as they become a part of a shining light undimmed and unlimited. 35 It is our heritage to be the bearers of light, to reflect the wisdom and the beauty, the tenderness and the courage, the humility and the strength which are our possibilities and which may be fulfilled in us. May we seek for that uplifting serenity, so well expressed by the poet: My bark is wafted to the strand By breath divine: And on the helm there rests a hand Other than mine. —Henry Alford —V. P. C. Polio and the Mlarch of Dimes Basil O'Connor President, The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis HE March of Dimes wants to finish the fight against polio. To do this, we must have your help — just as we had it in reaching the present hopeful position. It's hopeful because final victory is now in sight. Thanks to the Salk vaccine, which was financed with March of Dimes funds. Tomorrow's children will be spared the tragedy of polio. However, still suffer from this crippling disease. Sands for whom the victory is not so quick, and not so easy. Thousands of today's children. There are many thouThese people still suffer from polio, and they need much more than an inoculation. They need mechanical substitutes for arms and legs and lungs. They need help in rebuilding shattered lives. Most of all, they need the hope which comes from knowing that they do not fight alone. We can't quit—we know you would not want us to quit — until these youngsters have had a chance to run and play again; a chance to grow up as strong and useful citizens for the vears ahead. The money in your pocket will help children to walk without braces. And, what is more, vour dimes and dollars will help train the minds and hands of the professional experts so desperately needed in the treatment of crippled patients. Tens of thousands born too soon for the vaccine still need your help, and your help is needed to help finance research to perfect the vaccine. That's the unfinished business behind this vear's March of Dimes. You can help, as you have helped so generously before, the 1957 March of Dimes, January 2 to 31. Notes TO THE FIELD Relicf Society Assigned Evening IMleeting of Fast Sunday in Mlarch HE Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day, March 3, 1957, has again been assigned by the First Presidency for use by the Relief Society. Suggestive plans for this evening meeting have been prepared by the general board and sent to the stakes in pamphlet form. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents confer with their bishops immediately to arrange for this meeting. Music for the Singing Mothers should be ordered at once. Award Subscriptions Presented in April HE award subscriptions presented to Magazine representatives for having obtained 75 per cent or more subscriptions to the Magazine in relation to their enrolled Relief Society members, are not awarded until after the stake Magazine representatives' annual reports have been audited. Award cards for these subscriptions for the year 1956 will be mailed to ward and stake Magazine representatives about April 1, 1957. Bound Volumes of 1956 Reliof Society Mlagazines ELIEF Society officers and members who wish to have their 1956 issues Of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.50, including the index. If a leather binding is preferred, the cost is $3.50. See schedules of postage rates in the Deseret News Press advertisement in this issue of the Magazine. If bound volumes are desired, and the Magazine cannot be supplied by the person making the request, the Magazine will be supplied for $1.50 by the Magazine Department, General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Only a limited number of Magazines are available for binding. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1956 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. Page 26 Sina Bishop Reid Makes Her Own Crochet Designs S'\ Bishop Reid, ninety-one, of Salt Lake City, Utah, has made many exquisite pieces of crochet work using her own designs. She won first place in a national contest for one of her original patterns, and her work beautifies the homes of many of her friends and relatives. Her specialties are doilies, chair sets, pillow cases, jackets, and bootees. Recently she completed her fourteenth tablecloth, which required four hundred hours of work. During the time she works with her crochet hook, Sister Reid recalls the events of her long, useful life. She was only six years of age when she accompanied her mother in the fields where they gleaned wheat for storage in the Relief Socicty granary in Cache Valley, where she was born. She recalls the years when she worked hard to support herself and two children, as well as to help her husband with his missionary expenses; and she recalls the sending of three sons into the mission field. Sister Reid is a talented musician and has sung many solos in Relief Society meetings and for other occasions. She has been a class leader in social science, theology, and literature. Her work as a teacher has been so outstanding that many younger class leaders seck her advice in the preparation and presentation of Relief Society lessons. <i > An Afterthought Gene Romolo His natal day has come again and gone, But its reflected glory lingers on To light our way and pave another year With faith and hope and love that casts out fear. Page 37 Recipes trom ITlexico Submitted by Jennie R. Bowman TORTILLAS 2 Ibs. Corn (in grain) 3 qts. Water 2 oz. Lime Wash the corn, add the lime and water, and place mixture on the fire. When boiling has progressed to the point where the skin can be peeled off the kernels of corn, remove the mixture from the fire and let it cool. Then squeeze kernels of corn in the hand for removing the skins. When all the skins have been removed, wash the corn thoroughly in cold water. At this stage the corn is called nixtamal. 'Then grind the corn to fine consistency to make tortilla dough. This dough can also be used for quesadillas (special cheese tortillas), gorditas (tortillas which are three or four times thicker), etc. Making Tortillas the Mexican Way: Divide the dough into small balls, and, one at a time, with the hands slightly wet, press the ball between the palms and fingers of both hands until the ball becomes flat and round, the thinner the better. Cook over a flat clay or iron broiler, called in Mexico a comal. When cooked, turn on the other side. Fold tortillas in a large napkin to keep them warm and stack in a round basket, folding part of the napkin over the top of the stack of tortillas. Tortillas may be baked on a griddle or in an ordinary oven. For variation, ground cooked meat may be rolled inside the tortillas. Sprinkle grated cheese over the top. Rep CuHILE ENCHILADA SAUCE (for serving with tortillas) 1 tbsp. Powdered chile % tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Flour 1 tsp. Sugar 1 c. Tomato puree 1 tbsp. Lard or other shortening % tsp. Omion juice % Ib. Grated cheese Heat the required number of tortillas, one at a time, for two or three seconds. Then dip into the sauce. Remove from sauce and sprinkle with grated cheese and chopped onion if desired. These may be rolled or stacked on individual plates. Fried eggs are often served on top of a stack of three or four tortillas. Dry red chiles may be used in the sauce in place of chile powder for better flavor. Te make, use six large dry chiles. Remove seeds and veins. Wash and drop into hot water; let come to a boil and drain. Again place over flame with one cup hot water and boil gently for five minutes. Put through a colander and add as much as desired to the tomato puree. Make sauce by first heating the shortening and flour then adding the liquid (tomato puree and onion juice). CHILE Gravy PuEBLA STYLE (Mole Poblano) 1 turkey or chicken 2 oz. Chocolate % \b. Chiles (mulato) 3 chiles (chipotles) 7 oz. Chiles (anchos). 4 tomatoes (roasted) 4 oz. Chiles (pasilla) 3 onions 3 0z. Sesame 6 cloves of garlic 4 oz. Almonds 1 tortilla 3 0z. Raisins 1 tsp. Anise seed 3 0z. Peanuts 8 black peppers 1 oz. Bread 5 cloves 7 oz. Lard 1 stick cinnamon 3 qts. Meat stock 2 oz. Sesame to sprinkle Page 38 RECIPES FROM MEXICO 39 Cut the turkey or chicken in pieces, fry it in lard, in a large earthenware dish. When fried, add the chiles ''chipotles," veinless and cooked, and ground with the roasted tomatoes; when dry, add one quart of meat stock and season with salt. 'Take the veins off the other chiles and fry them in the lard to brown slightly. The anise and sesame are toasted on a comal (a round piece of tin can be used). The almonds, peanuts, raisins, bread, tortilla and spices are fried in lard, then ground with the chiles, sesame, anise seeds, onions, and garlic. Dissolve all this in the remaining two quarts of meat stock, add the chocolate, and add to the turkey when it is well cooked. Leave on the fire till thick. Put on a platter and sprinkle with the toasted sesame. Note: Mulato, anchos, pasilla, and chipotles are varieties of chile. A canned mole powder is commercially sold that makes a very good substitute for the original mole recipe, if used to season thickened meat stock or chicken broth to be served with the chicken or turkey. Mexican RIcE ¥%, Ib. Rice % tsp. Onion juice 4 oz. Lard 2 c. Meat stock 4 Oz. Peas % tsp. Salt 6 tbsp. Tomato puree 1 c. Cold water Soak the rice in hot water for fifteen minutes. Wash well in cold water till it comes out clear. Drain and fry in the lard. When it has taken on a golden color, drain off the lard and add the tomato and onion juice. Stir, then add cold water, the salt, and the peas and continue to cook. When dry, add the hot meat stock, cover, and let simmer. Do not stir. If more water is needed sprinkle it over the top. When done, the rice kernels will be soft, fluffy, and separate. When served, the platter may be garnished with fried sausage, hard boiled eggs, or avocado strips. CHERRY COOKIES (Galletas ) % c. Shortening 1 c. Flour % c. Sugar % tsp. Salt 1 egg yolk (whipped until 1 egg white, beaten stiff lemon-colored ) ¥% c. Chopped nuts 1 tbsp. Grated orange rind 10 maraschino cherries 1 tsp. Lemon juice Cream the sugar and shortening. Add the beaten egg yolk and the grated rind of orange and lemon, then the lemon juice. Beat well. Sift in the flour and salt Mix well, then place in the refrigerator to cool. When cold enough to be firm, form into small balls and dip in the beaten egg white, roll in chopped nuts, and place on cookie sheet. Dent the center of each ball and put in each a half cherry. Bake twenty minutes in a moderate oven 350° F. Mik ATOLE (Beverage) 4 c. Milk 3 0z. Cornstarch 2 c. Water 1 stick cinnamon % Ib. Sugar Dissolve the cornstarch in water, add cinnamon, and put on the fire. When it starts to thicken add milk and sugar, let it simmer, and stir constantly with a wooden spoon, until it thickens like cream. Serve very hot. This atole may be seasoned with chocolate, crushed, strained strawberries, or any fruit flavor. A Doll Buggy for Christmas Florence S. Glines 66 REN'T you glad they A brousht the doll buggy?" Three-year-old Bobby anxiously searched his mother's averted face, as he leaned on her knee. Five-year-old Ann cast an appraising eye over the old-fashioned buggy, brown and frayed, standing in the middle of the small sitting room. But Ruth stooped over, swooped up the yellow cat, and tried to make him sit in the buggy. Barbara Lind forced herself to smile into the eager eyes of her three children so intently regarding her. "Yes, Bobby," she said, "of course, I'm glad. It was thoughtful of them to remember us and bring sister a buggy." "He said Santa Claus sent it," observed realistic little Ann. "Why did he send an old one, Mother?" "Because we're poor," said tenyear-old Ruth, adding defensively to her mother, "well, Mabel says we're poor now—she says we're 'widows and orphans.' " Barbara searched her mind for some words she could say. These three eager, precious, little souls were so defenseless and dependent on her for their attitude toward the world! 'The thought was appalling. "Oh, Bruce," her heart cried out, "that's why I simply can't go on without you!"" Her own loneliness and longing she felt she could endure. She had those perfect years to remember, and she was already grown. But the children, what of them? What if she could not guide them right alone? Yet that was Page 40 what she had to do, and all three were now waitirg to hear what she would say to Ruth's outburst. "Mabel doesn't know what she is talking about. We couldn't be poor, while we have so much. We have Father in heaven to pray to; we have each other; we have Daddy in heaven; we have uncles and aunts and cousins who always remember us; we have this nice house...." "Not so very nice," said tenyear-old Ruth under her breath. "We have this nice house to live in," repeated Barbara firmly. "We have good food to eat; we have pretty clothes to wear; and you all have so many toys now that I don't see how we can take care of any more." "But didn't Santa Claus know that I wanted a white doll buggy that was new?" asked Ann. "And doesn't he know that Christmas is not till day after tomorrow?" "Of course Santa knows," said Barbara, "but nobody, even Santa Claus, can always do exactly what everybody wants. 'Then, too, there are some very kind people who like being Santa's helpers, especially for children. 'They don't want to get paid or fussed over, so they try to find some child who wants something they have and they send it. I suppose someone said Ann wanted a doll buggy, and a lady had one she wanted to give away, so she sent it to Ann and was a helper." Barbara searched their serious faces and felt that what she had said was not enough. A DOLL BUGGY FOR CHRISTMAS "Man bring the buggy," said Bobby. Phe lady got the man to bring it," explained Barbara. She waited, a prayer in her heart that she had not said too much, that she had said enough. She did not want to spoil anything lovely the children might have, and she did want them to understand things realistically, so that life'might not be too hard. 66 CAN we be Santa Claus helpers?" asked Ruth, — slowly, weighing her words. Ann and Bobby nodded vigorously. "Can we?" they echoed. Barbara's thoughts flew swiftly. Whatever did she have they could give? "Why, yes," she said, "if you know someone to whom we can take something." "T know," said Ann quickly, "Mrs. Savage! She's got no one. Nobody brings her Santa Claus helpers." Barbara was about to protest. Old Mrs. Savage, who lived in the big house on the corner, whatever could they give her? She had everything. Well — not friends, which she didn't want. Barbara had heard that Mrs. Savage had come West and bought that house years ago to get away from people. "And Vie and Bert in the back lot," said Ruth. "Mr. And Mrs. Hobson," Barbara corrected automatically. "They want me to call them Vie and Bert, Vie told me to," said Ruth, "and I call the baby Sammy." There were plenty of things they could give the Hobsons. Barbara had a feeling of shame that she had not tried to do something for those struggling young folks before. 4] "Jimmy wants Santa Claus helpers," said Bobby. Dear me! Thought Barbara. Jimmy Armstrong would have much more Santa Claus than he could use. But if Jimmy was Bobby's choice, she would have to find a way. The three little faces were turned to her now, enthusiastic and interested. The shabby little brown doll buggy and the upset it had started seemed forgotten. "We don't want to take our Santa Claus helpers two days before Christmas," said Ruth. "I'd hate to be that kind of helper." "What can we take, what can we take?" Five-year-old Ann was always one for immediate action. What could they give? Barbara thought of all the boxes and drawers she had filled with things she was keeping for someday. Soon she had the children helping her pull them out and sort over to see what could be given. 'They found some of Bobby's baby clothes and a doll that rattled for baby Sammy. "Here's this too-little blouse Aunt Rae sent you. It'll just fit Vie," said Ruth. "Now, if we can only find something for Bert." ARBARA thought of Bruce's warm wool sweater, packed away in the cedar chest. Oh, no, not that! She was saving it for Bobby when he grew up. Then she seemed to see Bruce's grin and his easy voice saying, ""I'wo years are long enough to hoard anything, honey," and she had to admit that keeping it for Bobby was only an excuse. Bobby wouldn't be big enough for maybe twenty years! She pushed aside her reluctance and 42 brought out the sweater with seeming gaiety. "Oh, Mother," said Ruth, overjoyed, "you can't imagine how pleased Bert'll be! But should we? Daddy's...." "Daddy would want Bert to have it, I'm sure." 'Then Barbara added quickly, "I've thought what we can give to Mrs. Savage." She showed them how to make a dainty pincushion with scraps of satin, lace, and a powder box lid stuffed with sawdust. "Ruth got lots of things for the Hobson's," said Ann. "I only have one for Mrs. Savage." "Jimmy's got nothing," mourned Bobby. "What does Jimmy want?" said Barbara, perplexed. "Everything he sees, if it belongs to somebody else," said Ruth, "and that goes for my stilts Cousin Dale made me last summer." "Make Jimmy stilts!" exulted Bobby, "saw, saw, hammer, hammer!" "Make | stilts!" exclaimed Barbara, "why, I can't hammer a nail in straight, and as for sawing—Jimmy would walk with one foot up and the other foot down like in the Mother Goose rhyme!" Bobby looked stricken, and Ruth volunteered doubtfully, "Maybe I could." Barbara forced herself to meet the challenge. "I have an idea," she said. "We'll ask the scoutmaster if he can help us," and she hurried to the phone. It took courage for Barbara Lind to ask for help. "TIl say we've got a boy who'd like to help!" said the man, "and thank you for calling. 'Toby Judd RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 just came in. He's tops with a hammer and saw. 'Toby's shy and backward but...." "Wonderful, send him along. Thanks a lot," said Barbara, hiding her qualms about 'Toby Judd. Lots of folks thought Toby was not quite bright, but maybe if she helped, Toby could manage. Bruce had always told her that even if she did think her mechanical ability was nil, she was a big inspiration to talk to when a fellow was figuring out something. She brightly urged the children to help clear away the boxes and drawers they had pulled out and make room for making the stilts in the kitchen. Ig seemed that almost at once, Toby was knocking at the door. His face was bright with expectation, though his smile was doubtful, as if he feared he might not be wanted after all. "Here's the hammer and _ the saw," said Ruth, holding them out to Toby, "and Bobby has the nails, and the old shoe that Ann has is for the straps." "There's a pile of wood scraps in the garage," directed Barbara, helping Bobby into his coat. "Maybe among you all, you can pick out some good pieces. Bring them back here and we'll see what we can do." "Oh, Ma'am," Toby breathed, his face flushing, as the children crowded enthusiastically around him, "I love to make things. Come on kids, this is going to be fun!" Ruth was back in a few minutes. "Mother," she said, "Toby says why can't we make the stilts out there. The cement floor and the A DOLL BUGGY FOR CHRISTMAS light and everything are just right, and we won't need to mess up the kitchen. And, Mother, 'Toby knows lots of things we can make! Have we got some glue and some sandpaper and some paint?" Barbara gathered up the articles, and with paper, rags, and paint thinner, she took them out. 'Toby must be a veritable genius, the way he had them all working and having such a wonderful time! Grateful for the free time to finish up her own Christmas preparations, Barbara got busy in the house, but she could not get Toby out of her mind. Big hands, no gloves; long arms, sleeves three inches above the bony wrists; he looked half-fed and neglected. No two ways about it, if Bruce's furlined gloves would stay on him, and if the plaid lumber jacket could be taken in, Toby should have them for Christmas. It was supper time when Bobby stumbled in, trying to walk the finished stilts. Ann hugged a doorstop and a book marker for Mrs. Savage. Ruth tried to hide a very secret spool-holder for Barbara behind her with one hand, while she carefully carried some small bits of polished wood in the other. "Look, Mother," she exclaimed, "you glue letters from alphabet macaroni on these pieces of wood to make your name. Then you get a tube of liquid cement and stick a little safety pin on the back in this little place Toby marked, and there you are! A wooden pin with your name on it! If you want it to shine, you varnish it." "Marvelous!" agreed Barbara. "Put them on the dresser while we 43 eat, and Toby, will your grandmother worry if you stay and eat with us?" "His grandmother and sister have gone to visit his auntie,' said Bobby. So 'Toby stayed to eat, to glue names on the macaroni pins, to help string lights on the Christmas tree, and afterwards to sing carols with Barbara and the children. "It's past bedtime," Barbara finally said. "We'll all have to hurry. And Toby, you must come on Christmas and help us eat that enormous turkey my Uncle Heber sent us from his farm." "Yes, yes, yes,' chorused the children. Toby had forgotten to be shy as he had worked and sung with the children crowded around him, but now, only the quick flush to his face showed how thrilled he was at the invitation, as he mumbled his thanks and abruptly said goodnight. ' HE Hobsons never have turkey," said Ruth. "Mrs. Savage has no big turkey, just for one people," observed Ann. "Jimmy likes turkey," chimed in Bobby. Finally Barbara agreed that first thing in the morning, they would all go invite the Hobsons, Mrs. Savage, and Jimmy Armstrong to eat Christmas dinner with them, and Toby Judd. "Oh, how wonderful of you to ask us!" said Vie Hobson. "We'd love to accept, if you will let me help with the cooking." "TIL surely accept that offer," said Barbara, 'and I'm doing most 44 of it this afternoon to leave tomorrow free." INCE she had agreed, Barbara walked resolutely up to Mrs. Savage's big house and held Ann up to reach the knocker. A maid led them into a pleasant morning room where Mrs. Savage patted Ann's cheek and then seated them all comfortably. She received the invitation with a stiff excuse until] Ann impulsively ran to her and said, "We could have ice-cream roll; you know, like you gave me once, if you would come and bring it." It made everybody laugh, and the lonesome old lady accepted before she quite realized it. At the Armstrongs, Jimmy's mother hesitated. "I really don't know what to say, Mrs. Lind. Of course, Jimmy's father and I were going out to a dinner party, but I've made arrangements for the cook and a maid to stay and feed Jimmy." "Jimmy can come," and "I can go," chanted both little boys, holding hands and whirling around. "But cook has made your special kind of plum pudding," his mother reminded Jimmy. "He could bring his pudding, we wouldn't mind," observed Ann. Barbara looked apologetically at Mrs. Armstrong, who smiled understandingly while Jimmy cried, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 "Hurrah! I can bring the pudding for the Christmas dinner!" Barbara hurried her family home to get busy and see that every corner of the house was clean and shining for the big cooking event of the afternoon, and that all packages were wrapped and piled at the foot of the tree. When Vie Hobson came over, the children all went for a walk. Bobby carried the yellow cat over his shoulder. Ruth and Ann pushed baby Sammy for a ride in the brown doll buggy which had caused such upset feelings and led to the whole plan for a neighborhood Christmas dinner and celebration. "The shabby little buggy and what it stood for that I hated, has really turned out to be a blessing," Barbara marveled, as she watched the happy children. She turned from the window to young Vie Hobson at the sink, smiling and gladly scrubbing vegetables, and it almost seemed she could hear Bruce say, "It isn't what you have that's good or bad, honey. It's what you do with it." She gave Vie a smile and, thinking of Toby and old Mrs. Savage and lonesome Jimmy Armstrong, said, "Isn't it wonderful about tomorrow? All of us here together like a family and nobody around lonesome! A real Christmas." —-- &nduring Beauty Maude O. Cook The sunset fades, rose petals fall, The rainbow hues depart: The only beauty which is ours Is stored within the heart. Biographical Sketches of Award Winners in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and First Prize Winner Annual Relicf Society Short Story Contest Christie Lund Coles, Provo, Utah, daughter of the late C. N. Lund, poet and newspaper publisher, and Celia A. Lund, is the wife of E. Elroy Coles and the mother of Carolyn (Mrs. John E.) Lewis. She has a small granddaughter Lynn Anne. She has contributed stories, articles, and poems to The Relief Society Magazine, and _ this is her third appearance as a winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Her poems have been published in many magazines of national circulation, and she has been awarded prizes in local and national contests. At present Mrs. Coles is working on a novel and studying playwrighting at Brigham Young University. She is a member of the Utah Sonneteers, Poets of the Pacific, the League of Utah Writers, the National League of American Pen Women, Utah State Poetry Society, and other professional organizations. Frances C. Yost, Bancroft, Idaho, is a frequent contributor to The Relief Society Magazine. Her poem "Christmascope" marks her first appearance as a winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Mrs. Yost is the wife of Glenn F. Yost, a rancher, and is the mother of four children. 'My family and my Church come first," says Mrs. Yost, but she finds time for various writing activities. She is hometown correspondent for three daily papers, she assisted in the compilation of a ward Book of Remembrance, and is the author of two books of poetry: Brim With Joy and While Orchids Bloom. In 1954 Mrs. Yost received the award "Most Successful Homemaker" in the State of Idaho. Joanne B. Rose, West Jordan, Utah, introduces herself to readers of the Magazine: "I am twenty-seven years old, have a high school education, and have studied the technicalities of writing through library books. I have written numerous personal sketches for our ward paper and am correspondent for a local newspaper. In 1955, one of my poems received honorable mention in the Utah State Poetry Society contest in the amateur division. My husband, Gene, and I have three wonderful children— eight,. Six, and four, two boys and a girl. Someday I hope to continue my schooling and learn more of putting into words the wonders of everyday living with which the Lord has surrounded us. I love literature in all forms." Svlvia Probst Young, Midvale Utah, was awarded the second prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1953. Her story "Strength for the Way" marks her first appearance as an award winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. Her husband, Reid W. Young, is a great-grandson of William Wesley Willis, a lieutenant in the Mormon Battalion, and this relationship, says Mrs. Young, has given her a_ particular interest in the battalion. "Being a bishop's wife, a mother, and a schoolteacher, leaves me little time for anything else," writes Mrs. Young, "'but whenever possible I write because I love to. I have written for all the Church magazines and for some other publications, and my poems have appeared in several anthologies. I love the Church, and especially the Relief Society, where I am class leader for social science and literature. I am the mother of four sons." Page 45 Recipes for Beverages Rhea H. Gardner What is enjoyed more than an ice-cold fruit drink on a hot afternoon, or a flavorful hot beverage on a cold winter night? Since lemon juice is part of most fruit drinks, let's start out with good old-fashioned, and most refreshing lemonade. LEMONADE DRINK 5 ¢. Water 1 Cc. Sugar tinds of 2 lemons cut in pieces 1 c. Lemon juice Mix sugar, 1 c. Water, and lemon shells. Stir until sugar is dissolved. Boil very gently about 7 minutes. Remove lemon shells and cool. Add lemon juice and 4 c. Of water. Limeade: Substitute lime for lemon juice. Add % c. Lemon juice. Orangeade: Substitute 2 c. Orange juice for lemon juice in lemonade recipe and add % c. Lemon juice. Grapeade: Make sirup of % c. Sugar and 2 c. Water. Let cool, then add: 1 C. Grape juice 1 C. Orange juice ¥% c. Lemon juice Just before serving, add some ginger ale if desired. PINEAPPLE Mint JULEP 6 sprigs fresh mint % c. Sugar % c. Lemon juice 3 ¢. Pineapple juice 3 ¢c. Ginger ale Wash mint leaves. Bruise with spoon. Cover with sugar. Add lemon juice and let stand 15 minutes. Add pineapple juice. Pour over ice in pitcher or tall glasses. Add ginger ale. Garnish with sprigs of mint. SpicED PINEAPPLE PUNCH Combine 1 c. Sugar, 1% c. Water, 2 sticks cinnamon, and 8 whole cloves in saucepan. Boil gently for 3 to 5 minutes. Strain and cool. Add: 4 c. Unsweetened pineapple juice % c. Lemon juice 1 Cc. Orange juice Pour over ice and serve. SpiceD RnuBARB COOLER 2 Ibs. Rhubarb, cut in small pieces 3c. Water 4 whole cloves 1 inch stick cinnamon 1 Cc. Sugar sirup (4% c. Sugar to % tsp. Mace to % c. Water) 2 tbsp. Lemon juice % c. Orange juice 1 pint ginger ale Put rhubarb, water, and spices in saucepan. Simmer until rhubarb is tender. Strain. Add cooled sugar sirup and fruit juices. Chill. Pour over the ice. Add ginger ale. Page 46 RECIPES FOR BEVERAGES; 47 Op Encuisu Hor Spicep CIpER % tsp. Whole allspice 1 qt. Cider 1 2-inch stick of cinnamon ¥s c. Brown sugar 6 whole cloves grated nutmeg Tie spices in cheesecloth bag. Heat cider and brown sugar together. Add spice bag and let simmer about 10 minutes. Remove bag. Serve with dash of nutmeg. SPICED GRAPEFRUIT JUICE 6 c. Canned grapefruit juice 6 tbsp. Sugar 4 tbsp. Honey 12 whole cloves 6 sticks cinnamon Simmer 3 minutes. Strain and serve hot or cold with a dash of nutmeg, CRANBERRY FRuITtT PuNcH 2 qts. Fresh cranberries 1 tbsp. Grated lemon peel 1 dozen whole cloves 2 c. Sugar 1 tbsp. Grated orange peel % c. Lemon juice 8 c. Apple juice or apple cider 2 trays ice 4 c. Water Cook together cranberries and water. When berries are tender, remove from heat and force berries through sieve. While juice is hot, add cloves, sugar, orange and lemon peel. Cool and add lemon juice, apple juice, and ice. This is delicious served with holiday fruit cake. Puncu — Pius 1 qt. Vanilla ice cream 1 qt. Ginger ale 1 qt. Pineapple juice 1 qt. Sherbet, pineapple, orange, or lime Mix with beater and serve. Milk and eggs, two of nature's most nearly perfect foods, combine into delicious, nutritious, and appetizing beverages. Many chocolate drinks may be made from homemade chocolate and cocoa sirups. These sirups are easy to make and keep well in the refrigerator. CHOCOLATE OR Cocoa Sirup 1 Cc. Cocoa or % tsp. Salt 4 Squares unsweetened chocolate 2 c. Cold water cut in pieces 3 tbsp. Vanilla 2 ¢. Sugar Mix all except vanilla. Cook over low heat until thickened and smooth, about five minutes. Cool slightly. Add vanilla. Pour in jar. Keep in refrigerator. Add 2 tbsp. Chocolate sirup for each cup of scalded milk to make a chocolate drink. Stir until sirup is dissolved. Eccnoc Beat whites of 2 eggs until stiff. Beat yolks, 1 tbsp. Sugar, % tsp. Vanilla, and 2c. Milk until well blended. Fold in egg whites. Pour into glasses. Sprinkle nutmeg on top. Chocolate Eggnog: To the above add 2 tbsp. Chocolate sirup. Omit sugar. Fruit Eggnog: To the above add 3 tbsp. Orange, strawberry, raspberry, cherry, or grape juice or 1 mashed banana just before adding egg whites. [LFROM THE FIELD [7 Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Lu Seba W. Petersen REXBURG STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE OUTSTANDING RECORD Front row, seated, left to right: Stake officers: Jessie Atkinson, Secretary; Myrtle Sellers, Second Counselor; Lu Seba W. Petersen, President; LaVerne Hacking, First Counselor; and Constance Brown, President, Rexburg Third Ward Relief Society. Back row, standing, left to right: Marie Barber, Counselor in Fifth Ward Relief Society; Claudia Hendricks, President, Lyman Ward Relief Society; Norma Larsen, President, Rexburg Seventh Ward Relief Society; Velma Drennen, President, Rexburg Fourth Ward Relief Society; Opal Clements, President, Archer Ward Relief Society; Xenia Nelson, President, Rexburg Second Ward Relief Society; Genevieve Klingler, President, Rexburg Sixth Ward Relief Society. President Petersen reports the outstanding achievements in visiting teaching of the wards in her stake: 'We are very proud of our visiting teaching in Rexburg Stake. The following wards have had 100 per cent for the years indicated: Archer Ward, eleven years; Rexburg Third Ward, six years; Rexburg Seventh Ward, six years; Lyman Ward, five years; Rexburg Fifth Ward, four years, ever since its organization. 'The Rexburg Sixth Ward was organized in June 1952, and has missed only one district for one month. The Rexburg Fourth Ward has had one hundred per cent for five years, except for one district each of two months. The Rexburg Second Ward has had one hundred per cent for nine years, except for one district each of two months." Page 48 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 49 seeiete 8 Photograph submitted by Hazel B. Tingey HIGHLAND STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Seated at the organ: Idell Larson; at sister Larson's left, chorister Ina G. Cannon. Standing, front row, fourth from the right: Vivian Coombs, First Counselor; fifth from the right: Hazel B. 'Tingey, President, Highland Stake Relief Society; sixth from the right: Gladys Bateman, Second Counselor. Sister Tingey reports that all of the wards were represented on this occasion by members of the ward presidencies. Nine of the ten ward Relief Society presidents attended, as follows: Parley's Ward, Marjorie Eldredge; Parley's Second Ward, Louise Elsey; Parley's 'Third Ward, Mildred Porter; Parley's Fourth Ward, Ethel Hutchins; Crystal Heights Ward, Ermone Sanders; Crystal Heights Second Ward, Echo Ellis; Highland Park Ward, Lenore Lewis; South Highland Park Ward, Maida Webb; Stratford Ward, Eva Bullen; East Stratford Ward, Theresa Wakefield. These Singing Mothers presented the music for all the general sessions of the quarterly conference, with one hundred twenty Singing Mothers participating. Photograph submitted by Alta S. Wiltshire PANGUITCH STAKE (UTAH), CIRCLEVILLE WARD, FORMER PRESIDENTS HOLD SOCIAL Front row, seated, left to right: Ellen Samuelsen; Mary Norton; Lorena Davis; Daphne Smith. Back row, standing, left to right: Evelyn Mortenson, present President; Indra Johnson; Alice Allen; Eva Dalton; Eventa Fullmer; Lois Haycock. 50 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 Photograph submitted by Edna S. Millar BOISE STAKE SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR BOTH SESSIONS OF STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE August 19, 1956 Gladys Broadbent, the chorister, stands at the left in the second row; Sheila Broadbent, the organist, stands twelfth from the left in the second row; Edna S. Millar, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, at the mght in the second row; Nola Muhlstein, Second Counselor, eighth from the left in the third row. Photograph submitted by Hortense B. Robinson FINNISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL CONFERENCE HELD IN HELSINKI, August 25 and 26, 1956 Front row, seated, left to right: Edith Ruuhinen, Pori Branch Relief Society; Anni Backholm, Vaasa Branch; Lea Minni, First Counselor, Finnish Mission Relief Society; Hortense B. Robinson, President, Finnish Mission Relief Socicty; Elsa Arojaa, Oulu Branch Relief Society; Hulda Fellman, Jakobstad Branch Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 51 Back row, standing, left to right: Esteri Milumaki, Jyvaskyla Branch Relief Society; Toini Kerttula, Lahti Branch Relief Society; Lilja Jarvenkari, Kokkola Branch Relief Society; Lydia Miete, Hameenlinna Branch Relief Society; Lempi Ojala, Lappeenranta Relief Society; Alli Immonen, Kuopio Relief Society; Senja Aalto, Lahti Relief Society; Helka Karumo, Pori Branch; Aune Halonen, Kuopio Branch; Toini Halonen, 'Turku Branch; Hilja Flinckman, Kotka Branch; Aune Uskali, Tampere Branch; Bertta Heinonen, Kotka Branch; Jenny Stromberg, Larsmo Branch; Maila Valkama, Helsinki. President Hortense B. Robinson reports: "The annual Relief Society Conference of the Finnish Mission was held in Helsinki, August 25 and 26, 1956. Relief Society presidents from fifteen of the sixteen branches were in attendance. In some branches, where presidents had just been released, both the released and the new presidents attended. All lady missionaries also attended the conference. 'The Saturday evening program included a luncheon for all presidents, a play introducing all general Relief Society presidents, and a national folk dance performed by Relief Society sisters. Sunday meetings included a testimony meeting and a leadership meeting, as well as two general sessions. Of special interest was the fireside on Sunday evening. Minister Yrjo Kallinen, a noted speaker, related his visit to his Mormon relatives in Arizona and hearing 'Come, Come Ye Saints,' sung by his 'cowboy cousins in the twilight setting of the Arizona desert.' All meetings were well attended. Over two hundred attended the Sunday evening sessions. The sisters were thrilled with the conference, and it aroused much interest and enthusiasm. Last year there were 221 Relief Society members in the Finnish Mission." Photograph submitted by Matilda B. Gilbert FRANKLIN STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION AND OPENING SOCIAL Front row, left to right: Mary A. Moser, Annie N. Mermill, Delettie Burbank, each with fifty years of service as visiting teachers; Alice Greaves, sixty years; Mildred Anderson, with a twelve-year perfect record; Nellie G. Smith, fifty years. Matilda B. Gilbert, President, Franklin Stake Relief Society, reports this happy occasion: "All visiting teachers were honored at a recent visiting teachers convention and opening social. A lovely program under the direction of Nettie Nielsen, stake visiting teacher message leader, was presented. Each sister with twenty-five years or more of service was presented with a corsage. 'Those with fifty or more years of service were especially honored." 52 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 Photograph submitted by Mary W. Kotter NEBO STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Roene Di Fiore, director of the chorus, tells of the faithful efforts of these sisters: "There were one hundred six singers in all, and they gave of their time so freely and joyfully that not one telephone call, or other means of communication, was employed to keep them coming out to rehearsals regularly. Counselor Lila Carlisle was the accompanist."' Mary W. Kotter, President, Nebo Stake Relief Socicty, reports that these Singing Mothers prepared a Christmas cantata. Photograph submitted by Fern Brockbank PALMYRA STAKE (UTAH), SPANISH FORK THIRD WARD BAZAAR Standing, left to right: Marion Hales, First Counselor; Erma Cope, Second Coun: selor; Iva Maland, Secretary-Treasurer; Grace Pinegar, President. Fern Brockbank, President, Palmyra Stake Relief Society, reports: "This bazaar was a very fine affair, with a variety of quilts and handwork on display. Homemade candy and cooked foods were also sold." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 53 Photograph submitted by Florence S. Jacobsen EASTERN STATES MISSION, PALMYRA, NEW YORK, BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY MEETS IN THE HOME OF LUCY MACK SMITH Seated in front, left to right: Dora Ferguson; Grace Bump; Alice Mecham; Mona Plane; Mary DeNosky and grandchild; Ruby Wanscott. Back row, standing, left to right: Leona C. Olsen; Elsa Walker; LaVern Darley, who presented the social science lesson; Mary Atkin. Florence S. Jacobsen, President, Eastern States Mission Relief Society, reports: "T had a thrill this week end while attending district conference in Palmyra, to learn that the wonderful Relief Society sisters residing there had held their first social science lesson of the year in the living room of the home of Lucy Mack Smith (mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith). They said there was a wonderful, sweet spirit present as Sister LaVern Darley presented the lesson from the history written by Lucy Mack Smith. They felt the environment for this lesson unique enough to warrant taking a picture of the occasion. I thought perhaps you would be interested to know that after the passage of 126 years since the house was occupied by the Smith family, that the home has been used as a meeting place to study the life and ideals of this great family as recorded by Mother Smith. A picture of Lucy Mack Smith may be seen hanging on the wall in the background. The table in the foreground was made by Brigham Young. This is just a note of interest concerning the little Relief Society of Palmyra where the Smiths lived and so much of Church history has taken place." Gifts Catherine E.. Berry The good we do at Christmastime Can live throughout the year, If we will give our hearts, our love, Wrapped up with Christmas cheer. Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 47—A Review of Outstanding Characters of The Book of Mormon Elder Leland H. Monson For Tuesday, April 2, 1957 Objective: To show through a study of the lives of the characters of The Book of Mormon that true greatness is found in a love of God and service to one's fellow men. A man standing on the shoulders of a giant, ought to be able to see farther. We have had that privilege as we have walked, talked, prayed, and thought with those giant characters in spirituality who led their people in The Book of Mormon history. In retrospect, we may see Jared, his brother Mahonri Moriancumer, and Ether from the Jaredite civilization; and at least Lehi, Nephi, Jacob, Benjamin, Mosiah, Alma, Nephi, Mormon, and Moroni from the Nephite civilization. A quick review of the contributions of these men to their peoples will give us a sort of kaleidoscopic scene of the changing nature of life among The Book of Mormon peoples. Book of Ether Jared and his brother, Moriancumer, came from that stretch of territory between the Tigris and EuPage 54 phrates rivers, a part of the land which is known as "The Fertile Crescent," within which territory is the ancient city of Babylon. Under divine guidance, the Jaredites left this land of Shinar at the time the Lord confounded the tongues of the people building the Tower of Babel. Moriancumer, at the solicitation of Jared, prayed that the Lord would have compassion upon them, their families, and their friends. This prayer was answered, and a colony of people known as the Jaredites came to the Western Continent. They crossed the ocean in eight boats, built after the manner of "barges" which they had previously built. (See Ether 2:16, 17.) These boats were lighted by sixteen stones, ",. White and clear, even as transparent glass..." (Ether 3:1) which were made luminous by the finger of the Lord. At the time the Lord LESSON DEPARTMENT touched these stones and gave them luminosity, "... The veil was taken from off the eyes of the brother of Jared, and he saw the finger of the Lord; and it was as the finger of a man, like unto flesh and blood.... And... Behold, the Lord showed himself unto him, and said.... Behold, I am he who was prepared from the foundation of the world to redeem my people. Behold, I am Jesus Christ.... In me shall all mankind have light, and that eternally.... And never have I showed myself unto man whom I have created, for never has man believed in me as thou hast. Seest thou that ye are created after mine own image? Yea, even all men were created in the beginning after mine own image" (Ether 3:6 ff.). The civilization built by these men flourished in North America from about the time of the 'Tower of Babel to about 600 B. C. When it suffered extinction because of unrighteousness. The abridged record of the Jaredites in The Book of Mormon is called the Book of Ether after Ether the last prophet of the Jaredites. Moroni made the abridgment from the twenty-four gold plates which had been found by the peo-. Ple of Limhi in the days of King Mosiah. Ether prophesied the destruction of the Jaredite civilization, for he knew that the people were living unrighteously and that America was a choice land only to those who worshipped the' God of the land, who is Jesus Christ. Coming of Lehi to the Promised Land The civilization of the Nephites and Lamanites, which followed the 3) Jaredite nation, was founded by Lehi, who left Jerusalem about 600 B. C. And came to the promised land with his family, Sariah his wife, Laman, Lemuel, Sam, Nephi, Jacob, Joseph, and some daughters; and Ishmael and his sons and daughters; and Zoram. Lehi was the great patriarch of his day. He blessed his sons and daughters and encouraged them to live nghteously. Nephi Nephi, after the death of his father, took charge of the righteous branch of the people and built a great civilization, while his older brothers, disobedient, shiftless, and lazy, lived in tents and dwindled in unbelief. 'Those who followed Nephi were called Nephites; those who followed Laman and Lemuel were called Lamanites. 'The remainder of The Book of Mormon history concerns these two groups of people, for the Mulckites, a third group to come to America about 590 B. C., merged their civilization with that of the Nephites. Nephi, faithful, intelligent, forgiving, industrious, and resourceful founded a city in the land of Nephi. He gave to his culture a spiritual foundation at the same time that he taught the people to be industrious and to care for their material welfare. He knew that the real purpose of wealth was to provide for the improvement of his people. Jacob Jacob, brother of Nephi, followed Nephi as a teacher of the people and a keeper of the records. He sought to persuade the people "... To come unto Christ..." (Jacob ie)! 36 Wherefore, we would to God that we could persuade all men not to rebel against God, to provoke him to anger, but that all men would believe in Christ, and view his death, and suffer his cross and bear the shame of the world; wherefore, I, Jacob, take it upon me to fulfil the commandment of my brother Nephi (Jacob 1:8). Jacob was a great preacher of righteousness all his days. He denounced unchastity, encouraged his people to seek first the kingdom of God, promised them that if they did so they would obtain riches, material wealth, which he encouraged them to use for righteous purposes— "... To clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the afflicted" (Jacob 2:19). He condemned pride and noted that riches are not necessarily a sign of excellence. Jacob was also a doctrinal preacher, and explained fundamental principles of the gospel. From Jacob the plates were handed on to Enos, Jarom, Omni, Amaron, Chemish, Abinadom, Amaleki, and Mosiah to Benjamin, the next prophet leader we shall discuss. Benjamin King Benjamin, about 130 B. C., was a ruler who assiduously worked for the welfare of his people. Near the close of his life, he built a large tower from which he instructed the people concerning doctrines of the gospel and concerning their selfimprovement, and announced that his son Mosiah would succeed him. He will be long remembered for his comment that "... When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God" (Mosiah 2:17). We also remember him for his instructions concernRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 ing the atonement of Christ. He also taught the people that man is not naturally good, but that:... The natural man is an enemy to God, and has been from the fall of Adam, and will be... Unless he yields to the enticings of the Holy Spirit, and putteth off the natural man and becometh a saint through the atonement of Christ the Lord, and becometh as a child, submissive, meek, humble, patient, full of love, willing to submit to all things which the Lord seeth fit to inflict upon him, even as a child doth submit to his father (Mosiah 3:19). He also stressed the fact that Jesus Christ would come in the future and visit the people. 'The people made a covenant with God to keep his commandments and took upon them the name of Christ. King Mosiah King Mosiah, son of Benjamin, founded democracy among the Nephites when his four sons refused to be king, making, so far as we know, the Nephite civilization the cradle of democracy in America. He gave laws to the people and instructed them concerning the manner of electing their judges, concerning their money, and concerning their duties to one another. He began to reign when he was thirty (Mosiah 7:4), in about 124 B. C. In setting up the reign of the Judges over the Nephite people, Mosiah advised them: Now it is not common that the voice of the people desircth anything contrary to that which is right; but it is common for the lesser part of the people to desire that which is not right; therefore this shall ye observe and make it your law— to do your business by the voice of the people. And if the time comes that the voice of the people doth choose iniquity, then LESSON DEPARTMENT is the time that the judgments of God will come upon you; yea, then is the time he will visit you with great destruction even as he has hitherto visited this land. And now I desire that this mequality should be no more in this land, especially among this my people; but I desire that this land be a land of liberty, and every man may enjoy his rights and _ privileges alike, so long as the Lord sees fit that we may live and inherit the land, yea, even as long as any of our posterity remains upon the face of the land (Mosiah 29:26-27, 32). It was during Mosiah's reign that his four sons went to preach to the Lamanites. Alma the Younger After the death of King Mosiah, Alma, the younger, was appointed to be the first chief judge of the Nephites. At the same time he was the high pnest having had the office conferred upon him by his father Alma, and thus he was in charge of the religious welfare of the people. (See Mosiah 29:42.) Alma, who in his youth had been wicked and, with the sons of Mosiah, had sought to destroy the Church, developed into one of the greatest characters in Book of Mormon history. He was, after his conversion, a great preacher of mghteousness and a doctrinal teacher and one of the greatest missionaries in Book of Mormon history. He built up churches in and around Zarahemla, teaching the people of Jesus Christ and that he would be born of Mary, the Son of God in the flesh. (See Alma 7:10.) He encouraged the people to have faith, and hope, and charity—the three cardinal virtues of Christianity. With Amulek he performed a great missionary work. Later, with two 57 of his sons, he performed an illustrious missionary service among the Zoramites. Grieving over the wickedness of his people, he called his three sons and gave "... Unto them every one his charge, separately, concerning the things pertaining unto righteousness..." (Alma 35:16). Fis instructions contain great doctrinal dissertations. His commandments to his sons concern taking care of sacred things, to look to God and live, to declare the word among the people, the sin of adultery, on the resurrection, and the state of the soul between death and the resurrection, a literal restoration, on justice and mercy, mortality a period of probation, spiritual and temporal death, and the necessity of repentance, the atonement, and law, and punishment. (See Alma chapters 36-42.) He urged his son Corianton:.. Let the justice of God, and _his mercy, and his long-suffering have full sway in your heart; and let it bring you down to the dust in humility (Alma 42:30). Nephi the Disciple Nephi, son of Nephi, son of Helaman, son of Helaman, son of Alma, had the privilege of seeing the prophecies of Samuel the Lamanite concerning the signs of the Savior's birth and death literally fulfilled. Subsequently, he was called from the multitude by Jesus and given power to baptize the people after the departure of Jesus (3 Nephi 11:21). He was in the group that heard the Father introduce his Son, Jesus, to the Nephites, and knew of a surety concerning the divinity of Christ. He became a member of a 58 group of twelve called by the Savior to supervise the work of the Church in the meridian dispensation among the Nephites. Mormon Mormon, the next great character whom we shall consider, gave his name to The Book of Mormon. He took the plates from the Hill Shim as he had been instructed to do by Ammaron, who had placed them there about 320 Aw. Mormon, as we studied in a previous lesson was a great spiritual leader and a commander in chief of Nephite forces, who witnessed the almost complete destruction of the Nephites. He was also a great scholar, an _historian, who made the set of records on which he wrote the abridgment of the large plates of Nephi and to which he attached the small plates of Nephi. Moroni Moroni, the son of Mormon, finished his father's book in the record, abridged the twenty-four gold plates giving the history of the Jaredite civilization, and wrote a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 book of his own on his father's plates, called the Book of Moroni. Moroni lived to see the complete destruction of the Nephites because of wickedness, and remained a lone survivor of a once righteous, powerful, and blessed people. Living with these men who mark milestones of progress in the history of the two great civilizations that flourished in America from about the time of the Tower of Babel to about 421 A. D., we have come to understand what true greatness is, that it is to be found in the love of God and service to one's fellow men. Questions on the Lesson 1. Explain how a study of a great man gives us an understanding of the history of a period. What were the chief characteristics of Nephi? 3. Show how powerful the doctrine of repentance is by an explanation of the early life and repentance of Alma. 4. What kind of testimony concerning Jesus Christ did Alma and Nephi have? 5. What was Mormon's great contribution to The Book of Mormon, besides his own historical account? 6. What was Moroni's great contribution? 5 > Mountain Snowstorm Eva Willes Wangsgaard "These flakes resembling velvet stars," she said, "Are clever camouflage to hide our jail." I sat in silence, for my thoughts had fled, Riding a snowflake down a time-hid trail, Where children, pulled by cords of school or home Climbed drifts as high as hillocks. T'winkly bright Were eyes that loved the bout with brittle foam Which topped the waves of frozen crested white. Now hills were growing whiter steadily Where sumac lately brewed a rich maroon, But being snowbound waked no dread in me. The years ran back to meet my life's high-noon. The storm would hold us prisoners on the hill, But joy is always free to roam at will. Visiting CSeacher ITlessages— g g Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 47—""And What Is It That Ye Shall Hope For? Behold | Say Unto You That Ye Shall Have Hope Through the Atonement of Christ and the Power of His Resurrection, to Be Raised Unto Life Eternal, and This Because of Your Faith in Him According to the Promise" (Moroni 7:41). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, April 2, 1957 Objective: To show that faith in Jesus Christ is the key to eternal life. LL of our lives we should be working toward one goal—that of achieving eternal life. 'The hope we have of achieving that goal helps us to meet the problems and adversities that beset us in mortality. That hope gives comfort in our sorrows and courage to continue onward without ever losing sight of the destination. As has been said, "faith is the moving cause of all action" (Lectures on Faith, page 8), and faith in Christ is the power by which we may reach this goal of eternal life. Mormon says, "For no man can be saved, according to the words of Christ, save they shall have faith in his name..." (Moroni 7:38). Faith is a mighty force, and its possibilities are unlimited. Faith requires a positive attitude of mind. Doubt and fear flee from its presence. When we comply with the necessary requirements, we can gain perfect faith in the atonement of Christ and in his resurrection. Many passages of scripture point out the great power of faith. "... If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed... Nothing shall be impossible unto you." (Mt. 17:20). "... According to your faith be it unto you" (Mt. 9:29). "... Daughter, thy faith hath made thee whole..." (Mark 5:34), said Christ to the woman who touched the hem of his garment. "I can do all things through Chnst which strengthen me" (Phillipians 4:13). "And Christ hath said: If ye will have faith in me ye shall have power to do whatsoever thing is expedient in me" (Moroni 7:33). It is by faith that one accepts the words of Christ. It is through faith in Christ "... That the Holy Ghost may have place..." (Moroni 7:32) in our hearts. 'Thus, if faith in Jesus Christ is the principle that can bring us eternal life, let us read and study and work to attain it.... From a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness: That the man of God may be perfect.. Works (II Timothy 3:15-16).. Unto all good Page 59 Work lecting— Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 7—Beverages Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, April 9, 1957 GINCE some kind of beverage is a part of every meal, it is important that it be chosen with the same care as all other parts of the menu. For many, good cold water or milk is sufficient as a meal beverage. Since milk is high in food value, it is more than a thirst quencher. Milk drinks are a nourishing food for people of all ages; in fact, milk is about the first and last food and beverage man enjoys. There is a wide variety of milk drinks. Eggnogs are especially good. They are more appealing to the eye and to the taste when the egg whites and yolks are beaten separately. Chocolate and cocoa are both made from the cocoa bean. 'Their difference is in the fat content. Chocolate is about fifty per cent fat, while cocoa contains only about twenty-two per cent fat. Consequently, chocolate is much richer. Cocoa is considered better adapted for children or people with digestions that are easily upset. When cocoa or chocolate is used frequently for beverages, it is convenient and time-saving to make a quantity of cocoa paste or sirup which can be mixed quickly with the milk as needed. Lemonade and _ orangeade are favorites in the increasingly long list of fruit beverages we may choose Page 60 from today. Use only enough sugar to accent the natural fruit flavor. Sugar can be added directly to the juice and water or it may be made into a sirup, cooled, then added. The latter method is recommended. The precooked sirup seems to improve the drinking quality of the beverage to which it is added; it also saves time and saves sugar, since it is not uncommon to find undissolved sugar in the bottom of pitchers when sugar is added directly to the drink. Most fruit punch requires the use of some citrus juices, especially lemon juice. The practice of taking lemons out of the refrigerator, cutting them in half, squeezing them, and throwing the rest away is wasteful. If you will let the lemons stand in warm water before squeezing them, you will be able to extract much more juice. Then, if you will boil the rind with the sugar sirup, the rind of two lemons for each cup of sugar, you will have a drink that is much richer in flavor. Fruit punch need not be expensive, if you plan ahead for it. Rhubarb juice makes a delicious base for a fruit drink. Prepare it in much the same way as you do tomatoes for juicing. Pour the hot, strained, slightly sweetened juice into fruit jars and process in a hot water bath. (See instruction books for processing time in your area. ) LESSON DEPARTMENT In areas where apricots are in abundance, one is often able to get small ones for a nominal cost. Apricot puree makes a delicious base for fruit drinks. Juice from currants, pie cherries, certain kinds of wild berries, grapes, some plums, and cranberry juice are also delicious. Watch the market for specials on canned fruit juices so you will always have a variety on hand. For very clear ice cubes for your fruit drinks, use boiled water. Here are a few suggestions for fancy ice cubes: (1) Add a little green coloring to the water before freezing it into cubes for an especially cool looking effect. Avoid overuse of the coloring. (2) Freeze curls of lemon or orange peel, maraschino cherries with stems intact, or sprigs Note: "Recipes for Beverages," the Magazine. 61 of mint in the ice cubes. (3) Freeze leftover drinks in the ice cube trays to serve in fruit beverages. The appearance of a fruit drink on a hot day cannot be overestimated. Cool drinks will look especially refreshing if you frost the rims of the glasses. Put some lemon juice into a saucer about one-fourth inch deep. Sift some powdered sugar into a plate about one-fourth inch deep. Stand each glass, inverted, in the lemon juice about a minute. Lift it out of the juice then let it stand, inverted, in the powdered sugar for a minute. Now lift carefully out of the sugar so as not to jar the sugar coating which has formed on the rim. Stand night side up in the refrigerator until set. Then carefully fill with your drink. By Rhea H. Gardner, page 46, in this issue of Literature—Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 7—"A Midsummer Night's Dream" Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948) For Tuesday, April 16, 1957 Objective: To show that in A Midsummer Night's Dream, Shakespeare touches our lives through fantasy and poetry—through qualities we all approve, such as love, delight, joy, and humor. The poet's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling, Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven, And as imagination bodies forth The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen Turns them to shapes, and gives to airy nothing A local habitation and a name. Ig ever a literature lesson deserves to be presented in the warm, bright silence of an April midnight A Midsummer Night's Dream, V. 1. 12-17 moon, it is this one. For literalminded persons this play may seem a filmy triviality without substance, 62 direction, or indeed without any justification for existing. 'The practical persons who prize as real only that which can be pinched or priced or preserved, will find this play to be "airy nothingness" incarnate. But for the rest of us, this plunge into the unplumbed vistas of the imaginative world yields an ecstasy and a delight rivaled in Shakespeare only by passages from Romeo and Juliet and The Tempest. The more thoroughly we saturate ourselves in this play-poem on love, the more we realize that only young Shakespeare could have produced it. Actually, it was written during 1594 or 1595 in the poet's thirtieth year. Obviously written to commemorate some wedding or marriage-feast, it is filled with its own theme of the goodness and gaiety of mortal love. Surely one of Shakespeare's appeals is that he knows love to be without limitation or station: everyone from the highest to the lowest loves, yet each in his own way. Therefore, he depicts love in many forms, including the stately, dignified relationship between Duke Theseus and Queen Hippolyta; the foolish jealousies, quick-tempered exchanges, and ethereal ecstasies of the fairies Oberon and Titania, a love so touchy and unreasoning as to be entirely mortal; the impulsive, confusing young loves of Lysander and Hermia, Demetrius and Helena; the uncultivated, serious Bottom who, in his constant yet unspectacular sanity, refuses to be swept off his feet by the most skilled lovetechniques of Queen Titania's magic words. 'Thus love in its various aspects and extremes provides the sole subject of the play. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 Plot Theseus, Duke of Athens, and Hippolyta, Queen of the Amazons, are soon to be married. On their wedding day the fate of young, headstrong Hermia is to be decided. She loves Lysander, but her father wants her to marry another suitor of his choice named Demetnius. It is decreed that if she refuses Demetrius, she must either die or forswear all contact with men and become a nun. Hermia and Lysander, deciding to flee Athens, agree to meet in a wood just outside the town. They are waylaid by Demetrius who hopes to prevent his beloved Hermia's escape, and Helena, who loves him. In the same wood we are introduced to the fairies. Queen Titania and King Oberon have quarreled over a beautiful, dark-skinned boy who has been stolen by the fairies from an East Indian King. (This was a common practice among fairies who would leave a less attractive child in place of the one stolen.) Jealous Oberon wants the child as his attendant, but Titania will not yield him, since she claims him as her own. Resolving to torment her for this injury, Oberon sends Puck halfway around the world to pluck a little western flower which Cupid once shot with his fiery shaft. The juice from this flower, laid on sleeping eyelids, will make the person dote upon the next living creature he sees. Oberon intends to watch Titania when she is asleep and drop the potion in her eyes so: The next thing then she waking looks upon, Be it on lion, bear, or wolf, or bull, On meddling monkey, or on busy ape, She shall pursue it with the soul of love. Il.1. 179-182 LESSON DEPARTMENT Oberon also intends to help Helena in her love pursuit of Demetrius, but Puck, by mistake, puts the potion into Lysander's eyes rather than in Demetrius' with resulting confusion and mix-up among the four young lovers, 'Uhe third plot within the play also reaches its climax in these same woods. Rustic bully Bottom and his fellow construction workers come to the woods to practice a play with which to entertain the royal wedding party for 'Theseus and the Amazon Queen Hippolyta. Puck places an ass's head on Bottom, which frightens off his superstitious comrades. Still influenced by the love potion, Titania awakens to see Bottom, and is immediately enamored of him. Thus, at the beginning of Act IV, Scene 1, Titania is making love to Bottom. While she suffers from her romantic over-obsession, his is a true common-sense response. She offers him new _ nuts; but he asks only for good dry oats and a bundle of hay. 'Titania wants to caress his cheeks and place flowers in his hair; instead, practical Bottom asks for a fairy to scratch his head. 'Titania offers him fairy music, and he asks for tongs (an instrument resembling a triangle for making rustic music) and bones (to be held between the fingers and used as clappers). Finally the two fall asleep and Oberon enters, ready to forgive and "undo this hateful imperfection of her ['Titania's] eyes." Meanwhile, the four sleeping lovers awaken soon after Puck anointed them once more with his magic potion. Now Demetrius recognizes Helena as his true love, and Lysander and Hermia are re-united. 63 Bottom awakes to wonder what has become of his comrades. He is sorely perplexed by his startling dream, one which "the eye of man hath not heard, the ear of man hath not seen, man's hand is not able to taste, his tongue to conceive, nor his heart to report, what my dream was. I will get Peter Quince to write a ballad of this dream. It shall be called Bottom's Dream, because it hath no bottom." IV, 1. 216. In Act V all join in the nuptial celebration of 'Theseus, Hippolyta, and the four lovers. Bottom and his friends perform their play as part of the entertainment and the fairies pronounce blessings and good fortune on all of the newly wedded couples. And in the words of Puck: Jack shall have Jill, Nought shall go ill, The man shall have his mare again, and all shall be well. IIl.2. 461-463 Delight and Satire As long as people have been human they have liked to be fooled by that which fools them most completely. This is beautifully accomplished in A Midsummer Night's Dream. After reading the play one feels that Shakespeare created it to embody the sheer joy which radiates to all sympathetic souls who choose to remain within the charmed circle of love and marriage. Without this play to give these emotions a body and make them more nearly tangible, such emotions could only have hovered about like some ethereal ghosts. As it is, the play relays their charms to all who care to attend. And as the play progresses, we feel from Shakespeare's merry words, 64 puns, scenic fantasies, and rich, poetic passages, his own winkings of delight at having given his audience such provocation for reliving once more the joys and beauty of mortality's greatest universal experience: true, pure love. Even though, in one sense, this play is a sweet hymn to beautiful love, Shakespeare is nonetheless wise enough to remember that "The course of true love never did run smooth" (1,1) and, as Puck sees the senseless antics of people in love, he speaks perhaps his most famous line, "what fools these mortals be!"' (III,2). Shakespeare also knew well the pompous dangers which come to those who take themselves too seriously. After detailing perfect, lyrical love in Romeo and _ Juliet, Shakespeare satirizes it quite pointedly in this play, particularly in the delightfully grotesque play presented in deep seriousness and dedication by Bottom and his rough friends. Shakespeare also satirizes the rustic drama itself. In his own day groups of artisans were forming dramatic clubs, and instead of following the religious form of the true rustic drama, these amateurs began to perform romantic plays, while still using the rigid techniques of the old dramas. In A Midsummer Night's Dream, Shakespeare laughs at the carpenters, tinkers, and _bellows-menders who have turned actors and who, in presenting their play The Most Lamentable Comedy, and Most Cruel Death of Pyramus and Thisby, make even the scenery and stage setting into actors' parts as actors become Wall and Moonshine. (If time permits read aloud Act III, Sc.1. 59-72.) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 The fairies, particularly Puck, play an important part in the plot. It could be real fun to characterize Puck to your group. Shakespeare casts him in the role of fool or clown to Oberon, King of the Fairies, but he is really Robin-Goodfellow, a household spirit of ancient folklore. It is he who frightens maidens of the village, who skims the milk off its cream so that the butter won't churn, takes the yeast out of the beer, misleads the nightwanderers; assumes the likeness of a crab apple in the drink that matrons enjoy while gossiping about the bubbling kettle, and bobs sharply against their lips so the shock causes them to spill their ale down their own necks; assumes the likeness of a stool so that when an old woman goes to sit on him, he disappears and she topples down. (Act II. Sc. 1.) The standard stock in trade of our present-day tin-pan alley which produces its constant stream of popular songs is to be found in the wellworn rhyming words "moon, June, tune, croon, swoon, spoon." Shakespeare's materials are the same, yet he avoids the ruts which make our average romantic love songs so trivial. The setting of the play stresses the role of the moon, sometimes full and warm, sometimes lofty and cold (when the lovers are quarreling beneath it). We do not wonder at Shakespeare's creating a phantasy, but that such a phantasy could ever attain any sense of reality at all. We are forced to agree with Addison, that if there could be places and people like these, certainly they would have to be and LESSON DEPARTMENT act exactly as they do. Or as Dryden says: But Shakespeare's magic could not copied be; Within that circle none durst walk but he. The Tempest, Prologue A small part of Shakespeare's delight appears in Bottom's and Peter Quince's misuse of words which sound similar, but which have vastly different meanings: "Thou art translated," for "Thou are transformed"; "I will condole in some measure," for "I will lament"; "You were best to call them generally," for "You were best to call them severally"; and "Ninny's Tomb" for "Ninus' Tomb," etc. Shakespeare appeals to us again by exploiting our normal delight to be found in that which is small and miniature, and, also, in the nearness of nature. 'These are best given us by Titania and her fairies: Come, now a roundel and a fairy song, Then, for the third part of a minute, hence— Some to kill cankers in the musk-rose buds, Some war with rere-mice [bats] for their leathern wings, To make my small elves coats, and some keep back The clamorous owl that nightly hoots and wonders At our quaint spirits [sports]. Now asleep, Then to your offices, and let me rest. Sing we Song You spotted snakes with double tongue, Thorny hedgehogs, be not seen. Newts and blindworms, do no wrong, Come not near our fairy Queen. Philomel, with melody Sing in our sweet lullaby; Lulla, lula, lullaby, Julla, lulla, lullaby. Never harm, nor spell, nor charm, Come our lovely lady nigh; So, good night, with lullaby. II.2. 1-19 65 To the fairies, nature is an intimate part of them, and the rough elements in the first of their song accent the beauty and softness of the chorus lullaby. Best in A Midsummer Night's Dream is the sheer poetry which releases Shakespeare's serene joy and sense of beauty. Such a passage as the following is filled with the singing beauty of true poetry. King Oberon: My gentle Puck, come hither. Thou rememberest Since once I sat upon a promontory And heard a mermaid, on a dolphin's back, Uttering such dulcet and harmonious breath That the rude sea grew civil at her song, And certain stars shot madly from their spheres To hear the seamaid's music. Il.1. 148-154 To be at their best such passages must be read aloud; only then does their beauty penetrate to be heard by the inner ear and eye. The intent in discussing this, as in succeeding plays, will be not to present all the details of the plot, but to develop intensively one or two central scenes. However, individual passages throughout the play that are particularly beautiful and lyrical could well be read. For example: I know a bank whereon the wild thyme blows, Where oxlips and the nodding violet grows; Quite overcanopied with luscious woodbine, With sweet musk rose, and with eglantine. There sleeps Titania sometime of the night, Lulled in these flowers with dances and delight. 66 And there the snake throws her enameled skin, Weed wide enough to wrap a fairy in. Act II, 1. 249-256 Re-read this passage to class members until they get the picture of Titania, Queen of the fairies, lying on the bank of a stream. There the snake sloughs off her enamellike skin which is wide enough to serve as a garment to wrap Titania in, as she lies there surrounded with primroses and sweetbriar, canopied over with honeysuckle, lulled to sleep by her fairies' delightful music and dances. You might briefly lay the setting for Act IV, Scene I, and then read this scene slowly and carefully to your group. This scene has been chosen because all of the major characters appear, and because all the three plots are unraveled in it. Notice that Shakespeare has his different characters speak in three different styles, all of which appear in this scene. Bottom, as one of the rustics, speaks in prose, which would be natural for a tradesman. The fairies speak in lyrical rhyme, and the dignity of Theseus is evident in his lines spoken in blank verse. Scene 1, Act. IV, is surcharged with great poetry, in addition to resolving the three plots within the play. While not a functioning part of the story, such passages as the following speeches by Hippolyta and Theseus are rarely surpassed in Shakespeare's later works for their rich imagery and the music of their singing: Hip. I was with Hercules and Cadmus once When in a wood of Crete they bayed the bear RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 With hounds of Sparta. Never did I hear Such gallant chiding; for, besides the groves, The skies, the fountains, every region near Seemed all one mutual cry. Heard So musical a discord, such sweet thunder. I never Thes. My hounds are bred out of the Spartan kind, So flewed, so sanded; and their heads are hung With ears that sweep away the morning dew; Crook-kneed, and dewlapped like Thessalian bulls; Slow in pursuit, but matched in mouth like bells, Fach under each. A cry more tunable Was never holloed to, nor cheered with horn, In Crete, in Sparta, nor in Thessaly. Judge when you hear. IV. 1. 116-131 The strength of A Midsummer Night's Dream, therefore, is in humor, whimsy, satire, wordplay, but, most of all, in delight, cheerfulness, joy, and an expansive outpouring of such lines rich in cadenced imagery, lines which, thus far, only Shakespeare could have written. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Which universal qualities of human love appear in the play? 2. Of which qualities or characters does Shakespeare appear to approve? Of which does he seem to disapprove? 3. Why does 'Titania's attachment for Bottom seem humorous? Has it any basis in actual life as you have seen or known it? 4. Discuss Shakespeare's use of fantasy and poetry as tools in this play to achieve his desired effect. Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 6— "Search Your Hearts" Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday. April 2 Objective: To illustrate the process of perfection 23.1957 and the necessity of eliminating those traits of character which retard our quest for perfection. E ve therefore perfect, even as vour Father which is in heaven is perfect" (Mt. 5:48). This admonition of Jesus, from the Sermon on the Mount, was embraced by the Prophet Joseph Smith as an attainable goal for all. Although the Prophet's teachings to the women covered a wide range of subjects, the common thread throughout was that perfection might be a reality. This and the following lesson are directed to each member of the Relief Society who seeks perfection. While a listing of the qualities of perfection would, no doubt, be helpful in setting one's sights, the more important factor in progression is the process by which we improve. It is hoped that by a discussion of some traits considered by the Prophet to be either desirable or undesirable, we may stimulate and promote personal improvement by the process of selfappraisal and prudent decisions. A careful review of the Prophet's teachings, followed by their appropriate application to life, will greatly assist all who seek the attributes of godliness. Within each of us lie potentialities for great accomplishment. Those traits of character which determine whether we do good or evil, succeed or fail, become perfect or mediocre, remain inactive until stimulated by circumstances or conditions. Most of them develop quite unnoticed, and without conscious effort, within the environment supplied by parents, friends, and life situations. A helpful principle then, if we are to attain perfection for ourselves and loved ones, is to strive for and to provide wholesome, uplifting experiences. Through personal effort we can approach perfection, if we cultivate the desirable and weed out the harmful traits of character. This is the challenge of the gospel. On April 28, 1842, little more than two vears before his death, the Prophet told the Relief Society he was taking the opportunity:. To instruct the ladies of this Society, and point out the way for them to conduct themselves, that they might act according to the will of God; that he did not know that he''should have many opportunities of teaching them, as they were going to be left to themselves; they would not long have him to instruct them; that the Church would not have his instructions long; and the world would not be troubled with him a great while (D. H. C. IV', page 604). These comments suggest the importance and urgency the Prophet himself attached to his teachings. Individual Responsibility Perfection, the Prophet stressed, is an individual matter. He suggested that while the efforts of others might stimulate us to good works, Page 6? 68 they would not save us, and although we would be blessed for our service to others, this, alone, was not enough. "The people should each one stand for himself, and depend on no man or men..." he said, since "righteous persons could only deliver their own souls" (Ibid., V, page 19). 'The responsibility for salvation and perfection he placed squarely upon each individual. The Prophet Joseph had said at an earlier meeting: After this instruction, you will be responsible for your own sins; it is a desirable honor that you should so walk before our heavenly Father as to save yourselves; we are all responsible to God for the manner we improve the light and wisdom given by our Lord to enable us to save ourselves (Ibid., IV, page 606). As was the case in the Council in Heaven, there were some early members of the Church who thought the Prophet should compel the souls of men. Often the people would tell the Prophet what he should do, saying, "O, if I were Brother Joseph, I would do this and that, but," said the Prophet, "... If they were in Brother Joseph's shoes they would find that men or women could not be compelled into the kingdom of God, but must be dealt with in long-suffering, and at last we shall save them" (Ibid., V, page 24). (Italics added.) To serve the Lord is not always easy, but the Prophet made it clear that we must be resolute in seeking our goal. Said he: All difficulties which might and would cross our way must be surmounted. Though the soul be tried, the heart faint, and the hands hang down, we must not retrace our steps; there must be decision RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 of character, aside from sympathy (Ibid., IV, page 570). The Prophet's teachings all suggest that salvation is a continual process. It is neither attained by one good deed nor is it at any time a certainty. Having received the gospel, we must continue to serve the Lord to the best of our ability —and, if we forsake the truth, we are in danger of losing that which we have gained. 'The Prophet warned on one occasion: Though a man should become mighty, do great things, overturn mountains, perform mighty works, and should then turn from his high station to do evil, to eat and drink with the drunken, all his former deeds would not save him, but he would go to destruction! (Ibid., IV, page 606). In his characteristic way of being practical and specific, the Prophet pointed the way to Relief Society members who desire to become as God would have them. Just as a parent teaches his child black and white, the Prophet taught the women there were good as well as harmful qualities; that perfection came from accepting the good and rejecting the bad. He strongly urged them to cultivate the commendable, to keep the commandments, and to search for further light and knowledge. Inherent in the pursuance of perfection is the recognition of those attributes which hinder our progress. For this reason we shall now reflect upon some characteristics the Prophet singled out to be shunned. Those discussed serve to illustrate the collective and individual possibility of their existence. Women who seek perfection will do well to heed the Prophet's cautions as well as his commendations. LESSON DEPARTMENT Self-Righteousness Time and again, the Prophet warned against — self-righteousness. The assumption of responsibility for one's self, he suggested, is ennobling, while self-admiration blinds the view to our own shortcomings, illuminates the faults of others, and creates illusions of personal worth. The Prophet forthrightly reminded that "it is the doctrine of the devil to retard the human mind, and hinder our progress, by filling us with self-righteousness.... The devil flatters us that we are very righteous, when we are feeding on the faults of others," he observed (Ibid., V, page 24). He pointed up the pitfall of self-righteousness when he said: Christ was condemned by the selfrighteous Jews because He took sinners into His society; He took them upon the principle that they repented of their sins (Ibid., V, page 23). Aspirations The Prophet cautioned the women to aspire to magnify only their own offices and callings. He read to them from the 12th Chapter of ist Corinthians and explained the function of the various offices within the Church and:. The necessity of every individual acting in the sphere allotted him or her, and filling the several offices to which they are appointed. He spoke of the disposition of many men to consider the lower offices in the Church dishonorable, and to look with jealous eyes upon the standing of others who are called to preside over them; that it was the folly and nonsense of the human heart for a person to be aspiring to other stations than those to which they are appointed of God for them to occupy (Ibid., IV, page 603). The Authorities of the Church have repeatedly counseled that our 69 individual progress is closely related to the effort we expend and the manner in which we perform our Church assignments. The Prophet urged the women. To magnify their respective callings, and wait patiently till God shall say to them, 'Come up higher" (Ibid., IV, page 603). The disposition to aspire would be within the Relief Society, he cautioned, and the women should therefore guard against it. "Every person should stand, and act in the place appointed, and thus sanctify the Society and get it pure" (Ibid., IV, page 604). To magnify one's office and calling is a most desirable objective. This is very different from the covetous feelings for position and power. 'The Prophet strongly recommended humility. The possessor of this Christ-like virtue will have power and undreamed of blessings. Humility will add a wholesome luster to the soul of every one who cultivates it. Oe Guard the Tongue Had it not been for the unholy lies of evil men and women, the history of the Church, and, particularly, the story of the Prophet's untimely death, might have been materially different from the facts. The Prophet, who never feared the truth, was continually the victim of untruths. Whether published or passed by word of mouth, they fanned and fed the flames of persecution. In the midst of a widespread campaign to do him harm, the Prophet spoke out strongly against the evils of gossip. On May 6, 1842, an attempt was made on the life of Lilburn W. Boggs, who was Gov- 70 ernor of Missouri when the saints were so cruelly treated and driven from that State. Immediately there arose rumors that the "Mormons" were at the bottom of the attempt and, based upon these suspicions, the Prophet was later charged, but exonerated, as being an accessory to this crime. Within a week following these insinuations the Prophet said to the Relief Society: I have one request to make of the President and members of the society, that you search yourselves — the tongue is an unruly member — hold your tongues about things of no moment — a little tale will set the world on fire (Ibid., V, page 20). He advised the women:... Beware, be still, be prudent, repent, reform, but do it in a way not to destroy all around you. I do not want to cloak iniquity — all things contrary to the will of God, should be cast from us, but don't do more hurt than good, with your tongues — be pure in heart (Ibid., V, page 20). This evil is a many-sided sword. Untruths do the most harm, but injudicious language, though it contains truth, can also do tremendous harm. The following from Volume 1, page 103, Woman's Exponent, illustrates another aspect: The evil done by the first utterer of a slander is small compared with that which is spread through a community from the repetition of the false tale by idle babblers.... Counterfeited coins and banknotes, however ingeniously executed, do no harm if they remain in the hands of the original forger. It is by their circulation that the people suffer. Somebody once said to a sage: "'A man slandered you in my presence." "If," replied the wise man, "you had not listened with pleasure, he would not have defamed me." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 During the late summer of 1842 the Prophet was forced into hiding to protect himself against the vicious attempts of his enemies to take him into custody. Much of the impetus to do these acts came from the false stories that were spread concerning the Prophet. He returned to his home the latter part of August 1842, and August 31, he met with the Relief Society and made this statement: When I do the best I can — when I am accomplishing the greatest good, then the most evils and wicked surmisings are got up against me. I would to God that you would be wise. I now counsel you, that if you know anything calculated to disturb the peace or injure the feelings of your brother or sister, hold your tongues, and the least harm will be done (D. H. C. V, page 140). He suggested there were affirmative blessings from carefully watching what we say. "No organized body can exist," he said, unless the members thereof "... Put a double watch over the tongue...." (Emphasis added.) All organized bodies have their peculiar evils, weaknesses and difficulties, the object is to make those not so good reform and return to the path of virtue that they may be numbered with the good, and even hold the keys of power, which ewill influence to virtue and goodness — should chasten and reprove, and keep it all in silence, not even mention them again; then you will be established in power, virtue, and holiness, and the wrath of God will be turned away (Ibid., V, page 20). Overzealousness It is well to underlay our enthusiasm in the gospel with cautious restraint. At one meeting the Prophet commended the women "... For LESSON DEPARTMENT their zeal, but said sometimes their zeal was not according to knowledge" (Ibid., IV, page 570). On another occasion, the Prophet warned: There is another error which opens a door for the adversary to enter. As females possess refined feelings and sensitiveness, they are also subject to overmuch zeal, which must ever prove dangerous, and cause them to be nrgid in a religious capacity — [they] should be armed with mercy, notwithstanding the iniquity among us.... Notwithstanding the unworthy are among us, the virtuous should not, from self importance, grieve and oppress needlessly, those unfortunate ones (Ibid., V, page 19, 20). The overzealous can discourage others, become fanatical, act unseemly, and go beyond their proper bounds. Perfection Lies Within If we are to become perfect, we | must look at ourselves without delay, with a keen eye to our limitations and shortcomings. Once recognized, our weaknesses become out of place in our lives. When we have completed the task of divesting our- — selves of these personality '"'sore spots," we are then in a position to acquire the more ennobling traits. The ability to recognize and dispel unbecoming attributes and to seek the godlike virtues is the thought pattern for perfection. In the last analysis, if we are to reach for perfection, we must do as the Prophet suggested in a talk given in the Grove to the Church: Search your hearts, and sce if you are like God. I have searched mine and feel to repent of all my sins (Ibid., IV, page 588, Remarks of Prophet Joseph in the Grove, From the Journal of Elder Wilford Woodruff, page 8). 71 Organ Books for Church and Home — AT THE CONSOLE—Felton.......... 2.00 ee CHANCEL ECHOES—Felton........ 2.50 <a CHURCH MUSIC FOR THE SMALLEST ORGAN—Nevin...... 1.50 a DEVOTIONAL ALBUM—Asper.... 2.50 = LORENZ FAVORITE ORGAN VOLUNTARIES—Vols. 1, 2, 3.. Ea. 1.50 ~oe LORENZ ONE PAGE ORGAN VOLUNTARIES—Vols. 1, 2, 3.. Ea. 1.25 ae ORGAN CLASSICS AND TRANSCRIPTIONS ___......2222222.22222222200---- 2.50 ween ORGAN IN THE CHURCH—Asper 2.75 a ORGAN VOLUNTARIES— Vols. 1, 2—Schreiner............ Ea. 3.50 Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South: Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. CC] On Approval [] Charge OJ Money Enclosed Name.... Address.......: City & State DaynesMace | ATLATLSTLATLT 2 E. Ist South: SahLake 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO «f 2860 WASHINGTON BUM. GaDEN r 4 Supplementary References 1. "Relief Society Responsibilities" — President Joseph Fielding Smith, Relief Society Magazine, March 1954, page 150; and October 1954, page 644. 2. "But One Thing Is Needful" — Marianne C. Sharp, Relief Society Magazine, November 1954, page 721. 3. The Way to Perfection, Joseph Fielding Smith, chapter 27, pp. 179-185. Questions for Discussion 1. What are the necessary steps in the perfection process? Why is self-analysis so difficult? 2. Why did the Prophet Joseph Smith meet with the Relief Society and instruct them often? 3. Why is it important for individual Church members to be constant in their search for perfection? 4. Point out and discuss the undesirable traits against which the Prophet warned. 5. Why was the Prophet sensitive to the evils of gossip? What are his cautions regarding the habit? Prayer for a 1 bew Year Vesta N. Lukei Gently, gently let rain fall, Not m torrents, not in flood, But let it be, this New Year's day, Refreshing, fragrant, mild, and good. A link between the sky and earth Rain sprays with jewels leaf and bough, And reaches deep for seed, for bulb, For needy root, exploring now. And may this new year's rain dissolve Old bitterness, and purify Both heart and soul, release the mind To grow in beauty toward the sky. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 Birthday Congratulations IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Eliza Drake McManus, Roy, Utah, one hundred one; Mrs. Emma Bandley, Salt Lake City, one hundred one; Mrs. Caroline Wayman Newman, Salt Lake City, one hundred; Mrs. Margaret James, San Fernando, California, ninety-eight; Mrs. Harriett Irene Olson, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-seven; Mrs. Rose Brown Hayes, Salt Lake City, ninety-six; Mrs. Ann Burns, Logan, Utah, ninety-six; Mrs. Hannah A. Ransom, Smithfield, Utah, ninety-five; Mrs. May Watson, Salt Lake City, ninety-five; Mrs. Minerva Richards Young, Salt Lake City, ninety-four; Mrs. Margaret Jones Field, Roy, Utah, ninety-two; Mrs. Maria J. Rowland, Gretna, Virginia, ninety; Mrs. Ellen Fogelstrand Tanner, Salt Lake City, ninety; Mrs. Emma D. Harrison, Malad, Idaho, ninety; Mrs. Evelyn Cox Moffitt, Salt Lake City, ninety. _ Today Elsie Chamberlain Carroll Today is a sunlit pathway Between two shadowy nights, Where oblivion and darkness Shut out the sun's bright lights. May I let no shadows of tomorrow, No griefs of yesterday Cast their clouds upon the hours That are mine, all mine today, If tomorrow holds but sadness, Or never comes, for me, I have today in which to weave From life a lovely tapestry. | Mason Pioneer Piano p THE WoRID's Ff INEST PIANOS The Stradivgr; f Pianos VIDA FOX e) ANNOUN Azaleq Ss AWSON & Hamlin Pring Tour to the eople SALT LAKE City, UTAH Salt lake Gi Cloth boun ' Tates if you 1. A LOOK AT MORMONISM Benjamin Alward Three hundred and eighty-five picturesque black-and-white photographs highlight the achievements of the LDS Church and its people. Every department of the Church is represented, including Church members who have achieved national and international prominence, This dramatic presentation will hold one's interest from first page to last $4.00 2.... 4 THEE WED Dr. Rex A. Skidmore This book offers helpful suggestions on how to find marital happiness in an uncertain world. Each page is filled with interesting true-to-life examples and ideas for enriching the marriage relationship and bringing harmony into the home. It's an excellent supplementary book for teaching the M Men-Gleaner Manual, "Love, Marriage and You." $2.00 3. FOR BEHOLD YE ARE FREE Lynn McKinlay Man is made after the image of God.... Man has been blessed by his Creator with free agency. Lynn McKinlay considers these two principles the very foundation upon which all LDS religious concepts are based. Offering greater insight into the principle of free ageney, the author analyzes fundamental views on good and evil and considers man's responsibility in his choice $2.25 4. COMMENTARY ON THE BOOK OF MORMON—Volume II George Reynolds and Janne M. Sjodahl An excellent commentary for students and readers of "The Book of Mormon." Volume II gives rich background material and interprets scriptural passages — Words of Mormon to the Book of Mosiah. $4.00 SII. NU TNE = Opena Convenient = = Charge = = Account = emp le DESERET BOOK COMPANY ee Torels | os alt Lake City, Uta Official ' Gentlemen: I Publishers Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge | to my account the following amount $.....00..0.2-.---ccecccece-cceccecseeseneeeee. For to the the encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 4. | L. D. S. Ee | ACI SSS) en. GO rr Church City..: a Zone........ State... | Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. A f =~ av o pA £: FEBRUARY.1957 Muted Flour Catherine E. Berry I who have sung of spring and Aprils gone, Have woven words for magic found in May, Put shining notes to beat of silver rain, And lyric rhymes to praise the waking day, Can find no words to limn this muted hour Of hushed expectancy the earth now holds. Though February's blue and quiet dusk Is wrapped around with winter's frozen folds, The first faint stirring of the coming spring Was foretold in a wind that whispered by A moment gone, and left the world as still As if a miracle had touched the sky. I who have sung of spring can find no word To use for beauty felt — unseen, unheard. The Cover: Grain Grinding Mill in Leiden, Holland Photograph by Rinze Schippers Submitted by Ada S. Van Dam Frontispiece: Ponderosa Pines in the Aftermath of Storm Photograph by Josef Muench Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Tear and Sar The Relief Society Magazine truly is an enjoyment and a blessing to receive. It brings joy and happiness to me, and, although it is a little Magazine, it contains worlds of enjoyment and knowledge. This verse expresses my thoughts: Blessed are they who have the power and gifts to make friends; It involves the power of going out of oneself And appreciating whatever is noble and loving in others. This is just what The Relief Society Magazine does for me. —Ruth A. Lyons West Covina, California I do enjoy reading all of The Relief Society Magazine. In fact, it makes a wellrounded education, all found within its pages, for me. When we are older, we need the Magazine to keep us posted and uplifted, just as we do when we are younger. —Crysta B. Woodland Brigham City, Utah While reading the September issue of The Relief Society Magazine, this sentiment came to me: Not merely just a Magazine, This publication women built For others' help and happiness; Though small, it's like a flawless gem Expertly cut. —Gene Romolo Provo, Utah I want to thank you for each wonderful issue of the Magazine. I am just a new bride and am so excited about going to Relief Socicty this fall. 'There is such an abundance of knowledge and worthwhile experiences to be shared. —Jcanne Draper Chico, California Page 74 Several months ago a subscription to The Relief Society Magazine was presented to me by my cousin Fern Brockbank of Spanish Fork, Utah. Since I was born and reared in Pleasant Grove, Utah, you can imagine how much I appreciate the gift. It is the biggest little Magazine I have ever had the privilege of reading. The poems, especially, are outstanding, and the stories are so realistic of home life. 'The whole book is full of the kind of reading that it takes to make life beautiful. —Jennie E. Waltenspiel Hoquicm, Washington I would like to write a few lines to tell how much we enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. My sister sends it to my mother, and she hands it on to us. It is a pleasure to read the Magazine. —Mrs. Arthur Leigh Rudheath North Northwich England It gives me great pleasure to take time to express my appreciation for the wonderful Relief Society Magazine, which was a present to me on my birthday from my daughter Rosalie. I look forward each month to receiving the Magazine, as | love to read the beautiful poems and inspiring teachings and interesting lessons. —Mrs. Rose R. Stokes Promontory, Utah Words cannot express my appreciation for the Relief Society Magazine. I love it from cover to cover and always feel edified and encouraged after reading any part of it. —Mrs. Charlotte M. Linder Sacramento, California I enjoy each Magazine immenscly and read them all from cover to cover at least once. The stories, editorials, and lessons are helpful to me in my everyday life. —Mrs. Maurine Marcum Arimo, Idaho THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford ~ - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - - - - = Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Elna P. Haymond Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Gladys S. Boyer Annie M. Ellsworth Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Afton W. Hunt Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Edito - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford Assistant to the Editor - - - - - - - - - June Nielsen General Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spatford Vol. 44 FEBRUARY 1957 No. 2 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Sustaining the Authorities of the Church ooo ElRay L. Christiansen 76 The Netherlands Mission 2.0......... Cc. EcccceecceceseesecseeceseseeessesesesseesseecseccssssseneseesescevensceceseseessPreston R. Nibley 88 Values Derived From Reading Worthwhile Literature.. Thomas C. Romney 90 What Makes a Happy Home oo.;. Wilma Boyle Bunker 93 Great Men Pray o.. Cecc cc ccseccceseesessecesseucseaesscoeecnscsceecacsscavesseceneascesatenssssquacectessasusvsnuenssssssesssseanessenesssesessseenseseeseseneeee 99 A Flag for Utah Statehood _. Margaret G. Derrick 106 I Explore the Upstairs ooo... Cccccscssscsesccccesescccesenessereeeseeeee. Zipporah Layton Stewart 114 FICTION Mother's Shoes — Second Prize Story o... Ceccccecssscescecesccseeeeesesesseeceees crEdith Larson 80 Hearts United oo... Cee Frances C. Yost 94 Bitter Medicine — Part 2 o. C. CccccesscscssscecscececescsceeseceseeeeeseveseessocesvesssonsegeesnsnsusaesesescevevveseeeeeecesOlive W. Burt 109 From Near and Far o.. Eeess. Sscsscossssscessssssssessssseeecsssscessscsnenencsesesesssseeeessscesececseeaeesssneecessssenensscecsesssesecsecseseaunenescacensasees 74 Sixty Years Ago oo.. Eeccccssssssscccsscesscsscetsesssseseescesssecssesessssssnstnsssssessscssssaaecssnseessessessesesescsssseseanscseaeaeersesoeseesececessecueeesses 100 Woman's Sphere. We = veceeeneeee.. Ramona W. Cannon 101 Editorial: A Step Aside ooo. CecceesccccceceecssssceesssesssesesssseesssseeeescscavecssesensacscceseeseesavasieeerevereseagenceraeneJune Nielsen 102 Birthday Congratulations to Amy Brown Lyman, Former Relief Society General President......00.0...... New Serial ''The Bright Star'' to Begin in March Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Birthday Congratulations oo.. C. Ccc. CcscssssssssesssssvesssssesessnesestsvesessevsssssevesssnivssssanussseuessivesestuvessssnvessssvessssaneesssneeFEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Netherlands Mission 20.......... C. Cscccscsscssessecssseesecseseseesseseceseeeseseeeeaceee: Ada S. Van Dam 104 Mary E. Jones Dalton Finds Happiness in Her Hobbies oo.... Cccceccccsssssccccecevssseceesssvesveeecesseesesevarenseeseseveeess 108 Candy for Valentine's Day occ cee cccccccececsnseeesesesesereecees _.... Mary J. Wilson 113 LESSONS FOR MAY Theology: ''A New Witness for Christ''.. Leland H. Monson 123 Visiting Teacher Messages: *... Ye Would Ask God, the Eternal Father, in the Name of Christ, If These Things Are Not True') oooeccccccccccseeeceeeeeeeLeone O. Jacobs 128 Work Meeting: Summary —Rhea H. Gardner 130 Literature: Julius Coescr oie eee ceccecccesececcecececsssceseesseseeeeses a Briant S. Jacobs 132 Social Science: 'Be Ye Therefore Perfect') oo. Ccce cececescesessecsecetececeseseseseseeeeseeeeeeJohn Farr Larson 138 POETRY Muted Hour — Frontispiece oiecccececcccscescscscsessscossncsssesseseusesessesessesecesusseecesevenseveneeeese: Catherine E. Berry 73 Mother one eeeee ec ceeeececeeecececceseecscsnssecsseeseseseeavacscscoeatessenes Dora Toone Brough 79 Future Resolve... SECC COCO aHazel M. Thomson 86 Heritage ee. SET ee... Leslie Savage Clark 87 Giant Saguaros. I cae ae cnencecnevence- 000s amEthel Jacobson 93 Dawn Castle once ccee ccssssesscesnsssesscsssenessssuesnesassneescesesatavssessessssietecaneeseeceeeceeees Eva Willes Wangsgaard 103 When Portals CLOSE ooaeeeescecseeeeessseeeceeseeeeecocssceesstesanecesesaperesecessstseatseaessesees Mabel Law Atkinson 108 The Voice of Peace.. Ee. Isabelle Jensen 112 Attic Treasure oo... Ccccceecccccevsecoesnscsessesnsecstenscesescsseseeseseseoee.... Maude Rubin 113 It Is Love........... ER er cceccGene Romolo 122 Reunion........ Eunice J. Miles 129 Star Dust;:. Oo eeVesta N. Lukei 131 Winter Notwithstanding oo... CeccsesccsssesssessssssssussssnnsesnntessvessssessssvessivesssvestrsseteseescobeeeeeeeeeccsssesLael W. Hill 143 Boy....... Elsie McKinnon Strachan 144 — PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 16, Utah, Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied, Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Sustaining the Authorities of the Church Elder ElRay L. Christiansen Assistant to the Council of the Twelve 66 HOSE in favor will show it by raising their right hands —those opposed, if any, may manifest it by the same sign." This expression is familiar to every member of the Church. The First Presidency, consisting of three presiding high priests, a president who holds all the keys of the Priesthood, and two counselors, preside over all affairs and activities of the Church. They are assisted by Twelve Apostles, who, in turn, are aided by an unspecified number of high priests called Assistants to the 'T'welve, as well as by the First Council of Seventy. Also, laboring under the direction of the First Presidency are the Patriarch to the Church, the Presiding Bishopric, and the other general officers. The General Authorities have Church-wide supervisory powers. In addition to the general officers, stake and mission authorities are appointed, sustained, and set apart, with jurisdiction limited to stake and mission affairs. In the same manner, branch officers are appointed to preside in Church affairs within the confines of their respective wards and branches. The various offices in the Church exist "... For helps and for governments, for the work of the ministry and the perfecting of my _ saints" (D. & C. 124:143). It should be remembered that the Page 76 ultimate power on earth to direct the affairs of the kingdom of God rests in only one person at a time. That person is the Prophet and President of the Church. He may delegate portions of this power to others and authorize them to act in a particular labor or office. 'Therefore, the president of a stake, the bishop of a ward, the president of a quorum, the president of a mission, and the president of a temple each receives from the President of the Church, directly or by delegation, the keys of that particular office and labor. The extent of the official authority of any officer in the Church is limited to the unit or division or institution in which he has been called to serve. Each is subject to the direction of those holding higher authority. However, temple presidents and mission presidents are appointed by, and are responsible directly to the First Presidency. The auxiliary organizations represent in their labor the President of the Church, and, as their name implies, are helps primarily to the President and, incidentally, to the Priesthood in the training and development of the members of the Church. When the names of the officers of the auxiliaries are presented to the membership assembled —whether it is general, stake, or ward — they are duly sustained by the members of the organizations which they are called to direct. No person can rightfully serve in any administrative position in the Church unless he has been so sustained by the people over whom he is to preside. 'The Lord has given us the way in which this is to be done. | He has revealed to us that it is the duty of presiding authorities to appoint and call; and then those whom they choose for any official position in the Church shall be presented to the body. If the body reject them, they are responsible for that rejection. 'They have the right to reject, if they will, or to receive them and sustain them by their faith and prayers. 'That is strictly in accordance with the rule laid down of the Lord (Pres. Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, page 188, 1920 edition). HEN, in assemblies of the saints, we are asked to sustain proposed officers in the Church, it is our right to express our true feelings. But, we should not question the wisdom and inspiration of those making the nominations, unless we know of facts that plainly indicate unworthiness on the part of the person nominated. It is not proper nor in order for any member to raise his hand to register opposition to a man who is called by proper authority simply because he has a personal dislike for him; because he has had some personal grievance, or for other inconsequential reasons. The Latter-day Saints should feel grateful for the knowledge that, after its absence for many years, the authority to act in the name of God has been restored to man. This power was conferred upon the first officers of the Church by ordination under the hands of those who held the same power in earlier dispensations. The scriptures bear out the fact that, with the passing of the apostles of old, the authority of the holy Priesthood was to be taken from the earth, and that of necessity it would have to be restored from heaven before the Church could be re-established. The Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were ordained to the Melchizedek Priesthood in 1829 under the hands of Peter, James, and John:... Who received the keys of Presidency on the Mount, and who, as the Presiding Council over the Primitive Church, last held the keys of the Higher Priesthood. Every right, authority and key was conferred upon the modern prophets, and they in turn ordained others for the benefit of the Church of Christ. (Widtsoe, "Studies in Pnesthood," page 21). Nowhere, other than in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, can men, in a few steps, trace to its origin, their authority to act in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Of this we do not boast, but we render unto the Lord our gratitude for the fact. Hence, when we have the privilege of raising our hands and voices to sustain those properly appointed, it should be done with thanksgiving in our hearts. Not only is the right to sustain a fundamental and sacred right, but it is an important duty resting upon the members of the Church to uphold the authorities presiding over them. Merely raising the right hand does not fulfil this duty. It simply expresses a promise that the persons named will be sustained in deed and, in fact — that they will be defended against those who would defame them. SUSTAINING THE AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 77 It is a very serious thing for any member of the Church to engage in criticism and raise his voice against the duly appointed leaders. To do so will lead to no good, but will make it easier for such a member to be persuaded by the ungodly. It points the way to unhappiness.... There never should be a day pass but all the people composing the Church should lift up their voices in prayer to the Lord to sustain his servants who are placed to preside over them.... These men should have the faith of the people to sustain them in the discharge of their duties, in order that they may be strong in the Lord.... We should not permit ourselves to go about from day to day with a spirit of murmuring and fault-finding in our hearts against those who are presented before us to be sustained in responsible positions. If we have anything in our hearts against any of these brethren, it is our duty, as conscientious members of the Church, first as the Spirit may direct, to go to them alone and make known to them our feeling toward them and show them the cause of such feeling; not with a desire in our hearts to widen or increase the difficulty, but we should go to them in the spirit of reconciliation and brotherly love, in a true Christian spirit, so that if any feeling of bitterness exists within us it may be absolutely removed; and if we have cause against our brother, that we may be in a position to remedy the evil. We should seek to love one another and to sustain one another as children of God and as brothers and sisters in the cause (President Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, page 280). HIS great, stalwart leader taught further that it is not our right or prerogative to point out the supposed defects of the leaders in the Church: "Let the Lord God Almighty judge them and speak for or against them as it may seem to him good — but not me; it is not for me, my brethren, to do this..." (Ibid., page 223). Another great and important duty resting upon the parents in the Church in regard to sustaining our Church leaders is to teach their children by example as well as by precept to respect those in authority over them. If children hear their parents criticize or speak disparagingly of the bishop of the ward, the president of the stake, or other leaders in the Church, the damage is highly detrimental and may never be erased. We should teach our children to love the Lord and to understand his great love for them; to love their fellow men, and especially to love their fellow members of the Church. We should teach them to honor the Priesthood as the authority that God has bestowed upon the Church for the proper government of the same. We should teach them the importance and the desirability of preparing themselves to become worthy of receiving the Priesthood. Children should be made to realize that to be permitted to sustain those who lead them is not only a rare privilege, but also that it obligates them to pray for their leaders, to uphold them, and to accept opportunities to serve when called by them into service. Now, a word to those who are sustained by the faith and prayers of the members: those who are called to office should realize that one of the greatest assets for leadership is the sustaining influence of those over whom they preside. This influence is vital and indispensable to effective leadership. In the words of the Lord, "Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it..." (Psalms 127:1), and 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 é '... If ye are not one ye are not mine" (D. & C. 38:27). And so, we have to be one; we have to sustain and be sustained if our leadership is to be effective. Those who are called to office and are sustained by the members should enter upon their duties with a full determination to do all in their power to magnify that calling. They should be prompt and zealous. They should strive to become efficient in carrying out the whole program. They must plan, prepare, inspire. They must be examples in living the gospel wherever they may be — not only in meetings but also in private parties, while fishing and hunting, and while traveling. Priesthood and auxiliary leaders and members alike have the responsibility to be true to "... Every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God" (D. & C. 84:44). Leaders are thus instructed by the Lord: Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence. He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand... (D. & C. 107:99-100). It is a great blessing to be permitted to sustain those who are called to preside over us. It is a blessing beyond measure to be sustained by the members whom we are called to serve. Mother Dora Toone Brough A hundred times, or more, your deeds of gold Have been expounded by the lips of friends; In humble language they have been retold To sleepy children, as the long day ends; And yet, the simple things I held most dear— Your busy hands, your gentle ways, your smile, The lullabies you sang to quell my fear, Your white lace collar, and your smooth hair style. In silent loveliness your soul met mine; I knew you always wanted me to keep A path to God, a love for the Divine; And when you closed your eyes in long, last sleep, Your gracious, noble life made me content To fashion mine to be your monument. SUSTAINING THE AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 79 Second Prize Story Annual Reliof Society Short Story Contest Mother's Shoes Edith Larson HAT a picture Mother and \\/ Dad made, framed by the new window, their faces alight with expectation! 'The ready laughter wrinkles were deeper than ever on Dad's face and the little lines of worry were gone from Mother's. She has accepted my _ ultimatum, Dorothy thought happily, as she drove on past the window. I knew that if I left them alone, Dad would persuade Mother that I am right. It's ridiculous for her to think she needs to help me put on their golden wedding anniversary. Dorothy stopped the car and turned to the first early wedding guests she had picked up at the train. But Mother and Dad were there already, eagerly pulling the doors open to welcome Aunt Mable and Uncle Arthur with their daughter Gertie. Dorothy waited only for the first greetings, then slipped away to the kitchen. The roast would be ready for the potatoes, onions, and carrots she had left standing in cold water. She hummed as her hands flew at their tasks. "The kitchen looks different," a pleasant voice spoke from the doorway. Dorothy looked up at her cousin Gertie—a_ stranger, really, since Dad's oldest sister had never been Page 80 EDITH LARSON back after moving to New York twenty years ago. "Mother had the whole house done over in honor of the golden wedding. You can't imagine what this anniversary means to her. She hasn't thought of much else for the past five years." Gertie smiled. "I'm sure I'll feel the same way when I reach the fifty-vear mark. But I wasn't referring to the house, although it does look very nice. I was just thinking of the kitchen the way I remembered it, with Aunt Sarah bustling around, shooing us children out from under her feet." MOTHER'S SHOES "She'd still be doing it if I'd let her. I've had quite a time persuading her to sit in the living room and be a lady of leisure." "That role does seem a little out of character for Aunt Sarah." "So she says. But, Gertie, think of all the years she has worked so hard. Not just her own work, but Relief Society and Sunday School and every other job that anyone wanted done. Mother deserves a big celebration without any responsibility at all." "Someone has to take the responsibility." "T am. I've been here three weeks already. Of course, the plans are all Mother's — except for some little surprises along the way. I want everything to be exactly as she has dreamed it." "What does Harvey say to all this?" "He doesn't like my being gone so long, of course, but he understands. Having the family so scattered means lots of house guests, besides the celebration itself. And the boys' wives all have small children — those who live here in town. Harvey can see where Mother needs me. He'll be up with our boys day after tomorrow to stay till it's over." "If there is anything I can do to help...." "There'll be lots of things. I thought we younger women could get the meals and keep the work done up and let the brothers and sisters have a real visit. You'll find the makings of a green salad in the frig, if you want to put them together now." "And here I had my mouth all watered for some of Aunt Sarah's 81 cooking. I've never forgotten it." But Gertie was smiling as she opened the frig. "T've sworn to keep Mother out of the kitchen, but I don't know...." Dorothy broke off with a shrug. Flick of Gertie's head made her turn. Sarah stood in the doorway, an anxious frown on her face. "Dorothy," she asked, "did you remember to order the cake?" "Of course, Mother,' Dorothy said, irritation overriding her normal tact. "I ordered the cake, checked on the photographer, and borrowed the punch bowl, and I know that was all you put on my list this morning." Sarah bit her lips. "I'm sorry. You didn't tell me," she said and turned away. Dorothy shook her head wryly as she watched her mother's retreating figure. "How do you cure 'em?" she asked Gertie. "You'd think I was an irresponsible teenager." "You don't. You just try." The cousins worked amicably and rapidly, the ready-made subject of how to deal with parents bridging the gap of long separation. In a very short time, Dorothy returned to the living room to announce dinnet. Mother looked up at her with a warm smile. "I can't get over it," she said. "Me sitting here with my hands folded and meals going on just the same. I was just telling Mable that you won't let me do a thing — not a single thing. You'd think I was the queen or someone important." Dad rose gallantly, offering his arm. Queen." Dorothy's heart did a little flip as she followed the older couple to the dining room. The old dears, she thought, so absolutely corny and so very, very dear. Dinner was a leisurely meal with much reminiscing and lavish compliments for Dorothy. She was glad when her brother Jim showed up with an offer to drive the old folks and Gertie around town. Dad had given up driving himself because of poor eyesight. Once the others were gone and the kitchen work done, Dorothy settled down to her lists of jobs still pending. She wanted to make one last check without Mother at her elbow. But she couldn't concentrate. Why couldn't Mother just relax and let her daughter run things? Why couldn't she realize that Dorothy was just as efficient a manager as her mother before her? Why, she was having the time of her life putting on this affair! Two hundred and fifty was a conservative estimate of the expected guests at the open house Sunday afternoon. And there would be between ninety and a hundred at the family dinner Monday night. Close to twenty of these would be house guests for the week end or longer, for some came from great distances — from both coasts, in fact. Mother had used these distances as an excuse for having a family dinner. The boys all thought an open house was celebration enough. But Dorothy sympathized with her mother's desire to have the family "You are, my dear—my by themselves one night. And the Relief Society sisters would serve the dinner in the recreation hall. Sarah was proud of the society she had presided over for fifteen years. And she wanted something extra special because her own sisters were coming. 'They had never been West before. After their father had died, still unrelenting toward the daughter who married a Mormon, the sisters had written Sarah and urged her to come East for a visit. She had gone once or twice, and Dorothy had gone with her for one brief visit. There were four of the sisters altogether. The youngest two, Aunt Dora and Aunt Mattie, aged seventy-nine and seventy-six, were the adventurous ones coming to the golden wedding. 'They were both widows. HE sightseers returned long before Dorothy was ready for them. Then Jim's family dropped in, closely followed by the other boys and some of their families. Everyone wanted to see Aunt Mable after so many years. So it was late before the house settled down for the night. At the last minute, Sarah came to Dorothy's room. "I think I'd better go with you to the station to meet the aunts," she said. "Oh, Mother, there's no need for you to get up at five am.! That train's always late and the station's a drafty, cold place to wait. You sleep in and I'll meet them just as we planned." "As you planned," Sarah corrected with a smile that took the sting from the correction. "I really think 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 MOTHER'S SHOES they'll expect me to meet them. Their very first trip, you know." "Nonsense. You'll make a much better first impression if they see you here in your own home." "Then I'll have breakfast waiting for you when you get back." "If you insist." I wasn't very gracious, Dorothy thought, as she paced the station platform in the cold dawn. The eastern mountains were pink-tipped but there was no sun to cut through the chill. I'm not sorry, though, that I insisted. And she shivered. She could hear the train rumbling in the distance. It wouldn't be too late after all. And then it was roaring into the station and she had underestimated its length. 'Those two whitehaired ladies ten coaches down had to be Aunt Mattie and Aunt Dora. Dorothy broke into a run. Then she was enfolded in Aunt Dora's ample arms and listening to Aunt Mattie's booming voice saying, "I'm glad you had sense enough to keep Sarah at home. What a heathenish hour for a train to arrive." "We're not such a big place," Dorothy answered defensively. "The train schedule is set up to give the city the: most convenient hours." Why should she feel that she had to defend the railroad? As the day passed, she found she was always defending something. Aunt Mattie had the ability to put Dorothy's back up over the least little thing. Or were they little things? Breakfast over, Aunt Mattie had moved purposively in on the sink. "Now, Dorothy, you can put the food away. You're the one who 83 knows where it goes. I'll wash and your cousin can wipe." "But, Aunt Mattie, everything is all planned. The brothers and sisters are to be guests and we younger ones will do the work." "Fiddlesticks! I was washing dishes when you were in diapers!" "That's just the point. It's your turn for a holiday." "If I want to spend my holiday at the kitchen sink, that's my business, young lady. You put the food away. Where did you say I'd find an apron? There's half a dozen in my suitcase, but I'll borrow one for now." Helplessly, Dorothy obeyed, painfully aware of Gertie's amusement. AUNT Mattie didn't stop with taking command of the dishwashing. She planned the meals and saw that they were duly cooked according to her orders. As more and more guests arrived, she supervised the sleeping arrangements. With dismay, Dorothy watched the teins of management slip from her hands. But there was no arguing with Aunt Mattie. But for Sarah's intervention, she would have taken over the open house, too. "Now, Mattie," Sarah said with deceptive gentleness, "Dorothy and I have the arrangements all planned. The boys' wives are going to serve the punch, taking turns, an hour each." "TIl pour the coffee, then," Aunt Mattie insisted. "There'll be no coffee. You know that, Mattie." "Then I'll run the kitchen. Someone has to see to it that the punch bowls are kept filled and the cookie plates ready. I'll start baking cookies this morning." "The neighbors are bringing the cookies in." "What if they don't bring enough? It won't hurt to have a few dozen of my icebox cookies on hand." Sarah sighed, such a familiar sigh, Dorothy thought. "No, I don't suppose it will hurt." Dorothy was seething. She had purposely planned the meals so that there would be no baking these last two days in order to keep the house cool for Sunday. A hot retort was on the tip of her tongue, but. She was saved from making it by a glimpse of Harvey driving in with the children. She ran to meet them, but even their hugs didn't keep her from boiling over in response to Harvey's "How are things going?" "Now wait!" Harvey raised a hand in mock self-defense against the torrent of words she poured out. "Let me get my bearings. And greet the folks," he added as he saw his father-in-law coming across the lawn. The two men clasped hands warmly. "We've certainly appreciated the loan of your wife," Fred said. "She's taken hold like her mother would." Dorothy flushed with pleasure, her anger beginning to dissolve. Harvey looked down at her affectionately. "You have just passed out the greatest compliment of all, Dad," he said. "T used to think no one could ever grow into Sarah's shoes. They're made special, you know, on an individual last. And now here's Dorothy, coming closer and _ closer...." 'The old man shook his head, but his eyes were smiling. Dorothy thought, coming closer! But of course, Dad's prejudiced. He won't ever admit anyone could grow into Mother's shoes. Dorothy honestly tried to deal with the problem of Aunt Mattie the way Mother would. All day Saturday, Mattie baked cookies. Red-faced and tired but triumphant, she came to the table that night to a meal she had planned and prepared herself for eighteen people. "T've baked five hundred cookies," she announced. "You can't run short now." "But it was completely unnecessary," Dorothy broke out before she remembered. She didn't need the warning pressure of Harvey's hand to stop her. "Thank you, Mattie," Sarah said quietly. "I don't know what we'd do without you." Dorothy thought she'd explode, the way Aunt Mattie preened herself at the compliment. Without Aunt Mattie, everything would have gone smoothly according to Dorothy's direction. At least, she consoled herself, Aunt Mattie couldn't interfere with the programs planned for the open house and the family dinner. OTHER was in on the program planned for the open house because it was a surprise on Dad. But the entertainment at the family dinner was Dorothy's own doing, and a secret from both her parents. She had prepared a complete program around the grandchildren and their talents, including a three-act skit portraying the courtship of 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 MOTHER'S SHOES Fred and Sarah. Mother and Dad would love it. But as late as Saturday night, Mother asked Dorothy again, "Don't you think we ought to have some sort of program at the family dinner besides a few remarks from the bishop?" Dorothy patted her hand and said soothingly, "Don't worry, Mother. Everyone will be too busy visiting. Besides, the bishop will talk as long as you want him to." "T know, but—" "No 'buts' about it, Mother. I have everything planned. Now just enjoy your company and leave the rest to me." Sarah turned away, but Dorothy, looking after her drooping figure, frowned. Mother, she thought, should be happier. Here I am, doing everything in the world to make her dreams come true, and she frets over details. UT the next day, as Sarah and Fred greeted the neighbors and friends who flocked to the house, Dorothy had never seen her mother look happier. She looked rested and proud as she stood near the door, one hand on her husband's arm. Dorothy had more time to watch and mingle with the guests than she had expected. In spite of her protests, Aunt Mattie had taken over the kitchen. "Go on in there and talk to your friends," the old lady insisted. "I don't know anyone and I don't like to talk to strangers. I'll be perfectly happy right here." So Dorothy had joined her husband, and together they greeted old friends. It wasn't the way she had planned it, but — well — she rather 85 liked it this way, knowing the kitchen was well commanded. Sarah was talking to a distinguished-looking man Dorothy finally recognized as a former bishop who had moved away. Pulling at Harvey's arm, she steered him over that way. "Your open house is going off very well, Sister Talbot," the bishop was saying. "Knowing your efficiency, I'm not surprised." Sarah laughed ruefully. "I didn't have much to do with it. I've been chained to this armchair by the next in line.' Looking up, she saw Dorothy and Harvey and smiled warmly. "Here is the one who deserves your compliments, Bishop. I don't know what I'd have done without her." Dorothy stammered through greetings, her mind in a whirl. "T don't know what I'd have done without her." Why did that statement have such a familiar ring? As the company eddied around them, leaving her momentarily in a little private island with Harvey, she turned to him. "What would Mother have done without me?" she asked abruptly. Harvey smiled down at her. "So you recognized the line, too. I thought you would." "It's what Mother said to Aunt Mattie after she butted in and upset all my plans. Do you really think that I butted in and upset Mother's plans in the same way?" Harvey's smile disappeared and he stared seriously down at his wife's anxious face. "I don't know, Dorothy." "But I only carried out her plans, the ones she's been making for Of course, I added a few "? Years. Touches here and there, but.... "Mother Talbot is far too diplomatic ever to tell you, if to her you are another Aunt Mattie." "T know." = Dorothy's_ misery threatened to engulf her. "All I wanted was for Mother to have one perfectly happy time, free from care. But — I guess a woman like Mother is never really free from care. Here I've been getting the biggest bang out of running this show — and that's just what Mother would have got out of running it herself. Not a lot of worry, but fun—just plain fun. Why didn't I see that before?" "Don't blame yourself too much, Dorothy. It looked as if you were doing your mother a big favor. I think she's proud that you wanted to do it." "Perhaps. But, nght now it's time for the self-appointed regent to abdicate and let the queen take over. Quick, Harvey, tip the children off not to let on they've been practicing for a program tomorrow night." "But you've planned such a good program!" "IT? Mother's the program planner in our family." The quick squeeze Harvey gave her hand showed Dorothy he understood. With tears in her eyes, she watched him quietly maneuver the grandchildren out of the room. Then she squared her shoulders and waited for a chance to speak to Sarah. Dorothy was smiling by the time she had a chance to say, "Mother— Mother, why don't you ask the grandchildren to put on some kind of entertainment for the family dinner? I'm sure they'd love to show off for the aunts and uncles." Edith Larson, Manton, Michigan, won third prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest last year, and thus is a second-time award winner in this year's contest. Her husband, Carl Larson, is in the lumber a graduate of Northwestern University. She is business, and her daughter, Mary Margaret, is a high school junior with aspirations toward Bugham Young University. Appeared in several national magazines. Mrs. Larson is a spare-time wnter whose work has At present, her writing time is being seriously interrupted by an original television program for children which she directs on her hometown station. She comments that she is as active in the Traverse City Branch of the Church as a distance of forty miles permits. She is currently serving as Y. W. M. LA. President. <_< Si uture Resol ve Hazel M. Thomson Dishes to be washed, Scrubbing to be done; Clothes to hang out, While yet there is sun. Socks to be darned, Shirts to be mended; Supper time comes, The work still isn't ended. I'd write the great verse, If there were hours to borrow, The words sing in my heart, I shall write them... Tomorrow. 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 Willard Luce JACKSON LAKE AND MOUNT MORAN, WYOMING H erita ge Leslie Savage Clark These are our common heritage— The scarlet autumn, spring; No man can fence bright April in, Nor cage the migrant wing. And hearts, alike, have common dower Of laughter, tears, and pain, The same deep need to share love's sun And pity's gentle rain. May God, in mercy, make us wise So, working hand in hand, We build a greater brotherhood In this beloved land, Page 87 She letherlands Nlission Preston R. Nibley HE first missionary to carry the gospel to the Netherlands was Elder Orson Hyde, a member of the original Council of the Twelve, who visited Rotterdam in June 1841, while on his way to Palestine to dedicate that land for the return of the Jews. In Rotterdam he became acquainted with a Jewish Rabbi, "to whom he explained the object of his intended trip to the Holy Land, and also testified of the restored gospel." Twenty years were to pass before other missionaries of the Church visited the Netherlands. At the annual conference of the Church, held in Salt Lake City in April 1861, two Elders, Paul Augustus Schettler and A. Wiegers van der Woude, were called to serve as missionaries in Holland. They arrived in Rotterdam in August 1861, and after spending a few days in that city proceeded on to Amsterdam, where they began their labors. Shortly afterwards Elder van der Woude traveled to Friesland to Photograph by Rinze Schippers Submitted by Ada S. Van Dam THE OLD GATEWAY (DELFTSEPOORT), DELFT, HOLLAND Page 88 THE NETHERLANDS MISSION 89 Photograph submitted by Ada S. Van Dam RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS IN VLAARDINGEN, THE NETHERLANDS Left to right: Ogtavie G. A. Van Wijnen and daughter Gabrielle; Marrigje A. Van Rosmalen and daughter Olga Maria. 'These two sisters take their children to kindergarten and then do their visiting teaching, traveling on bicycles. Visit relatives and, on October 1, 1861, he baptized three persons, two of whom were relatives, in the town of Broek, near Akkerwoude. 'These were the first baptisms in the Netherlands Mission. On December 23, 1861, Elder Schettler baptized three persons in Amsterdam; other conversions followed, and early in 1862 a branch of the Church was organized in that city. From 1861 to 1864 the Netherlands Mission was part of the Swiss and German Mission, but in the latter year a separate mission was formed. Belgium was later added to the Netherlands Mission, but it was transferred to the French Mission in 1923. The Book of Mormon was translated into the Dutch language in 1890, by Elder John W. F. Volker of Ogden. In 1896 a periodical was begun by the Church in Holland, entitled, De Ster, which has continued to the present time. There are now 3,254 members of the Church in the Netherlands Mission, located in twenty-six branches. The president of the Mission is Elder Rulon J. Sperry of Salt Lake City. 'Twenty-two Relief Society organizations were reported in December 1955, with 279 members. Lucy Emma G. Sperry presides over the Netherlands Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover of this Magazine is a view of a Grain Grinding Mill in Leiden, Holland. See also "Recipes From the Netherlands Mission," page 104. Values Derived From Reading Worthwhile Literature Thomas C. Romney Do not read good books—life is too short for that. Only read the best—Dimnet EVER before, perhaps, was there a greater need for emphasis upon the importance of having high class literature put into the hands of the children and young people than there is at the present time. Never have evildesigning individuals been more determined to foist upon the public their nefarious wares such as immoral literature, indecent films, and glaring tales of robberies and other crimes than now. Reports from juvenile court records throughout the land reveal the deplorable fact that juvenile delinquency is rapidly on the increase, manifesting itself in an ever-increasing number of homicides, thefts, and other infractions of the moral code. The chief responsibility for the prevention and correction of these evils must be placed upon the parents in the home. 'They, in the very nature of things, are the logical and inescapable guardians of their children. The family is the oldest and most fundamental of all social institutions, and here is laid the cultural, moral, and religious pattern in the child's life that will largely determine his future success or failure. There are no influences in the home so potent in the formation of the character of the child as the Page 90 example and the verbal teachings of its parents; but second only to these is, perhaps, the literature with which the child comes in contact through different media, such as retold stories, comic books, magazines, television, and radio. Of such grave import in the life and character of the child are these influences that the late President Joseph F. Smith was led to say: Books constitute a sort of companionship to everyone who reads, and they create within the heart feelings either for good or for bad. It sometimes happens that parents are very careful about the company which their children keep and are very indifferent about the books they tread. In the end the reading of a bad book will bring about evil associates. It is not only the boy who reads this strange, weird and unnaturally exciting literature who is affected by its influence, but in time he influences others. This literature becomes the mother of all sorts of evil suggestions that ripen into evil practices and bring about an_ unnatural and debased feeling which is ever crowding out the good in the human heart and giving place to the bad....... Let the Saints beware of the books that enter their homes, for their influences may be as poisonous and deadly as the adder... (Gospel Doctrine, pp. 324-325, 1952 Edition). In like strain, President David O. McKay, when a member of the Council of the Twelve, emphatically declared: VALUES DERIVED FROM READING Men in Israel, it is time that we take a stand against vile literature. It is poisonous to the soul. It is the duty of a parent to put the poison that is in the house, on the highest shelf, away from that innocent little child who knows not the danger of it. It is the duty of the parent also to keep the boy's mind from becoming polluted with the vile trash that is sometimes scattered—nay, that is daily distributed among us.... Teach your children, your boys and girls everywhere, to keep away from every bad book and all bad literature, especially that which savors of hatred, or envy, or malice, that which bears upon it the marks of hypocrisy, insincerity, edited by men who have lost their manhood (Liahona, vol. 8, page 310). HILE unfit literature has such a baleful influence upon the morals of the growing child, much can be said of the uplifting and wholesome influence of good, chaste literature upon his life. No child is likely to go far astray from the path of rectitude and virtue who, from his earliest childhood, has been reared in a home where there is daily reading of the scriptures and other good books as the Lord has directed:... Yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D. & C. 88:118). Said the great Roman orator, Cicero: There is nothing so charming as the knowledge of literature; of that branch of literature, I mean, which enables us to discover the infinity of things, the immensity of Nature, the heavens, the earth and the seas. This is that branch which has taught religion, moderation, magnanimity, and that has rescued the soul from obscurity; to make her see all things above and below, first and last, and between both; it is this that furnishes us wherewith to live well and happy, and guides us to pass our lives without displeasure and offence. 91 The Bible is such a book, and it has had a more powerful influence upon the lives of prominent men and women down through the centuries than all of the other great works of literature combined. There are few plays of the immortal William Shakespeare that do not bear the imprint of intensive reading of that sacred book; and the masterpieces of John Milton, "Paradise Lost" and 'Paradise Regained," have borrowed their most important characters and plots and much of their lofty style from the Holy Bible. By taking a glance at the founders and preservers of our great American Republic, we see that the vast majority were reverent men and intensive readers of the word of God. Such were George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, Abraham Lincoln, and others whose names loom large on the pages of early American history. Space will not permit an exhaustive survey of the literature read and absorbed by these men and its influence upon their lives, but by way of illustration, I submit a few examples from the life and utterances of the great emancipator, Abraham Lincoln. From his early childhood, Abraham had related to him by his mother the beautiful stories of the Bible. Later, as he developed into young manhood, he became a devout student of that holy record. The influence of that early training and profound study finds expression on almost every page of his letters and speeches later in life. We see this not only in the reverent and heartbreaking tenderness of his mes- sages, but in the strikingly clear and concise language in which he clothed his thoughts. NOTE the Christlike quality and directness of expression in the following letter addressed by him to a mother whose sons had been stricken down on the field of battle: Dear Madam: I have been shown in the files of the War Department a statement of the Adjutant General of Massachusetts that you are the mother of five sons who have died gloriously on the field of battle. I feel how weak and fruitless must be any word of mine which should attempt to beguile you from the grief of a loss so overwhelming. But I cannot refrain from tendering you the consolation that may be found in the thanks of the republic they died to save. I pray that our Heavenly Father may assuage the anguish of your bereavement, and leave you only the cherished memory of the loved and lost, and the solemn pride that must be yours to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of freedom. As he left his home in Springfield to assume the duties of the highest position that can be conferred upon a citizen of the United States, he bade farewell to his neighbors and fellow-townsmen in these touching words: For more than a quarter of a century I have lived among you, and during all that time I have received nothing but kindness at your hands. Here I have lived from my youth till now I am an old man. Here the most sacred trusts of earth were assumed; here all my children were born; and here one of them lies buried.... Today I leave you: I go to assume a task more difficult than that which devolved upon General Washington. Unless the Great God who assisted him shall be with and aid me, I must fail. But if that same omniscient mind and the same Almighty arm that directed and protected him shall guide and support me, I shall not fail; 1 shall succeed. Let us pray that the God of our fathers may not forsake us now. To Him I commend you all. Permit me to ask that with equal sincerity and faith you will invoke His wisdom and guidance for me. A classic example illustrative of well-nigh perfect literature and usually cited by critics of speech is Lincoln's Gettysburg address which I commend to the reading public. It would be an injustice to the memory of the Prophet Joseph Smith did I not call attention briefly to some of the beautiful literature contained in our modern sacred records. 'There is no more impressive and artistic language than is contained in Section 121 of the Doctrine and Covenants, written by the Prophet under the inspiration of the Almighty, while a prisoner in Liberty jail in Missouri. 'The same can be said of Section 76 of the same book, in which appears a graphic description of the three degrees of glory. And what has been said of The Doctrine and Covenants, can truthfully be claimed for The Book of Mormon and The Pearl of Great Price. The values to be gained from the reading of good literature may be summarized in a few simple statements. Such reading will stimulate growth of the intellect through putting one in touch with the wisdom of the ages, both past and present, and will give a foretaste of that which is to come through a perusal of prophetic utterances. In hours of discouragement and despondency, the spirit can be revived and a new courage inspired by the account of others who have similarly been de- 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 VALUES DERIVED FROM READING pressed but, by the exercise of sheer will power, have lifted themselves from the slough of despondency to an eminence of great achievement. Vicariously, one can see through the eyes of others the beauties of this world and can share in the adventures incident to travel in dif- 93 ferent lands and among varied and interesting races of people. Finally, the soul can be enriched and putified and a new faith and hope be born through the reading of the word of God as revealed to man in all ages of the world for the salvation of his children. What Mlakes a Happy Home Wilma Boyle Bunker | Fad night as I tucked the covers around my young son, he reached up and pulled me close to him for a goodnight kiss, and then suddenly asked, "Mother, what makes a happy home?' "Well, Son," I said, a little startled by his mature query, "I believe the most important thing in a happy home is love—love between the mother and father, and love among all the members of the family. "Then you have to have comradeship, with the whole family interested in each other, and part of the time interested in doing things together. "You have to have co-operation, too. A family in which each member is selfishly pulling for himself is never a happy one. "You need a sense of humor and lots of laughter. Trying moments averts many a Crisis. To be able to laugh during "You need to have time to relax. A family that is too busy to enjoy life is tense and irritable. "You need sentiment, too. Birthdays, graduations, achievements, holidays should be celebrated, snapshots and keepsakes treasured. "You need compassion and kindness inside the home, and lots of it outside. "Above all, you need to love your Heavenly Father and his Son, Jesus, so that you will love your neighbor. Home. Religion gives comfort and warmth, hope and faith, to a "So you see, Son, it takes a lot to make a happy home, much more than walls and roof, furnishings, and a family inside." > Giant Saguaros Ethel Jacobson Not fearful or importunate, They lift great arms on high In strength and calm as to uphold The azure-vaulted sky. Steadfast they rear through flood and drouth That ravage wasteland bournes— Rugged saguaros robed in might And majesty and thorns. Hearts United Frances C. Yost before the fireplace. Its cheerful warmth felt good on this cold February evening. Occasionally Calvin would reach down with the fire tongs and turn the log, burning on the hearth. Then, too, he would reach over and pat Susan's workworn hand as she rested it on the armchair. It had been quite sometime since either of them had spoken. Calvin wondered what Susan was thinking It wasn't like her to sit with her hands idle. Usually as they chatted in the evening, she crocheted or knitted. He hoped she was happy, that she was glad to share the September of her life with him. He remembered their wedding day, just a year ago. Valentine's Day seemed such an appropriate day to be married. Some of the children, his mischievous Carl and Susan's Roger, had decorated their car while they were being married. Calvin remembered so well the drawing on the back of the car. It was two hearts united, and with the words inside, "Just Married." Calvin looked over at Susan again. She seemed lost in thought as she watched the firelight. This wasn't much of a way to treat a lady on her wedding anniversary. If the car hadn't broken down, he could have taken her to a movie. But what Susan would like best, and Calvin admitted to himself that he would, too, would have been for the family, his grown children, and hers, to drop in and spend the evening. He had thought Page 94 Of: IN and Susan Deaton sat at the time of their marriage that all the children approved, but if they were happy about this second marriage, some of them would have called and wished them greetings today. Calvin looked again at Susan and spoke affectionately. "Susan, my dear, you are so quiet tonight. A penny for your thoughts." Te patted her hand tenderly. "T was thinking, Calvin, that it's been a good year for us. I was thinking that I'm very glad you proposed to me at that old-fashioned party, and that we chose Valentine's Day to be married." She sighed softly, "But I must admit [I'm disappointed that the children have forgotten entirely. If even one of them had remembered to call on our anniversary, it wouldn't be so bad." "Sometimes children are thoughtless. 'They don't mean to be, it's just that they are so busy living their own lives. You know how it is with growing children and all. If the old car hadn't quit on us, I'd ask the sweetest person I know, to go see a movie. Would you like to hop on a bus and go downtown to see a show?" "No, Calvin, I like it here, really. Except I'd like to see some of the family." Susan smiled sweetly and patted Calvin's hand. "Well, if my old jitney hadn't balked," Calvin said, "I would take you to see them all. We'd go calling from house to house like we did on Christmas morning." "That would be nice, but it's pleasant here by the fire. Perhaps HEARTS UNITED some of the family will think to call even yet this evening,' Susan assured him. "You've been so quiet, I got to wondering if you regretted marrying an old codger like me. Your children were mighty devoted to you. It wasn't my intention to come between you and your loved ones. But, by George, I don't know how I managed without you for those fifteen years," Calvin sighed. "I must admit, I've wondered this evening, if your family really likes me as a stepmother. Oh, they've treated me lovely, Calvin, really they have. But your girls did hover around and sort of pamper you all those years, and I've wondered if you've missed it. [| wonder if they sort of resent my taking their mother's place." Susan felt better now that she had aired her thoughts. She hoped Calvin would not misunderstand her. "Of course, my family loves you. They couldn't help loving you. You're so sweet-natured, and as for the girls not dropping in each day, it's just that you keep the house so spic and span, and keep cookies, pie, and cake around for my swecttooth, so that they don't need to come so often. But 1 did think some of the family would drop by today." Calvin could not hide his disappointment. (yh, I forgot to tell you, Calvin, your Carl did stop by this morning, right after you left for work. He asked if he could store some long picnic tables in our basement. He said Karen was making room in their basement for the children to roller skate and bicycle during the bad weather. I thought 95 it would be all right, so I told him to bring them in." "Sure, that's fine," Calvin replied. "It was sort of funny, though. My Roger had just been here a few minutes before that, and asked if we would mind if he stored some boxes and things in the basement." Susan laughed. "I hope you don't mind." "No, that's okay. There's plenty of room in the rumpus room. We don't have the parties there like we used to when the kids were home. I'm glad to help them out any way we can, but didn't either of the boys say anything? Didn't they even say happy anniversary, Mom?" Calvin questioned. "No, they didn't, Calvin. I guess that's what made me sort of down in the dumps. I've tried to shake it off all day, but, it just keeps coming back, try as I may." Susan looked at Calvin for some kind of reassurance. "IT guess we have to make our own happiness, Susan, not expect someone else to hand it to us like a valentine." Calvin was more setrious than usual. "IT guess you are right," Susan agreed. 'Then silence enveloped them as they each lived with their thoughts and watched the firelight glow. Yet they knew that real happiness includes outside contacts, knowing that loved ones love you and approve of your decisions. Perhaps the children hadn't approved of their marriage, and this was their way of showing it: this complete ignoring of their first anniversary! "Tm thinking too much and not working enough." Susan wiped an 96 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 escaped tear from her lashes, and picked up her crocheting from the end table. She watched her fingers work with the thread, the way she liked them to, but her mind kept dwelling on the family, the whole united family —hers and Calvin's children. It wasn't as if they lived a long way off—everyone of them was within driving distance. 'They knew that Calvin's car wasn't working, they knew the repair man had said it wasn't worth fixing. 'They could have dropped in if they had wanted to. Susan looked at Calvin, his gray, thinning hair was evidence of years of toil and service for his family and the community. She hated to have him hurt. For his sake, she wished his children would come by and wish them well. Calvin watched Susan crocheting and thought if only one of her children would come this evening, and let her know they were happy that she had remarried. Children shouldn't hurt their mother like this. It was like a sharp blade against Susan's heart, and there wasn't anything he could do about it. "Well, I'd better put another log on the fire, the evening is still young," Calvin said, rising from the chair. T was after he had placed the log and straightened up, that Calvin noticed a golden crimson light fall across the window, like the glitter on the cake of a centenarian. 'Then they heard some peculiar noise outside. Calvin looked quickly at Susan, then suddenly the front door burst open, and it seemed the very hosts of heaven' were shouting, "Happy Anniversary, Mother and Dad!" Their faces lighted up as they looked first at each other then at the throng of happy people tramping through the front door. They both were pale, but it was from pure joy. Calvin's children with their husbands and wives, and Susan's children with their husbands and wives, came marching in two by two, filling the room as Noah filled the ark. All were singing an unrehearsed song from an old familiar tune, every line ending with the words, "happy anniversary." As the large group of married young foiks circled the room, Calvin and Susan found themselves standing in the center of all of their loved ones. It was such a good feeling, having all the children together. 'They seemed like hearts united, as they grouped themselves according to age, like one big, happy family. When the song was finished, and the door closed against the evening's chill, Calvin's oldest boy, John, cleared his throat, a signal for complete silence. 'Then John acted as spokesman for the group. "Mother and Dad," he began, "in behalf of all of us, to show you our love, we want to give you a little present." 'There was a chuckle from the crowd, then John resumed his speech. "Well, it's sort of big, folks, we couldn't get it through the door, so if you'll step outside." John took Susan's arm and John's wife, Vera, took Calvin's, and they were ushered to the front porch, with all the others following. Outside it was so dark the stars seemed to pull the sky down close. 'Then someone turned on a spotlight at just the nght moment, and there in the driveway was a new red car, It HEARTS UNITED looked like a valentine all wrapped in cellophane and tied with ribbons. John handed them the biggest valentine they had ever seen, and attached to it were the keys to the car. Susan was overcome with joy. She looked at Calvin and gained strength. He was like a boy with his first ice skates at Christmas time. She thought her heart would burst with joy when she read aloud the card: "Roses are red, violets are blue, Valentine greetings to both of you." Then underneath in neat handwriting, with the signature of all of the two families, was the little message, "An anniversary gift from all of us." The group grew suddenly quiet, and Susan knew it was time to say something. She turned to Calvin. Susan was glad he had chosen to speak first, perhaps her heart would stop fluttering by the time he had finished. Calvin's voice choked as he spoke: "It's hard to tell all of you what this means to me. After driving a car for as many years as | have, a fellow sort of gets used to having one around that will run. I guess, even though I am getting along in years, I never figured I was quite old enough to start riding a bus all the time." Everyone laughed a little, and then Susan knew it was her turn to express her appreciation. "Children, all of you, my children, and Calvin's, and all of you dear, sweet sons and daughters-in-law, we want you to know we love you all very dearly. We appreciate your opening your purses and buying the car we so needed, but it's this coming to see us, this remembering...." 97 A lump rose in her throat and Susan knew she couldn't go on. Then Martin, who was always so understanding, came to her rescue and said, "We know, Mother." Then it was that three of the young men jumped in the back seat and insisted that Calvin and Susan take them for a ride around the block. Someone shouted from the porch: "Remember, just around the block, the party is only beginning." USAN felt it was just as well the tide was short, because Calvin was much too excited to do his best driving. When they returned, they found themselves being ushered down the basement to the recreation room. But she was not preparea for the surprise which greeted them. Everyone had been busy as beavers while they were driving around. 'The very picnic tables that Carl had brought over were set up, and the tables were decorated with valentines and cupids with arrows, and entwined hearts. Susan noticed that her son, Roger, was pulling folding chairs out of the boxes he had brought over to store that morning. How very stupid I have been, Susan chided herself. Then down from the kitchen came the girls, each wearing a little paper valentine apron, and carrying large platters of cold turkey, salads of all kinds, relishes, punch, and hot rolls. As they walked around the table hunting for their places, Susan could hardly hold back the tears of joy. Why the place cards were made from old photographs of each of them when they were children. She remembered the day Karen and Mary had come gathering pictures. It was right after the Christmas rush. Why, they had been planning this big party for a long, long time. It would take a long time of planning to... To buy a car. Susan knew, because even though all of the children were successful, they would have had to make some very dear sacrifices to present them with such a wonderful gift. OW could she ever have thought they were against her marriage to Calvin? Oh, how she had misjudged them! Susan caught Calvin's eye to sort of ask forgiveness for those moments of distrust. But he only winked back at her mischievously. The big dinner was topped with homemade ice cream and cake for dessert. Martin and June had brought a five gallon freezer and everyone else must have brought a cake, because there was such a variety of delicious ones. There followed a homey little unrehearsed program. It reminded Susan of the home evenings they used to have when the children were growing up, with each person participating, even though a little timid. Then the tables were folded up, and Carl laughed and said that he would get the tables out of their way one of these first days. 'They could have put a record on, but everyone seemed to want familystyle music. Ruth was ushered to the piano, Dick had brought along his violin, and Roger, the clown of the family, improvised a drum from some laundry equipment. Paul started calling for the square dancing. 'here were enough to make two full squares of dancers, even with the four-piece orchestra. After a square or two of dancing, Calvin's boy, Paul, came over and said: "Dad, Jet me dance with Mom, you call the changes lots better than I can." Susan felt light as a feather, and as young as any of them as one young man after another "promenaded the prettiest gal in town." But it was her heart that seemed the lightest, and dispelled entirely was any doubt but that the family was completely satisfied with their marriage. Then, only too soon, Susan and Calvin were standing in the doorway with arms entwined as they bade their children goodnight. Some jokingly said, "Good morning,' because it was more early than late. When the last car had driven away, they stood in the doorway, looking at the car, their anniversary gift. Neither of them spoke for some time. Words were not needed. The children hadn't forgotten; all was right with their world. "T'm glad their surprise went off so well. They did a lot of work and planning." Susan sighed. "Such a wonderful surprise as this was worth the little tinge of unhappiness we experienced the first of the evening," Calvin said. Then, as Calvin closed the door and they turned facing the glow of the warm fire, Calvin spoke for both of them: "And to think they all chipped in and bought that fine car for us. They just don't make better children than ours, Susan." "Yes, Calvin," Susan replied, "all hearts united." 98 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 Great Mlen Pray "THE TRUST OF A CHILD AT A MOTHER'S KNEE" Be Honest with Yourself RAYER provides one of the most joyful and, yet, challenging experiences that can come to women —that of teaching children to pray. The occasion of kneeling down with children or having a child at your knee is the beginning of a spiritual habit which, if cultivated, can be one of the greatest influences in the child's life. For this reason, a woman should regard the teaching of a child to pray as one of the sacred experiences of his childhood. It is often stated that the basic habits of life are established by the time the child reaches the age of six or when he starts going to school. The habit of conversing with our Father in heaven certainly is basic and essential to spiritual health. When a mother begins to teach a child to pray, she must pray with words that will be simple enough for the child to understand and try to pronounce correctly. Nevertheless, the words should be reverently spoken in such a way that the child will catch the spirit of prayer. Later, when a child begins to pray in secret by himself, he will repeat the same phrases and words which he has heard his parents use. 'These words and phrases may lose their meaning to a child through tepeated use. Therefore, words for prayers should be carefully selected and varied, in order that the child may gain a full insight to prayer and the power which comes spiritually from prayer. A mother and her child both receive abundant blessings from this enriching experience of learning to pray together. Great is the woman who _ has taught a child to rely faithfully on prayer as a source of strength, wisdom, and patience. And great ls the child spiritually, who has learned to do so. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 99 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeN oF ALL NATIONS" VIEW IN SWITZERLAND: We ascended the Rigi Kulen where we have a fine view of Eastern and Northern Switzerland. The eye sweeps over eleven lakes, plains and streams to the crest of the Jura mountains and over the Burnese Oberland Alps, a circuit of three hundred miles... Shining snow-capped peaks rise one behind another until the last is lost in clouds. —Kim RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN SANPETE STAKE: Counselor Abbie Shoemaker said "We come together to be fed with the bread of life. Let us be humble and seek for wisdom; if we have the spirit of God with us we will not have malice in our hearts, but will have a sisterly love."... Pres't Zina D. H. Young said she was pleased with the exertions of the sisters in getting houses to meet in.... Sister Annie Taylor Hyde of Salt Lake said if we would desire a double blessing we should attend our meetings. T'his Society was organized by the Prophet; we are being blessed as well as blessing, and it makes us better Saints.... —Maria Willardson, Stake Sec'y. TO DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP (on her Birthday) The sun sets in the crimson West; And Nature sinks to needed rest; As the floods of glory fill the air, So may thy life be now more fair, Till reaching out where the blue tints meet, May all thy joys be full, complete; — Thy aims, thy hopes, thy fondest dreams, Be glorious, bright, as the sun's last beams. —Lydia D. Alder A MONUMENT FOR HARRIET BEECHER STOWE: The children of Hartiet Beecher Stowe (author of Uncle Tom's Cabin) do not look kindly upon the proposition to erect a public statue of their mother. Her son, Rev. Charles E. Stowe, says it belongs to him and his sisters to erect whatever monument may be placed over their mother's grave.... —Woman's Journal THE NEW WOMAN: The new woman we shall consider, though, is not a new woman any more than the sun that shone today is a new sun or the stars that shine tonight are new stars. To one who has only begun to see they might all appear new, but they have ever existed, conforming always to God's immutable laws.... —Miss Elsie Ada Faust From an Address at the Alumni Banquet University of Utah Page 100 ISS EMMA LEAVENW ORTH, of Seattle, Washington, took up airplane flying at the age of fifty-seven. Now, at seventy-seven, she still flies, even solo. Among the first civilian pilots to volunteer for civil defense at the outbreak of World War II, she is still active in the Civil Air Patrol and subject to recall in an emergency. RS. LINNEA SETTERLIND MORRISON, a young widow with three children, while working for her bachelor of science degree in psychiatry and education at Gustavus Adolphus College, St. Peter, Minnesota, became converted to the gospel, along with her children. Now at Columbia University, New York, working for a master's degree in mental health and_ psychiatric nursing, she has been awarded the United States Public Health stipend ($2,400) for advanced study in her useful field. N Waco, Texas, Baylor University recently honored Mrs. Ruth Schick Montgomery—an alumna of its journalism department—as "an outstanding champion of truth and freedom." A correspondent for International News Service in Washington, D. C., she was awarded the honorary degree of doctor of laws. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RINCESS MARIE LOUISE, eighty-four, last surviving granddaughter of Queen Victoria, died in London December 7. The Royal Princess, democratic in manners and adventurous in spirit, traveled widely and wrote several books about her journeys. ARA NELSOVA, one of the world's greatest cellists, was guest soloist with the Utah Symphony in the Tabernacle for the world premiere of Dr, Leroy Robertson's "Concerto for Cello and Orchestra." The New York Times comments that she "can swarm all over the finger board without letting a single note drop. Few of her male colleagues can claim as much." Mes. GWEN (JAMES H.) SHERRAT of Cedar City, celebrated the centennial of the handcart pioneers by creating a handcart quilt with much originality and artistry. She stenciled sixteen blocks with textile paints, depicting the activities of the handcart women: laundering, cooking, combing hair, patching children's threadbare trousers, mourning for the dying, and, lastly, bowing their heads in prayerful thanksgiving for safe arrival in the Valley. 'The quilt took first prize at the Iron County Fair and also at the Utah State Fair. Page 10] CD EDITORIAL OO VOL. 44 FEBRUARY 1957 NO. 2 A Step Aside N life, which may become predominated with numberless daily tasks and responsibilities, discouragement comes easily; a gallant attitude may be lost and goals not realized. Objective thinking is oftentimes absorbed into the whirlpool of circumstantial emotional thoughts and, losing sight of the end, we may begin to think that the means are all important. It is then that we might step aside to take a different view. In the fall of the year, the grove of aspen on the mountain is a patch of gold in the brilliant color scheme of autumn. We view it as a whole unit. Within the grove, the trees stand out singly each with its own characteristics, and each tree, when considered by itself, is not perfect. We may not think that it contributes much because of details which we would call defects. Nevertheless, with the others, it produces a patch of beauty on the mountains. The opportunity isn't ours to step physically aside from life to get a different view of our own life with all the experiences blending together to make a complete and beautiful pattern. Each day a new situation arises in family life which carries its own importance. Sometimes, necessary daily tasks take on so much added meaning that their accomplishment appears to be an end in itself. Our attitudes are so inPage 102 fluenced by these daily events that our values may become changed. As a result, many times the ultimate end or goal is lost from view. However, we can take that step spiritually aside from life to view events, attitudes, and other elements in our pattern of life, if we will. 'To do so we should carefully analyze each element in the pattern of our life in view of its significance and ascertain its value by the true standards of measurements we have — those standards of measurements which are included in the gospel of Jesus Christ. The step spiritually aside can bring beauty into the pattern along with an appreciation for those small or simple things which are around each day — the sunrise, the plant life, the intricate structure of objects, and myriads of other details. In Gospel Doctrine (pp. 358-9) this thought is inspirationally stated: We should never be discouraged in those daily tasks which God has ordained to the common lot of man. Each day's labor should be undertaken in a joyous spirit and with the thought and conviction that our happiness and eternal welfare depend upon doing well that which we ought to do, that which God _ has made it our duty to do. Many are unhappy because they imagine that they should be doing something unusual or something phenomenal. Some people would rather be the blossom of a tree and be admiringly seen than be an endur- ing part of the tree and live the commonspiritual meditation can restore and "Let us not be trying to substitute an ing in life, and fresh courage and artificial life for the true one. He 1 Goniience to go forward, bringing truly happy who can see and appreciate the beauty with which God has adorned security and stability to Our that "the threads of life will run Moments spent stepping aside in appointed ways.'—J. N. Birthday Congratulations to Amy Brown Lyman, Former Relief Society General President E extend birthday congratulations and best wishes this February 7th, to our beloved former president, Amy Brown Lyman. Relief Society members in the stakes and missions of the Church are grateful for the many years of devoted service she has given to the work of Relief Society. Her presence was appreciated at the recent annual general conference of Relief Society, at the dedicatory services for the Relief Society Building, and at the reception for stake and mission officers. May she be blessed in the service she continues to give as literature class leader in her ward. Her devotion to Relief Society is an example to all. Dawn Castle Eva Willes Wangsgaard Dawn shone on hills along the west While east was draped in shrouds. An amber halo crowned each crest Beneath the smoke-blue clouds. It thinned the sky to lucent green And glowed with golden light, As though tomorrow could be seen While earth was blue with night. Agleam with dawn, the flour mill Was radiant and grand, A golden castle on a hill Called up from storyland. EDITORIAL place life of the tree's existence. — the commonplace things of life. 103 strengthen faith, give us new meanthoughts and actions — knowing Recipes From the Netherlands TThiescon Submitted by Ada S. Van Dam Rep CABBAGE (Roode Kool) Recipe given by Adriana Van der Waal 1 medium-sized head red cabbage salt and pepper to taste 1 large sour apple water % c. Uncooked rice 1 tbsp. Vinegar % tsp. Cloves Prepare the cabbage for cooking and then wash and shred. Cut the apple into slices, add the rice and cloves and enough water to cover. Steam for about two hours. Mash and add vinegar to restore color. Serve hot. Carrot, Potato, AND ONION STEW (Hutspot) Recipe given by Mevrouw Kraaij, cook at the Mission Home 3 Ibs. Large winter carrots 4 Ibs. Boiled potatoes 2 lbs. Onions salt to taste Add water to the sliced carrots and onions and cook about two hours. Then add the boiled potatoes and salt. Mash and serve with goulash gravy. GoutasH Gravy 2 Ibs. Beef cubes % |b. Butter or margarine 1 onion 1 bay leaf Brown the beef and onion. Add the bay leaf while browning the beef and onion, and then add water. Thicken with flour, salt, pepper, and water mixed to a smooth paste. Simmer two hours and serve over the Hutspot. Note: During the Spanish Inquisition, the people of the city of Leiden were on the verge of starvation. 'Their mayor, Burgemeister Adrian Van der Werf, heroically refused to let the people surrender. Just at the point of desperation, the Dutch were successful in breaking a dike, thus flooding the Spanish soldiers and forcing their hasty retreat. A little Dutch boy found some of the enemy's camp fires still burning on a little hill where the water had not reached. Hanging over the fires were kettles of "'Hutspot" that the soldiers were cooking for their supper. It was the first good food they had seen for weeks. On October 3d, Hutspot is still eaten in Holland, in memory of the brave people who had fought in the siege of Leiden. SAUERKRAUT (Zuurkool Stamppot) Recipe given by Marie Mook Use equal parts of sauerkraut and potatoes boiled separately. Mash potatoes. Combine potatoes and sauerkraut. Add cooked, sliced frankfurters. Season to taste and serve hot. Spxit Pea Soup (Erwten Soep) Recipe given by Mevrouw Kraaij 1 Ib. Lean pork 1 celery stalk 1 wienerwurst (substitute frankfurters) 2 potatoes 1% Ibs. Split peas 4 qts. Water 4 leeks (substitute onions) salt to taste celery leaves Page 104 RECIPES FROM THE NETHERLANDS MISSION 105 Pick over peas and wash. Add them to the water and soak for several hours. To this add the finely cut vegetables and cook. When the peas and vegetables are nearly tender, add the pork, and continue cooking. Simmer the wienerwurst separately for about ten minutes, then slice in small pieces and add to soup. Simmer soup for another fifteen minutes and serve hot. Rice Wit Curry Sauce (Rijst met Kerry Saus) Recipe by Mevrouw Kraaij Curry Sauce: 2 tbsp. Butter 4 bouillon cubes % onion 1 qt. Boiling water 1 tsp. Curry powder 14 tbsp. Flour Dissolve bouillon cubes in boiling water. Mix gradually and combine the flour with the broth. Brown the diced onion in butter and add to the broth; add curry powder. Meat balls, seasoned and cooked separately, may be added to the sauce. Simmer for one half hour. Serve over steamed rice. The following three recipes are served during the Christmas and New Year holidays in the Netherlands. Fruit-FItLep Puncu Bow. Strawberry or raspberry punch 2 cans tangerines base diluted with water, 7-Up banana slices or Sparkling Water orange slices 2 cans strawberries diced apples 2 cans raspberries chopped nuts, optional 2 cans cherries, pitted Add the fruit to the punch base and sparkling water. Serve cold in punch glasses. OLIEBOLLEN Recipe given by Mevrouw Kraaij 2 c. Flour "2 ¢. Currants and raisins 4 tsp. Baking powder ¥% c. Diced glazed fruit % tsp. Salt 1 medium-sized sour apple, diced 1 c. Milk salad oil for deep fat frying Sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt. 'Then add the milk, apple, currants, raisins, and fruit, and mix together, forming a soft dough. Using two teaspoons, drop small amounts of dough into hot oil. Cook until the balls become golden brown. Drain on unglazed paper. Sprinkle balls with powdered sugar. AppPLE RINGS (Appelbiegnets ) Recipe given by Mevrouw Kraaij 1 c. Flour 1 scant c. Milk 1 tsp. Baking powder 6 sour apples § P PP % tsp. Salt salad oil Sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Then add the milk, making a batter in which to dip the slices of apples. Each apple, uncored, should be sliced into about six slices. Cook the apple slices in the hot oil until the apple rings are golden brown. Drain on unglazed paper. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve while warm. A Flag for Utah Statehood Margaret G. Derrick probably never heard this little bit of history of the time when Utah became a state. I was then twenty years of age and took a small part in the making of this historical event. The people of Utah had waited long and patiently to enter the Union. At last the time had arrived. On January 4th, 1896, Utah was to become a state. There was a great deal of excitement in the anticipation of this event. Everyone seemed busy making ready for the big celebration that was to take place in the famous Tabernacle in Salt Lake City on Temple Square. People traveled many days from all parts of Utah to attend. Some came in surreys; some came in wagon boxes; some came on hayracks partly filled with hay to feed their horses. They parked their teams back of what was then the tithing office, which stood where the Hotel Utah now stands. Committees were appointed to prepare for this long-awaited event. One committee was headed by Hytum B. Clawson, a bishop of one of the wards. He said, "We will make an American flag, so the people of Utah will see for the first time the forty-fifth star, the Utah star, placed on the blue ground of our beloved American flag." This flag was marked and cut out by my brother, David Glade, and was to be made on the high-powered M pee people now living have machines in the Z. C. M. I. Cloth-.. Ing Factory. The flag was to be Page 106 150 feet long and seventy-five feet wide. 'The stripes were to be six feet in width, the stars, six feet from tip to tip. These dimensions were handed me by my brother on a little card that is now yellow with age. Six women were asked to make this flag. I was the youngest of the group. 'The other five were considerably older than I. The flag was made of good bunting and every seam was felled to give it strength. Placing the stars on the blue ground was the hardest and the most tedious part of the work. The blue ground was cut in blocks. Each block was large enough to contain a star; then the blocks were joined together. By this method we were able to do a better job of placing the stars in straight rows. It took one week for us, working eight to ten hours a day, to make the flag. When it was finished, it took eight strong men to lift it. We who worked on the flag were not told where it was to be placed. We knew it could not be placed on a flag pole. We were soon to find out that it was to be placed in the Tabernacle to form a ceiling. The blue ground was placed near the large organ, that is, in the northwest part of the Tabernacle. 'There were nine feet of space between the dome of the Tabernacle and the flag. When the air circulated through this space it caused the flag to ripple across the ceiling. What a beautiful sight! N the momentous day, I watched the flag as it rippled across the ceiling and tears filled my eyes and a A FLAG FOR UTAH STATEHOOD lump came into my throat. I felt this flag was saying, "Proudly I wave over you, home of the brave and land of the free.' Utah was certainly a home of brave pioneers who had suffered and come here to have freedom to worship. It came time for the ceremonies to begin. A large electric light had been placed back of the Utah star. The audience was seated and attention given to the speaker. Then the light was turned on, and the Utah star shone out bright and beautiful. The people wept with joy and were filled with humility, when they saw the Utah star with the stars of the other forty-four states of the Union. The dream of the people of Utah had come true. For the first time, the Utah star took its place on the blue ground of our beloved flag. Patience and hard work had been rewarded. For many years this flag had the distinct honor of being the largest flag ever made. Not until recent years have we heard of one larger. The flag stayed on the ceiling of the Tabernacle for one and onehalf years. It was then taken down and placed on the south outside wall of the temple, covering the en- 107 tire south wall. That was for July 24th, 1897 — celebrating fifty years since the coming of the first pioneers. We last saw the flag adorning the temple. Many prominent people have tried to find out what became of this flag, but have not succeeded. Sixty years ago there was no place to store such an immense thing. Families of five and six members were living in three small rooms. Wherever it could have been placed it would have deteriorated. This beautiful flag served well the purpose for which it was made. Many hearts were filled with joy and happiness as they looked upon it. As I write this, I am the only one living today who helped to make that flag that was the first to carry the forty-fifth star, the Utah star. I hope my grandchildren will remember that their grandmother sewed love into this famous flag. Let us all remember, as American citizens, that we are all makers of our beloved flag, for it is the symbol of faith, courage, and the love of God and our country in the hearts of each individual. Mav we always live up to these ideals. New Serial "The Bright Star to Begin in March A new serial ""The Bright Star," by Dorothy S. Romney will begin in the March issue of The Relief Society Magazine. With the Golden Gate, California, as its setting, the story tells of Kathy Tracy's search into the past to find her parents, and her integrity and courage in planning the course of her future. Dorothy S. Romney, the author, has previously been represented in the Magazine during 1954 and 1955 with her serial "Contentment Is a Lovely Thing.'"" Mrs. Romney was born in Logan, Utah, and attended Utah State Agricultural College. She is the widow of Elmer Romney and the mother of a thirteen-year-old son. Her stories and plays have appeared in many juvenile publications. Mary & Yones Dalton Finds Happiness in Her Hobbies LTHOUGH Mary E. Jones Dalton, Roy, Utah, is past eighty-nine years old, she never neglects her hobbies, or her "real" work. Making quilts is an activity which she calls her "incessant" hobby, and the exquisite tulip pattern illustrated in the picture is one of her favorite designs. This pattern enables Mrs. Jones to experiment with contrasting colors and with various tints of the same color in designing the tulip bouquets in their "pottery bowls.' She also crochets exquisite gifts in lacy starched designs and the popular "upstanding" patterns. Knitting and rug making are long-time hobbies, which provide some of the most useful gifts which Mrs. Jones so much enjoys giving to her many friends and relatives. She is the mother of nine children, grandmother to twenty-seven, great grandmother to fifty-six, and great-great-grandmother to eleven. She keeps up her own fiveroom home, rents an apartment, attends all her meetings, does temple work, and manifests such a keen and joyous interest in life that she "cuts circles" around many younger people. She has visited every temple except the Hawaiian, and the temple in Bern, Switzerland. When Portals Close Mabel Law Atkinson How beautiful are those we love When finite portals gently close And precious memories unfold Like petals of a perfect rose! Page 108 Bitter Medicine PART 2 Olive W. Burt Synopsis: Helen Lund for some time has been worried about a neighbor, May Turner, whose habit of gossiping may cause trouble in the community. At a P. T. A. Meeting, May tries to find out how the Carlsons financed a new Cadillac. Helen refuses to offer any information, but May hints that the car may have been financed by a crooked business deal. ELEN Lund did manage to forget about May 'Turner and her gossipy innuendoes for several days. 'Then, suddenly, she was brought face to face with them again. She was sewing a little costume for Jill to wear in the Primary playlet when the telephone rang. She lifted the receiver to hear Tess Carlson's voice, high-pitched and almost hysterical. "Helen? Helen, I'm so glad you're home. I'm coming right over. I've got to talk to you!" "Of course, Tess. Come on." Tess didn't wait for anything more. She slammed down her receiver and Helen, somewhat mystified, slowly replaced her own receiver in the cradle. 'wo minutes later Tess was at the door. As soon as Helen saw her neighbor's face her curiosity changed to alarm. "What is it, Tess? Has something happened to Jamie? Or to Jim? What is it?" "Oh, Helen, it's awful! I don't know what to do! I called Marge Lewis and she said to talk to you, you might know what it's all about. She said she saw you and May Turner talking at the P. T. A. Meeting and afterward someone said you were talking about Jim...." Helen's face flushed, and she was about to say, "I wasn't talking!" But before she could get the words said, Tess went on, '"Someone's been saying awful things about Jim —just because he bought a new " Gar.... "Well, if that's all," Helen interrupted, "you needn't get upset about it. It can't matter much." "Oh, can't it?" Tess cried. "You just don't know, Helen. Somehow Mr. Nestor — he's head of the law firm, you know, where Jim works — well, somehow he heard something. Goodness knows what! But this morning he called Jim into his office and said, 'What's this I hear about your being mixed up in some crooked uranium deal?' " "Oh, no!" Helen exclaimed. "It's not possible, Tess! It's just not possible!" Tess nodded her head and tears filled her eyes. "That's what he said to Jim—to my Jim! And Jim just stood there with his mouth open. He didn't know what Mr. Nestor was talking about, and when he told Mr. Nestor he didn't have any idea what he was getting at, he still acted suspicious." Tess flopped down onto the settee and began to sob. "Jim phoned me. He's awfully upset, and I called Marge to see if she'd heard anything and she told me to talk to you. Oh, Helen, what is it? Crooked uranium deal — I never heard of Page 109 110 _ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 such a thing! We don't even have any uranium stock, or anything!" "Listen, Tess," Helen said quietly. "Let me tell you exactly what was said at the P. T. A. Meeting, and maybe we can get some idea...." Briefly she outlined May's attempts to extract information and the woman's carelessly tossed bait that Jim must have made some money in a crooked uranium deal. "She didn't really mean it, Tess. She was just saying that to try to get something out of me. It was too silly. I guess some of the women standing nearby could have heard her, but no one — not a single soul would believe it for a minute. We all know Jim...." "Well, someone believed it and passed it on for the truth. And somehow it got to Mr. Nestor, and now, maybe, Jim will not be made a partner." "Not on a mere rumor like that, Tess. You tell Jim exactly what happened and have him explain it to Mr. Nestor. Tell him to keep calm, treat it for just what it ls, some gossipy woman's careless remark. Everything will be all right. I know it will, Tess. Jim isn't home now, is he?" Tess shook her head. "Well, then, dry your eyes. I've just made a lemon-meringue pie, your favorite, Tess. Ill go cut us each a slice, and we can think about something more pleasant than that silly talk." Tess couldn't resist the comfort of Helen's delicious pie, but she wasn't entirely consoled. As she ate, she said thoughtfully, "Something ought to be done, Helen. Really. It's getting past a joke — we simply can't keep on ignoring this sort of thing. May Turner will have to be cured!" The tears flooded her eyes again. Helen shook her head determinedly. ""The best way to cure this is to ignore it," she advised. "Believe me, Tess, that's the only thing to do. I know none of our crowd would repeat anything malicious — and you know it, too. We'll just forget May and all her talk." ELEN had reason to wonder about the wisdom of this advice a day or two later. Jill was ensconced in their cheerful kitchen eating her after-school snack while Helen balanced a cake on one hand, as with the other, she swirled rich frosting over the sides. Jill watched her mother, her eyes big and round as she munched a cookie and washed it down with milk. Finally she asked casually, '""Mommy, when is Daddy going to jail?" Helen gave a start and _ nearly dropped the cake. She stared at her daughter, open-mouthed. 'Then, remembering that the first duty of a parent was to show no alarm over a child's questions, she smiled cheerfully. "What a silly question, ill!" "It's not silly, Mommy. Teddy Turner told me at school. He said Daddy might go to jail any day now, and he wants to know if he can go with us when we go to visit him, 'cause Teddy's never seen the inside of a jail." "Neither have you, darling, and neither have I, and neither has Daddy. And we never shall, I imagine. 'Teddy was teasing you, jill." "No, he wasn't teasing, Mommy. He told me. He said he heard his BITTER 'MEDICINE mommy talking on the phone and she said she wouldn't be s'prised if Daddy was found out and sent to jail. What did he do, Mommy, to be found out?" Helen set the cake down carefully. She waited a moment to get control of the surprised anger that flared through her whole being. Then, forcing her voice to sound casual and unconcerned, she said, "Teddy's a joker, darling. His mommy was just playing a game. You shouldn't listen to such - silly things." "How can I help listening when Teddy is talking straight to me?" Jill asked reasonably. "All the kids were listening, too. We couldn't help it. And he wasn't playing a game...." "jill, listen to Mommy. When folks say things like that they are playing a game — a silly, naughty game. They're trying to make you scared or angry." She sat down beside her daughter. "Look at Mommy, Jill. You've seen naughty boys tease a kitten, haven't you? Just to make it squirm or squeal?" Jill nodded thoughtfully. "Well, Teddy was just teasing you. But instead of pulling your hair to make you cry, he just told you stories to make you excited about Daddy. They were just stories, Jill." "You mean lies, Mommy?" "Yes," Helen said firmly. "They were lies, naughty lies. Now you drink up your milk and skedaddle outside. Jumping the rope.' UT when Jill was outside, Helen sat down and stared at the wall. Pay no attention, she had told Tess the other day and Jill today. Pay. It's a lovely afternoon - Ml no attention. But what good was that doing? May Turner's gossiping was getting out of hand. When it threatened a man's job, when it invaded the school playground, something must be done. Obviously, paying no attention was too mild a pill for May's disease. Something stronger was required. And it was imperative that something be done immediately. With the school bazaar coming up, the P. T. A. Members would be thrown together day after day in work sessions. May would have unusual opportunities to carry on her malicious work. And how vicious it was! Helen thought, wrathfully. Just because she had refused to discuss a neighbor's affairs, her whole family was being involved — Tony and Jill, absolutely innocent victims. May must have been spreading her poison by the telephone route. Helen could almost hear her, "Oh, Josephine, have you heard what everyone is saying? I don't believe it, of course—it's just gossip. But then, where there's smoke there's fire, I always say. And there certainly is smoke! No, I wouldn't want you to repeat it. I never say anything but good about my neighbors," and then a malicious giggle. "Listen...." Helen shook herself angrily. Yes, something must be done. Her eyes shifted from their fixed gaze at the wall and roamed around the room, seeking inspiration, help. But there was nothing in that bright, gay kitchen, filled with sunlight and the good smell of cooking, to suggest how to combat this dark evil. Helen's eyes came to the window, where her colored glass reflected the afternoon sun in myriad colors. She smiled in spite of her worry, as she always smiled when she looked at that pretty window with its old glass, much of which had_ been toted across the plains by her own ancestors. And then suddenly her roving glance stopped and settled on a little figurine that stood between the two red cologne bottles of her own great-grandmother. It was a cheap little ornament that her grandmother had given her when she was no older than fill. She had treasured it ever since, and had placed it there among her colored glass so that she could see it every day. She smiled now, remembering what her grandmother had said. "Keep this where you can always see it, Helen, and it will help you to be the kind of girl Grandma will be proud of." Helen went to the window and lifted down the little ornament. Holding it in her hands she repeated aloud her grandmother's words. "These three little monkeys have names, Helen. 'They are: Hear-NoEvil, See-No-Evil, and Speak-NoEvil. Make them your friends and your example." Suddenly Helen laughed, a clear, ringing laugh. "Yes, Grandma, darling," she said, "your three little monkeys have been a great help in keeping me from gossip. And now, perhaps, they will help someone else. For I have an idea! Thanks Grandma, thanks!" Smiling, Helen replaced the three little monkeys in their accustomed place on the window shelf. (To be concluded) She Voice of Peace Isabelle Jensen Oh, listen to the voice of peace; It fills the courts above, And whispers in the lonely vales Of thy redeeming love. On every leaf and tuft of moss, It scribes a pledge divine, Points to the vales beyond the grave Beyond the sands of time. Oh, listen to the voice of peace; The sylvan echoes clear Reach out beyond the ebbing tide, To noble spirits dear. The minstrels waft it far and wide, On life's unbounded shore; Oh, listen to the voice of peace, Till time shall be no more. 112 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 Candy for Valentine s Day Mary J. Wilson Motasses TAFFy 1 ¢c. Sugar 3 tbsp. Butter % c. Water 1 tsp. Vinegar 1 c. Light molasses % tsp. Salt Mix sugar, molasses, salt, vinegar, and water in pan. Cook to 242°F. (firm ball). Add butter and cook to 265° (very hard ball). Pour into lightly buttered shallow pans, let stand undisturbed until cool enough to handle. Butter hands lightly, pull until candy has a satin-like finish and is elastic. Pull out into thin rolls, cut with scissors, then Wrap in wax paper. IcELAND Moss (Hard Candy) 4 Cc. Sugar 1 tbsp. Anise extract 2 c. White syrup red coloring 1 c. Water Combine sugar, syrup, and water and cook to 310°. Do not stir while cooking. Add anise extract and desired red coloring. Mix well. Pour onto marble slab. When slightly cooled, pass well-oiled candy knife under the mass of candy. Cut into squares. Wrap each piece individually. StuFrrep Date Drops 1 Ib. Pitted dates (about 70) 1% c. Sifted flour 1 egg % tsp. Baking powder 13 oz. Package pecan nuts "2 tsp. Salt % c. Shortening % c. Commercial sour cream % c. Brown sugar Stuff dates with nut halves. Cream shortening and sugar until light. Beat in egg. Sift dry ingredients, add alternately with sour cream to creamed mixture. Stir in dates, drop on greased cookie sheet, a date per cookie, and bake in 400° oven for eight to ten minutes. Cool and top with panocha icing. Panocua Icinc 1 c. Brown sugar (packed) " ¢. Butter % c. Milk 1% to 2c. Confectioner's sugar Melt butter in saucepan. Add brown sugar. Boil over low heat two minutes, stirring 'constantly. Stir in milk. Bring to boil, stirring constantly. Cool to lukewarm. Gradually add confectioner's sugar. Beat until thick enough to spread. If icing becomes too stiff, add a little hot water. Atl Aitic Sreasure Maude Rubin Paper lace — a bleeding heart Pierced by Daniel Cupid's dart— Clasping hands, forget-me-nots, A dove of peace for happy thoughts— Faded writing, cramped and fine— All on Grandma's valentine! Page 113 AC Explore the Upstairs Zipporah Layton Stewart T'S lonesome up there now—but || the rooms are filled with things and memories that "bless and burn." Guess I never would go up those well-worn steps again, if it were not to lay away a quilt or to spray mothproofer on the blankets that are stored on the closet shelves, and seldom used now that the boys and Mary are gone away. It's an interesting place up there. Somehow, through the years I have never cared to change or make it modern and pretty, as most folks have done with unused bedrooms. The scars of electric train tracks and mechanical toys are on the linoleum floors, and, in a large dark closet under the roof, two electric trains and yards and yards of shining track silently wait to be polished and oiled and played with again. In that same attic closet, a dozen or more automobiles, perfect replicas of past models, are waiting. Then there are the windup toys — Amos and Andy and their famous Ford, a negro toe dancer, and a large singing top, waiting patiently to be wound up again to thrill a younger generation who may play with them and find interest and curiosity in their antiquated styles and colors. In an old steamer trunk at one end of the long closet, I peek in at Mary's dolls — dolls of the past, baby "wetum" dolls, dolls of other nations, character dolls, a pretty standup doll, with a blue dress given her by the captain on the "Lurline," and, last, the lovely keepsake "Horseman" doll sent to her from Hawaii Page 114 by John when he was on his mission. 'They, too, wait patiently in the trunk for a new little girl's arms to love and play with them again. Hanging on the wall and in corners of this large closet are boxing gloves, fencing swords, a bow made from Osage orange, and a quiver filled with arrows, waiting since Boy Scout days to be used again. On the long high closet shelf I find some tennis shoes, a pair of track shoes — and one pretty pair of white shoe skates — Mary's last pair before she went away to college. Hanging on the long rod beneath the shelf, along with costumes and other clothes, are some pretty evening gowns and three or four lovely bridesmaids' dresses; one especially pretty lavender taffeta, a soft, creamy yellow one, and the pink and white net worn at Helen's and Dick's wedding during wartime when taffetas and satin were not so plentiful. These, now old-fashioned frocks, are just waiting. I love to touch them, and caress their soft, silky folds. They, too, bring a flood of pleasant memories, and, for some reason, I do not care to use them for the material alone. Two bedrooms open up together. They were the places where the boys slept, and the neighbor boys played on stormy days. 'The beds are made up with fresh linen now waiting to be occupied by their original owners when they return on an occasional visit. The bookshelves along one end of the west room are filled with all | EXPLORE THE UPSTAIRS the books of their childhood days. Mother Goose books, Hans Christian Anderson's stories, Arabian Nights stories, beautifully illustrated by Howard Pyle, Joel Chandler Harris' book about Uncle Remus, Bible stories, Robert Louis Stevenson's stories, and poems and books about animals by Ernest Thompson Seton. At the other end, are shelves with books of high school and college days, the classics, law books, art books, a few fine old novels and books on war and adventure — books and stories to satisfy the interests of all of them, waiting to be opened, read, and loved again. HE walls of these two bedrooms are interesting, too. 'They are not adorned with pretty pictures, but with framed certificates, and diplomas from high school and college, Priesthood quorum awards, fraternity initiation certificates, law school diplomas, and, hanging proudly above them all, a certificate of life membership in the National Rifleman's Association issued to one boy in 1949. In a small drawer in the dresser of the west room I find a number of prized trophies from small arms clubs and rifle and pistol associations. In another larger drawer I see the gas masks used by John and Dick when they were gunners on B-12 bombers during the war, and, tucked in a corner of this same drawer, is a small black book with a diary or log of Dick's missions over Germany. A brief story of each mission is outlined, telling the target, the weather, the take-off, his personal feelings, and results. The last story is not complete, and I remember that on this mission they were shot down over Germany 115 and did not return to the base in England. For a moment I find myself pausing to thank God that his life was spared through that tertible ordeal. In another drawer I find the precious war letters tied in a tight bundle with a string. Among them I find the cablegrams sent on our birthdays and Mother's and Father's Days. 'Those yellow ships of paper reminded us that we were never forgotten. They were so very young and so far away. Not all of the letters are in this bundle, just the ones I especially wanted to keep, the more intimate ones—when each boy seemed to pour out his heart a bit about his religion or his longing for home, or a farewell letter as he was departing for overseas. These letters, though not so postmarked, came from all over the world. In this drawer, also, I find three certificates of honorable release from the Air Corps and Navy and a few badges and trophies for deeds well done while they were serving their country. In another trunk in the far end of the closet I open and look over and spray with mothproofer two Army Air Corps suits and one beautiful suit of navy blue with overcoat to match made from Australian wool and purchased especially for Birge to come home in. Yes, that trunk is filled with memories, too. Well I could reminisce forever telling about the treasures and memories in those upstair rooms. Guess I'll go up those stairs again and again, when I feel a bit sentimental, and want another visit with Mary and the boys. F (frores |] FROM THE Frere All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Phyllis D. Smith CULF STATES MISSION, SOUTH TEXAS DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR CONFERENCE AT CORPUS CHRISTI, October 21, 1956 Front row, seated, beginning second from the left: Nancy Elliff, President, Corpus Christi Branch Relief Socicty; Phyllis D. Smith, President, Gulf States Mission Relief Socicty; Mae Pool, President, South Texas District Relief Society, and chorister for this group; Mary Toyn, President, Victoria, 'Texas, Branch Relief Society. Shirley Clifton at the organ. President Phyllis D. Smith reports that this group presented the music for the conference sessions when Elder Alma Sonne and Sister Sonne visited the mission. Page 116 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 117 Submitted by Mabel H. Pond BENSON STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, October 28, 1956 "All nine wards of Benson Stake were represented in the Singing Mothers chorus of eighty voices, that presented music at both general sessions of stake conference in October," reports Mabel H. Pond, President, Benson Stake Relief Society. Leora Smith directed the chorus, with Myrl Kendell as pianist, and Adonia Dennis as organist. Submitted by Roma C. Esplin ST. GEORGE STAKE (UTAH), LEEDS WARD VISITING TEACHERS ESTABLISH ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR SEVEN YEARS December 1956 Front row, left to right: Etta Mariger; Margaret Hartley; Druie Bradshaw; Ruth Porter; Dallice Hartman (deceased since picture was taken); Ethel Stirling; Hazel McMullin. Second row, left to nght: Karma Sorenson, Blanche Eastman; Jessie Eagar; Ellen Savage; Lula Sullivan; Geraldine Stirling; Ethel George; Helen Stirling. Back row, left to right: Evelyn McMullin, President, Leeds Ward Relief Society; Rose Hartley; Wilma Beal; Marguerite Smith; Pearl Hafen; Kate Allen; Maida Sullivan. Visiting teachers not in the picture but who helped in achieving this record are Louise Stirling, Mildred Dalton, Daisy Boulton, Thelma Holden, Zella Allen, Tana Sullivan, Lillian Stratton, Iris Millett. Roma C. Esplin is president of St. George Stake Relief Society. 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 Photograph submitted by Edith Hubbard BANNOCK STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTITERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Front row, seated, beginning third from the left: Shirley Hubbard, pianist; Edsel Prescott, organist; Edith Hubbard, President, Bannock Stake Relief Society; Ruth Jenkins, director of the chorus.: Sister Hubbard reports that all five wards of Bannock Stake were represented in this chorus. "These busy mothers have prepared music for the fall conference for the past five years," Photograph submitted by Lenore G. Merrill LONG BEACH STAKE (CALIFORNIA), LONG BEACH FOURTH WARD OPENING SOCIAL IN FORM OF A POLITICAL CONVENTION September 25, 1956 Scated in front, at the right: Maude Rowan, President, Long Beach Fourth Ward Relicf Society; Arden Arnold, social scicnce class leader; Katherine Poole, literature class leader, who planned and wrote the program for the social. Sister Rowan reports the successful efforts of this ward in securing an increase in membership: 'We started our membership drive by dividing our visiting teaching districts into cleven groups, giving cach a name... Each chairman selected a color from construction paper and made a campaign button for each of her group to wear. Large banners were made for each group, and also three slogan banners... Each chairman NOTES FROM THE FIELD 119 personally visited cach woman on her district besides the regular visiting teachers going to see the ladies. We sent out invitations also, and then there was a notice in our Sunday pamphlet. Notice was also given from the pulpit, that every lady was invited.. We made a beautiful banner of blue satin trimmed in gold fringe and gold lettering. This will be hung on the wall and each group that has the largest attendance that weck will have its name on the banner. We will have rallies during the year. There were two parties—the Relief Society Party and the Excuse Party. When all ballots were counted, the Relief Society party had 102 votes and the Excuse Party, one vote." Lenore G. Merrill is president of Long Beach Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Sylvia Stone TONGAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENT VISITS SCATTERED ISLAND RELIEF SOCIETIES, November 1956 Sister Sylvia Stone, President, Tongan Mission Relief Society, writes about the modes of travel which she uses to visit the meetings of Relief Society sisters on the various 'Tongan islands. She reports: "... On the main island we have a car that takes us to most of the branches; there are a few, however, to which we have to walk during the rainy season.... This picture was taken on the island of Eua, the only Tongan island with mountain streams.... I have had no alternative so I have made the trip horseback. On this occasion two Catholic sisters, who are from America... Heard I was coming and sent their buggy for me to ride in. About half way we passed their home, they had the American flag waving from their window and invited us in to have a dish of ice cream.... We were able to hold a wonderful conference with the saints there, and I was happy to hear of their work in the Relief Society." In the picture, left to right, are the driver; Sister Stone; Lois Humphries; Fred W. Stone, President, Tongan Mission; E. Morton, with Lavina Bird, behind Brother Morton. 120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 Photograph submitted by Nannah C. Stokes IDAHO FALLS STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSICAL NUMBERS FOR STAKE CONFERENCE AND TRISTATE CONVENTION October 1956 Evelyn Hook, stake organist, and Edna Johnson, stake chorister, are seated on the front row at right. Nannah C. Stokes, President, Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports the activities of the Singing Mothers: "This chorus furnished the music for the October stake quarterly conference. 'They also sang two numbers at a tri-stake convention in August. 'There are seventy members in the chorus; however, all were not present when the picture was taken." Submitted by Zina R. Engebretsen NORWEGIAN MISSION, BERGEN BRANCH, SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR DISTRICT CONFERENCE, November 1956 Front row, left to right: Selma Grimstad; Ragnhild Sunde; Jenny Lohne; Zina R. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 121 Engebretsen, President, Norwegian Mission Relief Society; Linea Hansen; Annie B. Olsen; Mary Pedersen. Second row, left to right: Ella M. Synnestvedt; Elly Michelsen; Inger Hoff; Berith Folkedel; Gunvor Watne; Odlaug Mork Pedersen; Inger Olsen; Milly Bjorndal, conductor. Back row, left to right: Margit Michelsen; Edith Pedersen; Turid Waage; Klara Hitland; Ellen Andreasen; Anna Fuge. Sister Engebretsen reports that this is the "first Singing Mother group ever to sing for any occasion in the Norwegian Mission. The group is from Bergen, one of the larger branches on the west coast of Norway." Photograph submitted by Annie B. Larson WESTERN CANADIAN MISSION, EDMONTON SECOND BRANCH CONDUCTS SUCCESSFUL CHILDREN'S FASHION SHOW AND BAZAAR, November 3, 1956 Sister Annie B. Larson, President of the Western Canadian Mission Relief Society, reports that a very successful bazaar was held by the Relief Society of Edmonton Second Branch on November 3, 1956, under the direction of Sister Hattie Jensen, President of Edmonton Second Branch Relief Society, and her counselors, Marguerite Low and Ella Sherwood. Sister Larson writes: "The bazaar featured a children's fashion show (shown in the picture), a sale of children's clothing, handwoven baskets, copper tooling, petitpoint, quilts, embroidered linens, aprons, lingerie, homemade candies and baked goods, doll clothes, cookbooks, and novelties. There was a fish pond for the children. A delicious lunch was served. "The purpose of the Bazaar was two-fold: to raise necessary funds to carry on the work of the organization and to sponsor love and good fellowship among the sisters by working in unity for a common cause," Photograph submitted by Rita H. Stone SAMOAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY DISTRICT PRESIDENTS Front row, seated, left to nght: Alisa Fitisemanu, Vaiola District; Lisi Su'a, Falelima District; Sia'a Purcell, Siumu District; Vaovai Tu'ala, Vailuutai District; Mua Lulualii, Malie District. Back row, standing, left to right: Pelese Nunn, Manu'a District; Usuia Alofipo 'Toso, Fagamalo District; Mele Tafua, Mapusaga District; 'T'aupaolo 'logia'l, Sauniatu District; Valila Fonoti, Pago Pago District; Alataua Soli, Pesega District; Jane Moors, Secretary, Samoan Mission Relief Society; Rita H. Stone, President, Samoan Mission Relief Society. Sister Stone reports: "Our Relief Society conference was very inspirational. We have an enrollment of 646 in the Samoan Islands of the Mission, and there were 456 present at the meeting. Each district was represented by its Singing Mothers group. It was a thrill to have them all together." ~~ Lt Js Love Gene Romolo It is love that knows the word to speak, To increase hope and courage in the meek. Love's inspiration creates smiles and song, And helps us cleave to right and conquer wrong. It is love that glorifies each day, And sees some good in all along life's way— Even those whose fect have never trod The faith-paved way that Icads mankind to God. It is love that tunes the soul to be In harmony with tones of Deity— For it is only love that can impart A Chiist-like fortitude unto the heart. 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 LESS N DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 48—"A New Witness for Christ" Elder Leland H. Monson For Tuesday, May 7, 1957 Objective: To show that firm testimonies of the divinity of Christ and rich blessings come to those who study The Book of Mormon with a prayerful heart and practice its teachings in their lives. OW that we have completed our study of The Book of Mormon and have read its pages according to the instructions of Moroni, we are entitled to the promised blessings: And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost (Moroni 10:4). We should not expect the fulfillment of the promise, however, if we have not met all of the conditions. We must have asked the Eternal Father "'... With a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ.. 2" and we must have read the book. As we contemplate the message of this great book, we should become convinced that Latter-day Saints do not need to rely upon external evidence, powerful as_ it is, to gain a testimony of the book. We can, from following Moroni's exhortation, know that it is all that it purports to be, a record of the Jaredites and the Nephites and the Lamanites, divinely preserved and brought forth in this, the last dispensation of the fulness of times to reaffirm and_ re-establish in the minds of men "... That Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God, manifesting himself unto all nations..." (Title Page of The Book of Mormon). The record contains the fulness of the gospel as delivered to the Nephites, and will, according to the Prophet Joseph Smith, bring us, by following its precepts, nearer to God than any other religious book. The Prophet Joseph Smith wrote: Page 123 . I told the brethren that the Book of Mormon was the most correct of any book on earth, and the keystone of our religion, and a man would get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts, than by any other book (D. H. C. IV, page 461). President Joseph F. Smith stated that The Book of Mormon is:. The only book written which has the personal endorsement of God by His voice (The Voice From the Dust). And President Heber J. Grant, informing us about his experience with The Book of Mormon, wrote: As a boy of fifteen I read, carefully and prayerfully, the Book of Mormon, and there came into my heart an abiding and firm testimony of its divine authenticity. From that day to this its wonderful teachings have been a comfort, a blessing and a guide to me. I thank God from the bottom of my heart that I read the life of Nephi in my youth. I fell in love with him then, and his life has influenced mine for good more than that of any other character in ancient history, sacred or profane—save only the Redeemer of the world (The Voice From the Dust). In an article entitled, "Books That Influenced America," a selection was made of the one hundred books printed before 1900 which had the most influence on the life and culture of the American people. In a chronological list of the books appears the name of The Book of Mormon. This book, however, has not only had an influence upon the lives of Americans, it has influenced all others from the various countries of the world who have accepted its truth and embraced its teachings. In the 126 years since the first edition appeared, over 2,500,000 copies of The Book of Mormon have been printed. With the possible exception of the Bible, The Book of Mormon has been translated into more languages than has any other book. Currently, editions of the book are available in twenty-one different languages: English, Danish, German, French, Italian, Welsh, Hawaiian, Swedish, Maori, Dutch, Samoan, Tahitian, 'Turkish, Japanese, Czechoslovakian, Armenian, Portuguese, Tongan, Deseret Alphabet, Spanish, Norwegian and Braille. It has also been translated into Hindoostani, Hebrew, Russian, Finnish, Hungarian, Serbo-Croatian, Filipino, Bulgarian, and Greek. However, it has not, as yet, been published in these languages. 'Thus we see that The Book of Mormon has gone forth as a. Messenger of the truth to many peoples of many lands testifying of the divinity and resurrection of Jesus Christ. The Book of Mormon As a Witness for Christ Throughout The Book of Mormon history the prophets taught the peoples on this Western Hemisphere about the coming of the Savior, his mission here upon the earth, and the fact that, after his resurrection, he would visit the people on the Western Hemisphere. On this continent, as on the eastern, Jesus manifested himself from time to time to his faithful servants, before his coming in the flesh. He was the guide of his people, the guardian of the church and the revealer of the mind and will of the Godhead (Dictionary of The Book of Mormon, by Elder George Reynolds, page 133, 1954 edition). When Jesus appeared unto the Nephites in the flesh he did so as a glorified, resurrected Being coming out of the heavens. He 124 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT stretched forth his hand to the multitude saying:... Behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me, and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all things from the beginning. And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words the whole multitude fell to the earth; for they remembered that it had been prophesied among them that Christ should show himself unto them after his ascension into heaven. And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto them saying: Arise and come forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints of the nails in my hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the God of Israel, and the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for the sins of the world... And this they did do, going forth one by one until they had all gone forth, and did see with their eyes and did feel with their hands, and did know of a surety and did bear record, that it was he, of whom it was written by the prophets, that should come (3 Nephi 11:11-15). After Jesus' ministry here upon the earth, he continued to guide and direct the Nephite peoples, manifesting himself from time to time unto his chosen prophets. Moroni testifies of this, for in his farewell to the Gentiles he writes: And then shall ye know that I have seen Jesus, and that he hath talked with me face to face, and that he told me in plain humility, even as a man telleth another in mine own language, concerning these things: And now, I would commend you to seek this Jesus of whom the prophets and apostles have written, that the grace 125 of God the Father, and also the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, which beareth record of them, may be and abide in you forever. Amen (Ether 12:39, 41). The Book of Mormon As a History The Book of Mormon is a history of ancient peoples upon the American continent. It portrays their problems and struggles, the exhortations of their prophets and leaders, and the ministry of the resurrected Savior among them as he organized his Church and established its principles and ordinances. Those principles which governed and promoted successful and happy living among those ancient peoples have not changed. The truths are eternal. Father Lehi, in teaching his children, said, "... Men are, that they might have joy' (2 Nephi 2:25); and each succeeding prophet throughout the entire scripture relates how this joy may be obtained, not only in this life but in the life to come. The mighty prophet, Alma, expressed this fundamental truth in these words:. Inasmuch as ye shall keep the commandments of God ye shall prosper in the land... For I do know that whosoever shall put their trust in God shall be supported in their trials, and their troubles, and their afflictions, and shall be lifted up at the last day (Alma 36:1, 3). Alma says that through following this advice, "... The Lord doth give me exceeding great joy in the fruit of my labors" (Alma 36:25). (See also Alma 41:5-7; Mosiah 1:7; 2 Nephi 1:20; 1 Nephi 22:31; 1 Nephi 4:14.) Contents of The Book of Mormon The Book of Mormon was translated in a little over two months by a young man in his middle twenties who had relatively little schooling. No human being, regardless of his background, training, and ability could, of himself, have created such a monumental work in so short a time. The book consists of 522 pages and has:. Fifteen main parts or divisions, known, with one exception, as books, each designated by the name of its principal author (Book of Mormon, Brief Analysis of The Book of Mormon). Elder Hugh B. Brown states that it has:. Fifty-four chapters dealing with wars, twenty-one historical chapters, fiftyfive chapters on visions and prophecies. Seventy-one chapters on doctrine and exhortation, twenty-one chapters on the ministry of Christ. As a literary work, Elder Brown points out, The Book of Mormon employs:... Figures of speech, similies, metaphors, narrations, exposition, description, oratory, epic, lyric, logic, and parables.... For over one hundred years, some of the best students and scholars of the world have been trying to prove from the Bible that the Book of Mormon is false, but not one of them has been able to prove that anything in the Book of Mormon is not in strict harmony with the scriptures, with the Bible and with the Word of God ("The Profile of a Prophet," by Elder Hugh B. Brown). The Book of Mormon Directed to a Future Generation The Book of Mormon is probably the only book ever written which is directed to a future, unseen generation. Nephi, the son of Lehi, says of his writings: Nevertheless, I have received a commandment of the Lord that I should make these plates, for the special purpose that there should be an account engraven of the ministry of my people. Upon the other plates should be engraven an account of the reign of the kings, and the wars and contentions of my people; wherefore these plates are for the more part of the ministry; and the other plates are for the more part of the reign of kings and the wars and contentions of my people. Wherefore. The Lord hath commanded me to make these plates for a wise purpose in him, which purpose I know not (1 Nephi 9:3-5). The Savior himself said:. Write the things which I have told you; and according to the time and the will of the Father they shall go forth unto the Gentiles (3 Nephi 23:4). The prophet Mormon who abridged the large plates of Nephi and whose son Moroni, completed the writings and sealed them up, did so with the express conviction that they would be discovered and read by a generation which would long succeed them. In his own words, Mormon said: Now these things are written unto the remnant of the house of Jacob; and they are written after this manner, because it is known of God that wickedness will not bring them forth unto them; and they are to be hid up unto the Lord that they may come forth in his own due time. And this is the commandment which I have received; and behold, they shall come forth according to the commandment of the Lord, when he shall see fit, in his wisdom (Mormon 5:12-13). Mormon also knew the book would be brought forth through the Gentiles:... T have written them to the intent that they may be brought again unto this people from the Gentiles, according to 126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT the words which Jesus hath spoken -(3 Nephi 26:8). And Moroni, before he sealed up the records, had this to say: And it is by faith that my fathers have obtained the promise that these things should come unto their brethren through the Gentiles; therefore the Lord hath commanded me, yea, even Jesus Christ (Ether 12:22). Prophecies Concerning the Time When the Book Should Be Brought Forth Moroni, in writing of Ether's prophesies concerning when this book should be brought forth by the Gentiles, in the latter days, writes that this land should become:. A choice land above all other lands, a chosen land of the Lord; wherefore the Lord would have that all men should serve him who dwell upon the face thereof; And that it was the place of the New Jerusalem, which should come down out of heaven... Behold, Ether saw the days of Christ, and he spake... That a New Jerusalem should be built up upon this land, unto the remnant of the seed of Joseph, for... The Lord brought a remnant of the seed of Joseph out of the land of Jerusalem, that he might be merciful unto the seed of Joseph that they should perish not, even as he was merciful unto the father of Joseph that he should perish not. Wherefore, the remnant of the house of Joseph shall be built upon this land; and it shall be a land of their inheritance; and they shall build up a holy city unto the Lord, like unto the Jerusalem of old.... And there shall be a new heaven and a new earth; and they shall be like unto the old save the old have passed away, and all things have become new. And then cometh the New Jerusalem; 127 and blessed are they who dwell therein, for it is they whose garments are white through the blood of the Lamb; and they are they who....... Were scattered and gathered in from the four quarters of the earth, and from the north countries, and are partakers of the fulfilling of the covenant which God made with their father, Abraham (Ether 13:2 ff.). Influence of The Book of Mormon Here is a book which is considered to be divine scripture by only approximately one per cent of the population of the United States. Yet, it has influenced this small group of people so profoundly as to have changed the course of American history. It has become the religious persuader which has altered the lives of thousands of people all over the world and, as such, has caused many to leave their homes, sever their ties with loved ones, and adopt new ways of life, often in a strange land. The grandeur of this volume was summed up beautifully by Elder Adam S. Bennion who said: Hours spent with this book are hours spent with the Master and His holy prophets. They are hours which will bring to the reader an inspiration and an entichment of spirit almost beyond comprehension. Indeed many readers declare that the reading of the Book of Mormon thrills them with a testimony of the truth, as the reading of no other book can. They enjoy the fulfillment of the promise of Moroni as he sealed up the records of Nephite history (Gleaner Manual 1932-1933, page 71). Moroni declares: And I seal up these records, after I have spoken a few words by way of exhortation unto you. Behold, I would exhort you that when ye shall read these things, if it be wisdom in God that ye should read them, that ye would remember how merciful the Lord hath been unto the children of men, from the creation of Adam even down until the time that ye shall receive these things, and ponder it in your hearts. And when ye shall receive these things, IT would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost (Moroni 10:2-4). Now that we have completed six years of study of The Book of Mormon, the real questions which confront us are: 1. What are we going to do about the wise and workable principles which this great book contains? 2. If we lack a testimony, do we have the faith and desire to put Moroni's promise to the test? 3. Have our testimonies really grown as a result of our study? For those of us who can honestly give right answers to these questions, then this great book will have fulfilled its purpose in our lives. It will have brought peace and comfort to our souls and rich blessings into our lives, and we shall hope to be numbered among those of whom Alma speaks: lor the names of the righteous shall be written in the book of life, and unto them will I grant an inheritance at my right hand... (Alma 5:58). Questions on the Lesson 1. Did the reading of The Book of Mormon increase your faith in God? Have some of the sisters express their feelings in this regard. 2. What characters in The Book of Mormon have been most impressive to you? Why? 3. What difference does it make whether we accept Jesus Christ as a great moral teacher or as the Only Begotten Son of God? Oe Visiting Seacher I lessages— Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 48—""And When Ye Shall Receive These Things, | Would Exhort You That Ye Would Ask God, the Eternal Father, in the Name of Christ, If These Things Are Not True; and If Ye Shall Ask With a Sincere Heart, With Real Intent, Having Faith in Christ, He Will Manifest the Truth of It Unto You, by the Power of the Holy Ghost" (Moroni 10:4). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, May 7, 1957 Objective: scribed conditions are met. THs promise made by Moroni to all who will read 'The Book of Mormon ts unique. No other book To point out that Moroni's promise is certain of fulfillment if precarries with it such a guarantee. It is an invitation to all the world to learn of the truthfulness of The 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT Book of Mormon and to test its validity. 'Thousands have made this test and proved the guarantee to be as purported. Yet some have read this sacred scripture and not received a testimony of its truth. Why? Because one or more of the conditions required in the promise was lacking. The heart may not have been truly sincere, the intent not real, or faith in Christ may have been weak, otherwise the result would have been to convince the investigator of the truth of The Book of Mormon given through the power of the Holy Ghost. When a chemist makes an experiment in the laboratory, he knows that certain specifications are necessary. Each step must be followed precisely and each ingredient must be added in the required amount, or the desired result will not be obtained. But if every ingredient outlined in the formula is mixed as directed, then the result will always be successful. Moreover, no true student of science attempts an experiment without an unbiased, open attitude of mind. So it is with the formula prescribed by Moroni to discover the truthfulness of The Book of Mor- 129 mon. 'This experiment calls for the exercise of faith as the book is read, the exercise of sincerity, and a great desire to know the truth, otherwise the Holy Ghost cannot operate in behalf of the one who reads it. Some readers of The Book of Mormon promise to try the experiment, but they feel sure beforehand that it cannot possibly be true. And so they begin the experiment with doubt in their minds. This is not the right spirit of approach. Hope and faith and an open mind are necessary for all great discoveries, material as well as spiritual. We who have read this divine book and already had the promise fulfilled, rejoice in our testimony. It rings true to our hearts and our minds, and we are indeed grateful for this "New Witness for Christ." With each rereading, the truths contained therein are made more plain, and one is persuaded to seek more diligently after the Lord. It is quite fitting that we close this series of messages with this unique promise, which has been instrumental in bringing great numbers of souls to a knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ. > Reunion Eunice ]. Miles Your deep-blue eyes, pain-free and young, Alive with eagerness and laughter, Hold hope and wonder far beyond my knowing. We seem worlds apart! The years stretching between us Cannot be spanned by living speech. But when in childish grief, You quickly run sobbing into my arms, Then, in your tear-stained face, I see the tiny girl I used to be. Work Mlecting— Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 8—Summary Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, May 14, 1957 HOMEMAKERS never just "cook food," they build boys and girls, physically and otherwise. 'They begin by planning meals that will nourish every part of the physical body. Meal planning is followed by the preparation of healthful foods in such a way that all the goodness nature has stored in them is preserved. Meals are served in an atmosphere of order, serenity, and perfect harmony, as the family surrounds the table to give thanks, and to partake of one of the rich blessings of life—food, which feeds both the body and the spirit. If, as a result of this course of lessons, the horizon of each Relief Society sister has been broadened in some way, the objective of the lessons has been achieved. In our competitive world of today, mealtime service must offer more satisfaction to active teenagers than a hamburger stand or soda pop fountain with some of the "gang." Some women qualify themselves as being good cooks on the basis of long experience in the kitchen. Experience, however, is not the best teacher unless it forces one to make repeated adjustments and changes and compels one to be alert for new ideas and ways of making progress. After the novelty wears off, experience, for most of us, is little more than mechanical performance. BePage 130 cause meals are planned and _prepared and served so_ frequently, these tasks can easily fall into this category. Briefly, let us review the yardstick for well-balanced meals and _tastefully prepared foods. The secret of successful food combinations lies in the skillful use of contrast—contrast in flavor, texture, color, temperature, and concentration. Meals _ that measure up to these standards may be referred to as "Five Star Meals." Meat, an important food, must be cooked at moderate heat. Too high temperatures toughen the fibers, shrink the meat, extract the natural juices from it, and result in unattractive servings. Soup is a food for summer and winter, peasant and prince, infants and the aged, the ill and the robust. It may be used as a delicate appetite tempter or a hearty appetite satisfier. 'There is a soup for every season, every appetite, and every age. The application of a few basic principles in the preparation of fresh vegetables is the secret of the successful cooking of them. For maximum flavor, deep natural coloring, and highest nutritive value, select vegetables that are slightly immature and garden fresh. Cook them in a minimum amount of water as quickly as possible and only until they are just tender. 'They will still LESSON DEPARTMENT be a little crisp. Slow, long-time cooking is the destroyer of color, flavor, and some nutrients. 'Therefore, the peak of goodness results when large vegetables such as carrots, parsnips, turnips, and cabbage are cut into small pieces and cooked in a kettle with a close fitting lid in just enough water to keep them from scorching. While nature supplies most vegetables with about all the seasoning they need to tempt the appetite, a variety of seasoning such as cream sauce, grated cheese, herbs, and seasoned crumbs may be used to give variety to vegetable dishes. Use seasonings to add to, but never to mask the good natural flavor of the vegetable with which they are used. Often we rely on salads to supply contrast in texture, color, and concentration to the menu, qualities so needed in a high percentage of meals. Because we eat fresh fruits and vegetable salads for their coolness and crispness, a cardinal rule is that the ingredients should be handled lightly and served while they are refrigerator cold and garden fresh. A sorry sight, indeed, is a wilted salad. Cheese is one of the best friends a cook has. Grated and served over a bowl-of hot soup, added to a cream sauce and served over meat 131 or vegetable dishes, used as the main ingredient in a souffle, or as an accompaniment with a piece of apple pie, in countless combinations as a sandwich filling, or with crackers or fresh fruit as the last course of a sumptuous meal, it ranks as the most versatile of all foods. It is a favorite food for folks of nearly all ages, all nationalities, and all social groups. There are few cooks who could not improve the acceptability of a meal, now and then, with the judicious use of casseroles and _leftovers. While casseroles often are made of freshly prepared foods, they are also an ideal way to serve foods the family may be getting tired of, in new and interesting ways. Dishes made of leftovers can be family favorites, if prepared tastefully and seasoned rightly. Along with the basic parts of family meals, are the less essential, but to many, important parts — beverages and desserts. It is important that these be planned to complete the rest of the menu and give balance to the whole. If your refreshments are always truly refreshing, your time will be profitably spent and your status as an understanding hostess is sure to rise, Star Dust Vesta N. Lukei If I could remember the earth is a star Whirling through celestial space, Then I might have more tolerance Of dust on a small son's happy face. of iterature— Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 8—Julius Caesar Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948) For Tuesday, May 21, 1957 Objective: To realize that idealistic men of good will may destroy themselves in bold but imprudent attempts to destroy the evils they feel exist. Men at some time are masters of their fates. The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, But in ourselves, that we are underlings. I. 2. 139-141 Since Cassius first did whet me against Caesar I have not slept. Between the acting of a dreadful thing And the first motion, all the interim is Like a phantasma or a hideous dream. The Genius and the mortal instruments Are then in council, and the state of man, Like to a little kingdom, suffers then The nature of an insurrection. II.1. 61-69 Become what thou art. —Pindar GINCE Julius Caesar is prefaced in our text by generous excerpts from Plutarch's Lives of Brutus, Antonius, and Caesar, the very material out of which Shakespeare composed his play, you may wish to see for yourself how faithfully greatness followed greatness. Plutarch is our greatest Greek biographer; and you may marvel how Shakespeare's art bestows immediacy and dramatic intensity to Plutarch's facts. Other than Shakespeare's addition of Caesar's murderers washing their hands and arms in his blood, Shakespeare adds very little factual incident to Plutarch's original. But what he does add is the fruit of an ordered, perceptive, Page 132 warming imagination, which so clearly reveals the difference between factual history and factual art. Each is valid in its own right. Shakespeare proves convincingly that the facts of art are not merely the facts of history warmed over. Although Caesar himself speaks less than two hundred lines in the play, it is justly named. His presence pervades almost every action or thought in it, first in the lusts and ideals of those who conspire to destroy him; later in the minds of those who honor his departed greatness, and, finally, in the frustrated quarrellings of Brutus and Cassius who offer sharp contrast to the stable state they have just destroyed, LESSON DEPARTMENT as well as to the ideal Rome Brutus had hoped for, but was never to realize. Julius Caesar a Bridge Although the play is known to have been written in 1599, placing it in time alone leaves other problems unsolved. Is it a history comparable to the nine historical plays Shakespeare had written preceding it? No; at least it is not an historical play only, since in Julius Caesar, Shakespeare is far more interested in the inward struggle within the characters and among them, than in outward events. If it is to be a tragedy, obviously it differs vastly from Romeo and _ Juliet, which is hardly true tragedy at all; neither does it contain the creative moral power of Hamlet or King Lear. Yet Brutus through his blindness, his confused idealism, and his growing assurance that he is always right, destroys himself in a manner not unrelated to tragedy. Predominantly, then, the play marks transition within both Shakespeare the sayer and Shakespeare the knower. Style While the overall structure of the play is loose and episodic, the style and tone are uniformly brilliant, even brittle. Often the language is clipped and sparse, almost journalistic in its effective condensation of truth into well-chosen lines and sentences. It has the simplicity and clarity which must account, in large measure, for its appeal to millions of people, an appeal which has never diminished from its first presentation. Perhaps Shakespeare's diction is so bare because he wanted to 133 catch the stern strength of republican Rome at her best. There is little poetry in the play, and, when we do find eloquence, it reminds us more of the professional debater or public-eye orator than of the poet. Again, the scarcity of poetry might be explained by the absence of many ideas in the play; predominantly it is concerned with political events and relationships. Yet the play's action is based on certain basic truths implied, rather than stated; namely, lust for personal power corrupts; good men may be blinded by flattery and cunning liars; it is evil to be so entranced with the dream of the ideal svate that hasty, violent destruction of the present one seems justified. From one point of view Julius Caesar is a series of speeches which might be delivered from a platform. Throughout the play occur many thetorical questions, which always assume an audience: Wherefore rejoice? What conquest brings he home? What tributaries follow him to Rome, To grace in captive bonds his chariot wheels?... And do you now put on your best attire? Tet. 37790, 53 Did this in Caesar seem ambitious?... You will compel me then to read the will?. 2. Shall I descend? And will you give me leave? III. 2. 95, 161, 164 Note also how many long passages of monosyllables occur throughout the play, not only in Antony's great oration. By such a device the speaker convinces his audience he is speaking simply, directly, entirely free from flowery artificiality: And when the fit was on him, I did mark How he did shake. 'Tis true, this god did shake. I, 2. 120-121... What's to do? A piece of work that will make sick men whole. But are not some whole that we must make sick? Il. 1. 326-328 "Tis good you know not that you are his heirs, For if you should, oh, what would come of it! III. 2. 150-151 The Fundamental Idea of the Play As seen centered in the mind of Brutus, the resolution of the plot is ambiguous, and at war with itself. Noble Brutus has been convinced that, in order to preserve the glorious Roman State, Caesar must be destroyed. Brutus believes that the glory that was Rome's will no longer be glorious if deaf, superstitious, crotchety, petty, tyrannical Caesar is to serve as its symbol. To the end Brutus has righteous goals. As his enemy Antony said at the very end of the play, ""This was the noblest Roman of them all.... Nature might stand up and say to all the world, "This was a man'" (V. 5. 68, 74-75). But Brutus becomes so aware that he is virtuous and noble, that his awareness comes to obscure his real self. Increasingly he acts out a part, he becomes self-righteous until he becomes infected with the very disease he had hoped to stamp out by murdering Caesar. Predominantly the play is one of destruction. Rome is destroyed, gentle Brutus is destroyed, companionship and trust are destroyed among husbands and wives and all mankind. The play is one of bitterness and pain. We are not soothed by so gross a waste, so consuming a confession of motives and distrusts. The play is loaded with omens, warnings, dreams, and portents, as if, suddenly, Shakespeare comes to believe that man's bewilderment here below may be, in large measure, avoided if he will listen to larger, deeper revelations of truth than his reason and senses alone can offer. "Beware the ides of March" is common to every schoolboy. Troubled Caesar paces at night, knowing that: Thrice hath Calpurnia in her sleep cried out, "Help, ho! They murder Caesar!"... II. 2. 2-3 Awakened, the troubled wife recounts evidence to her husband: A lioness hath whelped in the streets. And graves have yawned and yielded up their dead.... Horses did neigh and dying men did groan, And ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets. O Caesar! These things are beyond all use, And I do fear them. II. 2. 17-19, 23-26 Just before Caesar is murdered by the mob, the poet Cinna dreams that he feasts with Caesar. Most horrible is the appearance of Caesar's ghost to Brutus, first in his tent, then on the plains of Philippi just before his death. Tempting as it may be to consider all such as indication of a determined universe in which man cannot escape his destiny, we must not forget that: The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, But in ourselves, that we are underlings. I. 2. 140-141 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT Plot Julius Caesar has returned to Rome in the year 44 B. C. Backed by the power of his legions, he effects many reforms in the government, then is offered a crown which he refuses reluctantly. His old schoolmate Cassius fears that Caesar may become dictator; even more strong is Cassius' jealousy. He engineers a plot to kill Caesar for the protection of the State, and enlists Brutus, who reluctantly agrees to lead the plot, thus giving it the prestige it needs. 'Though Caesar is warned by his wife and others not to go to the Senate, he goes, partly because he has been led to believe he will be offered a crown. The conspirators gather around him and stab him, Brutus last. Against the advice of his fellows, Brutus permits Caesar's friend Antony to give a funeral oration over Caesar's body, thinking that if he himself speaks first, the populace will understand and approve the motives of the murderers. But Antony so skillfully inflames the citizens that riots break forth; and Brutus and the others flee for their lives. Brutus and Cassius join forces in Asia Minor, and prepare to meet the attack of forces led by Antony, Octavius, and Lepidus. When Brutus accuses Cassius of accepting bribes, they quarrel bitterly, a mood resulting in part from Brutus' recent knowledge that his noble wife Portia has just committed suicide by swallowing hot coals. Brutus and Cassius are reconciled and prepare for battle, but both feel their death is certain. Mistaking the shouts of joy of his own men for the cries of the enemy, Cassius 135 almost eagerly falls on his sword. Caesar's ghost appears again to Brutus, his men are cut off, and Brutus, too, falls on his sword, saying: Caesar, now be still. I killed not thee with half so good a will. V. 5. 50-52 Famous Quotations Though Caesar is old and in part corrupt, he is still the courageous soldier. When Calpurnia pleads with him to stay home and avoid death, he says: Cowards die many times before their deaths, The valiant never taste of death but once. Of all the wonders that I yet have heard, It seems to me most strange that men should fear, Seeing that death, a necessary end, Will come when it will come. Il. 2. 32-37 And Brutus reminds Cassius that action postponed is less than useless: There is a tide in the affairs of men Which taken at the flood leads on to fortune; Omitted, all the voyage of their life Is bound in shallows and in miseries. On such a full sea are we now afloat, And we must take the current when it serves, Or lose our ventures. IV. 3. 218-24 The greatest lines in the play are contained in Antony's funeral oration in Act III, Scene 2. These lines deserve to be read to the class as fully as time permits. After Brutus' speech, couched in balanced sentences, flowery words, but so halting and hollow as to betray to the Roman citizenry how little of his heart is in the assassination of Caesar, Antony's biting words take on even sharper edge. Note the crescendo of irony which he builds into his phrase, "For Brutus is an honorable man," and how carefully he teases, hints, implies, until the good Romans feel they have been robbed of their rightful, noble leader:... The noble Brutus Hath told you Caesar was ambitious. If it were so, it was a grievous fault, And greviously hath Caesar answered it. Here, under leave of Brutus and the rest— For Brutus is an honorable man, So are they all, all honorable men— Come I to speak in Caesar's funeral. He was my friend, faithful and just to me. But Brutus says he was ambitious, And Brutus is an honorable man. He hath brought many captives home to Rome, Whose ransoms did the general coffers fill. Did this in Caesar seem ambitious? When that the poor have cried, Caesar hath wept— Ambition should be made of sterner stuff. Yet Brutus says he was ambitious, And Brutus is an honorable man. You all did see that on the Lupercal I thrice presented him a kingly crown, Which he did thrice refuse. Was this ambition? Yet Brutus says he was ambitious, And, sure, he is an honorable man. I speak not to disprove what Brutus spoke, But here I am to speak what I do know. You all did love him once, not without cause. What cause witholds you then to mourn for him? O judgment, thou art fled to brutish beasts, And men have lost their reason! Bear with me, My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar, And I must pause till it come back to me. Ill. 2. 82-112 Against such telling knife-thrusts into the Romans' memories and emotions, poor, confused Brutus is helpless. And when, inciting the crowd to force him to read Caesat's will, Antony begins: If you have tears, prepare to shed them now. Ill. 2. 173 He fulfills his own vow made over Caesar's body preceding the funeral when he said: Woe to the hand that shed this costly blood! Over thy wounds now do I prophesy, Which like dumb mouths do ope their tuby lips To beg the voice and utterance of my tongue.... III. 1. 258-261 Anthony is obviously the hero, Brutus the victim both of himself and of others, while the villain's role has been pre-cut for Cassius. It is he who is the dedicated. With cold precision he invades the soul of Brutus; it is he who exploits Brutus' sense of destiny until Brutus agrees to lead the group against usurping Caesar. In the most vigorous scene in the play—the quarrel between Cassius and Brutus in Brutus' tent—Cassius is fiery and sharp, but it is the unstrung Brutus who most fully loses control of his temper. Both Portia and Calpurnia have roles of great importance, even though they are not long on the stage. Brutus speaks no line more sincerely than his prayer: O ye gods, Render me worthy of this noble wife! II. 1. 303-304 With complete justice she refers to herself as "yourself, your half," (II. 1. 274) and Brutus knows it well. Theirs is one of the strongest 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT conjugal relations in al! Of Shakespeare. Brutus knows her strength and fairness, and gives her the respect she deserves, in addition to his love. When Brutus reminds her that she shouldn't kneel to him, she answers: I should not need if you were gentle Brutus. Within the bond of marriage, tell me, Brutus, Is it excepted I should know no secrets That appertain to you? Am I yourself But, as it were, in sort or limitation, To keep with you at meals, comfort your bed, And talk to you sometimes? In the suburbs Of your good pleasure? If it be no more, Portia is Brutus' harlot, not his wife. II. 1. 279-287 Dwell I but Likewise, Calpurnia reminds Caesar that her highest wifely function is to share with him his every trouble, and to sustain him with womanly intuitions and promptings which draw upon depths beyond the reach or patience of most men. She tempers Caesar's vanity and ambition, just as Portia balances Brutus' growing rigidity and belief in his own infallibility. It is Portia who best knows the man Brutus could have been; no wonder she symbolizes her grief by killing herself in so spectacular a fashion. No wonder that the heart goes from Brutus' life when he learns of her death. The slow degradation of Brutus lies at the heart of this play. Though he always deserves our esteem because of his lofty goals, we wince to hear him claim that every man who has ever been in his presence has been true to him; that "no man bears sorrow better." We realize how far he is false to him- 137 self, how fully he puts on an act when news is brought him of Portia's death after he has already discovered the fact. Even Cassius stands amazed at his calm, unresponsive reaction. When Messala says she is dead, Brutus replies: Why, farewell, Portia. Die, Messala. With meditating that she must die once I have the patience to endure it now. Even so great men great losses should endure. I have as much of this in art as you, But yet my nature could not bear it so. Well, to our work alive. You think Of marching to Phillippi presently? IV. 3. 190-197 We must Mes: Cas: Already we have seen how fully Brutus confesses "the phantasma of hideous dream" which he feels between thinking and doing a dreadful act. Actually Brutus is the most sensitive of persons, aS we see in the final act when he treats the boy-musician Lucius with such understanding gentleness, then refuses to disturb his sleep, so tired is he. Significantly it is Brutus who is the last of the conspirators to stab Caesar; in return Caesar's dying words, "Et tu, Brute?" (III. 1. 77). Likewise, when plotting Caesar's death, it is Brutus who laments the need to spill blood at all, and, true to his real self, advises the paradoxical action of killing Caesar as gently as possible: Our course will seem too bloody, Caius Cassius... Let us be sacrificers, but not butchers, Caius. We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar, And in the spirit of men there is no blood, Bru: What do Oh, that we then could come by Caesar's spirit, And not dismember Caesar! Caesar must bleed for it! Friends, Let's kill him boldly, but not wrathfully. Let's carve him as a dish fit for the gods, Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds. II. 1. 162, 166-174 But, alas, And, gentle Thus we know with increased understanding Brutus' inner conflict. He seeks goodness and right, as all men do, but, sensitive to pain and tyranny he forsakes his own best instincts and believes that the only way to triumph in the world is to fight force with force. And, in thus being untrue to his better self, Brutus begins his own end. Though he merits our compassion, we suffer at his loss of direction and balance. How sad to see men of such good intent become lost! Here tragedy lies very near the surface; here reality lies hard upon us all. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How does a play differ from history? 2. While Brutus failed to move the crowd, why was Antony so successful? 3. Why is the language of this play so spare and simple? Why so little poetry? 4. How does the spirit of Caesar finally triumph? Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 7—"Be Ye Therefore Perfect'' Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, May 28, 1957 Objective: To suggest the importance of acquiring desirable qualities and to show the blessings in store for those who love the Lord. HE Prophet Joseph Smith was well prepared to teach the Latter-day Saint women about God and his attributes. By 1842, when he organized and instructed the Relief Society, although a young man of thirty-six years, the Prophet had experienced a closeness to God such as few other prophets who ever lived. After a vision in the Kirtland Temple he recorded the following: And now, after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we give of him: That he lives! For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father (D. & C. 76:22-23). The Prophet knew whereof he spoke, then, when he said: If you wish to go where God is, you must be like God, or possess the principles which God possesses, for if we are not drawing towards God in principle, we are going from Him and drawing towards the devil (D. H. C. IV, page 588). Thus, in capsule form, the Prophet summarized a great principle of perfection. 'This goal is neither quickly nor easily attained, but any effort to emulate God will reap bounteous blessings. As we fashion our lives we experience what is possibly the greatest 138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT blessing bestowed generally upon all men, i. E., freedom of thought, and its product, freedom of decision. "Where there is a mountain top there is also a valley" (Ibid., V, page 20), the Prophet once informed the Relief Society. Between the mountain and valley, good and evil, or any extremes, lie grades and degrees, and it is up to us, individually, as we face life's problems, to consider and decide where we shall be. One writer in The Book of Mormon put it this way: Wherefore, men are free according to the flesh; and all things are given them which are expedient unto man. And they are free to choose liberty and eternal life, through the great mediation of all men, or to choose captivity and death, according to the captivity and power of the devil; for he seeketh that all men might be miserable like unto himself (2 Nephi aon). The power of the gospel lies in its ability to influence people to good works through the force of ideas and the pull of perfection and salvation, rather than by compulsion. The Prophet, while warning the women against error, primarily stressed the positive. Over and again, both to the Relief Society and to the Church generally, the Prophet urged the saints to seek and develop the godlike virtues. '"'Is not God good?" he asked. "Then you be good; if He is faithful, then you be faithful. Add to your faith virtue, to virtue knowledge, and seek for every good thing" (D. H. C., IV, page 588). The Prophet once commented: "T am like a huge, rough stone rolling down from a high mountain." We are all "rough stones" in a sense, waiting to be polished. Each 139 of us, guided by the available light and knowledge, can become "a smooth and polished shaft in the quiver of the Almighty" (Ibid., V, page 401). Now let us consider a few of the affirmative traits which Joseph Smith urged the women to acquire. Charity At one of the Relief Society meetings the Prophet attended, he read from the 13th Chapter of ist Corinthians as follows: Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not chanty, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal (Ibid., IV, page 606). He then cited the lack of charity in the world as an evidence of the limited knowledge of the principles of godliness. "The power and glory of godliness," he said, "is spread out on a broad principle to throw out the mantle of charity. God does not look on sin with allowance, but when men have sinned, there must be allowance made for them" (Ibid., V, page 24). To be charitable does not mean we endorse the faults and failings of others, primarily it suggests not judging others. Tolerance "You must enlarge your souls towards each other," the Prophet said. "Don't be limited in your views with regard to your neighbor's virtue, but beware of self-righteousness, and be limited in the estimate of your own virtues, and not think yourselves more righteous than others." "Bear with each other's failings," he urged, "as an indulgent parent bears with the foibles of his children" (Ibid, IV, page 606). The ability to endure, without criticism, the beliefs, practices, or habits differing from one's own, represents a desirable trait which should be sought by all who desire perfection. Mercy; Addressing the Relief Society on one occasion, the Prophet said he was going to preach mercy. He posed a question: "Suppose that Jesus Christ and holy angels should object to us on frivolous things, what would become of us?" He answered his question by saying, "We must be merciful to one another, and overlook small things" (Ibid., V, page 23). Mercy implies compassion enough to forbear punishment or criticism of those who warrant it. " 'Fret not thyself because of evil doers,'" he advised. "God will see to it" (Ibid., V, page 21). "The nearer we get to our Heavenly Father," the Prophet said, "the more we are disposed to look with compassion on perishing souls; we feel that we want to take them upon our shoulders, and cast their sins behind our backs." When he talked of mercy he emphasized that his talk was "intended for all this society; if you would have God have mercy on you, have mercy on one another" (Ibid., V, page 24). Forgiveness Charity, tolerance, mercy, forgiveness, all and each suggest a similar state of mind. If we truly forgive, we banish from our hearts the resentments we have against the acts and omissions of others. Once the Prophet indicated he had been instrumental in bringing iniquity to light. "It was a _ melancholy thought," he said, "and awful that so many should place themselves under the condemnation of the devil, and going to perdition. With deep feeling he said that they are fellow mortals, we loved them once, shall we not encourage them to reformation? We have not |{yet| forgiven them seventy times seven, as our Savior directed; perhaps we have not forgiven them once. 'There is now a day of salvation to such as repent and reform" (Ibid., V, pp. 19-20). Kindness The Prophet told the women that by the influence of kindness they could sanctify and cleanse from all unrighteousness those who repent. The love of tenderness, he observed, had great power over the mind, and actions of all persons. Prayer The Prophet made a promise in the name of the Lord, saying "that that soul who has righteousness enough to ask God in the secret place for life, every day of their lives, shall live to three score years and ten" (Ibid., page 24). It is an interesting observation that most of the knowledge revealed to the Prophet Joseph came after he had sought his Heavenly Father in prayer. The Prophet pointed out on August 31, 1842, the efficacy of the prayers in his behalf and expressed gratitude to the Relief Society for their prayers: Inasmuch as the Lord Almighty has preserved me until today, He will continue to preserve me, by the united faith and prayers of the Saints, until I have 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT fully accomplished my mission in this life, and so firmly established the dispensation of the fullness of the priesthood in the last days, that all the powers of earth and hell can never prevail against it.... God loves you, and your prayers in my behalf shall avail much: let them not cease to ascend to God continually in my behalf (Ibid., V, pp. 139-141). During this same meeting "President Smith... Addressed the throne of grace in fervent prayer,' the minutes read. In an earlier meeting, the Prophet advised the sisters:. Always to concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in their husbands, whom God has appointed for them to honor, and in those faithful men whom God has placed at the head of the Church to lead His people, that we should arm and sustain them with our prayers (Ibid., lV, pp. 604-605). Knowledge One of the Prophet's great sermons was preached in the Grove to the Church at Nauvoo on April 10, 1842. In prefacing his remarks he said, "I shall speak with authority of the Priesthood in the name of the Lord God." After discussing evil influence he then made this profound statement, as found in the Journal of Wilford Woodruff: A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge, for if he does not get knowledge, he will be brought into captivity by some evil power in the other world, as evil spirits will have more knowledge, and consequently more power than many men who are on the earth (Ibid., IV, 588). Virtue In the early days of the Relief Society the Prophet said the Society should be careful of its membership; that it should be a select group of the "virtuous" and "those who would walk circumspectly." 'The 141 privileges and blessings of the Priesthood, the Prophet suggested, followed a virtuous life and diligence in keeping the commandments. Blessings The Prophet did not stop with urging the women to take upon themselves sterling qualities. He went on to tell them of the blessings that could be expected from Relief Society membership and from applying his teachings of the gospel in their lives. Each Latter-day Saint woman has been promised "Keep my commandments continually, and a crown of righteousness thou shalt receive" (D. & C. 25:15). When the Relief Society was organized the Prophet said: And now I turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth... (D. H. C. IV, page 607). The women of the Church can testify to the fulfillment of this prophecy. Since that time the blessings of Latter-day Saint women have been continuous. These women are blessed as no other women were ever blessed. In this organization Relief Society members have the privilege of working under the authority of the Holy Priesthood, of learning of God and his ways, of sharing precious testimonies with one another. 'Together they grow as wives, as mothers, as homemakers, and as children of God. 'The blessings of mothers in Zion are meaningful and opportunity-laden. "If this Society listen to the counsel of the Almighty, through the heads of the Church," promised 142 LADIES SACRED THREE PART CHORUSES save COME UNTO HIM—Handel.............20 ae ETERNAL LIFE—Dungaa..................20 ae HOLY REDEEMER—Marchetti...........15 i IF GOD FORGOT—O'Hara..............25 nas IN THY FORM—Madsep.................20 =axed KING OF GLORY—Patks................20 cocoa LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen..............20 == OH, MAY | KNOW THE LORD AS FRIEND—Madsen.................... 20 = SPIRIT OF GOD—Neidlinger.........18 ae THANKS BE TO GOD—Dickson.....16 Music Sent On Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY: 15 E. Ist South: Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. (1 On Approval (0 Charge DO Money Enclosed Name.... Address City & State "4 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO of 2260 wnssuitston SnD Capea RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 the Prophet, "they shall have power to command queens in their midst" (Ibid., IV, page 605). Latter-day Saint women have been blessed with leadership qualities unequalled by their sisters who are not members of the Church. This is realized by those who have opportunities to observe both groups in leadership capacities. One choice blessing is found in the association of the young women with members of long standing. 'To this association the young woman brings her youth, her dreams, and her problems and partakes of the seasoned experience of her more mature sisters. She eagerly absorbs the faith and testimony and wisdom of these older women. All Relief Society members who give of themselves in service learn that while the objects of their charity receive benefit, they, the givers, receive the most. Eliza R. Snow, the poetess, wrote in her poem "Evening Thoughts":... To be a Saint requires A noble sacrifice, an arduous toil, A persevering aim; the great reward Awaiting the grand consummation will Repay the price, however costly; and The pathway of the Saint, the safest path will prove. This same Eliza R. Snow, who at one time headed all three of the Church auxiliaries to which women are called, wrote of the blessings of our women as follows: The Latter-day Saint women... Occupy a more important position than is occupied by any other women on the earth.... Who can fully appreciate our blessings; and who is capable of realizing the weight of the responsibilities resting upon us. Where much is given, much is required. LESSON DEPARTMENT Of greater worth than all the rest are blessings of perfection, salvation, and exaltation in the kingdom of heaven. Each and all these are available to those who earn them. Said the Prophet to the women: If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. Females, if they are pure and innocent, can come in the presence of God; for what is more pleasing to God than innocence; you must be innocent, or you cannot come up before God: if we would come before God, we must keep ourselves pure, as He is pure (D. H. C. IV, page 605). Supplementary References 1. "The Heritage of Relief Society" — Vesta P. Crawford, Relief Society Magazine, October 1954, page 662. 2. "Testimony, the First Responsibility of Relief Society" — President Belle S. Spafford, Relief Society Magazine, November 1953, page 716.. "O Be Wise; What Can I Say More?" Aleine M. Young, Relief Society Magazine, March 1955, page 148. 4. The Way to Perfection, Joseph Fielding Smith, chapter 33, pp. 225-231. Questions for Discussion 1. Why is the principle of free agency so important? 2. Why was the Prophet in a unique position to discuss attributes of the Lord which we should emulate? 3. Discuss the specific virtues the Prophet commended to the women of the Church. How may they strengthen the Relicf Society organization? 4. Discuss: "If we are not drawing towards God in principle we are going from Him and drawing towards the devil." 5. What are the blessings associated with Relief Society membership? With keeping all the commandments? 143 ®@ BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomelybound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 35 150 to 300 miles 300 to 600 miles.. 600 to 1000 miles.. 1000 to 1400 miles.. A 1400 to 1800 miles 2. Over 1800 miles 00.0.0... F Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Winter Notwithstanding Lael W. Hill Snow whirls whitely down the street; My heart dissolves it there, And all the people that I meet Have roses in their hair. Winter threads a frosty loom; My heart weaves words of spring, And out through February gloom I hear a field-lark sing. Oh, blithe am I, and summer gay, And weeks of wind and storm Have not the power to chill this day; Love keeps my world so warm! VIDA FOX CLAWSON | =, Bivhdna ANNOUNCES AZALEA SPRING TOUR TO THE SUNNY SOUTH HAVANA AND NASSAU leave March 12 HAWAII Historie Train This will include the pageant at the HILL CUMORAH. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Lydia Snow Cluff, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninetyseven; Mrs. Celesta 'Terry Peterson, Fairview, Utah, ninety-six; Mrs. Mary Chapuis Watson, Salt Lake City, ninety-five; Mrs. Ann Crawford Jensen, Brigham City, Utah, ninety-one; and the following women who have reached their ninetieth birthdays: Mrs. Elizabeth Leishman Green, Wellsville, Utah; Mrs. Matilda Tate, Pomona, California; Mrs. Mary Newman, Vernon, Utah; Mrs. Sarah Lucretian Cox Stout, St. George, Utah; Mrs. Alice Gowans, Tooele, Utah; Mrs. Amelia Richards 'Taylor, Provo, Utah. MOTHERS — - Playing the Piano... Boy ® PAYS DIVIDENDS IN FRIENDElsie McKinnon Strachan Warning: All these tour parties will be limited in number. Make reservations early. Write or Phone: Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 SHIP AND FAMILY FUN @ TURNS LEISURE TIME INTO PLEASURE TIME... FOR BUSY PEOPLE. @ YOUR CHILD''S GATEWAY TO ADULT HAPPINESS. @ GET CLOSER TO YOUR CHILDREN BY TAKING PIANO LESSONS WITH THEM. Mail This Coupon Today GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 So. Main — Salt Lake City, Utah | am interested. Send information on pianos to You will find him there In the golden light, Making talk with the wind And a paper kite; Or building a house In the apple tree With a "keep out" sign Where the door should be; Or look for him In a pirate's den, The boy of nine Going on ten, 144 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 RELIEF SOCIETY STUDY COURSE AIDS seense REYHOLES jaune w. S10DARE 1. Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets Edited by G. B. Harrison This handsomely bound volume contains 23 plays of Shakespeare, his sonnets, and ever 100 pages of introductory material on his life, on the Elizabethan theater, and England in his day. Cai (by mail—postage) 20 2. Documentary History of the Church—Vol. IV This volume begins with the departure of the Twelve for England... The Prophet's journey to Washington... And concludes with a report on the progress of the Nauvoo Te.50 (Postage) 15 3. Documentary History of the Church—Seven Volume Set This carefully documented work is taken from the manuscripts, records, and noies of Joseph Smith and other early Church leaders. Introduction and notes by B. H. Roberts. Auane 14.0 (postage for set) 65 4. Dictionary of The Book of Mormon George Reynolds This invaluable aid gives immediate, easy-to-find information on names, places and other data contained in The Book of Mormon. It's a wonderful help to inquirers into the faith, students, and all who wish to grow in further understanding of The Book of Mormon. $3.50 5. Commentary on The Book of Mormon—Vol. | George Reynolds and Janne M. Sjodahl A concise, illuminating and complete commentary on the first part of The Book of Mormon, from First Nephi to the Book of Omni. $5.00 6. Commentary on The Book of Mormon—Vol. II George Reynolds and Janne M. Sjodahl An excellent commentary for students and readers — includes the Words of Mormon and the Book of Mosiah. It gives rich background material and interprets scriptural passages, $4.00 OFFICIAL PUBLISHERS TO THE LDS CHURCH "Book Co. Salt 'Lake City Utah DESERET BOOK COMPAN 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find —.......... Check............ Money order -...¢harge to my account for the encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 5 6 Amount enclosed $... Name 2.0.. ——....... Ae od State lents of Utah include 2% sales tax. <é HAPPY FAMILIES< ©. - Do lt Together Fun is a family affair when Ralph, Marion, and their three children get together for an evening of games in front of the fire. The Roberts family like their home — and they've made plans to keep it... Through Beneficial's Mortgage Cancellation Insurance. Beneficial Mortgage Cancellation Insurance --- your best bet for householding. This plan takes the worry out of home buying. It provides cash for one of the best gifts man can leave his family —a clear, debt-free home. You have your choice of several plans. For example, a decreasing term policy would pay up the entire mortgage if anything happened to you during the first year, or it would always give your family more than enough to take care of the entire unpaid balance at any time during the mortgage period. This policy terminates with the mortgage. Other policies not only protect your home, but also build cash values that can be used lor your own retirement, or you can choose continued low-cost life insurance protection after the mortgage is paid off. Your experienced Beneficial agent will recommend the best plan for you. Call him today, or write to the address below. BENEFICIAL LIFE David O. McKay, Pres Salt Lake City, Utah VOL. 44 NO. 3 She Vastness of Space Katherine P. Walton When I'm alone beneath the stars That fill the sea of space; When I behold the powers that are— That man cannot efface; When I am told that in these realms, Beyond the region of our eyes, Are countless worlds that seem to us Like specks of light amid the skies; That farther on, out into space Beyond our vale of stars, Surrounded by celestial light Are greater worlds than ours; That farther onward to the end Where end is not in sight Are worlds revolving 'round their suns, With stars and moons and light. Then I can feel the power of God 'That permeates through space, The promptitude of all his works For all the human race. Limitless lies the space behind, Unmeasurable lies beyond; There is no end to space or time, There is no end to man. There is no end to powers that be, Or creations such as these; There is no first, there is no last In God's immensities. The things that have forever been And will forever be, Are held together by this force Throughout eternity. The powers that keep us on our course Are in this wondrous plan, To bring to pass eternal joy, And eternal life to man. The Cover: Sheep Grazing in a Green Paddock, New Zealand Photograph by Whites Aviation, Ltd. Submitted by Arta R. Ballif Frontispiece: The Salt Lake Temple Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen From lear and Sar Congratulations on the wonderful December issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The sisters here in Finland were so thrilled with the pictures.... Our Relief Society is growing and the sisters love this great work. Each branch gets a copy of the Magazine with some translations from it. We also send a Relief Society Magazine to several members who are shut-ins who read English. We are grateful for the subscriptions that are sent to us. —Hortense B. Robinson President Finnish Mission Relief Society The first prize poem 'Remembering the Handcarts," by Christie Lund Coles in the January 1957 issue of the Magazine is an excellent poem and I enjoyed it very much. The articles and stories also were interesting to me. I enjoy the entire Magazine and share it with many friends in the valley who are not subscribers. —Mrs. C. W. McCullough Park City, Utah I enjoy my copies of The Relief Society Magazine very much. There is always an article that helps me in preparing talks for different occasions here in the mission field. Most of the time I have to hurry and read the Magazine so that I can take my copy to some good investigator who wants to know more about our women's organization. I am so proud of your new building, since it is a perfect example of the effort of organized womanhood with the holy Priesthood at its head. I thank you for a wonderful Magazine and for the joy it brings into my life each month. —Elder Phillip R. Kunz North Augusta South Carolina To former Counselor Velma Simonsen: I never have had the privilege of meeting you, probably never shall. But you do write such sweet, tenderly natural and heartwarming messages that you just sweeten and warm our hearts. —Annie P. M. Hepworth Salt Lake City, Utah Page 146 I have just read "So Dear to My Heart" in the October 1956 issue of the Magazine. I used to live in West Jordan, too. What a wonderful picture she gave of that lovely old chapel. —TIla Tanner Arcadia, Utah The December issue of our Magazine is beautiful and most enlightening. I want to share my happiness and pride with friends.... I have been a member of Relief Society for fifty-six years and love the work more and more each year. The Magazine has been one of my guiding stars. I can remember reading the Exponent to my grandmother (who was blind) when I was thirteen years old. —Sara J. P. Bell Los Angeles, California Congratulations on a very fine Magazine. My husband and I always read it together. As president of a small branch in Sweden, my husband had good use of the Magazine in teaching the good sisters. —Birgitta Mitchell Kooskia, Idaho I enjoy Relief Society very much and have been a visiting teacher for the past nine years. I particularly liked the August issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The pictures and messages of the wives of the General Authorities are lovely. —Sarah Marble Brigham City, Utah I think you are doing a fine job, as I see the Magazine every month since my wife is a subscriber. I want to take this opportunity to send you our very best wishes for continued success. —Otto Done Mexico City Mexico We are four generations of subscribers to The Relief Society Magazine. It is wonderful, and we could not do without it. We read it from cover to cover. —Yuline Neilson South Gate, California THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - = President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Elna P. Haymond Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Gladys S. Boyer Annie M. Ellsworth Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Leone G. Layton Josie B. Ba Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Afton W. Hunt Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Edito - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford Assistant to the Editor - - - - - - - - June Nielsen General Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 44 MARCH 1957 No. 3 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES Women. Are Worshipers of God Levi Edgar Young 148 Helen Woodruff Anderson Appointed Second Counselor 20.0... IeeeAlberta H. Christensen 150 Hulda Parker Named General Secretary-Treasurer............ Caroline Eyring Miner 154 Mary Vogel Cameron Appointed to General Board ooneiieseece ceceec ceseetecceseeeeeeeeeneVesta P. Crawford 156 Afton W. Hunt Appointed to General Board ooo. EeceetecececceececccceeseeeeeseeeeecesseeeeeeeeeeEdith S. Elliott 157 Velma N. Simonsen Retires From General Presidency... U...........-..00---- Belle S. Spafford 158 Margaret C. Pickering Resigns As General Secretary-Treasurer —...........-1-0----Leone O. Jacobs 159 The New Zealand Mission 200.00... RrPreston R. Nibley 166 Vera Hinckley Mayhew— Biographical Sketch 2... Eee ceseeeceeeee. 179 Run and Win - —— See a. 180 Stratford-Upon-Avon and the Shakespeare Memorial Theater................ Ramona W. Cannon 182 The American National Red Cross........... Ee a _Virginia Glenn 187 Be a Relief Society Magazine ''Promoter"'. June Nielsen 188 Embellishment Clarissa A. Beesley 190 ButterCups oo. Eeeeeeteecceeceeeececeeeceeecaeeeeeceeseenececensacecceceeeess...... Mary C. Martineau 194 FICTION The Slow Hurry—Third Prize Story Vera H. Mayhew 160 The Bright Star—Chapter 1 a am cae Dorothy S. Romney 168 Bitter Medicine—Part 3—Conclusion 22.02. Eceeeeecececee ences Olive W. Burt 196 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 2u...... Ssssccccssseccceecececceescevsecessesesesseevecsevarsesuesesevereaees: 146 Sixty Years Ago:; 172 Woman's Sphere oe ee... Ramona W. Cannon 173 Editorial: Relief Society Legacy for Young Women ii. IcectesecessecesseceeccecececsesecseseseeeesJune Nielsen 174 Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music Over National Broadcasting Television Network 0.0.... 175 Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue........... Im 176 Notes to the Field: Index for 1956 Relief Society Magazine Available 177 Organizations and Reorganizations of Stake and Mission Relief Societies for 1956............ 177 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 200......0. Ctcccctessssesssssessesseseesseesesseeseesceseenaveresnsenseceneesueeeeess201 Birthday Congratulations oo... Ccccccccsccseccsessecesesoeseeeecoeseseesnsesseoeeneneea 209. FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes from New Zealand oooieeeccceeccccsseececseseecesceeesesseeeeeses. Arta R. Ballif 192 Sarah Seely Larsen Has Enjoyed a Sewing Hobby for Seventy Years ae 195 Herbs for Modern Cookery—Tarragon oo.. Cecccsscseceseceee--- Elizabeth Williamson 207 POETRY The Vastness of Space—Frontispiece, Katherine P. Walton, 145; Preface to a Calendar, Lael W. Hill, 151; I Had Forgotten, Catherine E. Berry, 171; These Things I Love, Helen H. Jones, 176; World-Changer, Maryhale Woolsey, 179; Spring Opening, Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 181; The Whitethroat in the Grass, Ethel Jacobson, 181; Apricot Tree, Della Adams Leitner, 187; My Fortune, Enola Chamberlin, 189; Preface to Day, Dorothy J. Roberts, 191; Wind Pattern, Vesta N. Lukei, 195; The Length, Frances C. Yost, 200; Not By Chance, Gene Romolo, 206; Window Gardens, Gladys Hesser Burnham, 208; Robin, Evelyn Fjedlsted, 208. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 16, Utah, Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Women Are Worshipers of God President Levi Edgar Young Of the First Council of Seventy House and riches are the inheritance from fathers: and a prudent wife is from the Lord. (Proverbs 19:14) Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. (Proverbs 31:10) HEN Adam was sent to the \ earth by his Father in heaven, he was not alone, for a woman became his companion and her name was Eve. Both words are Hebrew, and Adam reminds us of our lowliness and mortality. We know that God gave him a perfect human body, as he did Eve. They were placed on this earth in the Garden of Eden. 'They had children and one reads their history in the opening book of the Holy Bible and the books that follow. "The first leaf of the Mosaic record," says Jean Paul, "has more weight than all the folios of men of science and philosophy." "And he is right," says Geikie, "for we owe to it the earliest and grandest revelation of that first principle of all religion—the existence, the unity, the personality, and the moral government of God." It is said that more books have been written on the first chapter of Genesis than any other subject known to man. One may well accept the truth of this statement, for it deals with God and the creation and man's divine origin. From the beginning of human history, God the Father in heaven has walked with and talked to his children. In writing and thinking about the history of Israel, we must always remember that religion was Page 148 the principal motive in all they did. Unshaken faith in God was the chief characteristic of the old patriarchs and prophets. Faith came as a result of their knowing they were children of God. When Moses received the Ten Commandments on Mount Sinai, he gave the message of God to the children of Israel who were marching to Jerusalem and the Promised Land. Women were the first to pledge obedience; the men followed, say our sages. 'he commandments established law as the center of Jewish life. One of the most scholarly historians of Judaism is George Foot Moore who tells that the earliest expositors of the law declared that man and woman are equal before the statutes. The authority for this statement is a sentence in the fifth commandment: "Honor thy father and thy mother," and in a later statement found in the book of Leviticus, "Ye shall fear every man his mother, and his father...." It is written by Professor Moore that, "The legal status of women under Jewish Law compares to its advantage with that of contemporary civilizations and _represents a development of the Biblical legislation consistently favorable to women." In that far distant age, even when Rome ruled, Palestine was a part of the Roman Empire. WOMEN ARE WORSHIPERS OF GOD The Jews had their synagogues and women took part in holy service. We learn that the "Mother Synagogue" gathered the women together, and gave the women their duties. To some she gave cloth to sew that no maiden in Israel might go to her husband lacking a bridal chest. A Jewish Code has come down to us giving a description of the duties of women. 'They are: Feed the hungry, and give the thirsty to drink, Clothe the naked and shelter the homeless. Visit the sick, bury the dead and give comfort to the mourner. Support the widow and _ instruct the fatherless. Ransom the captive. Make garments for the orphan and _provide for the betrothed maiden. We are told that legend throws this code back to Abraham to whom it was revealed. When it was read to the people at the foot of Mount Sinai, they exclaimed, "We _ hear and we obey." OME of the most beautiful stories of all time are found in the Holy Bible. In fact, the Bible becomes the masterpiece of history in giving us the story of the peoples before Christ, our Redeemer, was born. Concerning women, we find in the Bible women of the truest nobility. The Book of Ruth is considered the most beautiful short story ever written, and then we have, to mention a few other women: Sarah, Rebecca, Rachel, Deborah, Esther, Martha, Mary, Mary Magdalene, Naomi, and the Queen of Sheba. These women "form the most remarkable female portrait gallery in existence." 149 The beautiful idyl known as the Book of Ruth, is a story of a family that lived in Bethlehem. 'There came a famine over the land at one time. The fruit of the orchards dried up and the fields yielded but a scarcity of harvest. Much suffering came to the people everywhere. One Elimelech with his wife, Naomi, went off to greener fields into the land of Moab. 'They had two sons who grew up among the strange people of Moab. In time they married two Moabite maidens. Sorrow came to the house of Elimelech, for the father and the two sons died, and the three widows were left unprovided for and unprotected. Naomi decided to go back to her people in Bethlehem. She did not expect the sons' wives to go with her, but Ruth chose to follow the mother, and the two made their way around the Dead Sea, and came to the old home in Bethlehem. Beautiful were the words of Ruth, when her mother Naomi entreated her to remain with her people. "Intreat me not to leave thee, or to return from following after thee," said she, "for whither thou goest, I will go; and where thou lodgest, I will lodge: thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God: Where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried." Ruth gleaned in the fields and won the heart of the rich Boaz, and became his wife. Children blessed their union. Their firstborn, a boy, was named Obed, and he became the father of Jesse, whose son was King David. "Thus the maiden of Moab became the mother of many kings and the ancestress of Jesus Christ, the Redeemer of the world." 150 WITH reverent thought we turn to the second chapter of St. Luke in the New Testament and read about the birth of Jesus Christ, our Savior. It is another exquisite bit of history. Joseph and Mary lived in the little town of Nazareth. It was a strange circumstance that caused them to go to Bethlehem at the time that Mary was to become a mother. According to the edict of the Emperor Augustus Caesar, all people of Palestine were to go to the place to which by descent they belonged, to be enrolled in a general census. Joseph and Mary chose the city of their fathers as the place where they should register. The city was full of people. Only one place was left to rest. "And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room for them in the inn." The angels were round him and: his birth. They worshiped the Newborn, and said with one accord: "Glory to God in the highest, on earth peace, good will toward men." The stories of the Magi and the star of Bethlehem, of the angels and the shepherds, as given in the simple narrative of St. Matthew and St. Luke, go to make the story of the birth of the Savior the most beautiful idyl of all literature. Coming to our own history, it was the mother of Cyrus Dallin who inspired her son to make the angel on the center tower of the Salt Lake Temple. She told him the story of the coming from heaven of the angel Moroni to Joseph Smith, and it gave Dallin the inspiration for creating the angel Moroni. It was his nature to wonder about RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 the divinity of man, and he was impressed with the great characters of history who seemed to speak at times the words of God and to enact God's holy purposes. This was the cause of his unique greatness. When he read about the visit of the angel to Joseph Smith, and the directing him in the discovery of the gold plates, he saw something of the eternal and divine in the story, and he often quoted Michael Angelo: "Beauty cannot be separated from eternity." God became his immutable help. As one looks at the angel, one is impressed with the thought that it is a perfect creation, that a truth was in the mind of the sculptor. It was his ardent faith and warmth of enthusiasm that made him see something of the divine in the angel Moroni's coming to the earth. ¢¢7 now turn the key for women," said the Prophet Joseph Smith on the seventeenth day of March, 1842, when he organized the Relief Society of the Church in Nauvoo, and sent it forth on its mission of love. It was the beginning of a better age, and a more appreciative understanding of the divine mission of woman in the world. She was to take her place in the work of bestowing upon mankind the increasing consciousness of the immortality of spiritual values. Woman was to take her place by the side of man to play her part in the service and calling of God. In the early days of America, woman was the helpmate of man in the hard labor of those times, but in a different manner from that of today. Wives and daughters made clothing in the homes, helped to wield the ax, and WOMEN ARE WORSHIPERS OF GOD carried rifles to protect the village and home. When the husband was absent in the fields, the wife stood on guard in the cabin, always with eyes alert for prowling Indians. The frontier of America bred valiant women, who were likewise heroines of the spirit in which they were no less intrepid. Today, woman has been lifted out of much of her drudgery of a hundred years ago, and the Latter-day Saint people have done a far-reaching work in establishing the proper attitude of society toward the "mothers of men." From the beginning of the Church in 1830, women have been given equal rights with their husbands in the home and social group. In the march of the saints to the West, women and children suffered, and the mortality among them was large, but husbands and sons had a sacred trust to protect them and to ameliorate their sufferings. The pioneer women of the American frontier were often the leaders in thought and promoters of educational institutions. A woman opened the first school in the West for the education of Indian children. Mary Jane Dilworth taught the first school in Utah, and Camilla Cobb opened the first kindergarten, which 151 was among the first kindergartens in America. Both were faithful members of the Relief Society of their respective wards. Hundreds of such women, Relief Society sisters, have given their lives to the uplift of humanity. They have looked after the poor, comforted the sick and unfortunate, and have ministered comfort when death has taken loved ones. "Like ministering angels, they go today into homes and comfort the sorrowful, relieve the distressed, feed the hungry, clothe the naked, wait upon the sick, and scatter glad news and cheer along the road of life." The work of the members of the great organization for women founded over one hundred years ago, goes on from day to day. Theirs is a happiness deep and _ lasting. Theirs is an inherited ideal unique in the history of America. They radiate sunshine and joy when the clouds descend. Each one in her sphere has a dream of fine spiritual value as expressed by Emily Dickinson: If I can stop one heart from breaking, I shall not live in vain; If I can ease one life the aching, Or cool one pain, Or help one fainting robin Unto his nest again, I shall not live in vain. —_- Preface to a Calendar Lael W. Hill However swiftly days take wing and go— Like birds, like soaring wind along the sky— How singingly the swiftest hours fly! Oh, lift an inner listening, and know The song of time spun lark-voiced, and as high— A moment's brief remembrance rushing by, Its echo feather-fallen onto snow.... Flelen Woodruff Anderson Appointed Second Counselor in General Presidency of Relicf Society Alberta H. Christensen Member, General Board of Relief Society ON January 2, 1957, Helen Woodruff Anderson was appointed to the office of Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society. Years of devoted Church service, academic training, and natural endowment qualify Sister Anderson for this important calling. Helen Anderson, a gentle-voiced and gracious woman, evidenced, even in youth, personality traits which qualify her to fulfill her present assignment with distinction and honor. Humility, a subtle sense of humor, and a marked consideration for others have endeared her to those with whom she associates intimately and to all who have known her capable leadership. Hers is a judicious, quiet strength, with an element of self-restraint which commands respect; yet she is friendly and sociable, with a genuine interest in others. Her love for family and friends is apparent from the unselfish service she renders them. In tracing the factors which have influenced her life, we recall that spirituality, devotion, and humility are her heritage. Her paternal grandfather was President Wilford Woodruff, fourth President of the Church. The memory of his humility and devotion has been for Helen a guiding light through the years. She is a daughter of the late Helen May Winters and Abraham O. Woodruff, a member of the Council of Page 152 HELEN WOODRUFF ANDERSON the Twelve. The early death of her parents left their four young children parentless. Fortunately, the homes into which they were welcomed were kindly and understanding. After the death of their paternal grandmother, they made their home with President Heber J. Grant and Augusta Winters Grant, a sister of their mother. Here Helen matured in an atmosphere of refinement and spiritual integrity. She always speaks lovingly and appreciatively of the influence of this home in shaping her ideals and attitudes toward life. She recalls such counsel from Aunt Augusta which she feels has in- HELEN WOODRUFF ANDERSON fluenced her attitude and action: "Always do a little more than is expected of you; learn to enjoy the things you are required to do; selfpreparation and trust in the Lord are companion requirements for success in any assignment." Sister Anderson attended the L. D. S. High School and was graduated from the University of Utah with a major in home economics. In 1925 she marred Alexander Pyper Anderson, who had filled a mission in New Zealand and later was bishop of Waterloo Ward for thirteen years. They have five children, four daughters and one son. All are married except Lynda, a high school student. Helen loves Relief Society and understands the many facets of its program, having given it many years of devoted service. It has been joyful service, for her testimony is 153 strong, being faith-grounded and maintained by constant activity. Under President Amy Brown Lyman, she worked in the general Relief Society offices in charge of employment. She has been a visiting teacher, stake board member, stake counselor, and president of Big Cottonwood Stake. Relief Society. She has also served as group leader in the employment division of Jordan Valley Welfare Region. Since 1950 she has been a member of the general board of Relief Society, where she has become recognized for her ability and dependability and loved by her co-workers. As each new door of increased responsibility opens, Helen W. Anderson steps humbly forward, inspired by her rich heritage, and sustained by her great abilities and her unwavering faith. Ove Begets ove ééTT is a time-honored adage that love begets love. Let us pour forth love — show forth our kindness unto all mankind, and the Lord will reward us with everlasting increase; cast our bread upon the waters and we shall receive it after many days, increased to a hundredfold.... "I do not dwell upon your faults, and you shall not upon mine. Charity, which is love, covereth a multitude of sins, and I have often covered up all the faults among you; but the prettiest thing is to have no faults at all. We should cultivate a meek, quiet and peaceable spirit. ',.. We should gather all the good and true principles in the world and treasure them up, or we shall not come out true 'Mormons.' " (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 316.) Hulda Parker Vlamed General Secretary-Sreasurer of Relief Society Caroline Eyring Miner Member, General Board, Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association HULDA PARKER N January 2, 1957, Sister Hulda Parker was introduced as the new General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society and also a member of the general board. This appointment represents for Sister Parker further opportunity for Church service in a life already filled with much service in all of the auxiliaries. She is well prepared for this assignment and through her faithfulness and diligence, her appointment will prove to be a great blessing to the sisters of the Church. At the time of her appointment she was serving on the Special Interest Committee of the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and Page 154 was secretary to Elder Mark E. Petersen. Born in Richfield, Utah, Sister Parker has descended on her father's side from pioneer ancestors who have known the trials and sacrifices that converts experience and that the early pioneers knew who walked across the plains and built up communities in the valleys of the mountains. Ancestors of her mother's family were converted in Norway. The gospel has been endeared to Sister Parker because of this heritage. Her father, Joseph W. Parker, deceased, and her mother, Matilda Olsen Parker, maintained a happy, God-fearing home for their family. Hulda was the youngest child. Her father served as a bishop and a member of the stake presidency, and her mother has been active in stake and ward Relief Society work and in teaching. When a child, Hulda moved to Draper, Utah, where she has lived the greater part of her life. When Sister Parker was twenty, she took a challenging position to teach in the high school in Duchesne, Utah, and taught there for two and one-half years. Her school and Church students everywhere call her blessed. When she was in Washington, D. C., working as secretary to Elder Ezra 'Taft Benson, she and her co-workers in HULDA PARKER the Church had phenomenal success with a genealogical class—building the membership from a small beginning into a very large and interested group. Other forces and circumstances which have helped to prepare Sister Parker for her present position have been her service in the Canadian Mission field where she was an outstanding missionary and served as supervisor of the mission Sunday Schools and secretary of the mission Relief Society; as secretary to Patriarch Kimball of Mount Jordan Stake; as secretary for several years in the Church offices for Elder Ezra 'Taft Benson and. Elder Mark E. Petersen and others of the General Au- 155 thorities; her training at Brigham Young University; and her service as a member of the M. I. A. General Board from 1953-57 on the Bee Hive and Special Interest Committees. Sister Parker has a strong testimony of the gospel. She is hardworking, thorough, sincere, conscientious, and efficient. She is pleasant and helpful and loves to work with people. She has accepted this new assignment with true humility and dependence upon the Lord. 'Those who know her and have worked with her are confident of her success in this great new calling. > She Family Unit SsTRHERE is no substitute for a righteous home. That may not be so considered in the world, but it is and ought to be in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The family is the unit in the kingdom of God. That we believe, and if we are fortunate enough, through the keeping of the commandments of the Lord, to go back and re-enter the celestial kingdom to dwell with him, we will find that we are his sons and his daughters, that he is in very deed our Father. As Paul has stated it, we are his offspring, and through obedience to every principle of eternal truth we will go back to be his sons and his daughters. "Paul has said and prayed, speaking of the mission. Of Christ and his obedience to him: For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, Of whom the whole family inheaven and earth is named (Eph. 3:14-15). "If we get back into that great kingdom after the earth is redeemed, we will find ourselves members of, the great family of God, and he will be our Father. "He said, you know, to John: He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his God, and he shall be my son (Rev. 21:7). —President Joseph Fielding Smith, Conference Address, October 3, 1948, page 152 Mary Vogel Gamsenon Appointed to General Board Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor, The Relief Society Magazine MARY VOGEL CAMERON ARY Vogel Cameron, appointed to the general board of Relief Society, January 9, 1957, comes to her new calling well prepared by heritage, training, and attributes of personality. She was born in Provo, Utah, to George and Martha Roberts Vogel, graduated from Ogden High School, and attended the University: of Utah and the University of California. As a teacher in the schools of Weber County and Jordan District, her radiant personality and her many talents were further developed. The rich promises of her gospel heritage found expresson early in Mary's life of devoted service. She has held executive and teaching positions in all the auxiliaries of the Church officered by women, and for several years was a member of her stake Primary board and later a Page 156 counselor in the presidency. For nineteen years she served as a missionary guide on 'Temple Square, where she deepened and strengthened her testimony of the gospel, as well as explaining the doctrines of the Church to many who have since become members. Her Relief Society work has included teaching the theology lessons in her ward, and a long period of service on the stake Relief Society board. Mary is an ideal mother and homemaker. A spiritual atmosphere, loving devotion, beauty, and order permeate her home. She was married to Donald Cameron in the Salt Lake Temple, and they are the parents of three daughters: Anna (Mrs. Dale S. Worden), Louise (Mrs. Robert K. Anderson), and Constance, a sophomore at the University of Utah. Eight grandchildren have brought much joy to Sister Cameron. The gospel has always been a guiding light to Mary; she loves to study the scriptures, believes in the power of prayer, and has a deep and abiding testimony. She is endowed with wisdom, understanding, discernment, and the priceless ability of instilling faith and devotion in others. She is an eloquent and sincere speaker and writes with integrity and artistry. Now, in wider fields of service, her intellectual and spiritual blessings will be extended to all the sisters of Relief Society, whose lives will be enriched by association with Mary Cameron. Afton WV Hunt Appointed to General Board Edith S. Elhott Member, General Board of Relief Society FTON Watson Hunt, who was appointed to the general board of Relief Society, January 9, 1957, was born in Parowan, Utah, to Emily Crane and Lorenzo Dow Watson. Brother Watson was a lawyer. He died seven months before Afton was born. Her mother kept her family of seven children together and reared them successfully while serving as librarian for twenty-two years at the Carnegie Library in Cedar City. It was there that Afton spent her youth and received most of her education. After graduating from the College of Southern Utah in Cedar City, Afton went to Berkeley, California, for special training to equip herself to teach the physically handicapped. She taught for three years in the California State School for the Deaf and Blind. While in the Bay area, she met Mitchell W. Hunt whom she married. To the young couple were born a daughter, Florian, and a son, Mitchell, Jr. Afton today has five lovely grandchildren. Later the Hunts moved to Idaho where Brother Hunt became first counselor in the Twin Falls Stake presidency and Afton served as president of the Twin Falls Stake Relief Society. 'The Hunts filled an Hawaiian mission, followed by a few months in the California Mission. Upon their release they retired to Laguna Beach where Brother Hunt became branch president and Sister Hunt was active in the auxiliaries. 'They won the love of many friends in Southern California, AFTON W. HUNT all of whom were deeply saddened when President Hunt passed away suddenly of a heart attack in 1951. In 1954 Afton toured Europe and Britain where she took advantage of educational, cultural, and historical opportunities and also visited in many of the missions. Returning to America, she established a home in Salt Lake City, Utah. At the time of her appointment to the general board of Relief Society, she was first counselor in the University Ward Relief Society in the University Stake. Sister Hunt has served most of her lifetime as a teacher in all the auxiliaries of the Church, with thirty years of service in ward and stake Relief Societies. Her training, experience, service and firm. Testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ amply prepare her for the position as a member of the general board of Relief Society. Page 157 Veh Tl. Simonsen Retiree ren General Presidency President Belle S. Spaftord HE General Presidency of Relief Society announces that on January 2, 1957, in response to her request, Sister Velma N. Simonsen was released as Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society and as a member of the general board. The announcement of her release will bring a sense of loss to Relief Society sisters throughout the Church. At the same time, there will be feelings of gratitude for the happy associations they have had with her and for the able leadership she has given them. Sister Simonsen was named a member of the general board in May 1945. In this calling, her leadership ability so asserted itself that when Sister Gertrude R. Garff was released as Second Counselor in the General Presidency, October 2, 1947, Sister Simonsen was called to fill this important position. During the time that she has held this office, she has given faithful, devoted, and capable service. In addition to her general duties as counselor, she has had charge of the work meeting program, and also the annual stake Relief Society conventions. She has had continuous supervision of the Mormon Handicraft Shop, and for several years she supervised the 'Temple Clothing Department. As a member of the General Presidency, she has continuously served as an _ advisory member of the General Church Welfare Committee and, in addition, has been a member of the Deseret Industries Committee. Page 158 VELMA N. SIMONSEN To all of these assignments she has brought enthusiasm, coupled with good judgment, ability, and a willingness to serve. Sister Simonsen has a strong faith in God and an abiding testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Her warm, friendly personality, together with her genuine love for the sisters of the Church have drawn them to her in love and admiration. She has been a loyal and valued counselor and her contribution to the work of Relief Society has been a significant one that will stand a credit to her always. Her associates of the general board love and esteem her as an able leader with whom they have enjoyed a close, personal relationship. It is with regret that they part with her as one of their number, wishing for her always the choice blessings of our Heavenly Father. Wlargaret C. Pickering Resigns As General Secretary-Jreasurer Leone O. Jacobs _ Former Member, General Board of Relief Society ITH deep appreciation for her devoted service to the Relief Society, the general board reluctantly accepted the resignation of Sister Margaret C. Pickering, after eleven years as General SecretaryTreasurer. She served from October 31, 1945 to December 31, 1956. Sister Pickering came to her position highly qualified in experience and ability, having twice served as secretary-treasurer of Ensign Stake Relief Society and as secretary-treasurer of South Eighteenth Ward Relief Society from the time of its organization in 1939 until she was called to the general board. She has a firm testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and a gracious and friendly disposition, which endeared her to fellow board members and all others who came to her office for information and help. Also a valuable asset was the executive experience Sister Pickering brought to her position. She had served for ten years as a director of the Salt Lake County Chapter of the American Red Cross, part of which time she was vice-chairman in charge of women's activities, during World War II. In addition she had held executive positions in other civic organizations. The work of General SecretaryTreasurer has been very exacting and complex, and during the eleven years of Sister Pickering's tenure MARGARET C. PICKERING the volume of detail and correspondence has increased proportionately to the society's great increase in numbers. Beside her work in the office, Sister Pickering has taken her share of stake conventions throughout the stakes of Zion, fulfilling these assignments with a high degree of efficiency, and making friends wherever she traveled. And now with her resignation, Sister Pickering, indeed, merits the satisfaction that comes from work well done, and members of the general board and her many friends throughout the Church extend to her their love and esteem, wishing her much happiness in the years ahead. Page 159 Shird Prize Story Annual Reliof Society Short Story Contest The Slow Hurry Vera H. Mayhew* 66 HY can't Daddy go with \\V me?" twelve-year-old Jimmy Marcus demanded. "Tm sick of going with Joe and his dad. Always Joe and his dad. How come Brother Jenson always goes and Daddy never does?" He sat sprawled on the big couch in the living room, his face dark with frustration. Millie wished she could answer his question. Sometimes she was tempted to say, "Because Daddy has things he'd rather do." She never had answered that way; she hoped she never would. She had to keep up the pretense that there would come a day when Daddy would go with Jimmy to the Father's and Son's Outing, with Ellen to Father's and Daughter's Night, or even with her to church, all the time hoping that it was not all pretense. If she didn't have that hope what was there to look forward to? "Daddy has to go to a meeting of the planning commission," she said aloud. "He's very sorry, but you know how important it is to him to get Orchard Avenue zoned for two-family houses. Come on now, Brother Jenson said he'd be glad to come around for you, and you'll have fun, once you get there." "Oh, all right, but I feel pretty funny when it's supper time and I VERA H. MAYHEW don't have a dad to fill a plate for." Jimmy stood up and planted his feet far apart and firmly on the floor. "And Brother Jenson can't run all the races twice. He gets too tired, but he always offers, and then I have to pretend I have a sore knee or something." Jimmy "hurried slowly" into his room. In spite of her sore heart, Millie had to smile, remembering the time several years before when she kept insisting that Jimmy hurry to do something and he had answered, "Oh, all right if I have to, but I'll hurry very, very slowly." Ever since she had called his reluctant shuffle to do something he *For a biographical sketch of Vera H. Mayhew, see page 179. Page 160 THE SLOW HURRY didn't really want to do "hurrying slowly." Ellen, who at fourteen was increasingly intolerant of the teasing of a younger brother, had taken advantage of Jimmy being away for an evening to invite her friend, Jeanne, to study with her. Now the two girls were seated at the dining-room table with a plate of fruit between them, chewing and giggling more than they were studying. Millie sat in the living room where she could see the girls and acknowledged to herself that she was hurrying slowly with the pile of mending in her lap. GEE kept thinking of Jimmy at the party with no dad to run the sack race with him, and wondering how long she was going to be able to keep him going to the parties with some other boy's dad. It wasn't only the parties either. How long would Jimmy think that church was important if his Dad showed by his actions that he didn't think so? She glanced at Ellen's laughing face and thought, I have a better chance with her. Girls are more likely to go along with their mothers. But in her heart Millie knew fear. Jim isn't helping me at all, she thought. I might as well be a widow bringing up my children! Then she was appalled that she even had such a thought. Jim was a sweet husband, a kind and loving father, whenever he was at home. If he were any other kind of man the children would not miss him so much nor be so eager to have him go with them on their small excursions. 'They had a good home, medical care, and all the things 161 that children their age wanted or needed. She had no right even to think disloyal thoughts. Maybe she wanted too much. Maybe Jim was right, and it took twelve hours a day, seven days a week to be successful in business. Maybe all the things they could have because Jim worked so hard were as important as Jim thought. She stitched the torn neckband in Jimmy's T shirt and resolved to think of something else. But thoughts once started have a way of coming back and _ back. She remembered her wedding day. They had come out of the Salt Lake Temple in the early afternoon and her parents had hurried ahead to get things moving for the reception that night. Jim had guided her a little away from the path and had taken something from his pocket. "With this ring I thee wed," he had said. "Do you mind if I tell you twice that it's forever? Fifty million years and then some more." He had slipped the thin band on her finger, and she had stood silent, smiling with tears in her eyes, remembering all the vows they had taken that day. Millie twisted the band on her finger. It was worn smooth in sixteen years, and she wondered if the vows hadn't worn a bit smooth, too? Where did we go wrong? She thought. Was it that Jim's family was not quite as religious as hers? In his boyhood Jim had gone to church if he wanted to and stayed home, if that was what he felt like doing. But all the while they had dated he had gone with her to Mutual and to sacrament meeting. She couldn't remember that she had noticed 162 whether his parents were there or not. It was only later when Jim had begun to find excuses for staying home, and she had gone alone that she had noticed that none of Jim's family were there either. Millie remembered the evening the bishop had come to their home a few months after they were married to ask Jim to be a member of the Sunday School superintendency. Jim had said how busy he was just starting his own real estate business, "I guess Millie will have to do the church work for both of us," he had said. And that's the way it had been. ELL, she had kept up the church work and had taken the children to all the meetings they were supposed to attend. If Jim made other plans for a Mutual or choir practice night, she had not let them interfere. She, at least, had done her duty. Jim sometimes canceled his plans, but more and more he had proceeded with them alone. Now he had almost stopped asking her to do things with him, and he never went with her. Lately they hadn't even been talking much. A little about the children and where he was going, if she asked. Tonight, when she pinned him down about going with Jimmy, he had told her about the zoning meeting. But mostly, she realized, she didn't know what he was doing. The twist of fear was stronger. It isn't only that the children are growing up without knowing the companionship of a father, she thought, but after the children are gone and we are alone, what will we have? What had happened to this marriage that was to last forRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 ever? How could I have known we didn't have the same ideas about what was worthwhile in life? Millie was too restless to sew. She put the basket of mending away and went into the kitchen. "We're through studying, Mom," Ellen called. "Is it all mght if we turn the television on?" "Go ahead," Millie said. "I'm making a batch of fudge. It will be ready before Jeanne's father comes for her, I think." It was better to keep herself busy. Perhaps then she wouldn't think so much. Somehow Millie couldn't stop thinking, that night or in the next few weeks. Something had to be done about their life as a family. Almost a month had passed, when Jim came home from a late appointment and sat down in the living room. He didn't open the paper or pick up a book, but kept stirring restlessly, looking at her, then looking away. Finally he said, "Mul, Dave Evans is in town and he has brought his wife. They will be here only over tomorrow, and I'd like to take them to dinner. It would be much nicer for Mrs. Evans if you went along. I know it's Mutual, but couldn't the kids go with some of the neighbors just this once?" Something about the way Jim looked, pleading as young Jimmy when he wanted something very much but feared he wouldn't get it, stopped the almost automatic response on her lips. Instead of refusing somewhat curtly, as she usually did, she said, "Of course, Jim, if you want it. Would it be nicer to have them at home?" Jim looked at her in surprise. THE SLOW HURRY "Not this time," he said. "It's pretty short notice for you to get up a dinner. Sweet of you to offer. Nice of you to go." He stood up and moved toward the bedroom. Almost there, he turned. "Thanks Mil, thanks awfully." I should thank you, Millie thought. She tried to remember the last time Jim had asked her to go any place. She thought about the surprised look on his face when she said yes. She must think about this. Maybe Jim was feeling the same need of family closeness that she did. Maybe he didn't know how to go about getting it either. MILUE dressed with great care for the dinner party with the Evanses and tried to be a good hostess. She turned the conversation to the Evans family, the Evans vacation, the Evans home, and listened with real interest. She surprised herself by not thinking about the children more than once or twice all evening. "Tt was a nice evening," she told Jim as they lingered a few minutes in their own living room. He put his arms around her and laid his cheek against her hair. "You're a knockout," he said. "Pretty as sixteen years ago. The Evanses thought so, too. I'm glad we could give them a_ pleasant evening. Dave's done a lot for me." Millie felt closer to Jim than she had done in years. The next day as she went about her work she kept thinking of the night before. If just once agreeing pleasantly to a wish of Jim's could bring her this feeling of increased compatibility, she wondered what it would be like if she lived more 163 for Jim. Then she thought, this thing doesn't work one way. If it makes me feel so good to do something Jim wants, he would feel the same way about doing something for me. She must think of something. Actually, the thing came about without any contriving. On Sunday, as Millie cleared the table after dinner, she slipped on a spot of grease that had splattered on the floor near the stove and turned her ankle. It was quite painful and the swelling came up fast. The first few minutes all was confusion. Jim picked Millie up and carried her to the couch. "You kids get busy and clean up the kitchen," Jim said. "Mother mustn't step on this foot at all." "How can we do dishes when you're taking up all the room getting out ice?" Jimmy asked. "There are other things to do on a cleanup job," Jim snapped. "Besides I'm almost through. Just get me a couple of thick wash cloths, Ellen, and I'll be out of your way." With infinite gentleness, Jim took off Millie's shoe and stocking and began to put on cold compresses. When he called the doctor he was told to continue the treatment and call him the next day, if the swelling was bad. After a half hour Jim pulled the afghan over Millie and sat beside her, his face white as hers. So the afternoon passed, a half hour of compresses, a_ half hour of rest. "Really Jim, it hardly hurts at all now," Millie insisted after the third application of cold, wet cloths. Ellen and Jimmy kept asking how she felt, and Jim reported that the kitchen looked perfectly slick. 164 Finally Ellen said, "Ts it all right if I leave for church now? I'm one of the youth speakers tonight." Millie sat up quickly. "Hand me my shoes and bring me a comb," she said. "I'll be ready to take you in just a minute." "You'll do nothing of the kind," Jim said. "You'll stay right on that couch till I carry you up to bed. You're going to keep off that foot for several days." "Ellen can't just let them down at the last minute like this," Millie protested. "Why don't I stay with Mother," Jimmy said, "and you take Ellen to church, Dad? I can wring cloths out of ice water, but I can't drive a car." Jim looked uncertain, a_ little shamefaced. His glance turned to Millie, and she held her breath waiting for his decision. "Okay," Jim said. "But don't you leave your mother's side." ¢6VOU have a very smart daughter, Mrs. Marcus," Jim said as he came in after the meeting. "People were almost as impressed at her talk as they were to see me in church." "Oh, Daddy!" Ellen said, but her face was glowing. "No kidding. You gave a right good talk." Jim put his arm around Ellen's shoulder and drew her close for a minute. "I'm sorry to have missed it," Millie said. "I knew you'd make us proud." She had said "us," and hadn't realized it until she heard the word. She held out her arms to Ellen, but her thoughts were with that little word she had used that showed that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 unconsciously she thought of them as a family all concerned with each other's successes. Now was the time to hurry slowly Millie knew, but it was not because of reluctance. She mustn't push Jim. He loved her and he loved the children. He had shown that the day she sprained her ankle. But the pattern of sixteen years would not be easy to break. She remembered how hard it had been for him to ask her to go with his clients to dinner; and just because an accident had gotten him to church once didn't mean that he would go-again. But I'll keep praying and trying, she thought. Our spiritual separation has been as much my fault as his, maybe more, she admitted in a flash of honest self-appraisal. I've been self-righteous! I've gloried in doing my duty just to show him! At that moment she didn't like herself very much. But her next thought seemed to set her on the right track. Maybe Jim has been leaving church out altogether to show me. Oh, not consciously, she hastened to add. But something may have pushed him as something pushed me. Just that little bit of difference in our background kept pushing us farther and farther apart. We should have met that and worked out our own way of life in the beginning. I guess that deep down inside we were each too sure that our way was right. But it isn't too late. Oh, it can't be too late! Nevertheless, two Sundays had passed and Jim had not offered to go to Sunday School or sacrament meeting. Ellen had shyly suggested that he come along, but he had a THE SLOW HURRY ready excuse and Millie had said nothing. Now it was Sunday again. Jim stayed home and worked in the garden while Millie and the children went to Sunday School. As the time neared for sacrament meeting, Millie resolved to ask Jim herself, if he would go with them. "Jack Barnes and Ken Murray are to be the speakers at church tonight," she said. "They're just back from their two years in the service. Jack has been in Germany and Ken in Japan. Come with us!" y™ looked at her almost blankly then a look of relief crossed his face. "I don't care if I do." "How different those boys are," Jim mused as he helped Millie spread sandwiches for a late Sunday snack. "Jack could say everything so easily. You felt almost as if you had been there with him. For Ken it was harder, and most people wouldn't get much from his talk. But I admired Ken. He did something hard the best he could. Ken taught me something." Millie waited for Jim to go on, but he sliced meat in silence. At last he continued, "Do you have a feeling that we understand each other better?" "Yes, I do," she answered. "What do you suppose happened? You know I was getting worried about us." You were getting worried! Millie thought; aloud she said, "That night I went with you to take the Evanses out to dinner something came straight in my mind. I discovered that you had a point of view and that I could look through it, too. Before that there had been just one right way. Mine." 165 Jim smiled and took her in his arms. "Ihe same bug must have bitten us both. The things you like aren't really so bad. I sort of like to go to church. But you made such a thing of it the very first time I just didn't feel like going, that I had to rebel. Or thought I did." He rumpled her hair then pressed her head against his shoulder. "As the kids grew up, I always felt like a heel when I didn't go some place where I should have been. But I could see you knowing I was going to let them down. Couldn't seem to help myself. I just never could be pushed." Millie smiled, thinking of Jimmy. "Tt's funny," she said softly. "I can see now that there are times when the necessary pressures of life would make it wrong for you to ignore an outside call to go to Mutual or on a picnic." "Not often," Jim replied. "Mostly I made the importance in my own mind. Sometimes, I grant you; times when a plane should be met or things happen just this once. Mostly it was my pigheadedness." "And mine," Millie said, then she giggled. "We surely hurried very, very slowly toward an understanding of family life." "But we did get there," Jim said. "Hey, I thought you were making sandwiches," Jimmy opened the kitchen door and shouted. "Give them time," Ellen said and pulled him back into the dining room and closed the door. "They're all done," Jim said. "We'll be right with you." Millie's eyes met his in deep understanding, as they turned to take the filled trays in to the rest of the family. She Tlew Lealand Mission Preston R. Nibley Whites Aviation Ltd. Submitted by Arta R. Ballif CABBAGE TREE IN THE "BUSH COUNTRY," NEW ZEALAND M{SSSIONARY work in New Zealand began in October 1854, when Augustus Farnham, President of the Australian Mission, accompanied by Elder William Cooke, a convert from Australia, arrived in Auckland to open a mission for the Church. They labored diligently in Auckland and vicinity, on the North Island, and in Nelson and vicinity on the South Island, for about two months, but did not make any converts. President Farnham then returned to Australia, leaving Elder Cooke to take charge Page 166 of the work. This diligent missionary, working alone during the winter of 1854-55, baptized ten converts at Karori (near Wellington) and organized, in March 1855, the first branch of the Church in New Zealand. The headquarters of what was known as the Australasian Mission, consisting of Australia and New Zealand, was moved from Sidney to Auckland in 1881. During the same year, the mission president, William M. Bromley, began missionary work among the Maoris of New Zealand. THE NEW ZEALAND MISSION Whites Aviation Ltd. Submitted by Arta R. Ballif VIEW OF THE GREEN HILLS OF NEW ZEALAND The plan met with success, and, in 1883, a branch of twenty-seven members was established in the Waotu settlement, with Hari T. Katera as president. The Book of Mormon was translated into the Maori language in 1887 by Elders Ezra F. Richards and Sonda Sanders, assisted by several educated natives. At the close of 1887 there were 2,573 members of the Church in New Zealand, 2,243 of whom were Maoris. The Australasian Mission was divided in 1897 and New Zealand was made a separate mission. At the end of 1930 there were 7,256 members in the mission. In 1913 an Agricultural College was established by the Church in 167 New Zealand, which has been of great benefit to the young Maori members. President David O. McKay, the first President of the Church to visit New Zealand, announced after his return to Salt Lake City in February 1955 that a temple would be built in that land. Today the New Zealand Mission is in a prosperous condition. There are 14,630 members, located in sixtyeight branches. Ariel S. Ballif is the mission president. In December 1955, seventy Relief Society organizations were reported with 998 members. Arta R. Ballif presides over the New Zealand Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover of this Magazine, "Sheep Grazing in a Green Paddock,"' represents typical New Zealand scenery. See also "Recipes From New Zealand," page 192. The Bright Star CHAPTER 1 Dorothy S. Romney ATHY 'Tracy was puffing from her steep climb up the hill by the time she reached the top step leading to the terrace. As usual since his retirement, old Phineas Fenton was seated in his big leather armchair. And, as usual, he was gazing across the waters of the Golden Gate, crimson now in the last glow of the September sun. Without a single word of greeting, Phineas declared, "I like the crash of the waves down there. Shuts out the humdrum sounds of all those new-fangled household contraptions Grace has let herself be talked into buying." Kathy stood there not knowing how to begin. It was hard enough just to face old Phin, let alone ask him for a job. But it had to be done. She simply could not allow Aunt Em to go on working so hard. If only Uncle Phin were a real blood relative, instead of just a family friend.... She took a step closer and began, "Uncle Phin..." "Hmm," he growled, "you startled me," as if this were the first indication he had of her presence. "What do you want?" She was saved from replying for the moment, when Grace Fenton, Phin's daughter-in-law, came out of the house. "Why, Kathy," she said graciously, "how nice to see you. Not that I blame anyone for not climbing up here any oftener than necessary." "Tave to live where I can see the ocean," old Phin muttered. "Of course," Grace agreed pleasPage 168 antly. "It just makes it a bit hard for others to get up here to see us." Old Phin coughed impatiently, and Kathy surmised he was wishing his visitor would come to the point, then take herself off, so he could go back to his daydreaming. "Aunt Em is getting old," she began, and saw Phineas wince. I would start out wrong, she told herself. He's a whole generation older than she is, and likes to think himself young. She forced herself to continue. "When Grandfather Tracy died years ago you told us to come to you if we ever needed anything. Uncle Phin, I need a job." "Don't know that I have a job for anyone. Business is slow all over," Phineas complained, fretting his lower lip with his teeth like a petulant child. "You can find Kathy a job in one of your office buildings in San Francisco," Grace said in her soft, unemotional tones. "I'm sure some small job would do to start with. Kathy's interested in becoming an artist, and this would give her time to work on her paintings." "Painting!" Phineas snorted. "Same kind of malarkey Em would have gone in for, if her father hadn't had sense enough to put a stop to 1" Kathy wisely chose to ignore this remark. "She's bright and talented, too," Grace urged loyally, and Kathy could have wept for her kindness. "Confound you women, let me alone," Phineas growled. He turned THE BRIGHT STAR to Grace. "Hand me that note paper," he said, indicating a pad on a small table a few feet away. He started scribbling, then turned to Kathy. "Here, girl, what's your full name?" "Kathy Lynette Tracy," she said distinctly. "Hmm," he snorted, "pretty fancy. Sounds like a brand of starch." You'd think he hadn't heard my name hundreds of times, Kathy found herself thinking, as Phineas tore off the note and handed it to her. She glanced at it just long enough to make sure he was giving her a job, then stood up. "You mustn't go yet," Grace protested. "Let me bring you a glass of cold orange juice." "Oh, thank you," Kathy said, "but I'm afraid I must get back." She had a job, and felt that she'd burst if she didn't get down and tell Aunt Em the joyful news. She stopped in front of Phineas' chair. "You'll never regret giving me this chance, Uncle Phin." He scrutinized her owlishly, then sat up straighter. "By jove," he said, "it's a good thing you're pretty. The tenants like pretty girls in my buildings." Kathy nodded goodbye to Grace, her eyes almost brimming over with tears of gratefulness. She walked down the steps and path leading to the shrubbery. Behind the thicket of laurel, out of sight of the Fenton mansion, was a stone bench. Kathy crumpled upon it. She fished in her sweater pocket and brought out the note. Phineas had written clearly on it: "Give this girl, Kathy Lynette 169 Tracy, a job as switchboard operator. Pay her fifty dollars a week." It was a small fortune, she'd be rich on this, rich enough to pay all the household expenses, and the money in the old Chinese chest could be saved for an emergency. Money Aunt Em had saved, penny by penny, through an infinity of stitching, a maze of jams and jellies sold to the village stores. Kathy never wanted to take another stitch or look at another jar of jam the rest of her life. She and Aunt Em would both be free of all this drudgery. 'She started planning. She'd come home nights—commute across the Golden Gate bridge—that way she could spend all her spare time with Aunt Em. Then, perhaps, Kathy's heart gave a little plunge—stay over one evening a week to take that course in art she had dreamed of for so long. ATHY got up and continued down the path. Ahead of her loomed home—the gray, _ threestoried house. 'The house her grandfather, Jon Tracy, had built at the turn of the century. The house Aunt Em loved so dearly. Kathy thought its three uncompromising tiers of gray wood rising from the rocky beach were just as gorgeous as the Fenton place atop the hill. Jon Tracy, who had spent his life piloting one of Phineas' cargo vessels, had built his home as close to the ocean as was considered safe, where the noise of the surf and the foghorns could be heard constantly. Kathy was sure Miss Em would die without these familiar sounds of her childhood. She must never, never have to give up the gray house. 170 Kathy left the path, and finally reached the ravine made by the spring, crossed the miniature cherrywood bridge she herself had built over the small stream. She paused with a longing look at the tiny cabin at the very feet of the waves. The cabin Jon Tracy had built and filled with the beautifully carved chests and relics he'd brought from far-off lands. 'The China house, as it had become known, had long been Kathy's refuge when troubled. But she dared not go in now and sit down in the comfortable rocking chair, or she'd never get up to the house, and Aunt Em might need her. When she finally reached the haven of the kitchen, she found that it was empty. She called "Aunt Em! Aunt Em!" Receiving no answer, she went into her aunt's bedroom. It was empty, and so was the rest of the house, she found. "Where could she have gone?" Kathy asked herself. Kathy collapsed in the rocking chair beside the old-fashioned kitchen range. 'The fog was already settling down in the ravine, and it would be dark before long. Maybe she'd better go out and look for Aunt Em, she thought, as she rose to set the kettle on the hot part of the stove. A cup of chocolate would warm her up. It was then that she saw the note, propped against the sugar bowl on the table. She picked it up and read it swiftly: "I felt that I needed some fresh air. Please don't worry, and go ahead with your date with Jim. I'll be back soon." IM! Kathy had completely forgotten that this was their night RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 to go into the village for that movie date. She'd better eat a hurried bite and get ready, as Jim was never known to be late and hated to be kept waiting. She reminded herself that Aunt Em insisted on her going out once in a while in the evening. "I won't have you making a recluse of yourself because of me," she'd declared. "Besides, it's the only chance I have to catch up on my Book of Mormon reading." A sandwich and a cup of hot chocolate was all Kathy could possibly eat. She had barely finished when Jim's knock came on_ the kitchen door. "Hi!" he greeted. "Grab your coat and let's get going, or we'll miss the early show." Kathy got up, but stood uncertainly in the middle of the kitchen floor. "Hey, come on, you in a trance or something?" Jim prodded. "Aunt Em's gone out... And I shouldn't leave until she gets back," Kathy spoke slowly. "What's so unusual about Aunt Em going out?" Jim asked. "She's always running off somewhere, isn't she? Goodness — she knows the countryside around here like the back of her hand. She'll be all right," he assured her. "IT suppose so," Kathy replied, still reluctant to leave. She had a strange foreboding — she felt sure she shouldn't go out before her aunt returned. For one thing, she remembered how much Aunt Em had slowed down in the past few weeks, not only in her actions, but her speech was actually slower — perhaps she wasn't well. (To be continued) Ward Linton HILLSIDE IN SAN BENITO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA GF Had Forgotten Catherine E. Berry I had forgotten time could bring An end to every lovely thing... The fairyland the snowfall made, The weeping willow's lacy shade; A candle's glow, a scarlet tree, The way your eyes once looked at me. And wept for loveliness gone past, For dreams and love that did not last. I had forgotten time can heal The wounded heart, can place its seal Upon the past, and yearly bring The cycle back again to spring. Page 17] Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1897 "For THE Ricuts OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" NORTHERN IDAHO: That part of Idaho called Coeur d'Alene, and in which is my home, comprises the two northernmost counties, Shoshone and Kootenai. It is a nest of mountains with beautiful lakes nestling among them and streams of water coursing through every gulch, except where tower the snow clad peaks above the timber line. A trail cut through the banks of snow Winds up and o'er the mountain chain To where the pines of Idaho Stand guard upon the Coeur d'Alene. —Helen L. Young RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN DAVIS STAKE: President Susan Grant presiding... Made opening remarks, said we did not come together to advance new ideas but we have come with a desire to be blessed.... "I have been connected with this Church for a long time and it is my testimony that God hears and answers the prayers of the faithful saints. When we are in deep sorrow we can go to Him and He will hear us. We have all enlisted in the service of God. Our names are all enrolled in the Relief Society, it is the duty of all the sisters to attend their meetings." —Phebe C. Sessions, Secretary ROSES FOR PRESIDENT WOODRUFF'S NINETIETH BIRTHDAY They are the roses Reverence and Regard That know no change. But bloom forever, though the storms be hard And ways grow strange. They are the roses that I bring to you, Your gaze to greet; To scent the way you take with fragrance true, And make life sweet. —DMiss Rose Wallace SILVER WEDDING: Elder John C. Sharp, Bishop of Vernon, Tooele Co., and his wife celebrated their silver wedding by entertaining about fifty relatives and friends at the Templeton Hotel in this city, on Friday evening March 12th. Among the guests were Apostle H. J. Grant and wife, Mrs. Catherine K. Palmer, who is almost eighty years old and mother of Mrs. Sharp, Pres't H. Gowans and wife of Tooele Stake, Brother Samuel Woolley and wife of Grantsville, Brother Wright and wife of Nephi, Brother Louis Stransbury and wife of Vernon, Brother Thackeray and wife of Croydon, and many relatives of this city. The evening was pleasantly spent with music, feasting and conversation. —E. P. F. Page 172 HERE are sixteen women in the Fighty-fifth Congress of the United States, the same number as in the eighty-fourth, though two of them are new: Representative Florence P. Dwyer, Republican, New Jersey, and Representative Kathryn FE. Granahan, Democrat, Pennsylvania. Edith Nourse Rogers, Republican, Massachusetts, was elected to the House of Representatives for her seventeenth term, and _ Frances Payne Bolton, Republican, Ohio, for her tenth. Margaret Chase Smith, Republican, Maine, remains the only woman Senator. 'The other representatives are: Republican: Katherine Ind and Marguerite Church, Illinois; Democratic: Edna Kelly, New York; Gracie Pfost, Idaho; Leonor K. Sullivan, Missouri; Edith Green, Oregon; Elizabeth Kee, West Virginia; Iris Blitch, Georgia; Martha W. Griffiths, Michigan; and Coya Knutson, Minnesota. ELLIE BELLES MACMILLAN, born in Spencer, Indiana, is the mother of Harold Macmillan, Britain's new Prime Minister. She met and married Maurice Macmillan, musician and publisher, in Paris in the 1880's. Largely through her insistence, Margaret Mitchell's Gone With the Wind was purchased and published by the Macmillan Company. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MABEL S. HARMER'S True Book of Pioneers, published in March by Childrens Press, Chicago, has been named a Junior Literary Guild Selection. It is the first book by a Utahn to receive this distinction. Mrs. Harmer's True Bock of the Circus was her first contribution to the Childrens Press True Book series. Beautifully illustrated, the new volume depicts the day-to-day activities of America's countless pioneers. Mrs. Harmer, an active Latter-day Saint, is a frequent contributor to The Relief Society Magazine and the author of a daily Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram Children's Story. RS. CLARE BOOTH LUCE, fifty-three, has resigned as American Ambassador to __ Italy. Foreign Minister, Gaetano Martino, bestowed the Grand Cross of the Order of Merit, Italy's highest decoration, on Mrs. Luce, commenting that if United States-Italian friendship "has now become a permanent part of the spiritual life of the two nations," it was to her credit. USAN WARNER, in writing The Wide, Wide World in 1850, became the author of Ametica's first fiction bestseller. 'Thirteen editions were printed in 1850-51. Page 173 CQ-— > EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 44 MARCH 1957 Relief Society Legacy for Young Women HAT does Relief Society offer to me as a young woman?" 'This is a question which may be in the minds of many young women who are beginning to make a home. Here are a few of the opportunities which may be mentioned that a young woman has as a legacy of Relief Society. In this modern mechanized world, opportunity for expression may be lacking because so many of us are watchers and listeners. In Relief Society, a young woman has an opportunity of voicing her views on subjects which are interesting and worthwhile—theology, literary masterpieces, authors, family relationships, and other subjects. She has the chance for forming opinions through study and discussion with other women—some who are her own age and others who are older. The knowledge and opinions of the mother are an important part of the foundation on which children learn to think and learn why they think the way they do. It behooves young Latter-day Saint women, then, to learn as much as possible not only of the gospel of Jesus Christ, but also of all the fine and domestic arts and handicrafts, in order that they may share this knowledge with their families. Much of this knowledge can be gained through activity and study in Relief Society. Page 174 A young woman may have the opportunity of developing leadership abilities if she becomes proficient and is called to executive or teaching positions. In these capacities she will find that she needs, among many virtues, those of poise, kindness, and humility. She who inculcates these qualities in her life will have a great influence upon the other members and upon her children as well. The Relief Society Magazine is another avenue of expression which the young woman is given in her legacy of Relief Society. She may have a flair for poetry or short stories; or she may like to write the factual or the travel-type article. One of the main purposes of the Magazine is to stimulate and increase interest in the literary talents of women. A young woman also finds the opportunity to serve in many different ways. She may be able to help in the accomplishment of a welfare project or she may realize the joy which comes from compassionate service she has given to a sister. From her associations with older women of the society, she gains wisdom and insight in life's situations, and a feeling of oneness with her sisters, an understanding that life itself is unchanging despite exterior conditions. EDITORIAL 175 Young women who find them- _ sion and service, it would be a priceselves asking the question: "Why less gift which is not found in any should I be interested in Relief Soclub or other activity. Ciety?" may well consider these; values. If the legacy of Relief SoMay the on oe of this ciety to the young women of the generation claim this gift of opporChurch included nothing 'more tunities by actively participating in than an opportunity for self-expresRelief Society.—J. N. _> Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music Over National Broadcasting Television Network IX hundred Singing Mothers from Salt Lake and Utah County areas sang "The Twenty-third Psalm," with music by Franz Schubert, on the "Wide Wide World Program" which presented a Salute to the American Woman, over the National Broadcasting Television Network, Sunday, January 6, 1957, in the Salt Lake Tabernacle. The event, originating with KSL-T'V, was telecast over 200 stations to an estimated thirty million listeners and viewers. Representing nearly thirty-one thousand Singing Mothers throughout the Church, these sisters, under the baton of Dr. Florence J. Madsen of the Relief Society general board, and with Frank W. Asper at the organ, rendered the sacred anthem with great sincerity and accomplished musicianship. The Singing Mothers appeared at the conclusion of the "Wide Wide World Program." They were introduced by commentator Dave Gerroway, who spoke as follows: But in the West one more chapter is still to be told. We visit with 600 women who tell the story in song. Our live cameras are scanning the spires of the Mormon Temple and Tabernacle on Temple Square in Salt Lake City and the voices you hear singing praises to the Lord over our broad land are the combined chorus of the Relief Society Singing Mothers of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints—mothers, wives, and daughters—out of their homes in the valley of Salt Lake and the mountains beyond. In her letter to the stakes represented, thanking the Singing Mothers for their lovely and enthusiastic performance, President Belle S. Spafford expressed her appreciation: Not only did they perform masterfully under the able baton of Sister Madsen, but through their radiant countenances did they portray most impressively the spirit and beauty of Latter-day Saint womanhood. We feel confident that through this performance countless numbers both in and out of the Church will have increased their appreciation of the cultural opportunities afforded through our great organization. We feel also, that many other Singing Mothers choruses will have been encouraged in their endeavors. Many letters of appreciation have been received at the general offices of Relief Society commending the excellent and appealing rendition of the great Psalm, and expressing admiration for the unity of effort and effect in the singing of the Mothers, as well as their lovely appearance as a group. In a congratulatory letter to President Spafford, Herbert Sussan, producer of "Wide Wide World," commented: I certainly hope you agree that all the efforts were worthwhile. We were all most impressed by the great quality of the performance. Even more so, the faith and warmth reflected in the faces of the singers was most inspiring to our vast television audience, And, in a letter to Sister Madsen, Mr. Sussan expressed his appreciation for the quality of the music presented: I should like to congratulate you and the wonderful organization that you conducted on the January 6th Wide Wide World program for the most effective presentation of its type that I have ever seen on television. Musically, we were thrilled by the high quality of their performance. This event, shared by many people in all parts of our country, was a heartfelt and significant occasion for the Singing Mothers and for Relief Society women in all the stakes and missions of the Church—an opportunity to present a message of faith through the faces and the voices of the Singing Mothers. Their devotion and their performance will long be remembered. Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue HE April 1957 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four outstanding stories being presented. Look for these stories in April: "Mountain Vacation," by Deone R. Sutherland "New Shoes for Flo," by Wanda F. Hilton "Two of a Kind," by Maude Rubin "Going Modern," by Frances C. Yost Shese Shings J Love Helen H. Jones These things I love: Soft music built on unexpected Harmonies, Clean silhouettes against the moon Of leafless trees; Life that runs a rocky course Not hewn by chance, Finding its power through purpose, Not through circumstance. 176 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 No TO THE FIELD Index for 1956 Reliof Society Magazine Available OPIES of the 1956 index of The Relief Society Magazine are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 16, Utah. The price is 15¢, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1956 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through the Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.50, including the index. If leather binding is preferred, the cost is $3.50, including the index. These prices do not include postage, and an additional amount to cover postage must accompany all orders for binding of the Magazine. See schedules of postage rates in this issue of the Magazine, page 208. If bound volumes are desired, and the Magazine cannot be supplied by the person making the request, the Magazines will be supplied for $1.50 by the Magazine Department, General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 16, Utah. Only a limited number of Magazines are available for binding. It is suggested that all wards and stakes have one volume of the 1956 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. <t Organizations and Reorganizations of Stake and TMlission Relicf Societies for 1956 ORGANIZATIONS Stakes Formerly Part of Appointed President Date Appointed Ashley Uintah Melba H. Tullis November 2, 1956 Brigham Young East Provo Alice Wilkinson January 8, 1956 University Burbank San Fernando Evelyn P. Brown September 16, 1956 Canyon: Rim East Mill Creek Bertha H. Blomquist October 28, 1956 Covina Pasadena Lucille C. Hales February 26, 1956 Flagstaff Snowflake and Ruth W. Palmer September 23, 1956 California Mission Hayward Oakland Myrtle Davidson August 26, 1956 Holladay Cottonwood Elaine B. Curtis March 18, 1956 Kansas City Independence District Marjorie M. Reeve October 21, 1956 Central States Mission Lake Mead Las Vegas and Moapa Mary R. Edwards August 19, 1956 Oakland-Berkeley Oakland and Berkeley Annabelle W. Hart August 26, 1956 Reseda San Fernando Blanche A. Flint September 16, 1956 Spanish Fork Palmyra Fem Brockbank September 30, 1956 Springville Kolob Clara Sumsion October 21, 1956 Tucson Southern Arizona Avez M. Goodman December 2, 1956 Page 177 178 Stake Valley View Walnut Creek Missions Northern Mexico Stake —— Beaver Bountiful Calgary Cottonwood East Los Angeles East Mill Creek East Provo Emigration Farr West Florida Fresno Gooding Grand Coulee Gridley Houston Klamath Kolob Lake View Layton Lyman Mill Creek New York North Carbon North Sevier Palmyra Palo Alto Park Redondo St. George Salmon River San Fernando San Luis Santa Monica Santa Rosa South Sanpete Temple View Uintah Wasatch Washington Wilford Formerly Part of East Mill Creek and Wilford Stakes Berkeley Mexican Appointed President RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 Date Appointed Grace E.. Berndt Ellen J. Haddock Kathleen B. Bentley REORGANIZATIONS Released President Bernice 'Thompson Lula G. Eldredge Freda Kenney Elaine B. Curtis Genevieve L. Anderson Zettella W. Thurman Zina P. Dunford Lucille G. Williams Geneva M. Law Effie Meeks Lyla J. Coombs Jenna Vee Hall Alfreta Gail Jardine Alice J. Ferrin Sadie Ollorton Clark Mae Belle Nielson Grace C. Crandall Esther (Beth) McEntire Faun L. Reynolds Opal W. Broadbent Mary M. Wright Vera H. Hales Elva Judd Josephine Thomsen Fern Brockbank Violet B. Smith Velma N. Glade June Baggett Verna L. Dewsnup Louise Arave Evelyn P. Brown Lettie S. Jensen Odette P. Coulam Ruth M. Pell Zella C. Christensen Lorena W. Anderson Muriel S. Wallis Ruth Mae Witt Mae A. Evans Grace E. Berndt Appointed President October 28, 1956 August 26, 1956 June 10, 1956 Date Appointed Kathleen S. Farnsworth Marilla H. Sessions Helen B. Pitcher Nina B. Davis Margaret W. Clarke Thelma B. Dansie Ethel M. Wilson Dean B. Norberg Ada J. Taylor Vella V. 'Tilton Olive Child Phillips Nina Beth G. Cunningham Jane Maria Larsen Ivy M. Brown Kathryn K. Willis Vesta M. Lewis Luella T. Wilson Catherine Child Mary Barber Elease Rollins Rachel Park Margaret D. Stephenson Edna Broadbent Ora C. Mason Maude H. Ludlow Ruby M. Dobbins Bernice R. Campbell Kathryn L. Squire Roma C. Esplin Helen Olson Naomi Gilmore Verla Crowther Hilda Goucher Dorothy S. Blaisdell LuDean H. Cox Margaret M. Glad Evyln G. Richardson Mina C. Giles Marcia C. Steele Lois Jensen May 1, 1956 March 20, 1956 March 18, 1956 March 18, 1956 April 22, 1956 October 28, 1956 January 29, 1956 September 27, 1956 September 22, 1956 October 25, 1956 September 9, 1956 June 17, 1956 February 26, 1956 September 23, 1956 October 14, 1956 April 29, 1956 October 21, 1956 June 10, 1956 February 5, 1956 October 28, 1956 July 9, 1956 February 26, 1956 August 6, 1956 April 22, 1956 September 20, 1956 September 9, 1956 March 11, 1956 August 27, 1956 June 10, 1956 May 20, 1956 September 16, 1956 May 20, 1956 September 16, 1956 February 5, 1956 September 25, 1956 September 16, 1956 June 10, 1956 May 6, 1956 August 2, 1956 November 4, 1956 ORGANIZATIONS AND REORGANIZATIONS 179 Missions Released President Appointed President Date Appointed Argentine Amy Y. Valentine Marilynn Haymore July 25, 1956 Pace Danish Mary G. Sorensen Ora Irene H. PeterJanuary 10, 1956 sen Great Lakes Mission Florence H. Richards Mary Pehrson October 17, 1956 Christensen Netherlands Mission Ada S. Van Dam Lucy Emma Gedge July 12, 1956 Sperry Northern California Amelia P. Gardner Hazel Sperry Love —- August 22, 1956 Norwegian Sigrid H. Andresen Zina R. Engebretsen February 16, 1956 Samoan Rita H. Stone Thelma Hansen October 17, 1956 Sampson South African Nora C. Duncan Holly Wood Fisher October 7, 1956 Swedish Ethel E. Blomquist Ruth T. Oscarson July 12, 1956 Swiss-Austrian Johanna B. Perschon LaVelle D. Curtis June 22, 1956 Uruguayan Louise Bush Parry Sharon Parry (Miss) (deceased, 6-14-56) Western Canadian Elizabeth Zimmerman Annie Ruth B. January 10, 1956 Larson STAKES DISORGANIZED Stakes Released President Date Released Berkeley Irene Thorley Ranker August 26, 1956 Oakland Annabelle W. Hart August 26, 1956 WorldChanger Maryhale Woolsey Small Danny-Boy has been here — my world globe tells me so: Antarctica is up on top, the North Pole's down below. And I'm inclined to wonder, as I view it with a frown, In what ways Daniel, grown, might turn a teal world upside-down! Vera H inckley IMlayhew Vera Hinckley Mayhew appears for the second time as a winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, with her offering '""The Slow Hurry." 'My husband, Wayne, and I live in Berkeley, California," she writes, "and we spend as much time as we can squeeze out on our ranch in the Napa Valley, where we breed Arabian horses and entertain our eight grandchildren. We have two sons and two daughters, all married and living in widely scattered places. I have been active in Relief Society for many years as a ward and stake literature class leader, and as a ward and then a stake president. Over the past twenty years a story of mine has occasionally appeared in The Relief Society Magazine or the Era. For the past two and a half years, since my household and Church responsibilities have decreased, I have kept a more regular writing schedule and my appearances in both Church and outside publications have increased." Be Honest with Yourself Run and Vin LL life is a race which everyone wants to win. Happily, all of us can win, for we run not against one another but against ourselves. Moreover, we set our own handicaps. These handicaps are the times and the measures, the ambitions and the goals we set for ourselves. But once having set our sights, it's up to us whether we win or lose in the race. Young man, young woman, what are your goals in the race of life? Health, long life, business success, the friendship of good and great people, a comfortable home, a happy family, security for self and loved Page 180 ones, faith in a more glorious future life, with a well-earned inner assurance that a loving Father will reward in heaven good deeds done here? If these are the sights you set for yourself and for those you cherish, your high aims must be matched by constant and increasing daily endeavor. To win you must run and not grow weary; you must not faint or falter a single step before the race is won. Don't slow your pace by breaking training rules, or shorten your stride in the running of the race. To win the race of life, you must keep physically, mentally, and spiritually fit. To be less — to do less than your best is to cheat yourself and your loved ones of the rewards which belong only to winners. Then — on your mark, get set — go! BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF <>. Spring Opening Eva Willes Wangsgaard Forsythia was first to voice Disdain for winter's reign of frost. There was scant reason to rejoice For earth and sky were winter-crossed. Still every limb wore bells of gold In gay defiance of the weather. The sun-flecked tune their chiming told Was light as if a golden feather Had fallen from wide wings of spring. Though skies were cold in clouds of dun, As warm as hours June would bring, Forsythia was filled with sun. She Whitethroat in the Grass Ethel Jacobson Sparrow of the snowy throat, Whence these arias come pouring, From weedy clumps you loose a note Pure as a lark's in heaven soaring, In highest heaven soaring. Of faith you sing, though men shrug by Where praises rise from grassy altars, Of faith that knows how fond an eye Watches over you, nor falters— Faith that never falters! RUN AND WIN 181 Stratford-Upon-Avon and the Shakespeare Memorial Theater Ramona W. Cannon HAKESPEARE could not have S been Shakespeare without Elizabethan London, with its mere 200,000 inhabitants, its brilliant coffee-house intelligentsia; its newborn spirit of youth, hope, and adventure; its beauty and brutality; its perfumed air and vile stench; its spiritual yearning; its insistence upon the importance of the individual — and with it all London's almost daily familiarity with the executioner — so much so that not death itself was what counted but only the manner of meeting death—with courage and dignity. All of these undoubtedly taught Shakespeare much of his skill in probing the diverse passions of the human heart. Shakespeare could not, however, have reached that vast universality which characterizes him above all other writers, without the lovely Warwickshire countryside where he had his important beginnings and early youth. In visiting StratfordUpon-Avon, one feels the gentle shadow of this exquisite place projecting itself into drama after drama of the master poet-playwright. How different is nature's grace in the broad embracing curve of the Avon River, from the tutored grace of Queen Elizabeth in the dance, executing a pas de chat considerably above the floor! The sweet air, the ancient trees, the incredible profuPage 182 sion of flowers with their slight movements, their colors and starry forms, their legends; the ever-changing ways of sky and clouds — these were undoubtedly the gossamer threads from which was woven much of Shakespeare's poetry, his Midsummer Night's Dream, As You Like It, Ophelia's mad scene in Hamlet, the romantic balcony scene from Romeo and Juliet, and many scattered lines of verse that move the soul with their beauty. The trip from London to Stratford-Upon-Avon in May was a charming introduction to the theme of Warwickshire itself. There were still patches of "bluebell woods"—carpets of tiny massed bells stretching under the trees in delicate blue glamor. Bright-colored wild flowers and "lady's white petticoats" made the scene gay. Green meadowlands ascended to tolling hills crowned with thick growths of trees in multiple shades of green interspersed with red copper beeches and other bright foliage. Lovely hedgerows divided fields and farms and grazing lands, with Hereford and Black Angus cows, pigs, and newborn lambs that looked scarcely a foot long. Lilacs bloomed exuberantly, and blossoming shrubs and fruit trees made a delicate pink and white tracery. Suddenly we were in Stratford, and we had slipped far back in time. STRATFORD-UPON-AVON 183 Photochrom Company, Ltd. Graphic Studios, Tunbridge Wells Kent, England ANNE HATHAWAY'S COTTAGE, STRATFORD-UPON-AVON, ENGLAND Young William Shakespeare must have been familiar with many of these houses almost four centuries ago. ONE could spend days absorbing the architectural details that lend so much charm and quaintness to Stratford. The irregularity and diversity in the shapes of roofs, gables, substantial chimney stacks, and projecting circular thatches over dormer windows create a beautiful rustic artistry. 'The chimneys are most picturesque. 'They may be oblong, square, tall and narrow, or diagonal as in Shakespeare's daughter's home, Hall's Croft. 'The tops are frequently in ornamental shapes that give a beautiful architectural finish to the buildings. From big chimneys rise, often, clusters of little chimney pots (pipes). The timbered houses give Stratford its most characteristic charm. Generally the handhewn timbers are set perpendicularly or diagonally in the plaster walls, but in some they are elaborately patterned with curves, which are difficult of execution, as an important part of the design. There is the same kind of alikeness in the houses as exists in people; yet the very striving for individuality that characterized the Elizabethan men and women, is evident also in these old homes. Some of them, of the pointed-architecture type, are very interesting. 184 Thrift is apparent here, too. 'There is one relic still used as a shop and home. Its front wall, stricken with age, leans toward the street, sloping from a high, steep roof, sharply pointed, to within eight feet of the ground. Scraggly thatch projects like a beetling eyebrow, and, occasionally, the birds take out a straw for their nests. 'The supporting corner timber is split wide open so an iron pipe, planted in the ground, rises at an angle of fortyfive degrees, pressing against the weakened corner timber, and is fastened to the roof at its high point. Many houses have overhanging second stories, some third stories also. 'There are thatch roofs and tile roofs. 'The leaded windows and unusual doorways give great style and beauty to the buildings. 'There are large window spaces — sometimes in the overhanging fashion — containing perhaps fifteen panels. In one window, each panel has a double-leaded circle in the center, and in the space between the leaded rings, is a fleur-de-lis design, probably a family coat of arms. Some of the glass is a greenish or bluish tint, often with a very transparent bubble in the center of the pane. 'These occasional colored bubble panes, contrasting with plain, clear ones, make interesting designs. In one doorway of fifty-four small panes, for instance, this contrasting bubble motif was worked out. Of the historic buildings in Stratford, Holy Trinity Church, where Shakespeare's remains have rested since his death in 1616, is in a remarkably beautiful location on the river bank and is representative RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 of architecture beginning with the thirteenth century. Shakespeare's birthplace is a large, handsome old home dating from the early sixteenth century. The timbered room in which he was born, in 1564, has a large stone-and-brick mantel. On the glass of its one window, eminent people who have visited through the years have scratched their names, among them 'Thomas Carlyle, Isaac Watts, Sir Walter Scott, Henry Irving, and Ellen Terry. Of New Place — the handsomest home in Stratford at the time, which Shakespeare bought for retirement — only the foundations remain, but a memorial garden is maintained which is much like the garden the poet himself planted and tended. HE thatched cottage of Anne Hathaway in Shottery, a mile distant, is timbered outside and inside. It is a spacious farmhouse which was familiar to young William, who courted Anne there. The oldest part of the house dates from the fifteenth century; the old-fashioned garden is true to type, and the kitchen has a fireplace big enough in which to barbecue an ox, and is arrayed with old-fashioned kitchen utensils. There is, also, the Arden Farmstead, home of Shakespeare's mother, in nearby Wilmcote, and near the center of Stratford-Upon-Avon, is the large and elegant home of Dr. John Hall and Susanna Shakespeare Hall, daughter of the dramatist. The Shakespeare museum and picture gallery, close to the Memorial Theatre, teems with interesting items that bring Shakespearean dra- STRATFORD-UPON-AVON 185 Photochrom Company, Ltd. Graphic Studios, Tunbridge Wells Kent, England SHAKESPEARE NR, MEMORIAL THEATRE, STRATFORD-UPON-AVON, ENGLAND matic history to life. Among many portraits of the poet is the famous Droeshout painting, which is one of only two in existence, "of which it can be positively asserted that they were known to anyone who ever set eyes on Shakespeare himself." There are magnificent portraits of many distinguished Shakespearean actors through the centuries. Among them are Ellen Terry, Violet Vanbrugh, Sir Johnston Forbes Robertson, Mary Anderson, Madame Modjeska; and one especially interesting portrayal of the trial scene of Queen Katherine in Henry VIII, presents famous Fanny Kemble and other members of the acting family of the Kembles, There are many artists' conceptions — both poetic and dramatic — of great scenes in Shakespeare's plays. 'The walls are lined with imagined biographical portraits of Shakespeare as an infant, surrounded by the (nine) passions, Shakespeare at the baptismal font, and other pictures. The dagger, script, tablets, and chain used by actor Henry Irving are on display along with a cast of Sarah Siddons' lovely, artistic left hand, and a death mask and a cast of the clasped hands of beloved actress Ellen Terry. N 1820 Charles Mathews, British comedian, unsuccessfully attempted to create interest in building a 186 Shakespeare memorial theatre at Stratford. Later, Charles E. Flower got the idea underway and presented a two-acre site on the bank of the river. In 1879 the first Memorial Theatre was opened with a Shakespeare Festival. In 1926 the theatre was burned to the ground. Through press appeals, contributions for a new theatre poured in, with Americans giving $625,000. The present theatre was opened in 1932. It is a modern building of rose brick, dramatically situated on the bank of the curving Avon. Swans, so familiar to Shakespeare's eyes, are everywhere in evidence. I easily counted twenty-nine of the long-throated beauties floating on the wide, quiet waters. They were especially effective under the arched bridge which spanned the Avon in the poet's day. In front of the theatre, the flower gardens on a belvedere at the river's edge are most artistically arranged. Yellow tulips mse high above orange-red, fragrant Siberian wallflowers. On the opposite side, red and orange parrot tulips top velvety yellow wallflowers. A wonderful rose garden is not yet in bloom, but the variety and number of flowers which are blooming surprise one. Corners of gardens are worked out in white double and quadruple daisies. In one corner of the grounds are ornamental box hedges about ten feet long, under horsechestnut trees burdened with pink blooms. In the windows of the theatre itself are boxes of bright yellow. Flowers, while inside the foyer RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 is a great vase containing a most impressive arrangement of flowers centered by an enormous calla lily. The building is modern, comfortable, and well-lighted. It contains a restaurant, library, picture gallery, and its own wardrobes and workshops. Britain's best actors now take part in the Shakespeare Festival, which lasts six months. One touting company carries Shakespeare to Europe and has gone as far as Australia. The very highest standards are maintained both in their company and in the Memorial Theatre. I was fortunate -enough to see Hamlet, which was most satisfying. The reading of the lines and the English diction were music to the ear and made the play clear even to those who were unfamiliar with the occasional archaic phrases. 'The strolling players were particularly vivid in their parts. Perhaps that was so because the strolling players of Shakespeare's day were very good and realistic actors. A minimum of scenery was used, but that troubled no one. The properties, if scarce, were handsome. 'The picturesque sea chest that represented Hamlet's departure really dressed up the stage. These performances are well worth the traveler's time and effort, and forever after one will hold in one's heart a feeling for the great poet-dramatist which comes only from experiencing more _ closely than is possible in any other spot a little of Shakespeare himself. She American National Red Cross ON THE JOB WHEN IT COUNTS By Virginia Glenn Red Cross Field Representative HE American National Red Cross acts day in and day out, training people in first aid, home nursing, and water safety skills to help them be more self-sufficient and prepared to cope with the hazards both of peacetime living and potential enemy attack. It maintains a network of regional blood programs to help the sick and injured and to serve the Nation in great emergencies. Red Cross today is giving direct personal assistance to the people of Hungary—expressing with fodd, clothing, and shelter, compassion to these people in this time of international disaster. To carry on this great work, the organization needs volunteer workers to serve their neighbors through the Red Cross. And, the organization needs the financial resources which make the work possible. In some cities the Red Cross is included with other community organizations in fall campaigns. If this is the case in your community, and you did not join the Red Cross last fall, you will want to become a member in March and receive your membership card. This is your Red Cross. Keep it strong and vital. Keep the Red Cross on the job... When it counts... Where it counts. Join and Serve. <> Apricot Sree Della Adams Leitner From my north window I can see A tree lace-clad in spring array Against the background of the hills, 'It heralds all the joys of May. Each time I look out I rejoice In loveliness that I can share; My heart is stirred to gratitude, I softly breathe a thankful prayer. It sways so gently in the breeze, The birds are flitting in and out; They voice the praise that I would sing, Dispelling thoughts of fear and doubt. At harvest time the luscious fruit On laden boughs will fill the tree, But all the beauty it now gives Supplies a feast of joy to me. Page 187 Be a Relief Society Magazine '"Promoter'' June Nielsen Assistant to the Editor (Talk given at The Relief Society Magazine Department, Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 4, 1956.) OU are promoters—promoters of a good cause, The Relief Society Magazine, which can bring inspiration, beauty, pleasure, and knowledge to the reader with a seeking mind and an understanding heart. To "promote" means to move forward. As Latter-day Saints who believe in the principles of eternal progression, we may all continue to move forward. To help you, as promoters, move forward in your work as Magazine representatives and to help you with your problems, we have gleaned suggestions and ideas from those stakes whose promotion of the Magazine was outstanding last year (1955): first, from those which made the highest percentage increase in subscriptions during the year; second, from those which made the highest percentage increase in subscriptions in stakes making the honor roll this year and not the previous year; and third, from those which made the highest percentage increase in subscriptions having all wards one hundred per cent this year and not last year. Letters from those stake Relief Society presidents and Magazine representatives tell us that it was by faith. Because of faithful ward and stake representatives and other officers, they achieved their goals. I think a concise definition of faith is: belief put into action. We might take the definition of belief from Page 188 the dictionary, which is "mental certainty." Faith is, then, mental certainty put into action. We find, in most of these stakes and wards, that definite goals were set for Magazine — subscriptions. These goals varied — some stakes set one hundred per cent in all wards, others 150 per cent for the stake. These goals became certainties in the minds of the ward and stake representatives and officers as they went forth to accomplish the goals. 'They proceeded to put those beliefs into action throughout the year. We want to share with you some of the ways which were used to promote the Magazine. After the goals were set, in several of the stakes all of the stake officers were urged to emphasize the Magazine as they visited the various wards. 'Thus, the Magazine representative received the help and encouragement of the entire stake board. Some stakes used charts which showed the status of the wards in the Magazine campaign. Charts were displayed at union meetings. Regular Magazine departments were held in union meetings in the successful stakes last year. In these departments, topics concerning why and how to sell the Magazine were discussed. Promotional ideas which the individual ward representatives were using were exchanged. One stake BE A MAGAZINE PROMOTER reported they used the preliminary time of union meeting once each year for Magazine promotion. In this program, the ward representatives participated and were recognized for their behind-the-scenes work. 'This proved to be a very effective way of encouraging ward representatives. ERSONAL contact with the Relief Society sisters was emphasized as the greatest, single element in increasing subscriptions to the Magazine. In most of the stakes from which we have received letters, the representatives tried to make personal contact in every home in the ward. In one stake a letter was sent to each home. This letter told about The Relief Society Magazine and the goal which had been set. It was reported that the response was very encouraging. One stake representative stated that she never took The Relief Society Magazine before she was asked to be stake representative—simply because no one had ever asked her to subscribe. One stake reported that the stake representative visited Relief Society 189 meetings in all the wards with the permission of the stake Relief Society president and gave a short talk using the Magazine as a visual aid. Another stated that their representatives were "Magazine-minded," that they never went any place without their subscription receipt books because they found so many opportunities to use them. The ways of achieving the goals and putting your beliefs into action are many. 'These are a few promotional ideas that have proved effective in stakes. Some of the elements which I think could make up the word "promote" and which I think will bring success if acted upon are: P—plans—set your goals. R—readiness—be willing and prepared. O—opportunities—make your own opportunities. M—motivations—motives mean action. O—other opportunities—be "'Magazineminded." T—talk—the way of making personal contacts. E—enthusiasm—tt is contagious and effective. No matter where you are, you can move forward or promote. Be a promoter of every good thing. My SK ortune Enola Chamberlin Days I have loved are golden days When I have said a word of praise To one in need, when I have smiled To meet the laughter of a child. Hours I have loved are silver hours When I have taken scented flowers To someone loved or quite unknown Who was shut in or just alone. These days and hours have made my years Until I find as twilight nears, And gray is creeping in my hair That I have wealth beyond compare. Embellishment Clarissa A. Beesley ROM our desks in the Salt Lake Temple annex, we watched the beautiful Relief Society building rise on the landscape. First, the huge excavation was cut deep into the ground; then the solid, massive foundations were laid, and the thick, enduring walls were raised with their insets of doors and windows; finally, the protecting roof was completed, and we said, "It is finished." But, even as we spoke, we knew it was not so; we knew that both on the outside and within the walls, there must be added manifold details of embellishment before this imposing building would be complete. And I thought, how like this is the building of a life and particularly, a Latter-day Saint life! Often, when it has been my privilege to lead a group of mature adults in a gospel study, I have said within myself, why do I attempt to discuss with these good people the things which they already know so well? 'They are highly intelligent; they have been trained in the Church and in its teachings through all their days; they have laid strong foundations of faith and knowledge in their childhood; in their youth and early maturity they have built the walls, girded with strength and endurance. What is left to be done? The building across the street gave the answer: 'There is still the embellishment, the beautifying to be done. As I pondered upon this, a wide vista of possible accomplishments in life's ripened years opened up before Page 190 me. I could have given much thought as to how the physical body, notwithstanding the ravages of time, might be so cared for that it would continue lovely in personal cleanliness and daintiness and sweetness of spirit, and how the mind might not be allowed to become stagnant, but be stimulated ever to be alert and seeking new treasures of knowledge and wisdom. I could wish that this might be the way with each one of us and that age might be robbed of its tragedy and be crowned with beauty, vitality, and joy. Especially I reverted to my own troubled question concerning the pursuit of gospel study and asked myself, what are some of the things to be done now in the embellishment of our spiritual lives' building, in these later years? And the answer came: First, we must be sure that the knowledge of divine _ principles gained through the years is without blemish. Did we grow to maturity with a correct understanding of these doctrines? In our childhood did we learn this gospel correctly, or did we receive impressions not quite accurate which we have carried with us? How many such impressions did we receive? Now is the time to give a thorough checkup to our store of information, to strengthen the buttresses of truth, and to remove any weak supports. Next, have we added to our original store of knowledge as the years have come and gone and the walls of our structure have risen, or have we been content with a EMBELLISHMENT meager supply of religious facts and failed to make replenishment from time to time? Furthermore, if our knowledge is found to be considerable, what is its source—our own research, or the findings of others? Often we may have envied the spiritual experts among us and wished we could know vital answers as did they. But have we taken the time to dig deep into the scriptures to find those answers for ourselves? How readily can we turn to desired reference passages? How well, now, today, can we give evidence of that which we speak? Then, what about the spirit, the soul of our building? Has our interior decoration become beautiful and complete by the application of knowledge gained in adorning and ennobling our character? Are there still some unadorned spots? What of the hidden envyings and grudges held long years against a neighbor, friend, or leader? What of the discontent or bitterness against our lot in life and the seeming misfortunes we have borne? What of the doubts, questionings against the acts of providence? What even of the wrongs we may have committed? 191 Or of the service or kindly deed we may have neglected? Yes, the building of our lives is not yet completed. 'There is still much embellishment to be done. We have a precious opportunity now to correct the mistakes of learning, of judgment, and of viewpoint; to add much new, beautiful truth to our store; to arrange our facts of knowledge into an orderly whole, and to become so familiar with those facts that they are made a part of us; to learn afresh what it means to repent of sin and to forgive trespasses against us; to become gentle and tender where we have been hard and unrelenting; in fine, to polish our souls until, indeed, they approach perfection and shine in exquisite beauty before that last inspection when we can say that our building is finished, ready for its final dedication. These years may not be the golden period of our experience, for that was the period of strength and virility, of great activity and achievement, our youth. But these are the silver years—mellow, chaste, sweet— the time of the embellishment to the full of the structure of our lives. ~~<—_<+ Pre ace to Day Dorothy J. Roberts A finch's psalm pours from the pinion's bough As dawn bathes me, lids closed, in coolness. Now From the roof a whir; two velvet wings flap twice Then sail away in silence. Day's precise Alarm is rung. Faintly the young doves coo. In the cone of the flowering crab, the warblers woo. The summer long, repeated just this way, Breakfasting on song, I begin the day, Clinging to dreams a while before I rise, Refreshed, to lift the curtains from my eyes, Recipes From llew Lealand Submitted by Arta R. Ballif AnciENT Maort Hanci (Underground Steam Cooking) The ancient Maoris cooked their food in "'hangis." Method: Dig a hole one foot deep by two feet round. The shape and size vary according to the amount of food to be cooked. Line with medium-sized rocks (porous ones are best). On these place dry titree (wild scrub) and large pieces of wood to make a good fire. In an hour or so remove all traces of fire and clean the rocks by sprinkling lightly with water. Place over rocks a hangi ring (made from Nikau leaves). This keeps the food intact and allows complete removal. On this, place the food to be cooked, large pieces of pork, fish, kumara (sweet potato), pigeon, or fern root. Again sprinkle with water, generously, so as to create a steam. Cover with Nikau leaves, Nikau mat, and top soil. This is to prevent the escape of steam. In two hours, remove top coverings, lift out mat and the food is ready to eat. The same hangi could be a permanent cooking place. The above method is used today on special occasions with slight improvements. Today, a wire netting is placed on the rocks. A white cloth is placed between the food and the leaves, and then wet sacks are placed over. On top of this, soil is used to cover all. It is actually a steam cooking, and important points to watch are that the rocks are washed clean, that there is sufficient water to create a steam, and that every trace of charcoal or burning wood is completely removed, so there will be no taste or smell of smoke. The absence of smoke taste is the secret of nicely cooked food. A three or four day supply of food can be prepared at one time. MAORI OLD-TIME FOODS PIGEON (A delicacy and a favorite of the Maori) Snare required number of pigeons. Do not pluck or clean, simply cover completely with a clay paste and cook in hangi. When ready to eat, the clay will come away bringing with it all the feathers and leaving a clean and tasty dish. These birds never feed from the ground. In season they live only on the Miro berries, and this is the time they are "fat'' and ready for the kill. Out of season they live on the leaves of the trees, and this signifies "no kill," as they are in a poor condition. The inside of the bird is also eaten. FERN Root (This serves as a potato to the Maori) Gather fern roots, pound, and cook in hangi. Keeps indefinitely. Dry SHARK (Do not think of man-eating sharks) After the catch, clean, remove head, and hang by the tail in the sun until completely sun-dried. Can be eaten like this, or cut in pieces and placed on embers which softens it. 'This is a favorite dish which keeps indefinitely (and so does the smell). MAORI FOODS SHOWING EUROPEAN INFLUENCE Pava FRITTERS (Paua is a large shell fish) Page 192 RECIPES FROM NEW ZEALAND 193 4 pauas % tsp. Salt 1 small onion dash of pepper Shell pauas, mince, and season with finely chopped onion, salt, and pepper. Batter for Paua Fritters: 1 c. Flour 1 egg 1 tsp. Baking powder milk Mix together the flour and baking powder with the beaten egg and sufficient milk to form a creamy batter. 'To this, add the paua mixture and brown in spoon lots in smoking hot fat. Serve hot. Pirt Piz (Small shell fish, similar to oysters) 1 large dish of freshly gathered pipis % tsp. Salt and dash of pepper Steam pipis sufficiently to open shells. Shell and mince. Season with onion, if desired; add salt and pepper. Line pie dish with flaky pastry and pour in pipi mixture. Cover with remainder of pastry and bake 20 minutes at 350° F. Serve hot. STEAK, OysTER, AND MusHroom Savory To every pound of meat allow one dozen oysters. (Sirloin or fillet steak are the best cuts for this dish.) Cut meat into neat pieces and place one layer in casserole. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Add a layer of chopped oysters, then a layer of chopped mushrooms. Continue this until casserole is full. Can be made with or without pastry. Cook in moderate oven one hour at 300° to 350° F. NEW ZEALAND-EUROPEAN RECIPES Anzac Biscuits 2 ozs. Flour 2 ozs. Butter 3 OzS. Sugar 1 tbsp. Golden syrup 1 teacup coconut % tsp. Soda 1 teacup rolled oats 2 tbsp. Boiling water Mix flour, sugar, coconut, and rolled oats. Melt butter and golden syrup. Dissolve soda in boiling water and add to butter and golden syrup. Stir in the liquid. Place in spoonfuls on cold, greased trays. Bake 15 to 20 minutes at 350° F. Houtpay Loar 4 c. Flour 1 tsp. Salt % tsp. Sugar 2 tsp. Baking powder 1 small, cold, boiled potato 1 pint milk Sift dry ingredients. Add mashed potato. Add milk to make a soft smooth dough. Knead quickly. Put in greased bread tin about three-fourths full. Smooth top with knife dipped in melted butter and milk. Bake one hour at 350° to 400° F. To prevent crusting too soon, place paper over top of loaf for the first 10 to 15 minutes. When done wrap in cloth until cool. Buttercups Mary C. Martineau OHN'S teacher was getting quite old; in fact, she was old enough to retire, but John didn't know it. John just knew that he loved her dearly and that she looked beautiful to him. She wore a brown taffeta dress with a little bunch of scarlet flowers that he liked on Monday. On Tuesday she wore a soft, black nylon dress with blue flowers and a full skirt that made her look as slim as a 'fairy queen crowned with snowy hair. On Wednesday she wore purple, on Thursday blue, but on Friday she wore a suit, and at recess she put her coat on over it and tied a scarf over her head for that was her day to "tend" the playground. When the first spring days began to arrive, and the skies were blue and the sun shone, John would notice her looking up toward the old brown hills west of the schoolhouse, and he wondered what she was looking for. Then one day he found out. When Tecess was over, and all the children were sitting in their seats in position, she said to them, "Turn." They all turned in their seats to the right. Then she said, "Stand," and they all stood and faced her. "Now turn to the west," she said, 'and look through the windows and tell me what you see." They all turned and looked through the five long windows, and there they saw only the old brown hills. 'They were silent. "What color are the hills, John?" she asked. A little surprised and embarrassed, he answered, "Brown, Mrs. Miller, just brown," and she said, "Yes, John, just brown." "Children," she continued, "there is magic working on those old brown hills now." Their eyes grew big. '"'One of these days when we look at them we will see what the magic has done. When we see them then they will not be brown, they will be green and you will know that spring is truly here." A week or so later, one morning before school began, Mrs. Miller looked up from her desk to see John standing before her, with a bunch of wild flowers—buttercups— in his hand, and he offered them to her with his broadest smile. To the delight of all the children and especially of John, she held them up for all to see and admire. "Where did you find them, John?" she asked, and he said, "On the hills." Then, to their great delight, she took one buttercup out of the bunch and held it under John's chin to see if its pollen would color his throat. The little flower cast a bright yellow shadow on his little white throat. Each child was called in turn, They giggled with joy and delight. Magic worked in the schoolroom as John's teacher said, "Now, turn, stand, and look toward the west." The old brown hills were green, and the children looked in silent wonder. But the teacher—she stood for a long moment lost in the memory of other old brown hills far away, where two little sisters and a dear pioneer mother had searched among the sages and wild grass for buttercups in the magic springtime. Page 194 Sarah Seely Larsen Has Enjoyed a Sewing Hobby for Seventy Years Ee many hours which Sarah Seely Larsen of Castle Dale, Utah, has spent sewing since she was fourteen, at which time she was drafting her own patterns for dresses, shirts, pants, and coats, have been enjoyable and she is far from retiring from her hobby. For seventy years, her artistic hands have made many beautiful quilts, bridal gowns, and other dresses and clothing for her own family and others. Quilt top making became a teal hobby about fifteen years ago, when she began piecing and quilting a quilt for 'each of her grandchildren to present them when they married. She now has enough quilts on hand for the grandchildren who are not married. She was born to Orange and Hanna Olsen Seely in Mount Pleasant, Utah, on February 7, 1872. She married Samuel H. Larsen in 1890. Her husband was bishop of Castle Dale Ward for eighteen years, and as a gracious hostess Sister Larsen received many of the General Authorities as guests in her home. Sister Larsen was secretary of a ward Relief Society for ten years and also served for many years on a sewing committee making burial clothes. She is still active in Relief Society. In work meeting, she always takes her place at the quilts. - -_ Wind Pattern Vesta N. Lukei The whispering wind-born waves caress, Insistently, the untouched beach Until the mpple-patterned sands Reveal the wind's imprint and reach. Page 195 Bitter Medicine Part 3 (Conclusion) Olive W. Burt ELEN decided to put into immediate effect her plan for curing May 'Turner of her bad habit of gossiping. For the next few days she kept the telephone as busy as ever May, herself, could have done. And by the time of the first sewing meeting of the P. T. A. Bazaar committee, she had talked to every woman on that committee, excepting one. Lettie had been enthusiastic, as she always was over Helen's schemes whether for a neighborhood party, a money-making project, or just new ways to trim a kitchen apron. "You're absolutely marvelous!" she exclaimed, when Helen had outlined her proposed treatment. "Trust you to think up the only thing that will work and that we could do with dignity!" she went off into peals of laughter. "I just can't wait to begin!" "Now, Lettie," Helen cautioned, "this isn't any joke. It's serious therapy, I hope. I'm serious, at least." "Oh, so am I," Lettie agreed. "And," Helen went on firmly, "we mustn't let May get the slightest hint of what we propose, or it will absolutely fail. And_ there's another thing, Lettie. I'm counting on you to be tactful and generous, if it works." Tess Carlson was dubious. "I don't know, Helen. Oh, I'm with you one hundred per cent, but it seems so simple — such an easy way of treating something as vicious as that gossiping. I think May Turner Page 196 needs a dose of really bitter medicine." "This will be bitter enough, Tess," Helen said gently, and a sudden comprehension of the full impact of her program struck her, and she was afraid — afraid of hurting May too much, of being the one to inflict hurt upon another human being. Marge Lewis took it as a huge joke. "What a scream!" she giggled. "I know Ill die laughing when I see her face." "T don't think it will strike us as funny, Marge," Helen told her. "I think we'll find it pretty hard to do." "Maybe so," Marge agreed, "but don't go tender-hearted on us, Helen. I, for one, will relish seeing her face." She stopped abruptly, and after a moment went on, "You didn't know that I have reason to want to cure that gossiping, did you? Because we never pass around stories about our neighbors, I kept this to myself. But I'm going to tell you now. "May Turner hurt my mother dreadfully last summer, when Mother was visiting me. You know what a friendly soul Mother is, and how she thought she'd do us younger women a good turn by baby-sitting for anyone who wanted an evening off. And she did it to be friendly, and wouldn't take a cent of pay. Well, she offered to tend May's two and, of course, May snatched at the chance. But when Mother refused to take pay for doing a neighborly BITTER MEDICINE job like that, May couldn't understand it, and she began hinting around that Mother was baby-sitting just to get a chance to snoop around the houses. And her hints grew and grew, as they always do. And, of course, Mother finally got to hear what May was saying. May intended her to hear it, too. It nearly broke Mother's heart. I could have torn May's hair out when I saw Mother's face that day." Helen shook her head sadly. "T don't think I'd have blamed you, either, Marge. How awful for your mother. She is such a darling — my Jill adored her." "All the children did — and staying with them, tucking them into bed, and telling them stories made Mother so happy. And everyone excepting May, was wonderful. You sent Mother flowers every day from your garden, and Lois Jensen made her three pretty aprons, and Lettie took her riding many an evening. Everyone made her happy but May — she had to spoil it all." "Well, then, you'll help?" Helen asked, getting back to the subject about which she had called. "Of course, I'll help. And I know some of the women on the sewing committee have just as much reason to follow your lead as I do. I'm sure it'll be unanimous." "T hope so," Helen sighed. "Tt will be so much swifter and better if everyone co-operates." S the time for the first sewing meeting drew near, Helen began to have misgivings. To her gentle, friendly soul her plan seemed terribly harsh and brutal. She shuddered when she thought of what she had started, and sometimes 197 thought she would have turned back the clock to pre-scheme days if she could. And then she would remember Jill, round-eyed and casual, "When is Daddy going to jail, Mommy?" And she would see 'Tess Carlson's tear-streaked face as she cried, "He said that to Jim—to my Jim!" And she would hear Marge's voice breaking when she said, "I could have torn her hair out when I saw Mother's face that day." 'Then Helen would straighten her shoulders, stick out her chin, and resolve to go through with the plan. "Bitter or not, she must take her medicine!" In spite of her determination and her conviction that she was doing right, Helen found herself shaking as she dressed to go to the meeting. Her palms were wet with perspiration and her spine felt cold. She stood for a long moment before she opened the door to go out, wondering whether she would have the nerve to go through with her plan. "But I have to," she sighed. "I thought it up; I got the others into it." Tears stung her eyelids. "But I feel sorry for May!" She went early to the meeting, feeling that it was her responsibility to be there, to take upon her own shoulders the burden of the job ahead. But as she went into the school library, which had been turned over to them for these sewing sessions, she found a number of the women already there. 'They greeted Helen with cries of welcome, and Helen, looking at them, saw that they were as tense and worried as she. She spoke to them quietly. "Let's be as kind as we can." Then, "Let's 198 get started on our work. We're to make fiber corsages today, you know." She opened the big box of materials and began to distribute them. The women ficked up the fiber and wire, the stems and leaves, and started to fashion the flowers they had learned to make during a winter craft class. They had scarcely begun, however, when the door opened and May came bustling in, cheery and efficient, ready to do her full share of the task. Helen, seeing her this way, recalling what a good worker she was, felt her throat swell with pain at the thought of what lay ahead. Mercifully, though, she knew that May was unaware of their plan. For perhaps half an hour everything went along smoothly and happily, the busy snip, snip, snip of the scissors making a pleasant staccato accompaniment for the buzz of conversation. 'The topics discussed were harmless enough: the bright sayings of the children, the efforts of the teachers to help a backward youngster, gardens, food, books. And then, as everyone knew it would, the gossip began. May leaned closer to Marge Lewis, who happened to be sitting next to her, and said in a hissing whisper that could be heard all around the long table, "Oh, Marge, I just have to tell you. You know Miss Wilson, the third grade teacher? Well, what do you think? I was coming out of the drugstore last night—Teddy had a cough and I'd run down to pick up some cough medicine—and I saw her with...." Her voice stopped suddenly, and a startled look came into her eyes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 as they rested on Marge's face. Marge had very quietly laid down her work and placed her hands over both ears. HE blood came slowly into May's face, dyeing it a painful red, and she turned quickly to see whether anyone had noticed Marge's gesture. And as her eyes flew around the table, the red in her face and neck grew deeper, mottled, as if it would burst from the pores. For every woman there had her hands firmly over her eyes or her lips or her ears. May Turner swallowed _ hard, ducked her head, and began to work furiously. The others took up their work where they had dropped it, and the buzz of conversation began again. But no one felt like smiling at May's discomfiture. Every woman there felt as if it had been her own punishment, and the conversation was kept up with difficulty. Helen felt her throat constricted with pain, but she made herself tell an anecdote about Jill and her guppies, and gradually the tension eased a little and things seemed almost normal again. For another half hour, and then May, who had kept determinedly out of the conversation, heard someone mention Clarice Hapgood, whohad just announced her engagement. This was too much for May. She looked up, evidently forgetting her recent discomfiture, and _ began, "That reminds me, girls! Clarice is just twenty, isn't she? Well, you know I don't believe she is really the Hapgood's child. Just twenty years ago Jane Hapgood...." She stopped, gulped, and again BITTER MEDICINE the blood rushed to her face. All around the table the women sat, hands over eyes, ears, and lips. May jumped to her feet, flinging down her work. "You awful women!" she cried. "You're horrible! Horrible! I hate you all!" and she turned and ran from the room. Helen got up quickly and followed her. Outside in the hall May stood leaning against the wall, her hands over her face, her shoulders shaking with sobs. Helen went swiftly to her. "May!" she said ag "Go away! Go away!" May cried. "T don't want to talk to any of you! You all act so superior — you all pretend...." Her words were stopped by her crying. Helen put her arms about the shaking woman. "I know it was awful," she began, close to tears herself. "But we felt we had to do something...." "You all hate me, you always have!" May went on hysterically. "I try to be one of you. I work hard at everything we have to do— I never shirk, never ask anyone to do my share. I want to be one of you — I did want to. But not any more. I hate you all!" "No," Helen said. "No, you don't hate us—not the others, anyway. You can hate me if you must, May, because it was my idea. I talked the others into it.. AY'S hands dropped from her face and she stared at Helen in surprise. "You? You, the incomparable Helen Lund? You thought this up! Well, now I know you for what you are!" "Yes," Helen admitted sadly, "yes, you do. And I guess I'm not 199 any better than I need be. But you see, May, your gossiping was hurting people. I don't think you realize how much you were hurting us all. Did you know that Jim Carlson nearly lost his partnership because you told around that he'd been in a crooked uranium deal and made a lot of money at it?" "T didn't say that he had!' May objected belligerently. "I just said I wouldn't be surprised...." "And Jill was wondering when her Daddy was going to go to jail. Oh, May, you've said things about us all—things that weren't true, that didn't have a single basis in truth. And we just had to stop you." "But why me?" May wailed. "Why pick on me?" Helen sat down on a bench there in the hall and drew May down beside her. Then, much as she had spoken to Jill a few days earlier, she said quietly, "Look at me, May. It's because you are the one who starts these stories—every time." May sat still a moment and then said, sniffling a little, "Well, you have done what you wanted to do. You've showed me you don't want me here. I'll resign from the P. T. A., and if I can get Ted to move, we'll move, and you won't be bothered with me any more. You've never liked me." "We do like you, May. We like you so much that we were willing to go through this unpleasant scene in order to cure you of the one thing we can't tolerate any longer. Don't you ever think of what harm you are doing?" May sat silent, wiping her eyes. Then she raised her head. "I guess I don't think, really." She began to cry again. "I don't know what's 200 the matter with me — I don't know why I do it! Sometimes, when you people have been extra nice to me I make up my mind I'll never breathe another word about you. And then something happens—and I feel left out. I want to be in with you, attract your attention—so I say something I know will startle you— anything. Lots of times I don't even think what I am going to say —it just pops out." Helen looked at the woebegone face, and impulsively she gave May's shoulders a friendly squeeze. "You sound just like a little girl— a contrite little girl!' she smiled gently. And then she went on firmly, "But you're not a little girl, May. You're a woman, and we want you to be one with us." May shook her head sadly. "But how can I? How can I ever speak to any of you again? I'll always see those dreadful faces with their hands....". She choked on the words. "Tll tell you what to do, May. Come back into the room with me. Act as if nothing had happened. You'll-see. Everyone will be glad it is over." May made no move to tise. "Maybe it's not over, Helen. Maybe I'll forget and start gossiping again.... Will they — are they going Ca RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 "Yes, May. I think they will. I think they will keep on with this treatment until they cure you." "Then what can I do?" "Take it in the spirit in which it is meant, May. It is bitter medicine, but it is given as medicine, just that. Swallow it — and if you need repeated doses, take them like the woman you are. You have plenty of courage, I know — plenty of spunk. Come on, then. Let's make use of it." The word spunk seemed to do the trick. May's shoulders straightened. She stood up. Her head raised. "You're right, Helen. I do have spunk — as much spunk as any of them." She managed a_ rueful smile. "And I guess it did take a good deal of gumption for you all to do this — I know you well enough to know that you didn't particularly relish it—or you'd have done it long before this. Well, come on. Let's go back into the room and face my doctors." Her voice broke a little, but she walked purposefully toward the door. Helen followed slowly. She knew she could count on the others to do the right thing—to act as if nothing unusual had taken place that afternoon. And she could count on May, too. She was a soldier— she was worth curing! _ She Length Frances C. Yost The thing a lady won't discuss, Or does with brevity, The darkest secret of her past, Her own longevity. FROM THE FIELD ark All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Leona S. Seiter GRANITE STAKE (UTAH) HONORS VISITING TEACHERS AT CONVENTION Honored with all the visiting teachers of Granite Stake at a program and buffet luncheon were the oldest visiting teachers (in point of service) from each of the six wards in the stake. Front row, left to right, are: Lucinda C. Harrington, Columbus Ward, fortythree years of service as a visiting teacher; Martha Jane R. Johnson, Fairmont Ward, sixty-six years of service. Back row, left to right: Mervel A. Hall, Nibley Park Ward, forty-five years of service; Rhoda Reid, Forest Dale Ward, fifty years of service; Gertrude Johnson, Wells Ward, forty-nine years of service; Dora R. Wilcken, Lincoln Ward, thirty-four years of service. Elsie B. North, President, Granite Stake Relief Society, reports that "a large percentage of all visiting teachers were in attendance and enjoyed an inspiring program and buffet luncheon," Page 201 202 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 Photograph submitted by Marion N. Pinkston LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), ADAMS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS ELDERLY MEMBERS Front row, seated, left to right: Marie Clark, Secretary, Adams Ward Relief Society; Faye Moon, Second Counselor; Ingeborg Brinck, First Counselor; Mary Evelyn Spencer, President. Marion N. Pinkston, President, Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, reports: '""This midsummer celebration honored the Relief Society sisters who have been members for over fifty years. Many of the sisters in this protograph have been members of the Adams Ward since the days when it was the only ward in Southern California. There are now 213 wards in the Southern California area." Photograph submitted by Edna S. Walker ALPINE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY COMMEMORATES THE ONE HUNDREDTH ANNIVERSARY OF THE ORGANIZATION OF RELIEF SOCIETY IN AMERICAN FORK, UTAH September 26, 1956 More than forty Relief Society sisters participated in the program of the opening social which, also, commemorated the organization of Relief Society in American Fork, October 24, 1856. Shown in the picture, left to right, are: Melissa Robinson; Doris Robinson; Norma Smith; Harriet Mulliner; Emma Steiner; Nellie Crystal; Nancy NOTES FROM THE FIELD 203 Reece; Mary McTague; Mary Griffith; Edna S. Walker, Stake Relief Society President; Cleone Cleghorn, Counselor; Erma Burgess, Counselor; Dorothy Wright; Esther Christensen; Lucile Walker; Alice Vance; Elsie Strong; Myrtle Seastrand; Luana Smith. Back row: Leona Anderson; Jean Gordon; Vivian Barker; Myrl Scott; Lillie Beck; Josie Walker; Zella 'Thornton; Lydia Kirkpatrick. In the program, from the frame on the right, the story of the first Relief Society in American Fork was dramatized. Sister Elsie Strong represented the first American Fork Relief Society president, Agnes Crooks. Scenes typical of this period, such as wheat gleaning, visiting teaching when commodities were gathered, and silkworm raising, were pictured. The second part of the program introduced the 1956-57 program. Musical numbers in keeping with the theme of each course were presented, and refreshments were served. Photograph submitted by Ruby M. Nielsen LEHI STAKE (UTAH), FAIRFIELD BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS GAIN JOY FROM QUILT-MAKING EXPERIENCE Left to right, front row: Myrtle Erickson; Lois Maybe; Sophronia Dubois, Secretary-Treasurer; Leah McKinney, President, Fairfield Branch Relief Society; Mildred Carson, Second Counselor; and Vera Carson, First Counselor. Back row: President Oscar A. Kirkham of The First Council of Seventy, and Caroline Cook. Ruby M. Nielsen, President, Lehi Stake Relief Society, sends in the report of Sister McKinney that the day the sisters were quilting the quilt which had been pieced by Edith Strasburg of Lehi, they were discussing ways in which to sell the quilt to someone outside the branch. Then President Kirkham came, and "he brought such a sweet peaceful spirit with him. He encouraged us and told us we were doing a wonderful work. He wanted to buy the quilt, said collecting pieced quilts was his hobby. He said, 'They remind me of my mother.'" Sister McKinney continues: "Of course, we were honored to add this quilt to his collection.... He asked that we all put our names on the quilt, then bring it to him at his office. _"The day we took the quilt to Brother Kirkham was full of memorable experiences.... As we lunched with this kind, loving man, he introduced us to a number of other Church authorities. Then we saw many more including President McKay. We visited the Church offices and toused the temple grounds." 204 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 Photograph submitted by Isabella P. Walton SOUTH BEAR RIVER STAKE (UTAH) JOINS WITH BEAR RIVER STAKE AND NORTH BOX ELDER STAKE SINGING MOTHERS IN PRESENTING MUSIC FOR SOUTH BEAR RIVER STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE September 2, 1956 South Bear River Stake President Isabella P. Walton is seated fourth from the left on the front row; pianist Christine Mason at the piano; organist Ann Freiss, standing back of Sister Mason; organist Arlene Ficklin, at the left of Sister Freiss; Prudence W. Reeder, North Box Elder Stake chorister, back of Sister Ficklin; Hilma C. Anderson, South Bear River Stake chorister, and conductor of the group, seated third to the right of the piano, in the front row. This group participated, with other Singing Mothers choruses, in the October annual general Relief Society conference. Photograph submitted by Cleona W. Hedenstrom OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), TWENTIETH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PAST AND PRESENT EXECUTIVE OFFICERS HOLD OUTSTANDING SOCIAL Front row, left to right: Rilla Beck, President, Twentieth Ward Relief Society; past presidents: Katherine Smeding; Elva Kunz; Grace McFarland; and Kate Woodbury, former Ogden Stake president. Second row, left to right: Myrtle Hansen; Mildred Alkema; Mabel Belnap; Martha London; Mary Perkins; Lenora Jacobsen; Caroline Kranenberg; Mattie Manning. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 205 Third row, left to right: Ella Anderson; Ruth Williams; Alice Martin; Addie Pulsipher; Vera Arrington; Edith Arnold. Officers who were not present when the picture was taken are: Bergloit Dinsdale; Eliza Carruth; Bessie Mumford; Marcella Carruth. Cleona W. Hedenstrom, President, Ogden Stake Relief Society, reports: "T'wentyeight years of Relief Society were informally talked over at the anniversary party of the Twentieth Ward Relief Society of Ogden Stake. Former ward executive officers were guests of honor at this program" which was "one of the outstanding parties of the season. A beautiful red rose was presented to each of the guests, symbolizing the love the ward organization feels for each one of these faithful sisters." Photograph submitted by Mildred B. Jarvis MARICOPA STAKE (ARIZONA) RELIEF SOCIETY HOLDS VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION, September 27, 1956 Visiting teachers who have served over forty years in the Maricopa Stake are pictured, left to right, first row: Lillian Palmer; Pearl Mathenia; Blanche Boyle; Hazel McCook; Edna Martin; Harriett Webb; Minnie Bond; Vera Judd. Back. Row: Esther Lewis; Ida Wakefield; Nettie Shumway; Louise Skousen; Vera Jennings; Dora Openshaw; Phoebe Scott. Not present: Hattie Miller and Sina Mortensen, eighty-nine, who has served as a visiting teacher for the longest period of time. Mildred B. Jarvis, President, Maricopa Stake Relief Society, reports: "Each ward participated through song, prayer, or speech, and all wards were well represented in general attendance." She writes that a skit on the presentation of the message in the homes was enacted by visiting teachers from the Mesa Fourth Ward, written by Lillian Peterson, stake visiting teacher message leader. A tribute to all women who have accepted the visiting teacher calling was presented by Sister Peterson. "Stake board members contributed much to the success of the convention through their arrangement of details, friendliness, and good will extended to the sisters," and by furnishing and serving the refreshments. Sar: Photograph submitted by Belva Petersen EAST OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), THIRTY-SIXTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS OLDEST MEMBERS, September 27, 1956 Belva Petersen, President, East Ogden Stake, reports that Elizabeth Clarke East, (left) and Ida H. Wilson Spence (right), were special guests at the opening social of the Thirty-sixth Ward Relief Society. Leona Nielson, (center) President, Thirtysixth Ward Relief Society, presented corsages to the two sisters who are eighty-two years old. Sister East has been active in Relief Society for twenty-three years and Sister Spence is a visiting teacher and has been in Relief Society for twenty years. Both are converts to the Church. A program and dinner featured the occasion. Not By Chance Gene Romolo How comes reanimation of the earth, As spring, each year, its golden wings unfolds? Not just by chance, this miracle has birth. The sentient mind, a Master's hand, beholds— Clothing with sheen of sun, the daffodil... Fashioning the violet's purple gown... Increasing music in a rippling nll... And placing upon lily brows a crown. That which comes by chance will have its flaw, This is perfection born of highest law. 206 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 Herbs for Modern Cookery TARRAGON Elizabeth Williamson ARRAGON is a_ perennial which grows about two feet high. It may be divided in the fall and starts made from cuttings or root divisions. The superior variety, French tarragon, produces no seeds. Esdragon is the French word for tarragon, which means "little dragon." "Little dragon" referred to snakes and reptiles during the middle ages. The leaves of the herb esdragon (tarragon) were used in healing the bites of the reptiles. Esdragon or tarragon is a delicate herb, growing beautifully. It produces dark green leaves and tiny white blossoms which give off a delightful spicy aroma. Tarragon is most commonly known for its use in vinegars, but if used sparingly in seasoning for fish sauces (Tartar) and to flavor chicken, these foods will have a subtle and different quality. PouLET ET EspRAGON (Chicken and Tarragon) This is a recipe from a small restaurant in Southern France specializing in this FASTER MUSIG for = | LADIES AN THREE PART a a CHORUSES | _.. CHRIST AROSE—Groton...........-.. 018 =. CHRIST HAS RISEN—Schubert.......20 eaceee CHRIST THE LORD IS RISEN TODAY Erb oon..... Ceeeeeeeeneecsceeneceeees 16. EASTER BELLS (2 Part)—Durocher.20 =. GOD SO LOVED THE WORLD— Stoiner -20.....22.... Eccccsceeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeees -16 oe HOSANNA—Granier...................- «20 errr HOSANNA BLESSED IS HE— Marryott......... S. Sen ee 18 — JOYOUS EASTER SONG—House.....20 — LEGENDE—Tschaikowsky............-..20 ecco MY REDEEMER LIVES—Gates.........20 oo OUR CHRIST HAS RISEN—Connor.25 me! THERE IS A GREEN HILL FAR AWAY—Gounod o..0.....22.2ssseecceneenee 18 Music Sent Gn Approval Use this advertisement as your order -blank: DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY: 15 E. Ist South: Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. [CD On Approval 1 Charge C Money Enclosed Name Address; City & State "4 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, ae WASHISOTOO BOD DEN Page 207 208 dish. The tarragon sauce is served over steamed rice, with boiled chicken. This dish, with a leafy, green salad is a gourmet's meal. TARRAGON SAUCE % pt. Cream 2 tbsp. Flour salt and ground pepper to taste ¥Y, cube butter 1 pinch of tarragon This is a rich sauce, unusual and rather exotic in flavor. Window Gardens Gladys Hesser Burnham My mother's window sills were full Of coleus and fern, Geraniums and violet plants, Each striving in its turn To blossom best or bush the most, Rewarding tender care, Just like her children growing in That loving, fragrant air. E BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomelybound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles..........-.....------------- 35 150 to 300 miles.. 39 300 to 600 miles 600 to 1000 miles. 1000 to 1400 miles. 1400 to 1800 miles: Over 1800 miles —............---------0-21--- ' Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1957 Birthday Congratulations BIRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Julia C. Burr, Provo, Utah, ninety-nine; Mrs. Lotine I, Higbee, Toquerville, Utah, ninety-five; Mrs. Esther Sessions Barber, Syracuse, Utah, ninety-four; Mrs. Ann Dalley Pratt, Bountiful, Utah, ninety-four; Mrs. Clara B. Singleton, Ferron, Utah, ninetyfour; Mrs. Wilhelmina Wiltbank Marble, Lehi, Arizona, ninety-two; the following women who _ have reached their ninety-first birthdays: Mrs. Minnie S. Weibel, South Gate, California; Mrs. Pamela E. Thompson Smith, Centerville, Utah; Mrs. Lucy Ann Francis Jenson, Clarkston, Utah; Mrs. Emma Peterson Riddle, Richfield, Utah; Mrs. Anna S. Hillstead, Preston, Idaho; Mrs. Catherine Bennett, Pocatello, Idaho; and the following women who have reached their ninetieth birthdays: Mrs. Eleanor Spencer Jensen, Sandy, Utah; Mrs. Nona Phippen, Alhambra, Callifornia; Mrs. Rose Ann Guidici Young, Salt Lake City, Utah; Mrs. Louisa Neat Grimmett, Paris, Idaho; Mrs. Mary Ann Batty Smith, Randolph, Utah; Mrs. Anna May Stratton Smith, Sherman Oaks, Callifornia. —- Robin Evelyn Fjeldsted There is a robin out there, On a bare icy limb. He came back too soon, For the weather is grim. He has waited for spring, Its warmth he has missed; To see winter in flight, He could not resist, SPECIAL SPRING TYPEWRITING CLASSES FOR RELIEF SOCIETY AND GENEALOGY WORKERS Classes to run 6:30-8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Includes both beginning and advanced students. Avis Rundell, instructor. Call EMpire 3-2765 today LDS BUSINESS CLASSES THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos —~—_ EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH ELECTRIC WATER HEATING —> costs the average family only about C a dime a day Buy from Your Dealer or Plumber Be Modern... Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. VIDA FOX CLAWSON ANNOUNCES HAWAII Leave for a lovely Hawaiian Tour from Salt Lake City on June 6, 1957. Historie Train Leaves Salt Lake City, July 26, 1957 The Historic Train includes: Places of Interest in Church History, Pageant at the Hill Cumorah, and Large Eastern Cities. Warning: Both of these tour parties will be limited in number. Make reservations early. Write or Phone: Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 70 North Main Salt Lake City MESSAGES OF INSPIRATION, 1. MESSAGES OF INSPIRATION This outstanding group of addresses by the General Authorities, selected by them personally, includes inspiring discussions on many aspects of the Restored Gospel. $3.75 2. DISCOURSES OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH ees; = ' er Excerpts from important sermons by the SMI ] H 5 3 2 see ET ranged for immediate reference. This spe-: h f Mormon revealed to him. $3.00 Book o 3. ARCHAEOLOGY AND THE BOOK OF MORMON Milton R. Hunter Dr. Hunter's personal tour of Book of Mormon country (Mexico and Central America) is described with all the excitement of a present-day novel. Over 134 intriguing photographs are included. $4.50 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money. Books: 1 2 3 convenient Amount enclosed 6..... Order coupon CC —— Address GB cooveceecececncsreceorecereeern~ sevencvecsecceses PL ONNO n<n acess Ot ClLobterss-secncvesneracen Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. Compiled by Alma P. Burton Prophet Joseph Smith are conveniently arcial treatment offers a better opportunity 'to understand the Prophet and the truths Mail this JOSE! H i Archaeology and t | i order ( ) charge to my account for encircled (numbered) Apricot (B lossoms Christie Lund Coles Once more the apricot has bloomed in lace, Embossed with palest satin, bridal white; Lifting her gleaming blossoms to the face Of heaven, to deny the earth-bound night; Once more its perfume rises to the sun Deep from the hidden place of life and root While bees sip nectar time and weather won, From these bright harbingers of golden fruit. Now is the promised time of blossoming, The time of wonder and of childlike hope, That rises as the flutter of a wing Lifting the spirit to a widening scope. Strong as the wings of frailest butterfly These flowers that speak of both the earth and sky. The Cover: Japanese Cherry Blossoms Japan Photo-Movie Service Submitted by Hazel M. Robertson Frontispiece: Apricot Blossoms Photograph by Ward Linton Cover Design by Evan Jensen From lear and Sar To "the many testaments that have gone before' about the great worth of our marvelous Magazine, I should like to add mine. Our Magazine is distinguished from the other magazines that come into our home. I think of it not as just a paper-and-print booklet, but as a Magazine with a heart. I never read an issue without feeling the love and _ elevating influence of my sisters who edit it and write the many inspirational lessons, stories, and poems. 'To each who contributes to its great worth, I should like to say a sincere "Thank you" for their being worthy of receiving inspiration from our Heavenly Father to make other lives and homes sweeter. This year I have been blessed with the thrilling experience of teaching the theology lessons in our ward. Because of the special help received from Brother Leland H. Monson in presenting The Book of Mormon lessons, I should like to express special gratitude to him. —Mrs. Lauradene N. Bryson. Washington, D. C. My mother, Clara B. Singleton, who is ninety-four years old, still enjoys the lessons and stories in the Magazine. She has seen so many changes in this organization in her lifetime. —Elva S. Seely Craig, Colorado May I say that the December issue of the Magazine is a masterpiece of expression in art and in narrative content. —LeNora Kirkbride Smithfield, Utah I am grateful that we Relief Society members have a Magazine that we can call our own and be proud to do so. I find both old copies and the new issues very useful in preparing talks, enriching lessons, and for special activities, such as pageants, readings, etc. 'Thanks to you all. The Magazine continues to get better and better. —Maude O. Cook Tremonton, Utah Page 210 I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine ever so much, also the inspirational lesson courses. After studying the fine literature lesson for December 1956, entitled "Shakespeare's Poetic Power," I felt inspired to try to express my appreciation for it in poetry. The accompanying poem expresses my sentiments, thanks to the help of the Magazine and the fine lessons, I have never once before had the desire to even try to write poetry. APPRECIATION I like poetry! It's such an artful way Of putting into words what one wants to say; Oh, would that I, like Shakespeare, might become Able to weave~ thoughts into words, masterfully, as he has done! —Clara Belle C. Ott New Plymouth, Idaho We appreciate the honor of being represented as a mission in The Relief Society Magazine, and having some of our recipes published. We appreciate the Magazine. It is a wonderful help in many ways, and is delightful reading for young and old. —Jennie R. Bowman President Mexican Mission Relief Society Mexico City, Mexico Thank you so very much for our wonderful Magazine and especially for the lovely December issue. Even though I didn't have a part in the building of the new Relief Society building, it makes me tingle all over to think that I am a small part of the great Relief Society organization. —Mrs. Leila Baker Klamath Falls, Oregon The December issue of The Relief Society Magazine is priceless. I have ordered extra copies for some dear friends who do not belong to our Church, and I am sure they will appreciate having them. —Eliza M. Wakefield Carlsbad, New Mexico THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF S$ Belle S. Spafford Marianne C. Sharp Helen W. Anderson Hulda Parker Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE OCIETY GENERAL BOARD Mildred B. Eyrin Gladys S. Boyer Charlotte A. Editor Associate Edito Assistant to the Editor General Manager arsen Edith P. Backman President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer g Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford June Nielsen Belle S. Spafford No. 4 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES The Family and the Resurrection Roy W. Doxey 212 The Northern Far East Mission aePreston R. Nibley 218 Thomas S. Monson 227 Selling The Relief Society Magazine What Is Joy?. Winning Our Goal Jennie Brown Rawlins 237 243 Fight Cancer With Research, Education, and Service The Value of Poetry —Walter J. Kohler 246 Elaine C. Southwick 248 The Three Wise Women Fredrika Clinch 257 A New Quilt for an Old Home Jane T. Mattice 258 Make Them Feel Secure A Look Backward and Forward, Relief Society All the Way Formosa — Culinary Melting Pot —_Edna B. Culmsee 267 Dilemma Wilma Boyle Bunker 275 Mountain Vacation FICTION—SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORIES Deone R. Sutherland 220 New Shoes for Flo Wanda F. Hilton 230 Going Modern Frances C. Yost 252 Two of a Kind am..4Maude Rubin 260 The Bright Star—Serial—Chapter Two Dorothy S. Romney 271 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 210 238 Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 239 Editorial: Blessings Attendant Upon an Office In Memoriam—Nettie Maria Davis Bradford Marianne C. Sharp 240 241 Notes to the Field: Hymn of the Month 242 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Birthday Congratulations FEATURES FOR THE HOME Let's Garden With Half the Work Recipes From the Northern Far East Mission Miriam Diplock Land Welcomes Opportunities to Serve How to Plant Small Seeds Hulda Parker 276 280 Dorthea N. Newbold 234 Frances P. Andrus 244 Fon 0- « Ae 270 Elizabeth Williamson 279 Apricot Blossoms — Frontispiece aChristie Lund Coles 209 Camphor Trees The Smallest One's Prayer Elsie McKinnon Strachan 233 Maryhale Woolsey 233 Legacy Leslie Savage Clark 242 An Easter Thought Della Adams Leitner 247 Meeting Place Time to Grow Late Spring Catherine E. Berry 251 Se oeAda Marie Patten 270 Eva Willes Wangsgaard 275 My Lad Dorothy J. Roberts 278 Pamela........ Ethel Jacobson 278 Reunion Vesta N. Lukei 278 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Vol. 44 Evon W. Peterson Louise W. Madsen Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. APRIL 1957 The Family and the Resurrection Roy W. Doxey Assistant Professor of Religion Brigham Young University HE greatest events are those which affect the greatest number. There is no event that will ever happen to individuals or nations which is as important as the resurrection. 'There is no event for which one should more carefully prepare than for this experience. Although "man is that he might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25), and "happiness is the object and design of our existence," there cannot be a fulness of joy in this life. The greatest joys attainable to the sons and daughters of God are those which come when they are resurrected. This great truth is proclaimed in a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith: For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected, receive a fulness of joy; And when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy (D. & C. 93:33-34). The importance of this great truth cannot be overestimated as a contribution to one's understanding of the purposes of God for his children. The interest in and appreciation of the valued information possessed by the Latter-day Saints concerning the resurrection is well expressed by President Bingham Young when he said: "A true knowledge and a correct understanding of the resurrection is a source of great comfort and joy to a Saint of God" (Teachings of Pres. Brigham Young, page 19). The feelings and the actuality of the resurrection for mankind were known to the Prophet Joseph Smith, Page 212 in part, by the following vision which he related upon learning of the death of Lorenzo D. Barnes in England: I will tell you what I want. If tomorrow I shall be called to lie in yonder tomb, in the morning of the resurrection let me strike hands with my father, and cry, "My father," and he will say, "My son, my son,' as soon as the rock rends and before we come out of our graves. And may we contemplate these things so? Yes, if we learn how to live and how to die.... Would you think it strange if I relate what I have seen in vision in relation to this interesting theme? Those who have died in Jesus Christ may expect to enter into all that fruition of joy when they come forth, which they possessed or anticipated here. So plain was the vision, that I actually saw men, before they had ascended from the tomb, as though they were getting up slowly. They took each other by the hand and said to each other, "My father, my son, my mother, my daughter, my brother, my sister." And when the voice calls for the dead to arise, suppose I am laid by the side of my father, what would be the first joy of my heart? To meet my father, my mother, my brother, my sister; and when they are by my side, I embrace them and they me.... Oh! How I would delight to bring before you things which you never thought of! But poverty and the cares of the world prevent. But I am glad I have the privilege of communicating to you some things which, if grasped closely, will be a help to you when earthquakes bellow, the clouds gather, the lightnings flash, and the storms are ready to burst upon you like peals of thunder. Lay hold of these things and let not your knees or joints tremble, nor your hearts faint; and then what can earthquakes, wars and tornadoes do? Nothing. All your losses will be made up to you in the resurrection, pro- THE FAMILY AND THE RESURRECTION vided you continue faithful. By the vision of the Almighty I have seen it. More painful to me are the thoughts of annihilation than death. If I have no expectation of seeing my father, mother, brothers, sisters and friends again, my heart would burst in a moment, and I should go down to my grave. The expectation of seeing my friends in the moming of the resurrection cheers my soul and makes me bear up against the evils of life. It is like their taking a long journey, and on their return we meet them with increased joy. God has revealed His Son from the heavens and the doctrine of the resurrection also; and we have a knowledge that those we bury here God will bring up again, clothed upon and quickened by the Spirit of the great God; and what mattereth it whether we lay them down, or we lay down with them, when we can keep them no longer? Let these truths sink down in our hearts, that we may even here begin to enjoy that which shall be in full hereafter (D. H. C., V:361-362). HE sentiments expressed in the foregoing would seem to give to all Latter-day Saint mothers an opportunity to teach their children the subject of the resurrection and its implications concerning the ties of affection which bind families together. Latter-day Saints are blessed tichly by the guidance of God's revelations through the living oracles and also the modern books of scripture. The testimonies of the prophets, both ancient and modern, are rich sources of material for enlarging our understanding and testimonies concerning such fundamental doctrines as the resurrection. In the language of the Prophet Joseph Smith these testimonies concerning the mission of Jesus Christ constitute the fundamental principles of our religion: The fundamental principles of our teligion are the testimony of the Apostles and Prophets, concerning Jesus Christ, 213 that He died, was buried, and rose again the third day, and ascended into heaven; and all other things which pertain to our religion are only appendages to it. But in connection with these, we believe in the gift of the Holy Ghost, the power of faith, the enjoyment of the spiritual gifts according to the will of God, the restoration of the house of Israel, and the final triumph of truth (D. H. C., III:30). There is another area of interest and profit for Latter-day Saint mothers to instruct their children which follows the "testimony of the Apostles and Prophets." It is the place of prophecy concerning the divine mission of Jesus Christ, an important part of which is the resurrection. Probably no better place is found in scripture concerning the functioning of a prophet and the witness he leaves than the thoughts expressed by Jacob the son of Lehi. In suggesting that a purpose of writing upon plates of metal during the Nephite dispensation was to bring to their descendants a knowledge of their fathers and of their joy in what God had revealed to them, Jacob writes: For, for this intent have we written these things, that they may know that we knew of Christ, and we had a hope of his glory many hundred years before his coming; and not only we ourselves had a hope of his glory, but also all the holy prophets which were before us. Behold, they believed in Christ and worshiped the Father in his name.: Wherefore, we search the prophets, and we have many revelations and the spirit of prophecy; and having all of these witnesses we obtain a hope, and our faith becometh unshaken, insomuch that we truly can command in the name of Jesus and the very trees obey us, or the mountains, or the waves of the sea.. Behold, great and marvelous are the works of the Lord. How unsearchable are the depths of the mysteries of him; and it is impossible that man should find out all his ways. And no man knoweth of 214 his ways save it be revealed unto him; wherefore, brethren, despise not the revelations of God.... Wherefore, brethren, seek not to counsel the Lord, but to take counsel from his hand. For behold, ye yourselves know that he counseleth in wisdom, and in justice, and in great mercy, over all his works (Jacob 4:4 ff.). (eee continues by emphasizing the necessity of being reconciled to Christ through his atonement that "'ye may obtain a resurrection, according to the power of the resurrection which is in Christ...." (verse 11). 'Then Jacob suggests the place of prophecy in the eternal plan: Behold, my brethren, he that prophesieth, let him prophesy to the understanding of men; for the Spirit speaketh the truth and lieth not. Wherefore, it speaketh of things as they really are, and of things as they really will be; wherefore, these things are manifested unto us plainly, for the salvation of our souls. But behold, we are not witnesses alone in these things; for God also spake them unto prophets of old (Jacob 4:13). By reason of God's foreknowledge, he inspired his divinely ordained prophets centuries before the earthly mission of Jesus, to know that Jesus would be raised from the dead. (See Mosiah 13:33-35.) The prophets in all dispensations have looked forward to the time when death would be removed permanently, and the grave would no longer hold a victory over the spirits and bodies of men. Probably one of the best Old Testament prophecies of this event is the 19th verse of the 26th chapter of Isaiah: Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust: for thy dew (sorrow or death) is as the dew of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 herbs (death shall quickly pass away as dew disappears by the rays of the morning sun), and the earth shall cast out the dead. (Words in parentheses author's.) Other Old Testament prophets proclaimed the coming resurrection as the hope of Israel and of all men. Latter-day Saints will remember the prophecies of Job (See Job 19:25-27), who witnessed that he would come forth from the grave as a tangible, immortalized being; of Ezekiel (See Ezekiel 37:1-14), who spoke of the literal joining of the physical body of flesh and bones; and of Daniel's (See Daniel 12:2) testimony that both the just and the unjust would come forth to a resurrected life. Book of Mormon prophets have their prophecies (testimonies) recorded that we in this dispensation would have greater faith and understanding of this fundamental subject. Abinadi (Mosiah 16:7-10), Amulek (Alma 11:41-44), Jacob (2 Nephi 9:68, 11-13), Alma (40:21-23), and Samuel the Lamanite (Helaman 14:15-16) pointed out that by reason of the mission performed by Jesus all men would receive their bodies again never more to be separated. The predictions of these many prophets concerning the resurrection, attest, with the many other prophecies now fulfilled, that God, and not man, is the sovereign of this world. For those who have faith in the divine scriptures, there is ample justification for believing that God's promises will not go unfulfilled, as he has made these promises to his "apostles and prophotis." THE FAMILY AND THE RESURRECTION ATTER-day Saint parents and, especially, the mothers have a wonderful opportunity to teach their children the answers to gospel questions raised by their children. Just such a question as "Why did Jesus come alive again?' was answered in a most informative article by President Joseph Fielding Smith in the August 1954 issue of the Improvement Era, pages 559, 578. A brief summary of that article follows, in order that those mothers who do not have access to the article may be prepared with the answer to this question: All of us lived as spirit sons and daughters of our Heavenly Father before we were born into this life. There we learned that this earthlife was to be a probationary place where we would be tested and given the privilege of walking by faith and, if faithful in keeping the Lord's commandments, we might become like our Father in heaven. Adam and Eve, our first parents, were not subject to death when placed in the Garden of Eden, and they would have remained there, without children, forever, if they did not become mortal, as we are today (2 Nephi 2:22-25; Moses 5:11). After their transgression, they were driven from the Garden and the children born to them inherited death. Thus everyone of us would have come under the power of Satan after death, if there had been no atonement. If we were not restored to life our spirits would become subject to Satan forever, and our bodies would have remained in the grave without end (2 Nephi 9:6-13). Under the merciful plan of salvation prepared in the pre-earth life, Jesus became the one who would a5 redeem mankind from their helpless state. It was necessary that Jesus come to this earth, having the power over death, by his being born of our Eternal Father, and at the same time capable of dying because his mother, Mary, was a mortal being like us. Jesus was different from us in being the only one who had such power over death and, therefore, capable of taking up his life again as a resurrected being (John 5:26-27; 10:17-18). By shedding his blood on the cross Jesus could redeem us. After he came forth from the tomb he had power to bring every person from the grave. Following his own resurrection on that first Easter day, Jesus did open the graves of the righteous saints who had lived before the time of his crucifixion (Mt. 27:52-53). President Smith concluded his article by stating that all teachers of children should have "the correct understanding of the doctrine of the resurrection, and how we became redeemed through the shedding of the blood of Jesus Christ." NE of the most beautiful and satisfying doctrines for Latterday Saint mothers as_ revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith is that of the perpetuity of family associations in the future life. Latter-day Saints understand that the next step in our eternal progression is the spirit world to which Jesus went at death (I Peter 3:18-20) and where the spirits of all men go (Alma 4o:11-14). The spirit world is a place of further education where opportunities for improvement for both the righteous and the wicked are available. 'The spirit of the de- 216 parted child goes to that world as well as the adult who dies at an advanced age. Both are adult in form, however, regardless of the size of the physical body at death (Gospel Doctrine, 6th ed., page 455). This fact concerning the deceased child does not allow for the belief of some Latter-day Saint mothers that they will rear their children in the spirit world. The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that the fulfillment of this promise will come in the resurrection, as expressed in these words by President Joseph F. Smith: Joseph Smith declared that the mother who laid down her little child, being deprived of the privilege, the joy, and the satisfaction of bringing it up to manhood or womanhood in this world, would, after the resurrection, have all the joy, satisfaction, and pleasure, and even more than it would have been possible to have had in mortality, in seeing her child grow to the full measure of the status of its spirit (Gospel Doctrine, 6th ed., p. 453; Cf. D. H. C., lV:555-557). (Words in italics the author's) It seems most appropriate at this point to quote from the Prophet Joseph Smith, as given above in the account of his vision of the resurrection, "All your losses will be made up to you in the resurrection, provided you continue faithful. By the vision of the Almighty I have seen it." Consistent with this teaching are the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith in setting forth the truth that the resurrected body though differing in size, as we differ here in mortality, shall be glorious, whether old or young: In order for you to receive your children to yourselves you must have a promise—some ordinance; some blessing, in order to ascend above principalities, or else it may be an angel. 'They must arise just as they died; we can there hail our RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 lovely infants with the same glory—the same loveliness in the celestial glory, where they all enjoy alike. They differ in stature, in size, the same glorious spirit gives them the likeness of glory and bloom; the old man with his silvery hairs will glory in bloom and beauty. No man can describe it to you—no man can write it (D. H. C., VIl:366). It was the testimony of Alma that as resurrected beings we shall have perfect bodies because the disfigurements of the flesh will be removed. This assurance is another phase of the resurrection understood by the ancient prophets and proclaimed anew by our inspired leaders of this dispensation that provides comfort for all. The soul shall be restored to the body, and the body to the soul; yea, and every limb and joint shall be restored to its body; yea, even a hair of the head shall not be lost; but all things shall be restored to their proper and perfect frame (Alma 40:23). In bearing witness of the redeeming power of Jesus, who was yet to come in the flesh, Amulek gave this eloquent testimony relative to the perfected, resurrected body, and the equally profound truth that when we are resurrected we shall remain forever united, both spirit and body: Now, there is a death which is called a temporal death; and the death of Christ shall loose the bands of this temporal death, that all shall be raised from this temporal death. The spirit and the body shail be reunited again in its perfect form; both limb and joint shall be restored to its proper frame, even as we now are at this time; and we shall be brought to stand before God, knowing even as we know now, and have a bright recollection of all our guilt. Now, this restoration shall come to all. Both old and young, both bond and free, both male and female, both the wicked and the righteous; and even there shall not be so much as a hair of their heads THE FAMILY AND THE RESURRECTION be lost; but every thing shall be restored to its perfect frame, as it is now, or in the body, and shall be brought and be arraigned before the bar of Christ the Son, and God the Father, and the Holy Spirit, which is one Eternal God, to be judged according to their works, whether they be good or whether they be evil. Now, behold, I have spoken unto you concerning the death of the mortal body, and also concerning the resurrection of the mortal body. I say unto you that this mortal body is raised to an immortal body, that is from death, even from the first death unto life, that they can die no more; their spirits uniting with their bodies, never to be divided; thus the whole becoming spiritual and immortal, that they can no more see corruption (Alma _ 11:42-45). (Words in italics the author's). AS we contemplate the testimonies of the prophets, we are yet to realize that as we have lived here in mortality, so shall we be blessed or condemned. The Lord has promised his saints that by their obedience to the laws of righteousness, they shall receive a celestial resurrection, even "the same body which was a natural body; even ye shall receive your bodies, and your glory shall be that glory by which your bodies are quickened" (D.& C. 88:28). 'The body received in the resurrection will be our own and not that of another. Might not there be a lesson here for parents to teach their children the observance of revealed laws concerning health and moral cleanliness? How fortunate are the Latter-day Saints in the knowledge of the resurrection and its many ramifications! How much more blessed are we in teaching our children that by reason of the restoration of the gospel, we have modern witnesses of the reality of the resurrection. Resurrected beings in the persons of Moroni, John the Baptist, Elijah, Moses, and other prophets have come to earth 217 bringing their honors, rights, privileges, keys, and blessings for the eternal salvation of all who will believe and obey. Each one of these prophets by his appearance in this dispensation to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery has attested to the literalness and the reality of the resurrection of the body. "The greatest events are those which affect the greatest number." The resurrection brought about by the atonement of Jesus Christ will affect every being who has lived, who does now live, or will yet live in mortality. Everyone will be raised from physical death to the resurrection of the body. 'There is no exception. (See Acts 24:15; Rev. 20:13; Alma 12:16-18.) "There is no event for which one should more carefully prepare than for this experience (the resurrection)." The kind of resurrected body a person receives is determined by the law the person has elected to live (D. & C. 88:20-32). There is "a better resurrection" (Heb. 11:35). The Lord has revealed in plainness that there are bodies celestial, terrestrial, telestial, and that as one is resurrected so one will inherit a kingdom of glory commensurate with the kind of body he receives in the resurrection. There will even be differences in the celestial kingdom between those who have lived the fulness of the law and those who have been less valiant. It is only through obedience to the gospel of Jesus Christ that man will receive the celestial kingdom. It is only by obedience to the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ that man may reach the heights of godhood (D. & C. 131:1-4; 132:28-33; 93:26-28; 130: 20-21). She Northern Sar Gast lisston Preston R. Nibley HE Northern Far East Mission is one of the recently organized missions of the Church. It was formed on July 28, 1955, at a missionary conference held in Karuizawa, Japan, under the direction of President Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve. The first president of the new mission, which comprised the countries of Japan, Okinawa, and Korea, was Hilton A. Robertson who, previously, had presided over the Japanese Mission. The preaching of the gospel in Japan began in August 1901, when Elder Heber J. Grant of the Council of the Twelve, accompanied by Elders Horace S. Ensign, Louis A. Kelsch, and Alma O. Taylor, arrived in that land for the purpose of opening a mission for the Church. At Yokohama, on September lst, the missionaries "ascended one of the hills in the vicinity of Yokohama and held a meeting, during which President Grant dedicated the land of Japan for the proclamation of the gospel." Soon afterwards the mission headquarters was established at 'Tokyo. The work grew slowly and it was not until March 1902, that the first baptism was performed. In 1904, Elder Alma O. Taylor, assisted by Elder Fred A. Caine, and several educated Japanese, translated The Book of Mormon into the Japanese language. However, few converts were made. In 1920 the membership of the Church in Japan numbered only 127. Four years later, under the direction of the First Presidency, the mission was closed. In the spring of 1948, the Japanese Mission was again opened, with Elder Edward L. Clissold as president. 'The active work of proselyting has continued since that time. Oe ok ON REN ee Japan Photo-Movie Service Photograph submitted by Hazel M. Robertson KAGAWA RITSURIN PARK, JAPAN This place is claimed to be one of the most exquisite landscape gardens in the world. Page 218 Japan Photo-Movie Service Photograph submitted by Hazel M. Robertson PAGODA IN SPRING This five-storied pagoda stands in Ueno Park, Japan, its oriental architecture enhanced in this picture by the cherry blossoms in full bloom. The pagoda, said to be 350 years old, is considered a national treasure. Korea was dedicated for the preaching of the gospel, on August 2, 1955, and Okinawa twelve days later, both by President Joseph Fielding Smith, as he made a tour of the Northern Far East Mission. The membership of the mission, as reported on December 31, 1956, was 1211. Elder Paul Charles Andrus is now serving as the mission president. 'Thirtyfour Relief Society organizations, with 231 members, were reported in December 1956. Frances P. Andrus presides over the Northern Far East Mission Relief Society. Page 219 Mountain Vacation Deone R. Sutherland ARGERY wiped the oatmeal out of Baby Jeff's hair. "You, now," she said sternly, "you've got to look your prettiest this morning. Help me catch Daddy in a good mood." She buttered Bill's toast and then sprinkled sugar and cinnamon on it and popped it into the oven. "Sure as I do," she said to herself, "this will be his everything-plain morning." Bobby and Willie Jr. Came tumbling and arguing down the stairs. 'The three-year-old tumbled into his chair at the table. Margery caught the milk just before he spilled it over the side of the bowl. "T don't want you two to say anything at the table this morning," Margery said to them politely. "I want you to play you're on a secret mission. It's so secret you can't say anything." "What a silly game," Willie said with his mouth full. "What a silly game,' Bobby echoed, filling his. "Nevertheless," Margery — said sternly, "I want you to play it no matter what." Bill came running down the stairs, and Margery gave his place a last flourish just as he sat down. "Well, this does look nice." He opened his napkin. "Can't you boys even wait for the blessing? Willie, it's your turn." Willie looked inquiringly at Margery, and when she nodded, he swallowed his food, bowed his head, and asked the blessing. "You know I like my toast plain," Page 220 Bill said as he dished his oatmeal and swallowed his milk. "Carma Stewart called, dear," Margery said, as she handed Bill an egg. "She wants me to help her chaperon her Beehive class on their canyon trip this week. I said I'd love to go, but I'd have to talk to you." Bill was choking on his toast. "It's only four days. Mother said she'd be happy to take the children during the day if you could manage them at night. I thought it would be a little vacation for me...." "How many girls?" Bill spluttered. "Fourteen, dear, but they are older children, and they won't be any trouble—not compared to boys, anyway." The three boys all looked at her with angelic, reproachful eyes. Margery cleared her throat. "Oh, my boys are the very best, of course, but really Carma is desperate. They've promised the girls, and Dorothy, the other regular teacher, has had to go to California to be with her mother. Dear, you can't disappoint fourteen girls...." "How can you stand to leave us?" Bill's face wore a look of tragedy. "We'll talk about it tonight." He barely had time to grab his brief case and kiss her in the vicinity of her nose. He kissed each of the boys on the back of the head, since that seemed safest when they were eating, and he was gone. Margery rang up Carma and told her she was almost sure she was going. Bill hadn't definitely said MOUNTAIN VACATION no, and when he took all day to think of something he usually decided in her favor. 'Then she called her mother who was about as enthusiastic as Bill. "Of course, I want you to do your duty, Marg, but maybe you won't be able to handle fourteen girls. I think it will be too much work for you. You know you're so impulsive—always rushing into things." "Nonsense, Mother, I remember perfectly well being a Beehive girl myself. This will be a lark." "Well," said her mother gloomily, "I only hope your three boys don't look like a rest cure when you come back from your vacation!" ILL had carried the last toy into the car that the children were going to need at their grandmother's for the day. Margery was checking her supplies on the front porch. Bill had tied her bedroll the night before and tried to give her a few camping instructions. "Really, Bill, Carma is the one who knows all about everything. I just do what she tells me. Gloria will be there to help her mother, and even if she is only Beehive age, still a daughter is often lots of help in a project like this. Carma says not to worry about a thing. The supplies will all be on the truck. I just have to take my bedroll and eating utensils." Bill came up on the porch. "What are all those magazines?" he asked suspiciously. He wasn't in his best humor this morning since he had had to get up an hour earlier than usual to feed the boys. "They're just in case I get too bored, dear. Besides, I can help start fires with them if necessary." 221 "Humph," ciously. He was putting the boys in the car for the third time when Carma's husband, John, drove up in front with the truck. "Tll_ take your bedroll, Marg. Hello, Bill. Don't you wish you were going camping with us? No, I'm just going to be up there at night. Got to keep the business going, you know. Carma and Marg think they can keep things rolling in the daytime. Now, you girls have to sit down back there if you're going to ride in my truck. We're going to pick up most of the girls at the wardhouse. Carma's waiting over there for us. Can you make it up there, Marg?" "Surely," Margery said, laughing, but Bill came and boosted the leg she was hopping up and down on unconvincingly. "Wouldn't you rather ride in front?" Bill asked curiously. "Oh, no, this will be fine. Id better start out on an even footing with the girls, dear," Marg said just before she skinned her leg going over the side of the truck. "Well, have fun, Marg." Bill blew her another kiss. The truck started with a lurch that almost threw Marg back into Bill's arms. "For goodness sake," Bill shouted after the moving truck, "hold on." "T will." Marg waved briefly, for she now needed both hands. "It's easier if you sit up here with your back to the cab, Sister Clark," shouted Joanie Turner. "Thank you,' Marg called back, but she was afraid to let go and move forward. It would look too ridiculous to go crawling about on her hands and knees. She would grunted Bill ungra- 222 wait until they got to the wardhouse to make the change. She tried to blow her hair out of her mouth. She didn't know which was worse, the dust in her eyes or her flapping hair. There had been no point in setting her hair last night, she could see now. Carma was waiting at the wardhouse. "Well, you look as though you're having fun," she called out at last. "Don't you want to ride in front?" "If you think the girls will be all right," Marg said, climbing out of the truck without waiting for an answer. "Oh, yes," Carma said. "Now, gitls, place your bedrolls along the sides and back of the truck and use them to sit on. No standing, shoving, or fooling while the truck is en route." Carma gave directions with real authority. Margery looked at her with admiration. The girls hustled to obey. They were attractive youngsters for the most part. The little Wright girl had a smear of bright red lipstick across her mouth. Though she was pulling her bedroll along with the others, she somehow seemed apart. Margery felt a slight twinge of pity. Some girls always hurled themselves into this growing-up business too soon. Marg adjusted her legs into the cab of the truck. They began the long climb into the canyon. The shifting of the truck's gears set Margery's nerves tingling and somehow brought to her mind the active play of her boys. She felt homesick for a moment, but then she swallowed hard. She was going to enjoy these few days of vacation or know the reason why. She turned RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 her attention to the increasing amount of foliage outside her window. 'They were actually coming into the mountains now. She caught her breath at the beauty of the pines climbing the mountains on both sides of the truck. ERE we are at last,"" John said cheerfully, swinging the truck off the road into a rutted lane. Then he pulled the brake of the truck. "This is as far as we go with the truck; we carry the stuff across that bridge down there and then follow the trail around the mountain over there to the snug little camping place." "My goodness," Margery exclaimed on her third trip back to the truck for supplies, "I never would have believed we'd need all this stuff for just four days." "The food is the largest item," Carma said. "Then you carried the tent by mistake, and I'll have to admit that was pretty heavy. Here comes John for the other tent now." "The girls are making it fine," John smiled happily. "You girls can bring the rest of the stuff now. I'm going up and try to get these two tents set up before it gets much later. I want to get a fire going, too." Margery looked around. Carma and she were the only ones left by the truck. "T''ll go up and assign the girls partners and send them out for wood," Carma said. That left only Marg. There were at least three boxes of food left in the truck. "T'll start on these," she said cheerfully. "Fine," John called back over his shoulder. He was struggling with the other tent across the bridge. MOUNTAIN VACATION No, I have a better idea, Margery thought. I'll go get a couple of the girls to help me with the rest of these supplies. She had unloaded half a box so she could carry it, but now she didn't know how she was going to get the small things she'd taken out down to the camp, except to bring them item by item. Maybe she could find an extra box or two at the camp. She went across the bridge and followed the winding trail into the snug little camp. John had one tent partially up, and the girls were dumping twigs and sticks by the fireplace. The Wright girl was pulling at some twigs on a nearby tree. She didn't seem to be with a partner. "Betty—say, I wonder if you'd mind helping me with some of the supplies? I don't think I'll ever get them all up here to the camp by myself. I think I've been deserted." Betty Wright nodded her head quickly and started down the path to the bridge. But not before Margery thought she saw the glistening of tears on her lashes. Marg chattered all the way back to the truck. "I think I sprained my back carrying that tent. I was so noble. I thought I was carrying sugar or flour or something. I should have left it for Brother Stewart, but once you're in the middle of that footbridge, there is no turning back." Betty was smilifg when they reached the truck, and they were able to manage a box between them. It was almost dark before the truck was completely unloaded. John had left his work on the tent to get the fire going so they could cook an early supper. 223 "There seem to be a few clouds coming up there, so maybe if you're going to use the fire it would be wisest to get that started." Carma and Margery tore open boxes, looking for the cooking utensils. 'The girls ran up and down the mountains, screaming and giggling. 'There was now enough wood to build ten twig houses, Margery thought. "There, I think that finishes that tent," John said, just as Gloria Stewart moaned, "Daddy!" "What is it, baby, what is it?" Gloria lay doubled up on her bedroll. "It's that pain in my side. It hasn't gone away, and now it hurts so I can't stand up straight." Carma Stewart knelt by her daughter and felt her forehead. "How long have you had the pain?" "Well, it hurt a little at home today, but I didn't want to tell you because I thought maybe is wouldn't let me go camping...." She stopped talking to moan again. The girls began to look frightened. John and Carma had a quick conference. 'Then they talked to Margery. They would take Gloria down to Dr. Cambell's in the truck. It might be appendicitis, and they didn't know how serious it might be if they let it go very long. Margery nodded. 'There was nothing else to do. John pointed to the other tent. "Just follow exactly what I did with this tent. You won't have any trouble. If the doctor says it's nothing serious, we'll come back tonight no matter how late it is. At any rate, we'll get back up in the morning or send someone to help you out." 224 He was struggling to pick up Gloria, who felt she couldn't walk to the truck. Carma ran along behind them. Margery and the girls waved until they were out of sight. MARGERY turned cheerfully to the girls and immediately forgot what she was going to say. The first drops of rain began to fall. The raindrops were big and insistent. "Pull your bedrolls under the tent that's up," Margery said hoarsely, "and then help me to get this food covered up again and put back into the boxes." "But Sister Clark, we're starving," one of the girls groaned. Margery picked up a magazine and held it over her head. It was no use trying to sort out the food now. It was getting wet, and it would be impossible to cook anything tonight. "Grab anything that looks edible and pull it into the tent," Marg offered. There was a blast of thunder and a shattering streak of lightning that sent the screaming girls into the tent. "Mrs. Clark, there isn't nearly room for all of us in here." Three or four of the girls could get only their heads into the tent. Mrs. Clark watched the rain spatter down the protruding levis. "Pull the other tent over here. Come on, you'll have to help me get it open." Margery felt her hair beginning to string down the side of her face. She skidded in the mud as she tried to open the tent. She had it open once and almost over the rope when a gust of wind whipped it and her against the muddy ground. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 "T give up," she said. "Come on, just pull that end of it over the food. You girls will simply have to hold it over you, that's all." Margery squatted in the mud, tenting the dripping canvas with her head. Her hair not only felt wet, but she was sure the canvas leaning heavily upon her was also muddy. Merle Strong leaned out of the tent that was up. "Sister Clark, would you like a raw weiner?" "You mean cold weiner," Margery said, but Merle couldn't hear above the rain, so she just shook her head. She really ought to go over and see what they were trying to eat in there. One of the girls who squatted under the canvas with her had reported something about a huge package of raw bacon. She was sure that nobody was desperate enough to attempt to eat that though. MERLE Strong's head showed in the tent again, but Margery couldn't hear what she was shouting. In a moment she reappeared with a blanket over her head and ran over to Margery. She stooped under Margery's canvas with the others. "Sister Clark, Bonnie and Jean thought they saw the lights of the truck, and they ran back to see. They've been gone ages, and we are getting worried." Margery felt her heart in her throat. ""When did they go?" she gasped. She must keep calm. "Oh, right after it first started raining" Merle commented eagerly. "TIl leave you in charge of your tent. Don't let anyone go looking for anything or anybody. I'll have to go find the girls." MOUNTAIN VACATION Marg watched Merle run back through the rain. The five girls under the canvas nodded solemnly to Margery's directions. Margery got her blanket out of her bedroll and draped it around her. She hadn't gone six yards before she felt someone panting behind her. Betty Wright clung to her arm. "Let me go with you. Want to be some help." Margery's heart was pounding too hard for speech. She nodded gratefully and pulled Betty against her. What had been a fairly simple trail to follow to camp had now become a muddy, slippery obstacle course. Down below them the creek roared menacingly. It was too dark to see anything except during the flashes of lightning. Bull always comforted her during thunderstorms at home. She thought of Bill's comfortable shoulder with unbelievable yearning. The thought of her boys brought tears of self-pity to her eyes. What had she ever done to deserve this? To lose two girls! It took them almost half an hour to reach the bridge. Margery put her hand on the bridge rail, and her heart failed her. She could not cross. Yet they hadn't seen a sign of the girls on the trail. She and Betty lifted their heads to shout once more. "Sister Clark?" the girls' voices came from the other side of the bridge. A lightning flash revealed the two girls sitting in the shelter of a huge tree. Margery almost snatched them out from under the tree. "I know we shouldn't have stayed there, but we were afraid to go any place else, Sister Clark. You're not I really 225 mad or anything at us, Sister Clark?" "No, no!" Margery smiled with relief in the darkness. "I'm so happy we found you, but get out from under that tree at once." She hugged the girls, and they started single file back to the tent. "Hey, Betty, you were a teal sport to come looking for us, too. I don't know what we'd have done if somebody hadn't come. Honestly, we thought those lights were the truck coming back, and we thought we'd get first shelter or something." Margery pulled the girls along behind her, hugging the side of the trail closest to the mountain. Betty surely seemed at home with the gitls now. She looked like a different girl with her face washed clean. She was as attractive as any of them. When they got back to the tent, the girls pulled Betty, Jean, and Bonnie into the tent to hear of their adventures. Margery returned to crouch under her end of the canvas. She settled her blanket in the least muddy spot she could find and leaned on her elbow for some rest. A glitter in the mud caught her eye during a flash as she settled herself. Betty Wright's lipstick. She pocketed it quietly. There would be time enough to return it to Betty later. HE sun brought the day to the most bedraggled Beehive class in the land of Zion, Margery thought. Her heart sank when she saw the number of muddy blankets and the poor condition of their supplies. But first things first. They must have a hot breakfast. All the wood that had been gathered was wet. If she had only thought to pull some it under the canvas. 226 But the girls were scurrying about, searching under heavy pines for dry spots to find twigs. Margery gasped at how fresh and young they seemed. She felt as if every bone in her body ached in several places. The ingenious girls soon had a fire going, and Margery cooked and cooked until she was ready to swoon from hunger. BY noon the truck had come back with John and Carma. "Yes, it was appendicitis, all right," Carma explained. "They did an emergency operation, but she's doing fine. We'll go down again tonight, at least one of us will, to see her in the hospital, but we'll be able to pull our share up here now. Marg, you really do look terrible. Is that mud you've got in your hair?" They decided to spend this second day washing blankets and drying them out on branches. Margery heated water and rinsed her hair. Before she had time to put a bobbypin in, another hike was scheduled, and the activities roared on with astounding regularity. By the time the evening program around the campfire was over, Margery yearned only for sleep. Her hair would just have to wait. The fourth day finally dawned, and some of the girls actually shed tears that this was the day they were leaving their camp. Betty Wright ran up to her and laid her cheek against Margery's straight hair. "Oh, Sister Clark, this has been the most wonderful four days of my life. 'They've been more fun...." Margery felt the lipstick in her pocket. "Betty, does this belong to you? I found it...." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 Betty's cheeks rosied just a little. "It's mine, Sister Clark." Margery smiled at her. "You really don't need it, Betty; youre so pretty without it." "Thank you, Sister Clark. No, I'm not going to bother using it anymore until the rest of my friends do. Keep it for me, will you?" Betty was gone to some of the girls who were calling for her. Margery dropped the lipstick back into her pocket. Yes, the canyon was beautiful, Margery noticed on the way down. It seemed ages ago since that day they had driven up. Bill and the boys were waiting at the church with other parents, relatives, and friends. Margery almost broke her leg trying to get to them before they got to her. "Are you thinner?" Bill asked. "What's the matter with your hair?" Willie asked curiously. Margery hushed them, trying to smile and keep back the tears at the same time. Just then some of the girls' shouted conversations reached her ears. They were so enthusiastic, so full of energy. Margery couldn't help hearing, "The most wonderful canyon trip you can ever imagine, Daddy. The very best part was the first night when it rained like mad, and we had the craziest adventures. Gloria's going to be green with envy because...." It was only the thought of a hot bath and shampoo that led Margery to turn away from one of the most surprising conversations she had ever heard. Later, she would try to understand the sudden feeling of well-being that flooded even to the tips of her fingers. Selling She Relief Society Mlagazine Thomas S. Monson Assistant Manager, Deseret News Press [Speech delivered at the Magazine Department, Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 4, 1956| approach the responsibility of | addressing this large gathering of Relief Society Magazine representatives humbly. I realize that it would be difficult to assemble a sales force that is more dedicated to its product than are you. It is important that we be dedicated, that we accept the callings given us, that we strive for perfection in our performance. Placing myself in the position of a sales representative for The Relief Society Magazine, I have tried to note a few principles which I believe would help me perform my assignment more successfully. 'These principles comprise, what I call, a "Be Chart for Successful Selling of The Relief Society Magazine." Be Informed To Be Informed is the first principle on our chart for successful selling. We must be informed tregarding all phases of our product. We must be intimately acquainted with the contents of the Magazine and the varied uses to which its contents can be put. For example, we must convince our sisters that by reading the editorials and historical items in the Magazine, they will be better informed. We should show them that by reading the lesson material they will be in a position to participate more intelligently in their class discussions. By using the recipes found in the Magazine, they will be better cooks. In short, we can say to our potential subscribers: "If you would be a better cook, know the progress of Relief Society work, be prepared for your lessons, you can realize these objectives by simply subscribing to and reading your Relief Society Magazine." In addition to knowing the contents of our Magazine, we should have a knowledge concerning its creation. The Relief Society Magazine doesn't just grow like "Topsy." Each item for its production is carefully selected, and after much thought and prayer, it is merged with others to provide the finished product. Did you know, for example, that Sister Spafford and her associates devoted many hours in selecting the correct paper on which to print the Magazine? <A paper was desired which would give clear detail to the many photographs, yet be a paper that would not reflect a harsh glare. The heavy, enameled cover paper was selected to provide a durable cover and a printing surface on which scenes might be printed in finest detail. Did you know that every type face available was studied carefully? Finally, a type face was selected that is open and legible, even for those readers whose sight might be impaired by advanced years? The very size of the Magazine was designed to facilitate easy handling and convenient binding into permanent volumes for your library shelves. Before a page of the Magazine is printed, an electrotype mold is Page 227 228 \ Successful Selling SA BE INFORMED S.. Chart SBE HUMBLE ""QBE PRAYERFUL made. 'The actual printing is done from an electrotype made from this mold. An electrotype will withstand much more wear than ordinary type. This -guarantees that the printing will be as distinct and clear on the 150, oooth copy as it was on the first copy. Be Organized Be Organized is our second principle. We should organize our time so that a selected period can be devoted to making our visits to the homes. When we make our visits, we should be prepared with all of the necessary materials, such as pencil and subscription book, so that we can properly prepare the order. A list of expiration dates is also helpful as a sales tool. When we are organized, our work becomes much more efficient and enjoyable. Be Friendly Be Friendly and carry a smile always. It is much easier to be conRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 vincing when we are friendly and happy to see our fellow members. We must never use harsh methods or force others to subscribe against their will. Instead, friendly persuasion must always be our selling technique. Be Enthusiastic Be Enthusiastic in our work. "Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm," Ralph Waldo Emerson once observed. We note in the business world that after a salesman makes a successful call, it is much simpler for him to convince the second customer. In short, when a sale is completed, we naturally become enthusiastic, and this opens the way for the second sale. Be Humble Be Humble in your work. Realize that you are the Lord's emissary, and that you should carry his spirit in all your endeavors. The Prophet Joseph Smith offered this admonition: And no one can assist in this work except he shall be humble... (D. & C. 12:8). Be thou humble; and the Lord thy God shall lead thee by the hand, and give thee answer to thy prayers (D. & C. 112:10). After you have succeeded in your work, remember to give the Lord the credit for your accomplishments. Be Prayerful Be Prayerful, always! Never make your visits without first calling upon the Lord for his divine assistance. Your assignment is important, and it requires inspiration from on high. Ask the Lord to bless you, and also to bless and to touch the hearts of the sisters that you visit. Several years ago, a striking example of the efficacy of prayer came forcibly to my attention. Our ward SELLING THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Relief Society Magazine representative was a little Scotch sister, Elizabeth Keachie, who was most devoted to her assignment. She had determined to visit every home in the ward to explain the benefits enjoyed by subscribing to The Relief Society Magazine. Each day before making her visits, she would kneel in prayer and ask her Heavenly Father to guide her activities. AFTER many weeks she completed her house-to-house campaign with the single exception of the homes on a remote street that Jay in an industrialized area adjacent to the railroad tracks. Sister Keachie hesitated visiting this area alone, and therefore she requested her visiting teaching companion, Alice Johnson, to join her. Sister Johnson commented that there were only one or two homes at best on the street and that no member of the Church resided in any of them. But Sister Keachie was determined to complete her task, and so they started down the uninviting street. Visits to the two homes yielded nothing, but as they turned to leave, Sister Keachie noted a curtain at the window of a small garage located down a muddy alleyway behind one of the buildings. She persuaded her companion to visit this humble garage with her. They knocked at the door, and an elderly gentleman, ninety-three years of age, greeted them. They explained the purpose of their visit and the benefits derived from subscribing to The Relief Society Magazine. The old gentleman talked to them for an hour and finally subscribed. He also asked them if they would return each month and talk to him about 229 the Church. After securing permission from the ward Relief Society presidency, they added this small abode to their own regular visiting teaching district. The months went by, and then the old gentleman started to attend Priesthood meetings. Eventually, he was advanced in the Priesthood. After about a year, he was ordained an elder in the Melchizedek Priesthood and applied for a temple recommend. He stated that his wife had died many years before and that he wanted to be sealed to her for the eternities to come. He also confided in me, as his bishop, that he had made her a promise many years ago that he would go to the temple and perform this important work. The Sunday after he had completed his work in the temple, he stood up and bore his testimony in fast meeting. He paid tribute to Sister Keachie and Sister Johnson, the patient sisters of the Relief Society, for visiting him so faithfully, and then he praised The Relief Society Magazine and told of its importance in assisting him to build his testimony. Ninety-four year-old Brother Ringwood died within six months of this meeting. I recalled this experience at his funeral service; and I am certain that the tears which filled the eyes of Sister Keachie and Sister Johnson were tears of gratitude for having faithfully performed their labors in a pleasing manner before the Lord. You see, Sister Keachie was informed; she was organized, friendly, enthusiastic, humble, and_prayerful, and because she followed these principles, she was successful! May we all be successful in our callings. New Shoes for Flo Wanda F''. Hilton and dry, Flo did not wear shoes. She went barefoot Sunday through Saturday, month after month. Of course, there were things like bruised toes and thorn pricks, and it was always wise to look about carefully when climbing the rocky hillsides for rattlesnakes. The one pair of shoes, worn all winter, did well to last through the spring thaws. With the last patch of snow melting in the spring sunshine, Flo's shoes, or what remained of them, melted away, too. Flo loved those first days after the shoes were gone. It was good not always to be laboring to keep a ragged piece of leather tied in place. But after a few days, she just didn't give it a thought one way or another. Then as September trumpeted its arrival with red and gold pageantry, Flo began to dream of new shoes, and by Thanksgiving it was right uncomfortable to be without shoes because it was cold, cold, cold! Then Flo's mother would wrap her feet in warm rags and that felt good as long as she stayed indoors where it was warm and dry, but rags got wet if one ventured out, and then they were worse than nothing. There was always one thing about the rag business, though, that made Flo's eyes bright and her dreams more real, for then Mother would begin talking about shoes. Now, for two days Flo had been wearing rags, and she had kept her Page 230 Cet oar. When it was hot ears open for any mention of shoes. But for two days, so far as Flo knew, her mother had not given them a thought. It was now the beginning of the third day, and mother hadn't given one hint that she was even tinkering with the idea of suggesting that father ride into Rexburg and buy the winter stock of shoes and other necessities like bacon, sugar, and flour. The blessing on the food had been given and the mush dished up, when Mother spoke. "Jim," she asked in a matter-offact tone, "don't you think tomorrow might be as good a time as any to hitch up old Bess and Pet and drive to town and stock up? It's getting along in the season and things are running low. Flo could even do with some shoes, it's that cold." Flo sat still and open-mouthed. Even though she had been expecting the words, they came as a rapturous shock. "Yes, I guess it's time," Father answered looking up into Mother's face. "But are you willing that I should go now? Maybe Id better wait a week or two." Wait, thought Flo. What for? There had never been any talk of waiting before when Mother suggested the trip. "In a week or two the road may be closed tight as snow can make it," Mother replied. "You usually have made the trip by now. [I just realized it day before yesterday, when I had to wrap up Flo's feet. Best go right away. 'The sooner you NEW SHOES FOR FLO go, the sooner you will be back, and that's the way I want it." HERE had never before been allusions to things not being just right, and it worried Flo; but in the hurried preparations for Father's going, she forgot her misgivings. Everything but joy vanished when she looked at the long list of things for Father to buy. The first item on the list was "A pair of shoes for Floetta!" That night just before she climbed into bed, Father stood her on a piece of paper on the table and traced the outline of her foot with his stubby pencil. It had tickled and she had wiggled. "Stop now," Father said. "You must stand still and hard. Let your foot spread out as far as it will. We don't want those new shoes to be too little." Flo had gone to bed feeling that she had tried on her new shoes, and soon she would have them for keeps. At the moment of Father's departure, Flo recalled her misgivings, for Father seemed uncertain and hesitant. "You're sure you want me to go?" he asked, and Mother nodded, her face calm. As the wagon jolted off over the rough, uneven trail, the calmness faded, and her face looked like winter, Flo thought, lonely and cold and even fearful. The Harris family lived far away from all the settlements and towns. Father, Flo had heard it said, had poor health and the natural hot spring about a mile from the cabin was good for whatever was the matter with him. So Father and Moth- 231 er had sold their livery stables and town lots and moved up to nowhere. The cabin had been built close against the mountain where the aspen trees came down and snuggled about in a tight friendly circle, only giving way a little for the path which led down to the road a half mile away. The trip to town usually took about five days—two to go, one in which to do the shopping, and two to make the trip home. Father spent the two nights between home and town at the Williams' ranch. Flo was sure Mother had never acted as if she were expecting Father before the fifth day before, but this time, the morning of the third day Mother began walking the half mile to the road and back again every little while. Her face looked white, and she said few words. When they knelt for prayer her petitions were urgent, and she stayed on her knees a long time. When it was bedtime, Mother turned out the lamp, but instead of coming to bed, she sat before the fire and rocked back and forth, and sighed. Flo was sure Mother even made the trip to the road alone that night. The pressure of her uneasiness was the most frightening thing Flo had ever endured. It was so big and real that even thoughts of the shoes were not comforting or of importance. HE morning of the fourth day, Flo awakened to the desolate sound of the wind. Mother was at the window peering out into the semidarkness. She stood there a 232 long time before she let the curtain fall back into place. All day the wind howled with growing fury. 'The windows rattled, the door shook, and it seemed that Mother bent and quivered like the trees outside—almost as if she were in pain. And then toward evening the first snow began to fall. At its coming Mother shed her first tears, and with a cry that chilled Flo's heart she flung open the door and ran like a frightened creature down the path to the road. When she came back, walking heavily, the weariness on her face was still there, but the fear was gone. Things still weren't just right, Flo decided, but it seemed Mother could and would take care of whatever was the trouble. The prayer at mealtime was, "Please bless our Daddy and keep him safe from the storm and help us here at home." Flo was familiar with those words, but somehow the way Mother said them this time gave them a bigger meaning as if there was a special need right now. Flo wished she could help, and could know what had to be done, but Mother rushed the eating —her movements quick and sure. It was as if she were racing with something or someone. When the food was eaten, Mother said, "You are to sleep in the bedroom tonight. There are a few things that need to be done before I can blow out the lamp, and I don't want to keep you awake." Flo was sorry to give up the warm kitchen and Mother's companionship, but Mother's voice was firm, and when she pulled the door closed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 it was somehow important that it stay that way. Mother did open it again, though, to give her a second goodnight kiss, a gentle caress, and a sweet, sweet smile. Above the sharp wail of the wind, Flo could catch the soft sound of her Mother's movements. The kiss and the smile had quieted her fears and her last thought was that tomorrow would bring Daddy, and Daddy would have the new, wonderful shoes. The wind was still blowing when Flo awakened next morning, and the one bedroom window was clogged with snow. Her breath had made frost along the quilt top, but inside, the bed was snug and warm. Then a sharp, cutting thought tore across her mind, dark as night. What if Father had not made it safely to Williams'! What if he had been caught in the storm, was even now somewhere alone in the white, howling waste! A fear more deadly than any she had known pushed and hammered at her. She must get to Mother. 'Together they could pray again, and wherever Father was, God would save him and bring him safely home. Flo flung open the kitchen door and stopped there stunned and speechless. There sat Father! Father rocking gently back and forth, with a small, white bundle held closely in his arms. Mother was asleep in the big bed, and on the table—on the table—was a pair of black, high-button shoes. THE whole sight was so thoroughly unexpected—so wonderful after the smothering fright, that all Flo could do was cry. Great choking sobs, that awakened Mother, NEW SHOES FOR FLO and Father's bundle began to make twittering little bird sounds, and it was all so queer that Flo kept on crying until she reached Mother's arms and Father was bending over her. Then it was that she saw what Father was holding. It was a baby. A real, little, red-faced baby. Her amazement dried up her tears like a blotter, and she just sat, speechless, with the most wonderful feeling welling up all through her. Father safe, Mother with happiness on her pale face, a baby, and, yes, there were the shoes. Oh, what joy! Was ever the world so grand! Were ever Father and Mother so dear or baby so sweet! 233 "Here," Father said, "you hold him." "You have a little brother," Mother said. "Let me hold the shoes, too," said Flo. It was like a miracle she thought, as she ate tiny, juicy nibbles of her first orange and wiggled her toes inside her new shoes. A miracle that Father was home. It seemed he had known the baby was coming. It hadn't been a surprise at all to him, and so he had driven straight through to Rexburg, changing teams at the Williams' ranch. The shopping had been hurriedly attended to, and he had started back after only a few hours rest. He had raced the storm home in time to be with Mother when the baby came. > Camphor Srees Elsie McKinnon Strachan Willows and maples and poplars, these three Have hung their green color in April's air, The wakened persimmon and cherry tree Lend viridian with the leafing pear; But there is no green in this new green spring As green as these camphor leaves hung high, Their luminous splendor caroling A chartreuse song against the sky! She Smallest One s Prayer Maryhale Woolsey She watched her sisters through their prayers at bedtime, Waiting her turn with wide and wondering eyes; Then joyously she knelt, head bowed, hands clasping, And babbled in her own language, baby-wise. We felt her loving innocence and sweetness, And though we could not tell what plea we heard, At her "Amen" we joined her confidently— Knowing God would translate her every word. Let's Garden With Half the Work Dorthea N. Newbold Garden Editor, Deseret News-Salt Lake Telegram VERYONE wants a garden. Ask the average person for a word picture of a garden, and he will tell you that he sees a velvety lawn surrounded by borders of shrubs, the whole enclosed with a wall, or a vine-covered fence. In front of the shrubs he visualizes a border of flowers, with good shade trees towering over the whole scene. In this picture the average person always sees a garden in "apple-pie"' order; no weeds, no pests, no diseases, no shaggy, seedy looking plants; borders always in full bloom! Utopia! The homemaker has much to do with planning and planting the garden or outdoor living area. She plans it so that it will become the scene of the family's summer activitained in a garden, or small groups can enjoy the area. With the increase in activities, the gardened area is sure to show wear and begin to look shabby. More work is required to maintain it, and perhaps there is neither the time nor the energy for the additional work. Let's cut down, then, by streamlining the plantings, and paving the area of lawn that shows the greatest wear. And you don't need to keep the borders full of flowers all summer in order to possess a good garden! Shrubs, trees, and evergreens can be used effectively together without flowers, to provide interesting contrast of color and textures. Best of all, a minimum of care will keep such a garden looking top notch. You will enjoy an all-green garties. Large groups can be enterden, providing that you will make | il | J! | I J I I N ae [ l a es el ae [I J | | } | la | | J | [ I L 1 | I | | J a J i I I je ab | i | | | I | | } | a | ya PTA miele Vg aa Ne | j | i | | | | i ii i i j | |! | | | | } i [ / | im tl | j A | | a | j | | } | J i | | | i [ | I | 7 a te I 1 i { I j | _| | | } al l Brick walks or terrace. Page 234 1 Border plants Gin, tall. DRIVEWAY Cea |! Large Tree 7 Ly | sO HH | HOUSE Ground f; are ee Cover £ >3 i) Ar LI iJ LI Ld} A goo0od hosing keeps the area 7 immaculote, the tree watered aay and the ground cover grows Wi = ok Lo thr iftily under such care, RMA 'Tall Grape Stake Fence to Provide Privacy. Up your mind to accept it. You may think that an all-green garden will become tiresome and monotonous, but you will soon notice the difference in the greens. You will see that there are few plants that can be classed as being "leaf green." Rather, the greens will be a bluegreen, or a yellow-green, or shade to a gray-green. Textural differences in the foliage of the plants can create a fascinating picture. 'There are many leaves that have a fuzzy appearance, others are ruffled, while still others are scalloped. Some leaves are quite large, thick, and smooth. The contrast in size of neighboring plants can be picturesque. For example, a planting of Dianthus, with its blade-like leaves, will provide a contrast for the coarser leaves of the taller lilacs or Viburnum. HE very easiest kind of gardening is water gardening. A pool of clear water, reflecting the sky and clouds, is soothing and calming to frazzled nerves. It may be possible to have a tiny stream of water falling or spraying into the pool. 'The sound of falling water is always a great delight. A pool can be planted with water lilies to provide color throughout the summer months, and they require little work. Of course, the construction work is necessary to begin with, but once the pool has been finished, all that is required to have an attractive spot is a yearly cleaning during the spring months. 'The pool is filled at that time and the lilies planted when the weather is settled. 'The design of the pool can be formal or informal, following the general design of the remainder of the garden. Brick work has become very popular. Bricks may be new cement LET'S GARDEN WITH HALF THE WORK 235 236 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 DRIVEWAY as Remainder of re ae Steps en Space filled 4 YH 4 with ground ¢ Gis iz 3 Foundation fe Planting Border of Iris 3 HN | ones, cinder blocks, or old weathered bricks. Stepping stones may be used in many ways to cut down the amount of maintenance work in the garden. 'They may be used for pathways or for paving a terrace. An occasional hosing off will insure an attractive, clean underfooting with no worries about worn spots in lawn areas. If weeds or tufts of grass insist on pushing up between bricks or blocks, it is a simple matter to spray the unwanted plants with one of the weed killers on the market. Usually one treatment is sufficient to kill them. In the hotter sections of our country, some discomfort may be encountered if the paved areas are quite extensive. 'To offset this, use Large Shrub Ground Cover in Remaining Area. > ~~ on —N beet NOOO eo a strip of grass around the paved section. Shrubs and trees planted along the edges of the terrace will help cut the high temperatures. Or plan to use a reflection pool as a part of the terrace. PORTABLE gardens can add color, if you decide that you must have some color in your garden. Set plants in containers that are sufficiently large to encourage good growth. Containers that are too small encourage the roots to travel out the drain hole. If large planter boxes are used, it is a good idea to put heavy coasters under them so that the boxes can be wheeled to a sheltered spot away from heavy winds and rains. Wood- > = Ze = Foundaton Planting LET'S GARDEN WITH HALF THE WORK en buckets and tubs can be a decorative part of the terrace. A thorough daily watering is about all the care that a portable garden needs, although a good practice is to give a once-a-month feeding to the plants. Use a soluble plant fertilizer. Its use will assure you of good plant growth. If, in the past, you have had wide borders of flowers around your garden, and now you find that you cannot care for them properly any longer, gradually do away with the borders. Instead of those flowers, plant different kinds of ground covers. Plants that are classed as ground covers hug the ground, seldom growing more than five inches tall. They are attractive throughout 237 the growing season, some remaining green throughout the year. A list of ground covers would include Vinca minor, ajuga, creeping Jenny, and wild strawberry for the semi-shady or sunny locations. For the very sunny spots, try using Sedums. Sedums are rugged plants, requiring little care, once they have been planted. In the shady spots, under large trees or shrubs, on the north side of the buildings, try Pachysandra, any of the ivies, or use lily of the valley or sweet violets. Once the plants are set out, about all that will be required is about two feedings a year, plus regular watering in arid sections of our country.! What Js Joy? Jennie Brown Rawlins 6 be | | ie things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full" (John 15:11). To me this solemn and beautiful statement means that through God we have it in our power to gain a fulness of joy both now and in the life to come. This presents a second question: What is joy? The dictionary defines it as gladness, gaiety, or exhilaration of spirits. 'To me it has a more sober and lasting quality than this definition suggests. Joy, as the Savior spoke of it, is not momentary, unadulterated bliss, but a complex thing, a thing of multi-variant hues, of undulating inflections, yet deep and abiding. We say that we have joy in working in the Church, in rearing our families, in going to school. Thus joy is comprised not only of moments of rapture, when we have an awareness of peace in the glowing instant, but of our endeavors to overcome obstacles, our striving toward accomplishment, and yearnings toward the divine, as well as countless homely, yet heartwarming experiences that go to make up living. Joy is not freely given. It must be attained. It is the reward God gives us for accepting our tribulations with grace, our triumphs with humility, our daily bread with thanksgiving, our responsibilities with willingness, the unkind acts of others with tolerance, and the ever-burgeoning wonders about us with awareness and appreciation, Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women or ALL NATIONS" RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY IN PAROWAN (UTAH): The fiftyfifth anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society was royally celebrated March 17th at Parowan. A most excellent program of addresses, recitations, songs and music was well rendered, the brethren feeling honored in being invited to contribute to the day's enjoyment. Sister Lenora Orton gave the historical address... Which was replete with information. Among the aged sisters who spoke were Sister Nancy Decker and Aunt Paulina Lyman, who were at Nauvoo at the time the Prophet Joseph established the Society.... —E. Crane Watson, Secretary LAKE TAHOE (CALIFORNIA): It was just sundown when the stage coach turned a bend in the road and we came to the very edge of the lake, ensconced amid the mountains at an altitude of 6,225 feet above sea level on the borders of Nevada and California in the Sierra Nevada Mountains, its length 22% miles, greatest width 13 miles, its depth 1,506 feet, its waters not blue but wonderfully clear, looking like a sheet of glass, surrounded like a wall by the mountains while the beautiful pines peeped up through the snow.... —Kim LIVING PICTURES OF THE HOLY LAND: Madame von Finklestien Mountford has been given her unique entertainment, Living Pictures of the Holy Land under the auspices of the Brigham Academy in several of the larger towns in the State.... Madame Mountford will give one of her series of lectures in the large Tabernacle in this city on Tuesday evening, April 16th. —Editorial Note FAREWELL TO SISTER McCUNE ON HER DEPARTURE FOR EUROPE Think of those who love thee, And miss thee every day, Let this sweet assurance Bring peace and joy alway.... Fear not man for he is mortal, In the holy cause be strong; Trust in God in silent asking, He will move the proud among.... —Lydia D. Alder WOMAN LAWYER: Mrs. Helen M. Gougar was admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of Indiana on Feb. 19. She at once made the oral argument in her test case, wherein she claims that the present law, properly interpreted, is sufficient to permit women to vote. All the judges came down from the bench and congratulated Mrs. Gougar on the ability of her argument. —Selected Page 238 R. SITI J. R. NOOR-ZAIN, of Jakarta, Indonesia, represented her country at the International Federation of University Women in Paris, France, and later visited America. A dentist by training, educated in Holland and her native land, at thirty-two she is mother of three children, editor of two magazines, a government official, and an educator. She has helped to reduce illiteracy in Indonesia from ninetyseven to forty-seven per cent. Woman's position has greatly improved, although a man can still divorce his wife by merely announcing the fact, and he is not required to support his children, and property rights are not granted to women. Fifty per cent of the women now exercise their right to vote. OR PATE STEWART has added to her many successful books A Letter to My Daughter, a sequel to A Letter to My Son. This is a volume of sound advice to girls on the best and happiest way to live life, how to prepare for marriage, and what to expect of marriage. Written from the Latter-day Saint point of view, it contains inspirational passages, down-to-earth comthon sense, and flashes of humor. Mrs. Stewart, mother of seven children, is a popular lecturer as well as an author. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon OSE HEILBRON, _ forty-two, attractive and feminine-looking in her judge's white, long, wavy, wig, is the first woman to become an English judge. Wife of a surgeon and mother of an eight-yearold daughter, she is regarded as one of the best legal minds in the country. Even so, she had to overcome considerable prejudice to reach her present position. BELIEVED to be the nation's oldest married couple, Mr. And Mrs. Peter Petersen, Latter-day Saints of Fairview, Utah, have celebrated their seventy-eighth wedding anniversary. 'They received a special delivery letter from President Dwight D. Eisenhower. Mr. Peterson is ninety-six; his wife, ninety-five. RS. PAT McCORMACK, twenty-six, of Lakewood, California, is the first person ever to win two gold medals for diving in two successive Olympiads. She did a two-and-a-half somersault and a one-and-a-half somersault with full twist at the Olympic Games in Melbourne, Australia, last December. Australia's Lorraine Crapp won the women's 40o-meter free-style swimming event in a new time record of 4:54.6. Sylvia Ruuska, only fourteen, of Berkeley, California, came in third in the latter event. Page 239 CQ > EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 44 APRIL 1957 Blessings Attendant Upon an Office VERY calling in the Church carries a particular authority and blessing. "When will I be set apart?" is a question often asked by those who have been asked to accept a call in Relief Society and feel their own weakness in it. 'They have the faith that after they have been set apart, if they strive to do the Lord's will, he will endow them with necessary attributes to fulfill the calling pleasingly in his sight and to the satisfaction of themselves. After one is set apart by one in authority, inspiration, if sought, will attend the particular office. One is given the assurance that the Lord will help one to fulfill her calling, for each office carries its own enlightenment. The Lord never withdraws his inspiration from a handmaiden who has been called and set apart so long as she seeks to do his will and magnify her office. The Lord recognizes those whom he has chosen to be in authority. When a presidency meets, all confer together, but the final inspiration is looked for from the president. When a counselor meets with sisters whom she has been called to direct, the final decision is looked for from the counselor. So it is in all situations. The Lord's house is a house of order, and to fulfill a calling one must be obedient to those placed over Page 240 one, and, in turn, be ready to direct in humility those over whom one has been placed. The inspiration of a calling is a wonderful manifestation of the Lord's will. 'Time and again one sees it demonstrated. While a sister remains in a certain position, the authority and inspiration of her calling continue to rest upon her to give her strength and wisdom beyond her own ability, but with the passing of the office, there passes also the particular mantle of that office to her successor. This bestowal of the mantle of an office was witnessed visually by Latter-day Saints in Nauvoo who saw the mantle of the Prophet Joseph Smith made manifest upon President Brigham Young. Perhaps the actuality of the occasion was needed to teach the membership of the Church—those who witnessed it and those who accept it from the testimony of those who were present — of the actuality of it. But, while such an outward manifestation is not commonly vouchsafed, still one is continually amazed to see how, after being set apart to a particular office, through humility and prayer, the mantle of that office becomes evidenced through the wisdom and the growth of the individual in her office. The Lord has said that he will take the weak things of the earth EDITORIAL to confound the wise. Whatever calling comes to one, if the individual accepts the opportunity in spite of her own feelings of unworthiness, is set apart by those in authority, and lives to magnify her own office without aspiring to the office of another, she will grow in righteousness and knowledge personally, and, through humble service, she will do her part in forwarding the work of the Lord. The more devotion she lends to her office, without neglecting her responsibilities as wife and mother, the more she will be the recipient of the promises made to her at the time she is set apart. It is a great blessing that the daughters of the Heavenly Father 24) have been given an organization of their own in which they are set apart to preside under the Priesthood, as well as to be officers and teachers. Through the endowment of the setting apart, great blessings of discernment, enlightenment, growth, and development come to the daughters of Zion, as they come to no other women. 'Those who are set apart testify to the truth and actuality of the words of Nephi:. The Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish — the thing which he commandeth them" (I Nephi 3:7). —M. C. S. Gn Memoriam—TNlettie Maria Davis Bradford March 17, 1873—February 11, 1957 NETTIE Maria Davis Bradford, former member of the general board of Relief Society, died at her home in Salt Lake City, February 11th, 1957, a little less than a month before her eighty-fourth birthday. Beginning in young womanhood, she served in all the auxiliary organizations of the Church officered by women, and in later life was an ordinance worker in the Salt Lake 'Temple. She was president of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society for eight years. She was appointed a member of the general board of Relief Society March 25, 1925, and served with great ability and untiring devotion. Her principal duties included chairmanship of the clothing and household supplies committee, membership at various times on the conference committee, work and business, theology, and nursing committees, and many other responsibilities. She was greatly loved by her associates on the board and gave much inspirational direction in her official visits to the wards and stakes. She was released from the board in 19309. Her husband, Robert H. Bradford, Professor and Head of the Department of Metallurgy at the University of Utah, died in 1931. Their three sons and a daughter have followed the outstanding example of their parents in rendering community and Church service. Sister Bradford's many friends will long remember her as a woman who used all the days of her long life in loving service. Yloteds 10 THe FiELp Hymn of the Mlonth THE Church-wide congregational hymn singing project, inaugurated by the Church Music Committee, will be continued during the coming year, and all auxiliary organizations have been invited to participate. The purpose of this project is to increase the hymn repertoire of the Church members and to place emphasis on the message of the hymns. Stake choristers and organists are requested to give assistance at union meetings to ward choristers and organists in carrying out this project. An analysis and story of the hymn will be printed each month in the Church Section of the Deseret News. Following is a list of hymns approved for the twelve months July 1957 to June 1958: Month Hymn! Composer No. | July We Love Thy House, O God Bullock-Robertson —_203 August O My Father Snow-Mason 138 September This House We Dedicate to Thee —Naisbitt-Asper 176 October — God of Power, God of Right Bennett-Cannon 36 November Come, Ye Thankful People Alford-Elvey 29 December I Heard the Bells on Christmas Day Longfellow-Calkin 219 1958 January In Memory of the Crucified Kooyman-Schreiner 99 February A Mighty Fortress Is Our God Luther-Luther 3 March Christ the Lord Is Risen Wesley-Carey 10 April Father In Heaven Hibbard-Flemming — 34 May The Lord My Pasture Will Prepare Addison-Bortniansky 113 June Come, O Thou King of Kings P. P. Pratt 20 > Legacy Leslie Savage Clark No legacy of land was his, No vast estate, nor gold; Nor this, some famous ancestor Of whom proud tales were told. And, yet, some sire bequeathed him gifts Beyond all counterpart— _ The seeing eye, the hearing ear, The understanding heart. Page 242 Winning Our G oal OY of achievement is mirrored on the face of the young man in the poster who has just won the footrace. He is experiencing the realization of earnest effort, training, clean living, and of learning to accept and obey orders. He _ has reached his goal because he was willing to follow the rules which led to it. Latter-day Saints who would travel life's course so as to win their coveted goal must follow a like course. They hold their bodily desires in subjection to their spiritual strength and they never become discouraged to the point that they are overcome by the trials and temptations of the world. A child once asked her mother, "Why does Sister Toone always pray that she will endure to the end? She is very old and good. Why does she always say that when she bears her testimony?" The child was too young to realize that no mortal age places one beyond the reach of temptation, but each age presents different testings and trials. 'The wisdom and experience of years, however, should expand our souls so that our love is not stopped at the family circle and beloved friends, but flows over to embrace our neighbors. We must offer friendship to the lonely, give service to the sick and needy, tender encouragement to the discouraged, and a deep assurance of faith to the doubting. To win in life's course requires the development in the soul of charity, the pure love of Christ which guides us along the straight and narrow path to the shining, glorious goal of eternal life. To win the race of life we must keep in training just like the athlete, but the course is longer, the trials more difficult, and the temptation to falter greater. In life"... The race is not to the swift nor the battle to the strong" (Eccles. 9:11); but to him that endures to the end. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 243 Recipes From the Northern Far Gast Mission Submitted by Frances P. Andrus Susu Sushi Meshi (Rice Mixture): 4 c. Cooked rice 2 tsp. Ajinomoto (Accent) % c. Vinegar % c. Dry shrimp % c. Cane sugar salt to taste Shrimp should be soaked in vinegar, sugar, and salt overnight. Cover the dish. Drain shrimp and save liquid. Use this vinegar liquid to pour over cooled rice and toss lightly so rice will not be gummy. 'This rice mixture, when placed in aburage (bean cake) cones, is delicious for in-between snacks, for picnics, and buffet parties. For Cones: 12 aburage, cut in two Filling: 1% c. Water 2 medium-sized carrots, chopped % tsp. Ajinomoto (Accent) 10 string beans, chopped small shavings from 12 aburage (fried salt to taste pressed bean cakes) when cut into few dry shrimps two for cones 1 tbsp. Cane sugar Chop carrots and beans in long, fine strips, add 1 c. Water and boil for five minutes. Boil shavings of aburage for ten minutes in % c. Water. Add sugar and salt. Cook a little longer. Drain and cool. Bring chopped shrimp to a boil and in the water drained from aburage shavings cook slowly several minutes. Add seasoning and aburage shavings. Drain and mix vegetables with rice, and scoop into the cones made from 12 aburage cut in two, making 24 filled cones. CuCUMBER SUMISO 2 medium-sized cucumbers Peel the cucumbers, remove seeds, and cut in halves lengthwise, SuMIso SAUCE 3 tbsp. Miso (soy bean paste) 2 tbsp. Cane sugar (optional ) 2 tbsp. Sesame seeds or % tsp. Ajinomoto (Accent) 2 tbsp. Roasted peanuts ground 3 tbsp vinegar 2 tbsp. Green onion chopped 1 tbsp. Clam juice 1 can hokkigai (boiled clams) sliced For making the sumiso, combine miso (if desired), Ajinomoto, vinegar, and clam juice. Add the chopped green onion, sliced clams, and ground peanuts or sesame seeds, Chill. Just before serving, add the chilled sumiso (sauce) to the cucumbers. Meat or Fowt WitTH EGGPLANT Cut up pork, beef, or fowl, or use hamburger, and cook with little water and soy sauce. Cut up eggplant with the skin on and cook with the meat until tender. Add a little sugar if desized. SUKIYAKI 2 Ibs. Tenderloin beef or chicken 2 bunches green onions 1% c. Shoyu (soy sauce) 1 can Japanese bamboo shoots fat or oil for frying 1 c. Mushrooms "' c. Sugar or sweeten to taste Page 244 RECIPES FROM THE NORTHERN FAR EAST MISSION 245 Slice beef thin or cut chicken into small pieces. Slice bamboo shoots and mushrooms. Cut green onions into one-inch pieces. This includes the tops. Heat the pan and put in some beef or chicken fat. When melted, put in enough meat to fill half of the pan. Stir with fork or chopstick to keep from sticking. Put in sugar and six tbsp. Shoyu and mix well with meat. When it begins to boil, put it on one side of the pan and add mushrooms, bamboo shoots, and onions. Since the vegetables require very little cooking, do not put in too much at a time. Cook for ten minutes. More meat, vegetables, sugar, and shoyu should be added from time to time. Do not allow the sukiyaki to burn. If it begins to dry out, add a little water and additional sugar and shoyu. Sukiyaki is correctly spelled '"'tsukiyaki." It may be served with rice, a green salad, and a pickled vegetable. NIsHIME ¥, c. Dried fish (iriko) or pork 2 c. Water cut fine 1 tsp. Vinegar 1 gobo (burdock root) 3 tbsp. Cane sugar 1 carrot, diced 2 tsp. Salt 1 bunch young taro or dasheen (long % ¢. Shoyu (soy sauce) white radishes), diced 1 tofu (soy bean curd cake) Soak diced gobo in 2 c. Water and 1 tsp. Vinegar for about % hour. Drain the gobo. Dice carrot and dasheen or taro which have been peeled. Cut tofu into four pieces and fry in deep oil and, after frying, dice also. Put diced fish (iriko) or meat in pot and add vegetables in order listed, add seasonings and enough water to cover the mixture. There is a name for stew in every language. In Japanese it is Nishime. 'TERIYAKI HAMBURGERS Teriyaki Sauce: % c. Onion 1 clove garlic, crushed 1 tsp. Ginger, grated "2 ¢. Shoyu (soy sauce) 3 tbsp. Cane sugar Hamburgers: % tsp. Salt 1 lb. Ground beef % tsp. Pepper 1 egg 2 tbsp. Teriyaki sauce " c. Dry bread crumbs pinch of Ajinomoto (Accent) Combine all ingredients for sauce. Combine ingredients for the hamburgers and meat around wooden skewers. Soak patties in sauce for one hour. Place on a cold broiler grill, heat grill, and broil for about five minutes on each side. Surimp TEMPURA (Shrimps Fried in a Batter) 1 lb. Fresh shrimps (18-20) Wash and shell shrimps leaving the tails. Split shrimps down the center of the back and open flat. Remove black intestinal vein. Place shrimps, cut side down, on board and score to prevent curling. Batter: % tsp. Ajinomoto (Accent) % ¢. Flour 1 egg "2 ¢. Comstarch % ¢. Water % tsp. Salt cooking oil or fat 246 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 Sift dry ingredients together. Beat egg and add water. Add to dry ingredients and mix well. For thin batter, remove % c. Of the batter and add 2 tbsp. Water. The remaining portion is the thick dipping batter for the shrimps. Heat oil or fat in frying pan to 375° F. Dip fingers in the thin batter and sprinkle over fat. Repeat several times. 'Then dip shrimp in thick dipping batter and fry until — brown. Drain on paper towel and serve immediately with tempura sauce. TEMPURA SAUCE 2 ¢. Water % tsp. Sugar ¥% c. Bonito flakes % tsp. Ajinimoto (Accent) (dried fish flakes) % c. Grated turnip 2 tbsp. Shoyu (soy sauce) 1 tbsp. Chopped green onion % tsp. Salt Boil bonito in water three minutes. Strain. Add seasonings (except turnips and green onion) and bring to boil. Cool. Before serving, add turnip and green onion. -<—- Sight Cancer With Research, Education,-and. Aemuce Walter J. Kohler National Campaign Chairman American Cancer Society HE American Cancer Society is sending forth its annual call for contributions to fight, on an ever-broadening front, the scourge of cancer which takes so many lives. April, proclaimed by the President as Cancer Control Month, sees the launching of the Society's Crusade to raise $30,000,000. Ever since 1945 the American Cancer Society has appealed to the American people for the necessary funds to carry on its program of research, education, and service. Its accomplishments are ever more heartening, but much remains to be done.. The American Cancer Society is doing its share in educating the public and the medical profession and in giving service where needed to cancer patients. It has underway a country-wide program of research which supports more than 1,000 top-flight scientists in more than 100 hospitals, universities, and laboratories, scientists who are seeking a final cure or preventive for this dread disease. The response to the April Crusade of the American Cancer Society will determine the extent and impact of the Society's educational drive, its service in the community which brings aid and comfort, and its research program which scientists now believe will bring the ultimate victory in our lifetime. Help to hold up the Sword of Hope which is the Society's symbol! Give generously! Josef Muench ATHABASKA RIVER AND MOUNT CHRISTIE, CANADA An Gaster Thought Della Adams Leitner Christ did not need the stone released; It did not bar his way. It was removed that those who came Might see he did not stay. The opened tomb, the grave clothes there, The angels with their word Gave to the bowed, grief-stricken ones Proof of their risen Lord. Material barriers are as nought To hin, but still he needs An opened way to human hearts And lovingly he pleads _ THAE stones of doubt be cast aside So he may enter and abide. Page 247 The Value of Poetry Elaine C. Southwick OETRY is an _ indigenous Pp expression of all peoples at all stages of life, and is, perhaps, the most ancient and persistent of the arts. Man, in a primitive state, expressed himself in rhythmical chanting in order to command attention because he wanted his friends to know and remember the things he saw and did and felt. 'he desire to make another respond to beauty, bravery, sorrow, or any emotional impression led man to intensify the relating of his experiences with repetition and metrical chanting. The famous chants were treasured verbally and considered sacred. 'They are our heritage of primitive poetry, translating for us the basic emotions and activities of a long-buried life. Poetry for the Integration of Life Poetry became an essential part of the healthy integration and menticulture of life. Nationalities have thei epic poems depicting the struggle to emerge from scattered oblivion into a module of importance. Poems have also played an eminent part in the lives of individuals making history. Buiographers point out that as Alexander the Great strove to conquer the world, he carried Homer's Iliad about with him in a gold casket; that the great British general, James Wolfe, told his council, on the eve of victory, that he would rather have written Gray's Elegy than capture Quebec. Field MarPage 248 shall Viscount Wavell said of Thompson's Hound of Heaven: "It has a special place in my life as a charm in danger or trouble.... I have used the magic of its imagery in many times of stress to distract my mind from peril or disaster." Poetry has been many things to many people, but from the chanting figure in the thermal glow of the campfire undulating to the rhythm of: The corm grows by the red rock— Beautifully it grows.... To these lyrical lines of a later day: Beautiful for spacious skies, For amber waves of grain. The poet's intent has been identical. He has tried to tell something in pictures—symbols that would stir the imagination and leave a "magic pattern on the mind." A modern critic says, "At its highest moments, poetry is identified with the central meaning of all religion and sees one principle behind all creation...." But for no two people will poetry mean quite the same thing, because each must interpret it according to his own experiences and tastes. "According to our ages," says Ralph Henry, "we will dust it with nostalgic memory or the joys of discovery." Poetry for Children Of what value is poetry to a child? Poetry is the reflection of childhood. It jumps and skips, soars THE VALUE OF POETRY and flies, laughs and grieves, discovers and treasures. It can move as heavily as an armored truck, or sway as deeply as wind-pushed trees; it can creep like gooseflesh, or trip as lightfootedly as sparrows. It is the seriousness, the impulsiveness, the fleeting desire, and the intense tragedy of childhood. Every child loves, responds to, and remembers some poetry taught to him because it helps to interpret for him his own experiences and reveals to him the hidden beauty of his world. Even when one leaves the fields of childhood, the response to once impressionable verse remains spontaneous and recapturable. Feel your arm circle involuntary to: Hickory, dickory, dock, The mouse ran up the clock. Or experience again the delightful shiver that accompanies: Hark, hark, the dogs do bark. The beggars are coming to town.... Envision once more the field of clover wherein browses: The gentle cow all red and white I love with all my heart. She gives me cream with all her might To eat on apple tart. Become newly conscious of the injustice of ingratitude by: Blow, blow, thou winter wind! Thou are not so unkind As man's ingratitude. Do you not still remember the curiously magical effect of: The splendor falls on castle walls And snowy summits old in story. The long light shakes across the lakes, And the wild cataract leaps in glory.... 249 By becoming acquainted with poeiry in childhood, one becomes more perceptive to the beauty around him, and sees the world as different and more enchanting. It highlights the loveliness of a common day from the moment when the cock is crowing and morning's at seven to the hour when the tender grace of a day is dead, for the child knows: The night will never stay; The night will still go by, Though with a million stars You pin it to the sky. Poetry creates in a child a sensitiveness to nuances in words, thereby increasing his vocabulary. The reading of great poetry to children offers excursions into the best of life. Poetry for the Middle Years What can poetry lay against the roots of those in "harsh middle life'? No age can escape from poetry, and men and women intent upon the exigencies of everyday living need its quick power to intensify little moments of beauty or remembrance, to make life more vivid and colorful, and to dramatize an event or explode an emotion. But, apart from the fact that the reading and enjoyment of poetry highlight cherished moments in the drab routine of life, it lures one's mind from the commonplace and points it to life and beauty. Every time a poem is read with understanding, the reader becomes the poet and identifies himself with a like experience. 'Those who have the capacity to get a great deal out of poetry usually are the ones who get a great deal out of life. 250 We are not, in many communities, utilizing the persuasive power of poetry as we might. For example, in one small town with one public library, of the forty-two poetry anthologies and collections in the Public Library, only six have been taken out the past year. Poetry not only stirs one spiritually, but it moves one to action. Experience the ethical pull of the following lines: Thou must be true thyself If thou the truth would teach.... Horatius Bonar Breathes there the man, with soul so dead, Who never to himself hath said, This is my own, my native land! —Scott Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll! Leave thy low-vaulted past.... —Holmes Thoughts like the foregoing help souls to wonder at beauty, hold reverence for life, and surge with tolerance for mankind. If poetry, then, is so important, why isn't it read more avidly by a greater majority of people? Is it because the memorizing of it is tedious as learned in our schools? It has been suggested that many of us learned too late what might have brought us nearer to the joy of poetry if we had learned it sooner, that "this ability to analyze and dissect material structures according to the rules of teachers and critics is of small importance in comparison with the ability to feel a beautiful thythm and enjoy a fine poem." It is the day-by-day pleasant experience with poetry that should be our first RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 objective. 'The memorizing of the lines and thought will come as second nature, if people expose themselves to poetry in the right way. Poetry and Old Age As we advance toward mellow old age, our experience with recognized poetry is very rewarding. We reinterpret it in the light of accumulated years of experience and wisdom. If our repertoire of good poetry is small, our enjoyment will be limited by its narrowness; if our exposure to its charm has been great, our enjoyment will be intensified and increased. As I read to a class in Relief Society from the great English poets, I see a memory struggle and stir behind the eyes of a listener, and when a familiar voice sings out from the pages, the face lights up like chrome after glass wax, and the head nods approval, while the lips silently rehearse a remembered phrase. It is true that not everyone has inherited a love of poetry anymore than everyone has acquired at birth an oval face or curly hair or desirable characteristics of temperament, but even as these qualities can be improved, so can we diminish the deficiency of an insensitive ear. More constant association with the cadence of poetry read by oneself or someone else, will condition the ear to hear and translate beauty to the mind and soul. Poetry was meant to be a declamatory art, and most of us will find a common ground of enjoyment in vocalized poetry. It has been said that nobody has ever really read a poem until he has read it with his own voice for the pleasure of his own ears. THE VALUE OF POETRY The Lasting Value of Poetry Once one succumbs to the charm of poetry, it offers the reader valuable vicarious experiences. Know that through its power one can walk in the moccasins of the Indian or parade in the sandaled feet of a queen; explore the outposts of civilization or crouch in the chimney corner; revel with the rich or pauperize with the poor. It comes with an Aladdin's lamp to transport one anyplace, anytime, into old situations made new with more vivid colors and wider dimensions. Poetry helps one to see through, as well as with his eyes, even as did William Blake who, when asked as the sun rose, if he did not see it as a round disk of fire somewhat like a guinea, answered, "Oh, no, no, I see an innumerable company of heavenly 21 hosts crying, 'Holy, Holy is the Lord God Almighty.' " This power to translate life into beauty, truths, sincerity, and nobleness is the heritage of every one of God's children. It has been said that the greatest power we know is the power of speech, "but they speak to small purpose nowadays if they never use the bravest and most beautiful human speech, which is poetry." Poetry is both the earliest expression of primitive people, and the highest expression of civilization. Its greatest value is still to reveal miracles of creation and to "spread the contagion of beauty" that we, too, might (as Blake):. See a world in a grain of sand, And a heaven in a wild flower; Hold infinity in the palm of your hand, And eternity in an hour. Meeting Place Catherine E. Berry I have come back to our meeting place, (How long ago it seems! ) To see if I can find a trace Of those first lovely dreams. But time has wrought its changes here The same as in your heart, The love we found that yesteryear Has left no tell-tale part; Only in the wind that blows With hint of twilight rain, Whispers a memory that knows This was a magic lane! Going Modern Frances C. Yost ELL Gordon looked up from the new wall-to-wall carpet, and rested her eyes on the soft tones of the rose drawn drapes. Then her eyes passed appreciatively over the new three-piece sectional, which filled the big corner opposite the new blonde television set. Her eyes were pools of complete satisfaction until they turned to the old upright piano standing tall and ungainly against the wall. "Tom, that old piano has to go," Nell said determinedly. "Go!" If Nell had said to go set fire to the new barn, Tom would not have been more dumbfounded. "The piano has to go where?" "Out." Nell said emphatically. "It's obsolete. It ruins the modern effect in the whole living room. Why, look at the scroll on the front of it! 'They've made pianos plain finished for at least twentyfive years." Nell showed her distaste as she frowned at the old piano. "But we've had the piano for forty years. In its day, our piano was the finest thing in woodcarving." Tom spoke defensively, as he would of a friend or relative who was being chastised. "In its day!" Nell spoke up. "That's exactly what I mean. Upright pianos were the thing in Wilson's day, and need I point out it is now the year 1957? Why, we're not driving around in a surrey just because it was the thing to do when we were married. Everything's low slung these days, cars, furniture, Page 252 and pianos. This high upright spoils the effect of the lowness and beauty of the whole living room. The whole house, I might add." "What do you plan to do, Nell, give it to one of the married children?" Nell groaned. "They wouldn't appreciate a big antique in their modern apartments. We'll take it to Salt Lake City and trade it in on a new spinet," Nell explained matter-of-factly. "Of course, we can't expect to get much out of this old piano, but it might take the sting off the price of a new one." "A new piano?" 'Tom looked puzzled. "You've said a number of times, Nell, that our old upright has better tone than some of these new blonde beauties." "True, I have said that about the tone, but I'm not playing the piano as much since we have television, and the children aren't around to practice. It isn't the tone of the piano I'm objecting to, it's the contrast with this modern furniture," Nell went on to say. "I've thought the thing through completely, 'Tom, before I ever mentioned the subject to you. The only thing to do ls get rid of the old piano." "Mother, I don't mind your fixing up the house. I sort of like the new wall-to-wall carpeting, feels comfy on my bare toes. And this three-piece sectional, it's pretty and comfortable to lie on. And_ the drapes, I like them the way they can be closed when the lights are bright. But the piano! We started out our married life with this piano. GOING MODERN It's like trading in our firstborn for a modern 1957 baby. I remember the day we bought the piano at the auction sale as if it were yesterday." KK OK OK ELL and Tom had been married in the Logan 'Temple, and the very next day, quite by coincidence, the furniture in the old Madsen house was being sold at auction. Tom had saved one hundred dollars to buy furniture. If they were careful, they could buy the essential things to start housekeeping. Nell and Tom had come early to spot the furniture they wanted so they could bid on it. They had decided on the kitchen range, the kitchen table and chairs, and, if they could spread the money far enough, the entire set of bedroom furniture. "Tom, we don't need furniture for the whole house to start with. We can close up all the rooms but the kitchen and bedroom," Nell had said thriftily, as she pushed a wisp of wavy blonde hair from her brow. To Tom, his eighteen-year-old bride was enchanting and beautiful. "Gee, Nell, that's mighty nice of you, to be so thrifty and thoughtful. Of course, we'll get a piano for you as soon as we can. Let's just walk over and look at this one." Nell was just sort of tinkling the keys when the auctioneer stood on an overturned box and started shouting above the din, "How much am I bid for this beautiful fancy piano?" Nell, a little embarrassed at being in the spotlight, stepped quickly back from the piano. "What am I bid for the fancy piano?" the auctioneer repeated. Nell looked about; no one seemed 253 even vaguely interested in the piano. She never remembered being at an auction sale before, but she had heard that sometimes things went real cheap when people didn't run the bid up. Why, if a person could buy a piano for, say fifty dollars, that would still leave something for necessary furniture. "What am I bid for the fancy piano?" the auctioneer shouted a little louder. "Forty-nine dollars," Nell spoke timidly. "The lady opens the bid on this fine piano at the too-low price of forty-nine dollars,' the auctioneer almost snickered. A laugh swept through the crowd. "Who will offer seventy-five dollars?" "Seventy-five dollars!" A man shouted from the rear of the crowd. Nell looked about to see who was bidding. She remembered seeing the man talking to the auctioneer before the auction started. Had he been planted there to bid? "The gentleman bids seventy-five dollars! Who will offer one hundred for this fine piano?" "Seventy-six dollars," Nell said timidly. "The lady offers a mere pittance. Only seventy-six dollars, the lady offers." A second laugh swept the crowd, which was followed by a bid of eighty-five dollars from the man in the rear. "The gentleman offers eighty-five dollars. Who will raise it to one hundred?" the auctioneer was begging. Nell stole a side glance at the black kitchen range. A _ person could build a table, and boxes could 254 be covered for chairs. Boxes could be used to hold the bed springs, and she could drape the bed real pretty with a skirt. But a person had to have a stove to cook on and to keep warm. Perhaps the old cook stove might sell for as low as ten or eleven dollars. Nell's eyes wandered again to the piano. A piano was the heart of a home. 'This piano had a better tone than the one her folks had paid several hundred dollars for. She would make all kinds of sacrifices if she could get this piano. She could even endure the insinuations from the auctioneer and the laughing people. "Who will offer one hundred dollars for this fine piano?" the auctioneer repeated. "Eighty-nine dollars," Nell said. "The lady did not hear me. The lady offers only eighty-nine dollars," the auctioneer said. "Who will top the lady's bid?" "Ninety dollars!" the man in the rear shouted. Nell Gordon, by now, did not care if the whole crowd laughed their heads off. She only cared about making this fine piano hers. She turned around and glared at the bidder in the rear. "T am offered ninety dollars! Who will offer one hundred?" the auctioneer shouted. "Ninety-one dollars and no more," Nell spoke determinedly. Then she turned and glared at her opponent. "Going once! Ninety-one twice! Sold to the lady with the wavy blonde hair for ninety-one dollars!" Suddenly Nell Gordon realized their predicament. She and 'Tom had come to the auction to buy necessary furniture, stove, table, cupRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 board, bed, and she had spent almost all of Tom's money on a piano. It would take the remainder of his hundred dollars to get someone to haul the piano home. She turned to 'Tom expecting him to chide her. Of course, he could say, "All our money gone for a piano, what do you plan to sleep on and to cook on?" But Tom didn't say those things. "Nell, let's get out of here. We'll need to hire a wagon to haul our piano home." 'Tom took her arm and escorted her through the crowd as if she were a queen. Now Nell remembered the old stove 'Tom's aunt had loaned them. The oven door was gone, and 'Tom had fashioned one out of tin. It did not have a catch but was held shut with a stick propped against it. Tom had built most of their furniture. But, even from the start, their friends had liked to gather at their house to dance or sing because they had the luxury of a piano. 'Then when the children came along, one by one, until they numbered an even dozen, Nell had taught each one to play the piano. What warm and wonderful memories she had of the family gathered around the piano singing! * OK OK OK ELL wiped a tear with her apron, as if to erase that memory. Then she said: "Yes, Tom, we'll go to Salt Lake City tomorrow and make the trade." Tom Gordon had learned through the years not to argue with a lady. "We can run into Salt Lake City tomorrow if you wish and look at new pianos," Tom said, affably. "We'll go in the pick-up and take GOING MODERN the old piano with us." Nell decided. "The thing weighs close to a ton," Keith, their son, stated, as he and his brother, Emery, helped 'Tom load the piano into the back of the pick-up, and waved their parents on their way. As the two rattled along in the pick-up, Nell glanced sideways at Tom. He was a tall, lean man, and in his brown tweed jacket and flannel slacks, he had the appearance of a college man. Today Nell could not study his eyes or read his thoughts. "Look back, Nell, and make sure the piano's okay," 'lom would say occasionally. "We don't want anything to happen to the piano." "We'd probably do as well if we rolled it in the Bear River, and just bought a new blonde spinet outright," Nell laughed. "All I can say for you, is, you surely have gone modern all of a sudden." 'Tom spoke defensively, and then silence enveloped them. As they rounded the point of the mountain, their eyes picked out the temple which had been forty years in the making, then Tom broke the silence. "Nell, we're nearly there, and I've got to see a fellow about some machinery. If you'd like to do some of your shopping, I could come for you in about a half hour." "That's fine. I did want to get some material to line a quilt for the next Relief Society work meeting. I'll meet you here by the Brigham Young Monument corner in a half hour," Nell said, as she alighted from the truck. She admitted to herself, it was a little embarrassing coming to town 255 in a truck, especially with a big old piano tied up in patchwork quilts in the back. Who would people think they were? Promptness was one of 'Tom's virtues, and in half an hour he drove up in the pick-up and Nell climbed in before the light turned green. "We might as well start at this piano store, and see what they have in the line of new low blondes," Tom said almost mischievously. S they entered the store, Nell found herself in the center of a dozen or more new pianos. Each of them was different, yet pleasingly low and beautiful. Nell fancied each of them, in turn, in her lovely redecorated living room. Yes, she thought, any one would look lovely. After forty years, she and 'Tom had come to the financial position where they could pay cash for most anything they desired. All she had to do was make her selection and any one of the beautiful new pianos could be hers, and by night, they would have it in their living room with the other modern things. But they might as well find out fist, what the dealer would offer them as a trade-in. "Would you look at our old piano, before we decide on a new one?" Nell asked. "Td be glad to make you an offer," the dealer said. The three walked to the curb where the truck stood, and the dealer jumped up on the back of the truck, and removing the two quilts Tom and the boys had carefully covered over the piano, he sat down and started playing. "How much do you offer?" Nell 256 asked, but the dealer seemed engrossed in Schubert's "Moonlight Sonata." It was as if he had forgotten his business entirely as he shifted to "Largo," and followed that with several Strauss waltzes. Nell nodded at 'Tom to ask him to hurry the dealer. It was a long way home, and they should start right away, if they were to get the new piano unloaded before dark. But Tom, like the dealer, seemed to be deep in the heart of the music and did not seem to hear Nell's urgent whispers. Nell turned slightly and noticed that a crowd had gathered to listen to the music on the piano. She bit her lip and murmured, "I bought this old upright forty years ago at an auction sale, looks like it's up to me to dispose of it." She walked over close to the dealer and shouted up at him, "How much will you give us on a new piano?" The dealer stopped short, leaving the "Blue Danube" in mid-air. "Mrs. Gordon, I'll make you a trade straight across. You can have any of the smaller pianos in the store for this one." "What?" Surely Nell had heard the man incorrectly. Had he said a deal straight across? Nell Gordon's puzzled face asked why. "Well, Mrs. Gordon, call me an antique collector if you wish, but I collect these rare old pianos. 'Take your choice of any of the smaller pianos," the dealer repeated. Nell turned then toward the pianos placed in the circle near the front of the music store. They were beautiful, and they would fit in nicely with her new, modern livRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 ing room, but she turned again to the old upright standing forlornly in the back of the truck. It sort of seemed like a child which had been driven from its home for no other reason than that it had grown up, and wasn't cute anymore. Nell walked out of the store to where 'Tom and the dealer were making arrangements for the trade. She heard the dealer say: "You can unload the piano at my place, and come around and pick up the lady's choice. I know this piano's heavy, I'll send a couple of fellows with you to unload it." He turned and shouted into the store, "Mike and Slim, can you come here a minute?" NELL glanced at Tom. It was like Tom to wait quietly and let her pick out the piano she wanted. But if the dealer wanted their piano so much, he was willing to trade straight across, she had a notion to keep it herself. The men were coming to help unload their old upright, she had to decide quickly, or it would be too late. "IT guess I've changed my mind about trading pianos," Nell said. Then by way of explanation she added, "It would be sort of like trading our firstborn for a 1957 baby. I realize I'm probably throwing over a fine offer, but, well, I might as well admit it, there are a lot of memories stored in the strings of this old upright." Nell Gordon turned to Tom and said, "Let's go." Then it was, his face shone with happiness. Nimble as a college boy, Tom jumped on the back of the pickup and wrapped the quilts lov- GOING MODERN ingly around the piano again and tied it securely. As they jogged along in the front of the pick-up, Tom kept asking: "How's she riding?" And Nell would glance back with the same concern with which she had watched the piano being hauled by team and wagon to their home forty years ago. Nell decided on the long ride home that she would play lots of good music on the old piano yet, and so would her children and grandchildren. The trouble was probably that they had watched tel- 257 evision too much lately and hadn't had enough family song-fests. Nell turned to 'Tom and spoke softly, "Tom, now that we have the house remodeled, what do you say we have the children all in for an evening? After dinner we could gather around the piano and sing like we used to." "T think it's a good idea. I've let my tenor get sort of rusty lately watching the television shows." Tom patted her hand softly. Nell squeezed his hand in return and said, "And Tom, I'm glad I didn't go too modern." > She Shree Wise Women Fredrika Clinch asked three women to write their greatest joy. The first woman replied: "IT have many joys, but my greatest joy is getting along with people. It takes lots of living and learning to get along with people. I fill my mind with love and good will toward all. "The happiest people are those who share joy and sorrow of others. The needs of others leaves no room for mental disorder through self-pity. Woman begins to pity herself she loses power and initiative. Failure." The second woman wrote: Alertness to When a She is on the road of "One of my greatest joys is keeping my mind and hands busy. There is no reason why age should put me in the rocking chair to dream about the past. Let my trained brain and fingers rust away in idleness? Work occupies the mind. The busy mind is happiness, and is bad for the health. Why should I Idleness breeds discontent, unthe healthy mind. There is no need to sit idle; no one gets to the point where she can't learn more." The third one expressed herself: "One of my greatest enjoyments is to greet a new day. One by one the stars disappear. From the horizon comes a shaft of light. I see the highest mountains catch the first beams of the morning sun, while the valley below is still submerged in shadow. I drink the glory of the unfolding day as the mounting sun reveals new charm and fresh beauty. I paid nothing for this new day that is unfolding before me. It is given to me as a gift, one of God's greatest gifts, because with it are all the wonders of his ae I have learned to appreciate the beauty of the present and to have faith in the future." A New Quilt for an Old Home Jane T. Mattice President, Pima Ward Relief Society, St. Joseph Stake (Arizona) N the summer of 1955, my husband and I were taking a vacation, motoring through the eastern part of the United States. We made a point of visiting the many places of interest in Church history. One day, about noon, we stopped at the Joseph Smith Farm and were very graciously welcomed by Sister Nellie Hathaway, who, with her husband, were missionary guides at the farm. After visiting a few minutes, she learned we were Church members and asked if we wanted her to tell the story of the Prophet and the incidents that happened at the farm and in the Sacred Grove near by. Of course we wanted to hear the story, as told by our missionaries to the thousands of visitors who stop at this historic place each year. As we talked, I told her I was Relief Society president in the Pima Ward in Arizona. She immediately asked if we would like to make a quilt for the Peter Whitmer Home. At this time the home was being restored. I felt sure our sisters would be pleased to have an opportunity to help in this restoration, so I told Sister Hathaway I would ask the sisters and let her know. When I returned home and told the Relief Society members of the opportunity offered us to help, they were delighted. We wondered about the pattern and the colors to use. We needed an old pattern, and one well known in 1830. For assistance we turned to our older sisters. We have many of these lovely ladies who are in their seventies and eighties. They are experienced quilt makers and wonderful quilters. 'They discussed it among themselves and decided we should make "The Double Irish Chain" in red and white. Several remembered that their mothers and grandmothers had such a quilt. So we quickly accepted their suggestion. We wanted this quilt as near perfect as we could make it. The little blocks were two inches square, and we pulled threads for all of them, to make sure they were true squares. The beautiful finished quilt was reward enough for our efforts. It was 68" x 100" when finished. Our members all helped, even some who did not attend regularly came to offer assistance and add a few stitches. A few MIA girls asked to help, and some of our sisters from the Pima Second Ward came to help. These sisters had been members of our Society until our ward was divided. One dear old lady who is ninety-seven years old came to add her bit, and another sister, who is too blind to quilt, came and threaded needles for the others. She has learned to use a needle threader and is a great help on work day. It was wonderful to see the interest these sisters, old and young, were taking in our project. To them this wasn't just another quilt. It was Page 258 A NEW QUILT FOR AN OLD HOME 259 Mrs. Walter H. Moss QUILT IN THE UPSTAIRS BEDROOM, PETER WHITMER HOME very very special. 'Their conversation as they worked often went like this, "T never dreamed I would have the opportunity to help in such a wonderful undertaking. I may never see the Peter Whitmer home, but I am so glad to have a part in its restoration." On one corner of the lining we embroidered "Made and presented by the Pima Ward Relief Society, St. Joseph Stake, Arizona, September 1955." When it was finished we displayed it in the foyer of the chapel one Sunday. The enthusiasm of our members had been contagious, and all the ward wanted to see this much-talked-about quilt before it was sent on its way. Our husbands and children were just as proud of the finished product as were we. Soon the quilt was sent back East to its home. Sister Hathaway was pleased and very liberal in her praise and thanks for our efforts. She took it to Sister Moss, who, with her husband, Brother Walter H. Moss, were missionary guides at the Peter Whitmer Home. Sister Moss wrote to express her thanks and appreciation for the work of our Relief Society sisters. She sent the picture showing "Our Quilt" in the upstairs bedroom. Relief Society and Relief Society women are wonderful. If there is some worthy work to be done, our sisters are always willing and anxious to be of assistance. Two of a Kind Maude Rubin with her damp hair, trying to put it up in pin-curls. It was just wavy enough to be stubborn. In the mirror she could see Mother Harding, Jim's mother, watching her with polite interest. But without offering to help. Immaculate as always, in a smart blue suit and small blue hat, Mother Harding had stopped in to wait for the bus, saying, "I thought I'd go into the city for lunch and the style show at Simmons'. It's such a lovely day!" Mother Harding might have been a fashion model herself, Sally thought wistfully as she looked at her—"What the Mature Woman Will Wear." So slim and straight, hair smoothly waved, every detail perfect. Definitely ungrandmotherly.... It was a disappointment, a hurt that Sally had not been able to overcome. She glared at her own wet brown locks and jabbed the last pin in viciously, so that it pricked her scalp. "Tt never looks right, somehow. Especially the back curls. No matter how hard I try!" "I was never very good at fixing hair, either, Sally. But Muriel used to be very clever with it. She did mine while she was at home. And she decided that I should always wear it this way." She touched the smooth gray waves. "It is more becoming, I guess. But sometimes I'd like to try some other style....' Muriel was Jim's sister. Thirtyish, a reporter on a New York daily, capable of managing the entire city Page 260 S ALLY Harding was struggling if she had to, Sally thought. Muriel had come to see them last fall, just between planes. But while she was there, she had arranged her mother's furniture in the small cottage at the end of the garden; had outlined the winter's activities for her mother, making numerous lists and schedules, marking the calendar with blue pencil. She designed the new rose garden for Jim and Sally, decided on the exact shade of wallpaper for their living room. "The only possible color for this room!" It was right, too, perfect. Sally admired her efficiency and was more than a little afraid of her. Now Mother Harding reached down and brushed a tiny speck of lint from her skirt. "Never mind, Sally. Your hair will look nice— it always does. And when the children are grown, you'll have lots of time. 'Then you can go to the beauty shop. It sort of relaxes one, I find." She smiled brightly, pulled on white gloves as she went down the walk toward the bus stop. Sally stood in the doorway and waved to her as she got on the bus. She admitted to herself that she was almost envious of her mother-in-law. Jealous of her smart daintiness, of her leisure, her interests. It must be nice to have the whole day free, to dress up and go places.... I wish we could be real friends, Sally said to herself. Sally's clear gray eyes were clouded as she thought, she doesn't need me, or the children. Not with her concerts, her shopping.. TWO OF A KIND Briskly Sally whisked the breakfast dishes into the sink, turned on the hot water and said to herself, "Well, Madge says I don't know how lucky I am! A mother-in-law who doesn't interfere, doesn't try to tun my house. Mother Harding certainly doesn't." Madge Jones was their nearest neighbor, Sally's only friend since the Hardings had moved to The Acre. The day was perfect, without the humid midwest heat that would come later in the season. Sally decided to work in the garden. Jim was on a buying trip to Des Moines and wouldn't be home for another three days. 'The new rosebed needed attention. She might as well get started on it today as any time. The baby was still asleep, Judy and Jim Third were playing contentedly in the orchard, their two apple trees. She tied a scarf around her head and went happily to work. UT before night the early May warmth had changed to sultriness. 'The eastern sky was ominously black. When the first white glare of lightning streaked the clouds, a deafening clap of thunder followed. Sally shivered, listened to the next crash rip through the airless dusk and rumble to a slow silence. The first big splatters of rain struck the window as she looked out to see if Mother Harding was home yet. Yes, there was a light in the cottage. The flashes came faster now, closer together, with no space between their brief brilliance and the immediate thunder. Sally hurried to the wall plug, 261 disconnected the TV. The children weren't watching it. 'They were too excited and thrilled by the storm. Hardings, both of them—afraid of nothing. "Mommy! Mommy!" Jim Third turned toward her, all excitement, elation. Then Judy piped up, "It was a tree that time, Mommy!" She turned from the window to demonstrate with her thin arms just how the lightning had forked. "A great big fire-tree in the sky! It filled the whole sky, Mommy!" Judy at six was something of a poet. Sally wished miserably that she could see some of the beauty in it. Well, at least they weren't frightened, thank goodness for that. When she spoke, she managed to keep her voice level, matter-of-fact: "Don't stand so close to the window, children. You—you—might catch cold!" Just how silly can you sound? She wondered. Paying no attention to her, probably not even hearing her, they pressed closer and closer to the glass. The next glare was_ brilliant, changing to an eerie blue—white as the jagged streaks shot up across the sky. Sally felt her hands grow damp, numb with terror, not knowing what to do next. To calm herself, she walked across the room and pulled the plug of the iron cord and put away the board. No ironing tonight. "Now I wish I'd gone ahead with it this morning. But who would imagine? This early? The first week of May?" she said aloud. She had purposely left the ironing for tonight, so they could watch 262 TV while she worked. That was one of the few jobs she could manage and look at TV. 'This was the night for the Disney program, and she had planned that they would all watch it together, a nice family thing to do. She had even thought of asking Mother Harding to come and sit with her and the children, but gave that up. She would probably be bored. Together. To Sally that togetherness was all important. All the family doing things together. Something to remember all their lives. ER thoughts went on: If Mother Harding were only a little bit like my Granny! I thought the children would mean so much to her.... If she were a normal Grandma, she would be here with us. Right now. She wouldn't let us stay here alone... About to be struck with lightning! Sally looked again at the cottage. Mother Harding had drawn the Venetian blind, but the light still showed through the slits. She wished again that Jim were home. I wouldn't be half so scared with another grownup in the house. I'm always sensible—well, almost sensible—when Jim is here. Wham! Another earth-rocking crash. I can't stand it, she thought, I can't. But there was nothing else to do. Maybe there was. Maybe Madge Jones would come up and stay with her, if she knew. She stumbled to the telephone, dialed frantically. No answer. Again. Still no answer. She listened, realized that there was no dial-tone. The phone was dead. She placed the receiver back in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 its cradle, straightened it carefully. At that moment the lights went out. She ran through the dark to the back door, knocking her knee on a chair on the way, opened her mouth to call to Mother Harding, to scream for help, and remembered just in time. No screaming, no fear in front of the children. Now, with the lights out, she couldn't even see the cottage through the rain. The cottage where Mother Harding lived her own secure and worryfree life. Sally swallowed hard and forced herself to go back into the living room. It was because of the cottage that they had bought The Acre. After Jim's father had died, Sally had wanted Jim's mother to come to live with them. "Why couldn't we be all together, Jim, as a family should be? She'll be so lonesome, and I get lonesome, too, Jim, sometimes. We always had so many at home." She had added, "I'd love your mother, Jim. I know I would. And she could stay with the children sometimes, so we could go out. I'd know they were safe with their Granny!" She had stopped, looked at Jim. He had been smiling queerly. "Oh, not often, Jim. I don't mean for her to do a lot of babysitting. But just once in a while, for something special. Jim, I—I can't bear to leave them with a stranger. Not while the baby's so litele." He had leaned down and kissed the top of her head lightly. 'No, Sally, it just wouldn't do. Mother is different, independent; and keeps very busy." Jim grinned. TWO OF A KIND "But, Jim, I don't care. She's the children's Granny. They'd love her. And she'd love them. I know she would." "Of course. But, Sally, Mother wouldn't have time for baby-sitting. She's always going somewhere, concerts, meetings, and lectures. You're so domestic, darling. You wouldn't know about women like Mother!" He had hugged her. Oh, wouldn't I? Sally had thought. I'm no more domestic than anyone, Mr. Harding. But how could I go to concerts? Just how? She had bitten her lips to keep the words inside, unsaid. Jim had continued, "And I've always heard that no house is big enough for two women, Sally. I'm not taking any chances with my women!" He had grinned happily and the subject had been closed. Except in Sally's mind: That's all you know about it, Jim Harding! My folks all lived together and worked together and had a wonderful time. Granny lived with us always and what would we ever have done without her? And Aunt Jennie part of the time, and old Uncle Tim, too, until he died. That's all a mistake about families not getting along together. And I happen to know what I'm talking about! © UT it was settled as Jim decided, of course. So they had bought The Acre, out in the country, but on the bus line. With a separate cottage for Mother Harding. When Mother Harding moved in, Sally could see what Jim meant. Always busy, always smartly dressed, the older woman lived in a different world from Sally's. Even here, 263 where she knew no one, Mother Harding found plenty to keep her interested, apparently. Plenty of things to do, places to go. Always calm, pleasant; but never helpful, never just "family." At the second loud crash of thunder within as many seconds, Sally ran upstairs to see if the baby was all right. She carried a flashlight, played its light over the crib and whispered, "There he is, bless his heart, sound asleep through all this racket!" She shivered at the next blue-white flare that highlighted the room. Downstairs again, hunting for matches and a candle, Sally listened to the downpour and the excited chatter of Judy and Jim Third. Judy shouted, ""There it is again, Mommy! 'That fire-tree, I mean!" Then Jim Third's loud roar, "Bang! Bang-bang! Roar-r-r-r!, Rumm-m-m-ble." He was dramatizing it. Sally reached out vaguely till her hand touched a chair. Then she let herself down carefully, her legs feeling limp, boneless. She couldn't take much more of this. Without someone to hold to, someone to talk to, she was finding out exactly how worthless she really was. Not the sensible, self-confident mother she wanted to be, pretended to be. She finally found a stub of a candle, lighted it, set it on the mantle. Je was the only one who knew about her terror of thunderstorms; and even to him she had never let go entirely, never dared break down and cry, which is what she felt like doing right now. How Muriel would despise her. Now why should I think of Muriel at a time like this? Because 264 Muriel is such a Harding, I suppose. And I'm not. I never will be! Muriel would think her brother had married a regular little simpleton! The next crash was a rending detonation, a resounding catastrophe of sound. Close, close. It must have struck the house. Sally ran to the window, looked out past the children's heads. No, but it had struck the old elm. In the glare of the next flash she saw the huge limb torn from the trunk, lying lopsided across the gate. Well, that does it! She thought. I can't take this any longer. Not alone I can't. I'll go get Mother Harding. No matter if she despises me forever! Aloud she said, "I'll be right back, children!' She grabbed up Jim's old coat, threw it over her head and, with the dimming flashlight in her hand, ran pell-mell across the garden, sploshing through rain and _ puddles, straight for the cottage. Why didn't Mother Harding light a candle? There wasn't a glimmer of light through the glass door. In her panic, Sally pushed the door open without knocking, turned the flashlight wildly about the room, and saw Mother Harding. She was on her knees by the bed, her arms stretched out on the spread, two pillows stuffed tight against her ears. At Sally's voice, she jumped, startled, and let out a stifled scream. Her face was strained and swollen with tears, distorted with fear. In the weak light from the flash, she looked ghastly. Her hair, always so perfect, was rumpled, wild, where her fingers had run through it. "Oh, Sally—I'm so ashamed. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 You'll think I'm terrible! Scared of lightning. It's so silly. But, Sally, I always have been horribly scared." Her words stumbled over one another, poured out frantically. "When the children were little, I had to hide my fear." She was sobbing against Sally's wet coat, shaking spasmodically. GALLY put her arms tight about her. "Come, come, now, Mother. 'There's nothing to be afraid of. You've got me, right here." She felt her tremble, hugged her closer. "But we must get back to the children. Come on, let's make a run for it. It's a regular cloudburst!"" She actually managed a laugh. Her voice sounded firm and cheerful, as if she were talking to Jim Third or to Judy. Holding onto each other, they hurried through the rain and got to the house just as the flashlight gave out completely. They slammed the door against the storm. Together, they put the protesting children to bed, then sat in the living room. The stub of candle had burned out, too. The only light was from the brief flames of lightning. Mother Harding was talking, saying things she would never have said in daylight. "Muriel was always strong, Sally, different from me. Never afraid of anything, a Harding. She warns me in every letter not to interfere, not to bother you and Jim. 'To keep busy." She sneezed. Sally put her arm around her and rubbed her cold hands. Sally's fear was gone, completely gone. TWO OF A KIND She listened to the words that were pouring out: "Muriel's a dear girl, of course, gets me the concert tickets, reserves the seats, everything." She drew a long breath. "But I always have such a hard time to remember what I hear and I get tired of going out." "Why, Mother!" Sally giggled. "And here I thought you loved to go! I've been so ashamed because I knew so little about things!" "Sally, all I really want is to be a good comfortable Grandma. 'To stay home evenings. Read stories to Jim Third—cuddle little Judy. And Id love to rock the baby...." Then, quickly and timidly, "But I know the book says you mustn't!" "Not my book, Mother. It says 265 rocking's wonderful for them. Gives them security." "Then you—you wouldn't mind leaving them with me? Sometimes? Let me take care of them, when you and Jim go out, I mean?" Could this be the reserved, poised Mother Harding? Sally thought happily, so you are like my Granny, after all! Aloud she said, "Why, Mother, I'd love it! And so would the children. Of course, we would!" The rain lessened and then stopped. 'There was one last brief flash of lightning. "And, Sally, PI never let them know that I'm scared of thunder. Not ever!" Mother Harding promised. <> Make Them Feel Secure Caroline Eyring Miner T'S a big world, and little people in it sometimes feel afraid, insecure. Are we as parents doing what we can to help our children feel secure in this changing, troubled, and uncertain world? A certain wise mother I know, whose husband traveled all the time and moved her from pillar to post, found a way to help her three little ones feel secure and at home no matter where they were. As soon as the family moved to a new town, the mother would take her little children out for a walk. If it were daytime, they noted that the same sun shone over them in each place they went, that the sun is unchangeable. 'They looked for mountains or ocean or river which, too, endure and are the same. Also never changing are the signs of the seasons—emerald blades of new grass or birds nesting in spring; flowers in full bloom in the warm summer; grain and fruit mpening in autumn; frost and ice and snow in delicate tracery in winter. If this little family arrived in a new town at night they walked together under the stars. It was thrilling to find the same moon and the same friendly constellations dotting the sky. It was reassuring also, and gave them the feeling that God was in his heaven; hence all was right with the world. How wise this mother was, I learned last summer when I traveled around the world and lost sight and sound of many familiar things—especially of those that are man-made. When we became uncertain of things and lonely, we walked under the stars, the same that we had known at home. We saw the mountains solid and serene; we felt the joy of finding familiar flowers in blossom, familiar trees rustling in the lazy afternoon breeze. We were at peace and secure again. We knew that God was in his heaven, so all was right with the world, as Browning so poignantly wrote. Let us teach our children peace and security out under the stars or in the early dawn watching the world awaken, so that they will be at home and feel secure the world around. A Look Backward and Forward. Relicf Society All the Way Annie W. Westover M first contact with Relief Society, as an organization, dates back about sixty years, at which time my mother was acting secretary under Sister Isabelle Horne, President of the Fourteenth Ward Relief Society, Salt Lake City, Utah. Because my mother had no one with whom to leave me, I always went along to meetings. While she sat at the table with her clerical work, I sat at the feet of the dear sisters and threaded their needles as they sewed carpet rags and pieced quilt blocks. My mother had very decided opinions about keeping little fingers active, and when I was six years old, I could sew, knot, and crochet. That winter I knitted my first hose, striped red and white, and of heavy yarn. My little fat legs so striped made me think of the giraffes in my painted storybook. It makes me itch yet when I think of those hose. That winter I also crocheted lace for the caps we gave as Christmas presents to the old folks. In those days whoever thought of sleeping without a nightcap, from grandpa to the baby? On Saturdays my regular job was to go the rounds of the older sisters who happened to be on mother's visiting teacher list, and with a basket as heavy as a youngster could manage, I delivered little extras for Sunday dinners that otherwise would not have been found on those particular tables. This, of course, was a secret between mother and me and made me feel very important. How those dear women would look forward to my weekly calls, and sometimes they had a sweet morsel laid up for me. My next contact with Relief Society was when I was a young matron in 1899, when I was secretary. We lived on a ranch about two miles over rough mountain roads from the meetinghouse and our only means of transportation was a farm wagon and team. Indians were bad; we always had to have a male escort along, carrying firearms teady for the occasion should it arise. Our fancywork department included such practical instructions as carding and spinning, dyeing both wool and cotton, weaving cloth and carpets, knitting hose, mittens, sweaters, caps, nubbies, mufflers, and petticoats. We gleaned straw from the wheat fields, split it, bleached it with sulphur for summer, or dyed it for winter wear, braided or sewed it into hats, blocked the hats, and trimmed them according to our own fancy of millinery. The domestic science department included making soap with lye leached from ashes of burned wood, and candles made from wicking and melted tallow poured into the candle molds. Kerosene lamps were a luxury few could afford. We made our butter and cheese. Without any refrigeration, we did our home canning and baking and all the other activities that went into such a department of domestic science, with such tools and materials as could be shaped and utilized. THE LONG AGO Well do I remember the days of Long Ago, When the girls wore homespun dresses, the boys wore pants of tow, And shoes were made of cowhide and socks of homespun wool, And children did a half day's work before they went to school.... Then no electric buttons turned on our cold or heat, To freeze ice cream or sherbet, or roast a chunk of meat, Nor did electric washers put laundry on the line, While mother read the morning news or called up Mrs. Stine, Upon the telephone, to ask when could they take the car To make their monthly visits, for good teachers they still are— They're always on the job, dependable and true, And if a car cannot be had, a bicycle will do. Page 266 Formosa—Culinary Melting Pot Edna B. Culmsee S we bowled along Chung A sm Pei Lu in a pedicab, my husband chuckled delightedly at the incongruous sign. It was at the corner, facing the crowded thoroughfare, proclaiming in bold red letters on four stories of gray stucco: Terry's American Restaurant — Chop Suey. To us, an American couple who had recently come to Taipei, the capital city of Free China, this was hilarious. In China chop suey is an American dish! Now, nearly a year later, we accept the sign as a matter of fact. It is no longer incongruous. In the countless times since then that we have dined with Chinese friends in their homes or restaurants, we have never encountered chop suey. In their own land the Chinese seem not to eat chop suey, chow mein, egg fu yung, or those other exotic dishes that were served to us in Chinese restaurants at home. Such appetizing concoctions apparently were devised by clever Chinese cooks to tempt the foreign palate. Or, perhaps, some essential ingredients for their native dishes were not readily available in a strange land. So they improvised. That talent for improvisation probably holds the secret charm of Chinese cuisine. For throughout the vastness of China, the art of cooking is various, not uniform, as individual as the Chinese themselves, and I daresay no dictator is likely ever to standardize or regiment it. Because they use what is at hand, wasting nothing, often making much of little with artful garnishes and ingenious seasonings, the Chinese probably have created the greatest variety in their cookery of any people in the world. Every province has made special contributions. Formosa has become a "melting pot" of foods, adding to its own skills those of two million or so mainlanders who have come to this island, bringing their various forms of cookery. While rice is a basic food in a large part of China, in the North, noodles and a white steamed bread called man-tou take its place. Familiar to us from faraway places are the famous Peking duck, the peppery hot foods of Szechwan province, fish ball soup of Fukien province, and fried beef in oyster sauce from Canton, to name but afew. Then there are the fascinating Mongolian foods, either cooked at the table in water boiling around the charcoal heated center of a huo-kua (fire-pot) or out-ofdoors over a special kind of barbecue. 'The variety is endless. A gustatory marathon, the typical Chinese dinner party is served at a large round table covered with a white cotton cloth. This cloth is immaculate at the beginning of the' meal, but as course after course is served by the host and hostess from the dish in the center to the eight or ten guests, drops of sauce or bits of food fall upon it. Nobody seems to mind or even to notice it. It is just as well, because it could hardly be avoided. Each course usually consists of but one dish served in a_ large bowl or platter placed in the center of the table. At opposite sides, bePage 267 268 fore the host and the hostess, lie a pair of chopsticks for serving, or a large china spoon or ladle if the course is liquid. With these implements they lift portions of the food from the central dish over to the guests seated around the table. Each place setting consists of a small bowl, usually a china spoon, a small plate of bread-and-butter size, and a tiny plate about two inches in diameter on which to rest one's chopsticks as one finishes each course. From time to time the small main plates or the bowls are changed. Often there are no napkins, but, at intervals, a servant passes hot damp wash cloths which cleanse the fingers thoroughly. A diner may even refresh himself by mopping his face with it as well. The amount one consumes at these feasts is astonishing, because the helpings seem very small, but the courses range from ten to twenty. Each is a work of art to behold and is presented with a flourish, with hospitable hosts always urging more upon you. If you are a novice you may think the end of the meal is approaching when the sweets are served, such as Eight Precious Rice and some of the many swect fruit soups. But, actually, it is just a good start. You will go on for several substantial courses after that, finally ending with a delicious clear chicken soup. Although rice is seldom served at a feast, it comes, when it does, at this point in individual bowls as a separate course. 'Then, as a concession to Western taste, no doubt, tangerines or watermelon or sliced fresh pineapple may be passed finally to complete the meal, but not invariably. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 It is difficult to describe the food at a typical Chinese dinner because each is different. Always it is colorful. Vegetables are cooked to perfection, never overdone, and in full color — crisp cauliflower, green beans, carrots, spinach, tomatoes, and onions that we know, besides bamboo shoots, bean sprouts, sweet tender peas in the pod, leeks, water chestnuts, slim celery, large mushrooms, long slender eggplants no larger around than a banana, small, succulent heads of Chinese cabbage cooked whole in delicious sauce, and others I cannot name. OST of the courses consist. Of meat, fish, or fowl. Chickens, duck, and pigeons, with tender lacquered skin of a flavor even more delectable than the sweet flesh it encloses; fish served whole, deepfried or steamed or gently cooked the West-Lake way, by pouring boiling water over it until it is done and then covering it with sweetsour sauce, or one containing bright bits of red and green peppers and carrots, cubes of pale ginger, and cauliflower. Prawns, shrimps, and crabs prepared many ways both in and out of their shells; sweet-sour pork, beef and peppers, tailored to chopstick size. White, plump rolls of steamed bread, chiao-tzu (the pork-filled steamed dumplings), spring rolls (dainty cylinders of paper-thin pastry stuffed with pork, bean sprouts, mushrooms, and deepfried). Always soup, sometimes several kinds, during a meal—cold lotus or fruit soups, hot soups of shark-fin or of chicken with delicate cubes of custard or cheese-like bean curd, or mushrooms, or slender strips of pork highly seasoned. FORMOSA—CULINARY MELTING POT Though I can't name them all, neither shall I ever forget them. The only Chinese foods I've encountered that I could not relish (due to prejudice, I know) are sea slugs and one-hundred-year-old eggs. The latter are not' so ancient as their name implies. 'They are merely cured or pickled as we, for instance, make sauerkraut of cabbage. But their unnatural green centers enclosed in brown _ gelatinous "whites" simply do not appeal to me. One must not assume from this account that the Chinese are gluttonous. They are not. 'They are a gay, convivial people who delight in good companionship and a festive occasion. Ordinarily, they live simply, and most Chinese drink no alcoholic beverages. One must admit, also, that the dinners described here are those enjoyed by the "upper classes" or at least those who have received a Western education and can speak English and who make some allowances for Western notions. N China, however, it is not too difficult to get some idea of how the "other half" lives because it is spread out openly before you. There is not much privacy in family life that is lived in tiny shops open to the street, where all sleep on the floor at night after the front is boarded shut. If you are down town about eight in the morning, you may see them taking down the boards, wheeling out their bicycles to park them on the sidewalk in front during the day, and the family one by one emerging, perhaps to breakfast on a bowl of rice or 269 noodles purchased with small coins from a passing vendor. If "daddy" happens to be the vendor, he may be just returning from his early morning rounds to feed his family on what remains. Gently smiling into the attentive eyes of his children. Ranged around his cart, he takes great care in serving, fastidiously placing the small bits of vegetable, chopped pickle, fish, or whatever touch of garnish he would use with his paying customers, while their waiting appetites quicken. Before the small shops farther out from town, "mommy" squats before a charcoal burner at the edge of the pavement to cook the family meal. Sometimes the group may be seen inside seated around a small table, but often a little child simply stands at the edge of the street or sits on the high threshold of the house door, holding his bowl just below his chin and by nimble, rhythmic movements of his chopsticks making the rice disappear in a continuous stream into his mouth. But again and again, one is touched by the simple pride, reverence almost, with which food is served. 'There is no sloshing of ungainly masses such as one sometimes sees in American lunch rooms Or, Say, on army mess trays. Here, hunger watches with pleasant anticipation while the cook does his artistic best. Surely, here on Formosa where there is food enough for all, and the combined skills brought from many parts of China, will be found the choicest Chinese food in the world. And maybe— some day—in this culinary "melting pot," American chop suey will emerge as naturalized Chinese. liriam Diplock Land Welcomes Opportunities to Serve py the past four years, Sister Miriam Diplock Land, eighty-seven, of Sacramento, California, has bound 120 quilts made by the First Ward Relief Society in Sacramento, where she is a member. She sews beautifully and is eager to be of service to the Relief Society, and to all others. Some of the quilts which she has bound are shown in the picture. Sister Land and her husband, William E. Land, were converted to the Church in Lovell, Wyoming, in 1929. She became a visiting teacher on the Tuesday after she was baptized and has been active in Relief Society work ever since. She was born in Falmer, Sussex, England, and at the age of seventy-nine, she completed the necessary preparation for becoming a United States citizen and passed the examinations without an error. >_> Sime to Grow Ada Marie Patten The violet blooms but in the spring, Its span of life is brief; The oak tree stands for many years, Its strength beyond belief. Love also needs time to mature However fair its birth; To send stout branches to the sun, Deep roots into the earth. Page 270 The Bright Star CHAPTER 2 Dorothy S. Romney Synopsis: Kathy Tracy, an orphan, who wishes to become an artist, lives with her Aunt Emerald Jewel Tracy in an oldfashioned house overlooking San Francisco Bay. In order to help with household expenses, Kathy applies to Phineas Fenton, a neighbor and owner of a shipping line, for employment. He offers her the position of switchboard operator in his office building in San Francisco. When Kathy returns home from the Fenton house, she finds that her aunt has gone out, and her friend Jim Parker is there waiting for their evening date. Misty rain had begun to fall A when the lights of Jim Parker's small car started back over the hill along Pine Road. Kathy Tracy sat silently in the seat beside him. "Can't carry on much of a conversation by myself," Jim complained. Kathy smiled. "I was thinking of the picture. Imagine that girl giving up her wonderful career to marry and live way out on that farm. She must have loved him deeply." "Hmm," said Jim, "getting married's fine. I just hope he had his farm where it was paying. Folks have to. Eat, you know." "Dear, practical Jim," Kathy laughed. "Don't be so down-toearth, and with the moon just rising, too. After all, it was only a movie." "Say," he said suddenly, stopping the car with a lurch, "what's that?" He backed the car a few feet and stopped beside a clump of bushes. Sitting on the ground, leaning against a fallen log was a woman. Kathy sprang from the car and ran to the crumpled figure. The pale moonlight fell across the woman's face. "Jim! Jim!" the girl cried in a stricken voice, "it's Aunt Em! She's hurt!" Frantically, the girl grasped her aunt's cold wrist and felt for her |'? Pulse. "Oh, thank goodness, she isn't—I mean.... Oh, Jim!.... We'll get her home in bed, then Pll call Bishop Henderson in San Rafael and see if he can send someone to help us, and I'll get a doctor." Miss Em opened her eyes and looked at her niece and murmured dazedly, "Oh, it's you, Kathy. I just sat down to do some sewing, and sort of dozed, I guess... Why... T...." She lifted her hand helplessly to her head. "She must have tripped and hit her head on this log," Kathy explained to Jim. He bent down and picked the frail figure up and put her in the car. It was then that Kathy noticed a brown paper parcel on the ground. Must be the hemming Aunt Em had promised to do for Nan Pressman's trousseau. "Oh, Aunt Em," she cried brokenly, "you walked all the way to the Pressman place!" She must have been lying here on the ground for several hours! A sick feeling of guilt swept over Kathy. How could she have gone Page 27] 272 away, not knowing where her Aunt was, or when she'd return home? As Kathy got in the car beside her, Miss Em opened her eyes again. "IT sat down by the fire, it was so cold," she muttered. 'Then she burst out, suddenly rational, "Did Phineas give you that job in the city, honey?" "Yes, Aunt Em," the girl answered. Lia stepped on the gas, hard. "You didn't tell me about any job," he said. "A girl like you ought to be getting married, not running off to the city to work," he added emphatically. "Let's not talk about it now," said Kathy, with a warning look at Jim, "and please hurry." She was rubbing her Aunt's hands, as she talked, trying to bring some warmth back into them. "All right," he answered. The car swung rapidly around the curves of Pine Road, the trees and shrubbery making grotesque patterns in the quick flash of the headlights. "Tl see you in the morning, Jim," Kathy whispered to the young man as they helped Miss Em from the car to a chair in the kitchen. "Tl have to put Aunt Em to bed." Jim walked to the old-fashioned kitchen range, lifted the lid and started shoving in lengths of split pine, then turned to Kathy. "Better phone the doctor before she gets any worse," he suggested. "She'll be all right as soon as she gets warmed up," Kathy replied softly. "I doubt if I'll need to disturb anyone at this late hour after all. Aunt Em needs rest. Good RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 night, Jim, and thanks for the movie." "Good night, Kathy," he said and closed the kitchen door quietly. Kathy removed Miss Em's damp shoes and thrust her feet into some warm slippers, then taking off the shoddy coat, she wrapped her in a heavy robe. "I'll have a cup of chocolate for you in a jiffy," she promised, "that will warm you up." With a great effort, Miss Em roused herself. "You go to the city, Kathy, take that job—study hard. The money —the Chinese chest—find the bright star...." Her voice trailed off. "Yes, yes, I know we have money in the chest," Kathy murmured. "The bright star," she repeated, puzzled. What on earth could Aunt Em mean by that? It must be some figment of her imagination. For the first time a cold fear swept over Kathy. Aunt Em's illness was more than a bump on the head. "Remember — money — treasure — Chinese ch...." the older woman muttered again. She shuddered and fell back in her chair, unconscious, and the frightened girl ran for the telephone to summon the doctor. HE next morning Kathy picked her way over the beach boulders to where Jim sat waiting for her, hand up to shade her weary eyes from the bright morning sunlight. She had sent him there to get him out of the way of the doctor, and now that Sister Swenson, a Relief Society sister from Sausalito, had arrived to take over the nursing duties for the day, she was free to follow him for a moment's breathing spell. THE BRIGHT STAR Good, old dependable Jim, she thought, what would I do without his broad shoulders to lean on now? As he sat, solidly competent, upon his rock, he visibly embodied all the commoner virtues. Kathy knew this. Jim would never change in this changing world. He had gone competently to Agricultural College at Davis just long enough to learn to be a good poultry man—no longer. He always put just the right amount of effort into each of his projects— no more. With the same forthrightness he was planning to marry Kathy. Just how and why she had agreed, Kathy was sometimes at a loss to explain, but she was engaged to him, nonetheless, even though she wouldn't seriously consider marriage until he advanced in the Priesthood, so they could be married in the temple. Kathy sat down on the boulder next to Jim with a sigh of relief. It was good to be near so safe and reassuring a person on this uncertain day. The earnest set of his square jaw, his blunt nose, and clear, deep blue eyes looked steady and safe as the rock on which he sat. If only he didn't look so determined! "Well," he asked with characteristic bluntness, "how is she?" "Better, I suppose, although it's hard to tell. She doesn't talk, just looks at you," Kathy sighed. "It's a stroke, you know," she admitted. "We sat up with her all night. The doctor said she had probably had one before." "She'll be a helpless invalid," Jim said reluctantly. "Oh, no!" cried Kathy, balling her hands up into tight little fists. 273 "No, that mustn't happen." But Jim might be right. She shivered. The shining vision of San Francisco, of the art school wavered, crashed like a bright Christmas tree ornament falling to the floor without warning. 'Then she remembered the words of Brother Woods as he had administered to Aunt Em last night. He had promised that she would be restored to her normaal state of health—but that could be a long, long time, she thought. Jim's hand closed over her warm fingers. Gently, he said, "Marry me now, Kathy, I'll help you take care of her." She looked up to meet Jim's eyes. Oh, why must there always be a problem to solve? She thought. For a moment she was tempted to throw her burden on his competent shoulders. But, no, although Aunt Em had always respected Jim, she had urged Kathy to be very sure before accepting him and the responsibilities of marriage, and, above all, not to marry until they could be married in the temple. "That's very thoughtful of you, Jim," she said as gently as she could, "but not now. It would excite Aunt Em too much. There's the doctor coming out now." She scrambled up hurriedly and ran up the rough path to the drive, Jim following. R. Ransome put his hand kindly upon Kathy's shoulder. "'She'll live a long time yet, with good care," he told her, then added, "but you can't take care of her alone. I'll send my best practical nurse tomorrow. Sister Swenson will stay the day out." 274 Kathy choked a little. "We have some money in the Chinese chest— enough to pay for a nurse," she told him, "if you think we need one," she added reluctantly. Yes, money saved, penny by penny, she thought bitterly. "Now don't you go worrying about that," said the doctor. He climbed into his car. "I'll look in on you later," he called out, against the chugging of the motor. Kathy nodded mutely and fled along the grass-grown drive, beyond the house to the log cabin down by the water, Jim close at her heels. She felt she had to have a minute to compose herself before going back to the house. They stepped up onto the miniature veranda of the China house and sat down. "Well," he said, with his familiar opening. "T stay here, of course, San Francisco's out," she said dully, and looked up in time to catch a satisfied look on Jim's face. "Sensible thing for us to do is get married," he repeated. "We can start work on the new house on Elm Hill and stay here until it's finished. Then sell this place and use the money for Aunt Em's expenses. We can go to the temple Jater," he finished. A cold little fear shadowed Kathy's mind. Without stopping to think things out, she knew that, except for the temple, Jim was right. How on earth could she manage the doctor bills, medicines, the extra dainties, to say nothing of the nurse's pay? But instinctively she shook her head, nibbling hard on a piece of grass she'd plucked. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 "Why not?" Jim demanded. Dear, dependable Jim. She could not tell him — not now — that there were many reasons why she refused — that Miss Em would surely die if she left the gray house, or how she would feel if her niece should marry outside the temple. That as fond as Kathy was of Jim, the dream of the art school was dearer to her than he was. "It wouldn't be fair to dump all our worries on you," she said quietly. "T only want to help. You know I'd do anything for you, Kathy," he insisted. "T'm sorry, Jim," Kathy said, "but we'll just have to wait." * OK OK oe HAT evening, after she'd told Sister Swenson goodbye, and assured her they'd be all right until the nurse arrived, Kathy tiptoed into her aunt's bedroom and sat down in the old rocking chair. She felt a little shock go through her as she looked at the hands, lying still and waxen looking on the coverlet. Hands that had never been idle before. It seemed to Kathy that an eternity had gone by, when the old lady's lips started moving. Kathy jumped up and leaned over her, her heart beating fast. She waited, but no words came. "Please, Aunt Em, just try to rest," she finally said. "There is nothing for you to worry about. I know we have some money in the chest, and it's all safe. Tl look for the bright star tomorrow." Kathy still had no idea what Miss Fim had meant last night. Some- THE BRIGHT STAR thing the confusion of her mind had brought forth, perhaps. Miss Em frowned, and Kathy thought, she's not satisfied. She'll 275 eyelids closed and Kathy knew that she was asleep and at peace for a time, at least. Yesterday, old Phineas Fenton, never be satisfied just to lie there. She got up presently and came back with the brown paper package, which she had completely forgotten. Miss Em watched closely, while she untied the string and took out the lacy froth that was to be the bridal veil for Nan Pressman. Kathy's fingers flew along, doing this work that she despised with all her heart, but gradually Miss Em's the richest man on the hill, had given her a job in one of his San Francisco office buildings, tomorrow he would get it back. In the meantime Kathy meant to dream a little about what it would have been like if Aunt Em hadn't gotten sick, and she could have gone to work in the fascinating city across the bay. (To be continued) Late Spring Eva Willes Wangsgaard Oh, the spring is late and the seeding's late But spring came in today. The cardinals seeking their summer haunts Paused briefly on their way. The cardinals pecked in our chicken yard For grain that the hens had left, And the sudden pattern of crimson wings Wore spring in its warp and weft. Oh, the cardinals paused in our yard today, They and the spring together. And the trees are beaded with swelling buds As red as a cardinal's feather. ~~ > Dilemma Wilma Boyle Bunker H'v you ever been torn between a sink full of breakfast dishes and an overwhelming desire to capture a thought on paper which has suddenly taken shape in your mind? Or have you glanced out your window at the morning sun on the snowcapped mountains, and ignoring unmade beds, reached for your pallet and brush? To get your house in order, have you ever postponed writing down the beginning of a melody or verse, and then found later that you had lost it? Why, oh, why can't the inspirations come when the floors are swept and the dusting done? FROM THE FIELD _ Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Lucile Bunker SOUTHERN STATES MISSION, GEORGIA DISTRICT, MACON BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY HOLDS OUTSTANDING BAZAAR Officers of the Macon, Georgia, Branch are shown checking some of the many articles which were featured in their bazaar. Left to right are: Alma P. Hudson, Secretary; Mazelle B. Clark, President; Hattie G. Holloman, Counselor; and Mae Lominick, work meeting leader. Rosa T. Parker, Counselor, was absent when the picture was taken. Lucile Bunker, President, Southern States Mission, reports: "Our Relief Society organization is growing very steadily in the South, and while some small groups in the outlying branches struggle to find teachers enough, the work goes forward just the same. Last year we made fine gains in Magazine sales as well as procuring sixty additional visiting teachers and making 1,200 more visits to the homes than the previous ear.: She continues: "This picture of the Macon Branch bazaar is typical of the fine bazaars we have yearly in our eighty-seven organizations." Page 276 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 277 Photograph submitted by Veda F. Moss RENO STAKE (NEVADA) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, January 20, 1957 Pauline Richardson, stake chorister, is seated on the front row at left. Norma Kotter, stake organist, is seated on the front row at right. Veda F. Moss, President, Reno Stake Relief Society, reports the activities of the Singing Mothers: "This chorus furnished the music for the January stake quarterly conference. We have sixteen wards and branches; there are about seventy-five members in the chorus; however, all were not present because of a snowstorm." Photograph submitted by Eva L. Clinger SHELLEY STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Sister Eva L. Clinger, President, Shelley Stake Relief Society, reports: Members of the Singing Mothers choruses from the ten wards in our stake participated in the singing for both sessions in our quarterly conference. Sister Florence Dye, stake chorister, is third from the right in the back row; Verla Thomas, stake organist is second from the right in the back row. 278 Mother's Day Whis Ic FOR THREE PART LADIES VOICES — MOTHER—Rubinstein -....................20 — M-O-T-H-E-R—Morse...................... -25 anes MOTHER O' MINE—Tours.............20 — PRAYER FOR MY MOTHER— ee 15 — SONGS MY MOTHER TAUGHT ME—Dvorak.0...0.....00 ooo 10 ee THAT'S WHAT GOD MADE MOTHER'S FOR—Wood................ 25 ~_< THAT WONDERFUL MOTHER OF MINE—Goodwin ___................... -20 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. OC On Approval CI Charge ( Money Enclosed - 15 E. Lst South 145 WORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO Salt Lake City 11, Uta RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1957 My Lad Dorothy ]. Roberts This be the little son T never had; But once removed, by blood My lad, my lad. And this be the season, The longed-for part, The time at length to hold him To my heart If my need be greater Than before His mother wed and walked through A strange, new door, Some kind chance or reason Grants the grace Running to greet me in a Grandson's face. > Pamela Ethel Jacobson Pamela is one, A nice round number, (Guard her, awake, And in her sweet slumber.) Pamela can run On little pink toes. (Guide her, unharmed Past thorn to rose.) She has laughter of brooks And a small bird's song. (Bless her this day And all her life long!) > Reursen Vesta N. Lukei Too late. Too late to alter The hour, the moment near, Why does the heartbeat falter, Distraught with love, with fear? Are FOR MY MOTHER—Malotte.... 20 How to Plant Small Seeds Elizabeth Williamson D° you have trouble planting small seeds evenly? Try using a salt shaker or a discarded spice can. Margaret Lund Tours Northwestern Tour Passion Play, South Daketa; Yellowstone Park; Glacier Park; Cardston Temple; Canadian Rockies to Vancouver and Victoria; San Francisco and the Redwoods. Leaves Salt Lake City August 12, 1957. Pas for 14 days, includes everything but 'ood. Hawaiian Tour Ask about our Hawaiian Tour which leaves Salt Lake City in June and July. L. D. S. Tour The Pageant at Hill Cumorah; Historical places of the Church; New York; Chicago; Washington; Canada; Niagara Falls; Boston. Leaves Salt Lake City July 20, 1957. $198 for 21 days via new chartered bus, includes everything but food. For further information write or phone: Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: IN 6-2909 or CR 7-6334 Is Your Sears ames Mts vag: rhe, 2 iF 9 Read y for the Season? Push Type Lawn Mower............. #950 Power Lawn Mower............. $750 Factory trained experts using newest precision equipment sharpen and adjust your mower. Do it now... Avoid the rush! Sears, Roebuck and Co. 754 South State Street @ BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomelybound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles —...00.. Eee 35 150 to 300 miles -.........022...--2- 39 300 to 600 miles..00..0000. Ee 45 @ 600 to 1000 miles.................-..-.--.- 54 1000 to 1400 miles......00...20..222.---2--.64 1400 to 1800 miles......... Over 1800 miles _...0..0000 2. Eee.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 279 VIDA FOX CLAWSON ANNOUNCES HAWAII Leave for a lovely Hawaiian Tour from Salt Lake City on June 6, 1957. Historie Train Leaves Salt Lake City, July 26, 1957 The Historic Train includes: Places of Interest in Church History, Pageant at the Hill Cumorah, and Large Eastern Cities. Warning: Both of these tour parties will be limited in number. Make reservations early. Write or Phone: Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 Organists—Pianists NEW MUSIC @ ORGAN FOLIOS e _— Asper—Organ in the Church... 2.75...... Lorenz—Album of Preludes...... 1.50 a Lorenz—Amateur Organist— Vols. 22 & 23Each 2.25 @ PIANO FOLIOS @ a Schirmer's Favorite Sacred SONGS......2..2.-.---0eccceeeeceeeceeeneeeeeeee 1.25 _ Peery's Piano Voluntaries _...... 1.25 = Stickles—12 Sacred Songs, Transcribed oes 1.25...... Stickles—Sacred Melodies With Variations 22.2.2 1.25 Sure—We Will Send On Approval We Have Suggested Music For Singing Mothers SEND FOR COMPLETE LISTS GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. CELEBRATING OUR "GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY" Salt Lake City, Utah 74 So. Main Page 280 Birthday Congratulations BIRTHDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs Dessie Newman Middleton, Los Angeles, California, ninety-nine; Mrs. Celestia Snow Gardner, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-eight; Mrs. Dorothy Ellen Reese Williams, Beaver, Utah, ninety-six; Mrs. Sarah Ann Smith Boren, Salt Lake City, ninety-five; Mrs. Nancy Mann Kartchner, Salt Lake City, ninetythree; Mrs. Hannah Stubbs Jones, Salt Lake City, ninety-three;. Mrs. Elizabeth Young, Sanford, Colorado, ninety-two; Mrs. Agnes Watson, 'Tucson, Arizona, ninety-one; Mrs. Louise Schramm Suput, Anaconda, Montana, ninety-one; Mrs. Minnetta Permelia Brown Thorne and Mrs. Maria P. 'Thompson, each ninety-one, and both of Manti, Utah; and the following women who | have reached their ninetieth birthdays: Mrs. Margaret 'T'eeples Hunter, Holden, Utah; Mrs. Belle Bowen James, Salt Lake City; Mrs. Catherine Heggie Griffiths, Logan, Utah; Mrs. Mary Jane Coleman Meacham, Brigham City, Utah; Mrs. Sarah E.. Zundel Josephson, Brigham City, Utah; Mrs. Anna Hansen Erickson, Salt Lake City; Mrs. Amanda Belle Brashear Beeler Green, Salt Lake City; Mrs. Josephine Udora McKay, Los Angeles, California; Mrs. Mary Ann Smith, Randolph, Utah. Elijah The Prophet Bassas His Misco 1. Elijah, The Prophet and His Mission and Salvation Universal Joseph Fielding Smith In this book, President Smith clears up some of the problems and eonfusions concerning Elias and Elijah and their calling. In doing so, he speaks forcefully and directly concerning the responsibility of the living for the dead and the vital necessity of Temple Work $1.50 2. Answers to Gospel Questions Joseph Fielding Smith President Smith gives forthright answers and makes careful analyses of perplexing questions asked by lay members of the Church. These pertinent questions come from many diverse areas—from old and young alike. The warmth of President Smith's understanding, added to his scriptural knowledge, makes this book an invaluable addition to every LDS library. Ready about April 3rd. $2.50 3. Messages of Inspiration Selected Addresses of the General Authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints This collection of thirty-three addresses, selected by the General Authorities themselves, considers a wide variety of subjects including: faith, charity, reverence, prayer, chastity and appreciation. $3.75 Salt take Coty, Utah DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah; "i 7: | Gentiemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) sever ED athens | money order ( ) charge to my account for the encircled | eeunce ot 2s | (numbered) books: 1 2 3. | ae! Amount enclosed $.00...0..20ccccccccceeceeeeescceneeeeeeeteeeees5 | I Address. O... Eseccceeccceceeeeceecesceeeseececaessesseeesecsssesaceeasecessereneeeeeetenseases |! City... Eee. Zone. State... Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. Ee ee re ee ere ers ee ee we ee es ee el | NUM oon. Eececeececceeeececenececeeeesesestenceceeenecececceceanectaensssoasersssseenenaeesee NUMBER FOUR IN A SERIES: "SHARING THE GOOD THINGS OF LIFE" HAPPY FAMILIES... Do things TOGETHER "Now watch the birdie'... Click... And we have a portrait of our happy Beneficial family—we hope! With Jimmy making rabbit ears behind Dad's back, and Susie squirming on his lap, we're not at all sure how this picture will turn out. But you can be sure how a picture of your family will turn out ten, twenty, or even thirty years from now. It's bound to be a pleasant picture, free from financial problems...2f you have a "Planned Future" for your family. What's a "Planned Future?" Your friendly Beneficial Life agent will be more than happy to explain it to you... With no obligation whatever. Why wait longer? Give him a call soon, or write for free folder, ''Planned Futures." BENEFICIAL LIFE if, PUM UIUC [ujtisuane Company BENEFICIAL) ¢ David O. McKay, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah wt ASk case VOL, 44 NO. 5 = > ~< D On N Ballerina Alice Morrey Bailey Spring dances in this valley On ballerina toes, And leaves her magic footprints In blossoms as she goes. She curtsies by the willow And buds break shining skins; Petalled miracles erupt Everywhere she spins. Once she touched the apple buds Which framed my new love's hair; Still my dear love seems to me Just as young and fair. She traces with a fairy hand A tall pear's silhouette. The almond's cone at flowering Describes her pirouette. She twirls on pointed satin feet Along the plum's dark ranks And mirrored pink and purple Perfume the blue lake's banks. She dances in this valley In vine and shrub and tree. Oh, let her kiss the apple bough And spring will come to me. The Cover: The Majestic Naerofjord, Nord Trondelag, Norway Photograph by Wilse Submitted by Zina R. Engebretsen Frontispiece: Almond Orchard in Antelope Valley, California Photograph by Ward Linton Cover Design by Evan Jensen Strom Tear and Sar The December issue of The Relief Society Magazine is a marvelous revelation from cover to cover, especially to us who are so far from home, away down here in the "Land of the Southern Cross" halfway around the world from the beautiful edifice featured in that issue. I have heard many favorable comments around our mission, not only from Relief Society members, but from the saints in general, and from missionaries. 'Thanks for such an inspirational masterpiece of art. —Adelphia D. Bingham President South Australian Mission Relief Society Victoria, Australia I cannot refrain from expressing my appreciation and special gratitude for the December Magazine. The front cover with the beautifully colored photograph of the building is magnificent, with the simple elegance of its classic design.... All of the Magazine is inspirational and deeply impressive as a symbol of the glory of Latter-day Saint womanhood and the effective work of our great Relief Society organization. The photograph of our beloved First Presidency of the Church standing in front of the plaque with the words "You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood..." was deeply impressive.... The Dedicatory Prayer given by our beloved Prophet and President, David O. McKay, is soul stirring and truly a masterpiece of language and thought.... The editorials by Marianne C. Sharp and Vesta P. Crawford are messages of heartfelt gratitude, encouraging love and sublime faith. —Emma M. Gardner Sacramento, California I always enjoy Florence Dunford's stories in the Magazine, and have recently delighted in Deone Sutherland's serial "Heart's Bounty." It would be hard to excel the poetry of Christie Lund Coles. —RHarriet H. Eliason Salt Lake City, Utah Page 282 I loved the March issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and have written a letter of congratulations to Vera H. Mayhew for her prize-winning story "The Slow Hurry." Miss Hulda Parker, the new General Secretary-Treasurer, is a dear friend of mine. We share the same hometown. Mrs. Afton W. Hunt, one of the new board members, is a long-time acquaintance. I knew her in Twin Falls, Idaho, when I was a child. I was pleased with their appointments. —Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho I would not have missed the December issue of the Magazine for anything. The Magazine is always inspiring, but I think I received the biggest lift of spirit from reading and rereading 'Charity Never Faileth" by George H. Mortimer in the October 1956 issue of the Magazine. —Mrs. Lee Ridenour Rozet, Wyoming I feel I must tell you that I enjoy the Magazine thoroughly from cover to cover. To me it has been the most important Magazine since I was a young girl in my mother's home. The Birthday Congratulations always interest me, and I am impressed with the number of women who have lived so many years, experiencing so much from "then to now." —Leah Huntsman Las Vegas, Nevada I have been a subscriber to the Magazine since I married, thirty years ago. Of all the wonderful Magazines, the most beautiful was the issue showing the rooms of the new Relief Society Building. It makes me very happy to know that in a small way I helped to build it. Some day I hope to visit the building and meet the people who plan the Relief Society work. —Muriel C. James Monahans, Texas THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - 5 a - _ Marianne C. Sharp - - - c = - = Helen W. Anderson - - - 2 < - Hulda Parker - - = = O - - Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Louise W. Madsen Aleine M. Young Josie B. Ba Gladys S. Boyer Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Christine H. Robinson Winniefred 8. Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Editor - = = - a _ Associate Editor - - - = = = a - Assistant to the Editor - - - - - General Manager - - - = = = = - a — - = President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall - Marianne C. Sharp - Vesta P. Crawtord June Nielsen Belle S. Spatford No. 5 Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES A Mother's Joy in Her Family Vivian R. McConkie 284 The Norwegian Mission Contest Announcements—1957 Preston R. Nibley 287 289 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest 289 Relief Society Short Story Contest 290 Lael W. Hill 291 The Gift and the Giving—of Poetry How to Write a Short Story Mary Ek Knowles 294 A Year's Supply Modesty Is the Best Policy Mabel L. Anderson 309 310 The Old-Fashioned Clock Vernessa M. Nagle 317 Bright Barrier of the Plains Nell Murbarger 318 The Old Tin Trunk Grace W. Ball 321 "Be Still and Know That I Am God'"' Mabel Law Atkinson 341 FICTION "This Is My Baby" Christie Lund Coles 298 The Third House Down Florence B. Dunford 314 The Bright Star—Serial—Chapter Three J GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far aDorothy S. Romney 323 282 Sixty Years Ago 304 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 305 Editorial: Pen in Hand Notes to the Field: Brigham Young University Leadership Week Magazine Subscriptions for 1956. Magazine Honor Roll for 1956 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Birthday Congratulations Vesta P. Crawford a Marianne C. Sharp 328 333 Hulda Parker 337 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Norwegian Mission Mary C. Hendry, Artist in Handicraft Zina R. Engebretsen a Herbs for Modern Cookery—Garlic 32 Ehzabeth Williamson 342 POETRY Ballerina—Frontispiece Alice Morrey Bailey 281 Spring Sabbath Dorothy J. Roberts 302 awn Sylvia Probst Young 303 Signal by Sun Maryhale Woolsey 307 Hold Every Moment.. Elise Bailey Collins 309 The Cereus Blooms Ethel Jacobson 311 Petition Grace Barker Wilson 313 Singing Moments Mabel Jones Gabbott 317 In Compensation Eleanor W. Schow 326 May''s Promise =Catherine E. Berry 326 Triumph These Things I Need Eva Willes Wangsgaard 327 Jennie Brown Rawlins 341 Loneliness Vesta N. Lukei 343 T Love Window ooucceecessescesssseeseesseesnesoeseetieeseeteeeeeseeceeeeeeccen............ The Token Caroline Eyring Miner 343 Enola Chamberlin 344 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Section 1108, Act of October unless return postage is enclosed. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. Vol. 44 saveonsMAY 1957 344 A Mother's Joy in Her Family Vivian R. McConkie Former Member, General Board of Relief Society successfully terminating righteousness, because of our obedience to the laws upon which blessings are predicated. A mother's joy is very great when she understands the laws of the Lord and sees her children faithful to them. To Latter-day Saint parents who have covenanted through baptism, the sacrament, the Priesthood, and other ordinances, "Lo, children are an heritage of the Lord." "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it," holds great promise. But, right or wrong, children will go some way. They will reach conclusions, good or bad. No one can stop the mind from thinking, nor a child from habit forming. A mother has greatest joy in her child if she patterns her life after gospel standards; then, having filled her child with good things, she sees him walking according to the highest truths he has received. Mothers should, of course, be acquainted with the laws and ordinances of the gospel. Neither a mother nor her child will ever act better than their understanding. Mothers acquire ability to enjoy by understanding the purpose of life, as revealed through the restored gospel. Salvation is based on this principle. 'Therefore, mothers who lead their children to faith and good works, have increasing joy in them, nor do they unwittingly lead them in the wrong direction. Hence, mothers' anxieties and joys vary. Behavior which is grave Page 284 Ji is our compensation for to one may be trivial to another. Obedient mothers are more hopeful for their children to love the Lord than disobedient mothers are capable of being, hence, they have greater joy when their children are found on the Lord's side. Now that our children have their own families, I look in retrospect upon the work of my hands. My family being my greatest responsibility, and, next to God, my greatest treasure, I look to it to see whether my life's labors are good or bad. My joy will overflow if they are all secure in the Church, with sound gospel understanding, having a lively hope and determination for faithfulness unto the end. Ofttimes parents presume to suspend or annul the law by permitting their children to go to picture shows on Sunday or otherwise to violate the law. 'This evidences parental misunderstanding. In our home, we never accepted the intent of the oft-repeated folly of "rather seeing a sermon than hearing one." Precept and example walk hand in hand in well regulated families. What student ever earned a passing grade by observing a good life? Who ever obtained a knowledge of God's salvation by seeing majesty in the universe? What truthful witness ever spoke who did not call for precept and example? Hasten to plant both in the child— seed that God will be pleased to nurture. 'The Lord gives parents a free hand, with Satan bound, until the age of the child's accountability. A MOTHER'S JOY IN HER FAMILY Therein is the mother's greatest opportunity. Sabbath day observance has been a steadying factor in our home. Glimpse the joy of learning that your son, three thousand miles away, said to a distinguished Sunday dinner guest, not a Latter-day Saint: "We will now go into the living room and discuss the gospel. 'That is a tradition in our family. It is the way my father did"; that a son refused to play a matched ball game with an out-of-state team, because it was scheduled for Sunday; that a son in the service said everywhere he went he gathered Church members together to worship on the Sabbath day, and, "If I am sent where there are no Church members, I know the true God, and on the Sabbath day I will worship him alone." Evils spring up whenever parents take liberties with the law. Of course, none has a legal right to amend or repeal the word of the Lord. Since none is as wise as the Lawgiver, all should adjust to his will. Rebellions are a bad example to children. Be sincere in truthfully observing the law, remembering that sincerity alone is not enough. One may be ever so sincere while traveling in the wrong direction. Forthright honesty, with no double standards nor special privileges, is of major importance in the home. Every dishonesty is cortupting—political and _ otherwise. Teach your children to live by the rules and interlace respect and obedience in them. Children bred on political trickery will, in their own way and time, apply their breeding to whatever they have to do. 285 Parents who disobey certain laws will probably find their children taking similar liberties. 'The parent may offend by using tea, coffee, or tobacco, but the child, taught in disobedience, may choose to offend the moral code. ONLY the gospel points the true way. It cannot be found elsewhere. If mothers do not know its requirements, they may pyramid sorrow upon themselves. The Lord holds them accountable to obey his requirements, all of them. If they do it, their lives will be easier at the end rather than harder, which is the righteous plan, according to the divine purpose. Eternal progress is to expand eternally which is the joyful course. Plant in children an awareness that the day in which they live is the day of their salvation. Do not procrastinate until the child is out of reach, and do not expect good results from bad teaching and example. Employ the highest excellence. Your child will likely pattern after you. The union of school, society, and Church cannot guarantee good results if the home is bad. Fail in the home, and you bereave yourself. The influence of the home cannot be overestimated. 'The Lord established it, and civil authority patterns after the divine plan, as to responsibility of parents. 'leach children respect for law and constituted authorities. If wicked men rule, and bad laws are enacted, teach with increasing care, lest the children become enemies to all law and all rulers. Chart the child's mind before the time of accountability. Seek the Spirit of the Lord, and finding it, keep it in the home. 286 Studying the scriptures is of great importance. Parents who do not do it have no unity of understanding of what God expects of them and their children. They cannot give what they do not have, nor teach what they do not know. Why, oh, mothers of Israel, are there so many non-temple marriages, when it is so easy for a mother with an understanding of the gospel to strengthen the child's desire for the blessed privilege of a faithful companion and the blessings of the Priesthood? Why do so many violate the Word of Wisdom; the law of the Sabbath, and why does sexual immorality stain some? Is it because parents betray God's trust and fail their children? Several little girls, all members of the Church, were planning a children's party. One, out of the experience of her home, suggested cards. Another, reflecting the atmosphere of better training, said cards were "against the Church." The first asked: "What church do you belong to?" It is not so much that children fail their parents as that parents fail their children. There is joy where the parental mind set, from before the child is born, is dedicated to hope, through righteous endeavor unto the end of the mortal life. Mother has cause for joy when her son, upon becoming twelve years of age, tells the girl at the theatre ticket office that he now requires an adult ticket; when her little girl, leading in family prayer, asks God to bless the home and keep the devil out; when her small son is instantly healed by his own RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 prayer of faith; when her boy, barely old enough to enlist in the 'Navy, directs the government to send one tenth of his monthly pay to his bishop, tithing for the Lord; when her son, shot out of the sky, parachutes to safety, and on his knees thanks God on the spot for his protection; when the Spirit whispered to her son in the midst of an air battle, to stoop down quickly, and he as quickly obeyed, just in time to miss a shell that passed through the plane's wall exactly where he was standing; when her husband fled the house in greatest haste, not knowing why, yet once out of doors and running through the orchard, discovered a horse running among the trees, his first-born child with his foot through the stirrup, he having been brushed off by a limb. Quick obedience by the father, exactly as directed, saved the life of the boy. Think of a mother's joy, mingled with sorrow, when she learned of her son's reliance upon the prayer of faith at Bastone, and that a remnant of his company was preserved from death, whilst almost all about them were slain. Visualize the joy of a mother who sees her family married in the house of the Lord to companions equal to them, united in teaching their families that there is but one source of happiness —the favor of God. A mother's joy overflows within her when her heart and mind, and the heart and mind of her husband, and the hearts and minds of her children and children's children follow after the Lord in nghteousness. These are joys that mothers in the Church may have the happiness to hope for, if only they will follow after the Lord. a. Os: - LR. AN UNFOR VELIADLE (GLIMPSE OF Sh e Ilo rweq ld f Hl ISS 10 fl —_e Nible- 40300ULL eo «© FAUT 2 Ane on rmmaS ke elie, AJULLIGIA. 1. (ther Fyanticm< tr. Citree UWapeessiiid &. * " rr Charch tng NMorwer eat Conned at 22012 241 2 Javea ve aS a Vwi Gat 288 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 Photo by Burton Holmes Ewing Galloway A FARMSTEAD IN UPPER ROMSDAL, NORWAY More elders were sent to assist Elder Petersen and a second branch was organized in Frederikstad. The work has continued since that time. The first missionaries to Norway met with considerable persecution, and many were imprisoned, as freedom of religion was not allowed. Norway remained a part of the Scandinavian Mission until 1905, when the Danish-Norwegian Mission was formed. 'Then, in 1920, the Norwegian Mission was created, with Andrew S. Schow as the first president. Andrew Jenson, Assistant Church Historian, estimated in 1930, that, from 1851 to the end of 1930, converts baptized in Norway numbered 8,555. Of this number he computed, approximately 3,500 had emigrated to Utah. At the close of the year 1956, there were 1,623 members of the Church in Norway, located in fourteen branches. Ray Engebretsen of Seattle, Washington, is serving as the mission president. In December 1956, twelve Relief Society organizations were reported with 340 members. Zina R. Engebretsen presides over the Norwegian Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover of this Magazine, "The Majestic Naerofjord, Nord Trondelag, Norway," represents typical Norwegian scenery. See also "Recipes From the Norwegian Mission," page 312. Contest Announcements—1957 CONTESTS CLOSE AUGUST 15, 1957 HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story T Contest are conducted annually by the general board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The general board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. It is suggested that authors who plan to enter the contests study carefully the articles on story writing and poetry which appear in this Magazine and similar articles in the May issues, 1955 and 1956, and in the June issues for the preceding nine years. Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1957. Prizes will be awarded as follows: Pet prze 2$25 Second prize............-..$20 Third prize -...................$15 Prize poems will be published in the January 1958 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birthmonth of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society generai board and employees of the Relief Society general board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the pocm. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. That it has never been published.. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. Page 289 A. 290 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. G. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Message or theme b. Form and pattern c. Rhythm and meter d. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1957. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Relief Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1957 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1957. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize Second prize..........-.----$40 Third prize The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1958. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society general board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the general board. The general board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society general board and employees of the general board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of the words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted including one and two letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication. ) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted else- RELIEF SOCIETY SHORT STORY CONTEST where for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the general board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a Tecognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all stories se- 291 lected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style g. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1957. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. The Gift and the Giving—of Poetry Lael W. Hill VERY soul newborn into this world is given not only the gift of life, but certain talents, which may be developed and used to numerous ends. 'These talents include every field of endeavor from home baking to politics to music and poetry, which gift is sometimes looked upon with envy by those who "cannot" write verse. Yet the truth is that some poetic ability is given everyone. Poetry is so much of life, and there are many real poets in the world who have just not "found themselves," or who have become so entangled among the humdrums they lose the awareness of each day's newness and uniqueness, which is of primary importance to the making of poems. It is almost as if poetry were a world one must approach as a child. For, as a young child explores the world about him, looking, listening, touching with curious fingers, sniffing, and tasting everything he can put his mouth to, so writers of verse must observe everything around them, over and over, as if for the first time. Actually, everything is always different, if only from the ever-changing points of view we develop as we grow in knowledge and understanding. But we must, to keep alive this awareness of the world, be ourselves always active in life — not just "busy" at task or pastime — but opening eyes, mind, and heart to every day — until, filled with discovery, we must share with others. Poetry is communication. And communication is a first need of mankind. 'The newborn squalls a lusty announcement on his arrival to this life, and from then on finds his voice very important. He cries, coos, babbles, coaxing or commanding; he imitates what he hears, telling his wants, thoughts, experiences, and beliefs. So with the poet. Writing poetry is a_ two-way process — a taking in (inspiration) and a giving forth (expression). We receive inspiration from many sources. Besides our personal 202 observation and experience, we may have others' problems and achievements for the listening. We may learn as much as anyone ever knew, if we read widely and wisely enough. The Bible, other poets' poems, travelogues, and biographies are doorways to otherwise impossible adventures. And when we are thus filled, we may give forth. Poetry must be a labor of love, for this day seems to offer little appreciation, and therefore, slight demand for what has been called the stepchild of the arts. Yet we who work at poetry find reward in the enrichment of our own minds and lives, the increasing of our own powers of appreciation, the satisfaction of contributing some coin, however small, to the wealth of human wisdom. OETRY is a labor that demands its share of sacrifice, as does any creative effort. It demands fine sensitivity to the beauty and the ugliness around us. It demands great receptivity of moods, ideas, joys, and hurts. It demands time — hours we may feel should be devoted to cleaning house or canning fruit, or mending socks and levis. Frequently a compromise can be effected here, the children helping with chores, which is also good for them, or the time spent on these duties used simultancously for turning over old conclusions and receiving new inspiration. 'The point is: to write, you must write. And you must do it now. 'There is no other time, and poetry ideas set aside for someday may never be written. How well a child communicates depends on the extent and sureness of his explorations, the instruction RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 he receives — his "taking in." This is also true with poets. 'The tools we work with are not only pencil, paper, typewriter, and experience, real or imagined. We need a knowledge of rhythms, of language, of verse. Rhythm is with the child from the beginning, and all life on earth is set to one kind or another of regularity, from the turn of the seasons or the ebb and flow of ocean tides, to our patterns of sleep and waking, our stride, our pulse beat. The rhythms, or meters, of poetry, then, are as natural as breathing. But it is the poet's responsibility to know — and to use most effectively — the meters developed and named by our predecessors: iambic, trochaic, spondaic, dactylic, amphibrachic, anapestic, and many variations. In free verse cadence is emphasized — a flow of words usually pleasantly rhythmical yet with no regularly stressed syllables. Language, of course, is our use of words. The words we choose may be quite simple, or complex — and either can be used effectively in poetry, though the choice should be consistent in any one poem. Every poet ought to select each word for truest tone and perspective of expression. This will not always be the factual word; it will frequently be one that in prose might have some other meaning. We might write: "All the tiny insect eyes," but a moth's eyes glow ruby red in lamplight, so we extend the image to include all these little creaturcs, and say, "All the tiny jewelled eyes' (From "While = Summer Sings," The Relief Society Magazine, June 1955). It might have THE GIFT AND THE GIVING—OF POETRY been even better to say "jewels of eyes," thus eliminating an adjective. Adjectives so often become mere "padding." Sometimes, in the constant search for new expressions, the poet perhaps tries too hard, and his poem will not be understandable to any reader; or it may be laughable where humor was not intended. A poem printed in a century-old book says: I made a posie, while the day ran by: Here will I smell my remnant out, and tie My life within this band.... (Italics mine). Or, secretly or unconsciously doubting his poem's clarity, a poet may add an explanation or a "moral." If this happens, he should re-examine the whole poem, reword where necessary, and so present the message with no glaring label. HE forms into which we may set our ideas are so many and varied that probably no one of us will ever try them all. For less experienced verse writers, I would suggest working first with the simple ballad or lyric, the sonnet, and perhaps terza rima (less difficult than it sounds). The ballad is probably easiest, with its four-line stanzas, the first line in each stanza rhyming with the third line, the second with the fourth. The ballad is usually iambic meter, which seems the most natural for the English language. This form is most often used for lyric verse, which has a "singing" quality. A "four-three-four-three" pattern of measured beats is not difficult to follow, and may be varied by an extra, unstressed syllable occasionally, thus avoiding the "sing- 293 song" of nursery rhymes and doggerel. It is not the total number of syllables that controls line length, but rather the number of accented syllables. Most readers are familiar with the sonnet, the fourteen-line pattern used so beautifully by Shakespeare, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, and Edna St. Vincent Millay. Its fivestress iambic meter, its rhyme schemes, most popularly "A B A B CDCDEFEF GG," offer excellent challenge. And some of the loveliest poems of our language are in this form. But one word of caution: sonnets can be habit forming, and it might be a good idea, if poems seem always to begin as sonnets, to break the rhythm deliberately and try another pattern, just for added experience. Terza rima is a_ pattern of three-line stanzas, with interlocking thymes (A B A, B C B, etc.) and a concluding couplet. It is often fourteen lines, like a sonnet, but can be shorter or longer. A good book on poetry technique will describe many other "fixed" forms, which are always good practice to try, if only that one may then better appreciate other poets' work. And remember that almost any of the principles of poetry, once thoroughly mastered, may be "bent" or even broken, if it is done skillfully and to purposeful effect. Free verse, often mistakenly thought to be the easiest to write, is as exacting as any other, sometimes more exacting. While it may have cadence, for instance, it must not have meter — and how slyly an iambic line can slip in, or the poetic idea degenerate into prose! And how easy it is to get on 294 a tangent to nowhere! Though the modern idea is to suggest rather than to tell, allowing the reader to participate in this creative venture, the poet should not lead his partner into a morass of abstraction and there leave him without even a map. And, as Clement Wood once wrote me: "The choice of the free verse form leaves no excuse for less than the perfect word." Note that word "form." Like all freedoms, free verse requires almost more discipline than any rigid form. Without discipline in poetry, as in life, there can be only chaos. The gift of life is invitation to many kinds of poetry. We who choose to work and play with words might do well to heed this admonition, found in a newspaper column RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957" some time ago: '""Whatever talent you possess is God's gift to you. What you do with it is your gift to God." Above and beyond our own needs of expression, our personal ambitions, therefore, shall we not offer to the Lord our most sincere, most careful effort? SOME HELPFUL BOOKS FOR POETS First Principles of Verse, by Robert Hillyer, $2 How to Revise Your Own Poems, by Anne Hamilton, $1.50 Whiting Light Verse, by Richard Armour, $2. (The Writer, Inc., 8 Arlington Street, Boston 16, Mass.) Complete Rhyming Dictionary and Poets' Handbook, by Burgess Johnson, $3.75 (Harper and Brothers, 49 East 33rd Street, New York 16, New York) —— How to Write a Short Story Mary Ek Knowles AVING been a _ beginning writer myself, I know the many problems which confront you new writers or would-be writers for The Relief Society Magazine. You have a burning within you, a great urge to tell a story. You see something, or you hear something, or some incident occurs in your life and you know, "That would make a good story." And yet when you try to put your idea on paper you find difficulty in expressing yourself. I have been in that predicament myself. I still, at this late date, find myself limited, because a writer never learns everything, and each story is a challenge, a problem which must be solved in such a different and fresh way that it will achieve publication. I cannot tell you how to become a writer. No one can. But, perhaps, if I pass on to you some of the things I have learned from experience, I can help you get through the first agonizing stages. First, the beginning writer should think seriously about the choice of subject matter. It must be subject matter with which he is familiar or the story will have the dull thud of a counterfeit coin. Remember HOW TO WRITE A SHORT STORY that the greatest short stories have been written about people as familiar as the family next door, faced with such problems as: jealousy between brothers; the waywardness of a daughter; the misunderstanding between a mother and her daughter-in-law; the discouragement of a husband. These are only a few of the problems which would make for an absorbing short story, but they are age-old. Look in the Bible or The Book of Mormon, and you will find there the same problems, because human nature does not change. 'This is the reason why such basic problems give a story reader identification. By reader identification we mean that the reader can see himself faced with such a problem and ask himself, "What would I do in such a situation?" 'lyanecmsenig then a problem with which you are familiar. "But," you ask, "if all of the problems are age-old, how can I present them in a new way?" The answer to this lies in characterization. There are no new problems, no new plots, but it is the manner in which your main character meets his problem and solves it that gives your story a fresh slant. Because no two people are alike and no two people will solve a problem in the same way. Second in importance is characterization. Know your characters and make them alive to the reader. For instance, a problem may be a simple everyday problem, but to the main 295 character it is a life-and-death matter, and you must make your reader feel his anxiety. You will need some knowledge of human nature and reactions. Ask yourself such questions as: What forces within are pushing my character? What kind of childhood did he have? What are his interests? What are his ambitions? What is his moral code? It is important to know these things, because in a time of crisis his actions will be consistent with his background which begins at birth. Let me recommend very highly the book Characters Make Your Story by Maren Elwood.* This book is well worth the price. Read it from cover to cover, and then go back and do the exercises at the end of each chapter. Characters do make your story. A few paragraphs above, I stated that the problem must be a life-anddeath matter to the main character. A story which arouses no feeling of emotion in the reader's heart is a lifeless thing. So how can a writer put emotion into his story? Remember this one thing: It is the situation which arouses an emotion. Not the flowery or descriptive adjectives used, but the situation. Place your character in a dramatic situation, and you will have emotion. To give an example: 'The story opens with a young wife being told by her family doctor that her. Husband is dying. Nothing can be done for him, and for the good of the patient he must not be told the truth. Heretofore the wife has "Characters Make Your Story, by Maren Elwood, may be purchased from The Writer's Digest, 22 East 12th St., Cincinnati 10, Ohio, for $3.75. 296 shared every problem with her husband, but now she must stand alone. 'That situation creates an emotion, and the emotion intensifies as the wife must conceal her true emotions and yet appear hopeful. And how can the reader be made to know her concealed emotions? By knowing what the wife is thinking. Read thoroughly the chapter, "Thoughts are Things" in Characters Make Your Story. Not only does this thought-device create emotion, but it can do many other things; for example, it is an excellent way to create reader sympathy for an unsympathetic character. For instance: A character may act in a bold, ruthless manner, but from his thoughts the reader knows that underneath he is frightened, insecure, and desperately wanting affection. 'The very fact that he goes about in such a clumsy way to get affection gives the reader a sympathy for him. HERE are a few basic tules which a good short story must obey, but don't be misled by their seeming simplicity. 'T'o follow these rules takes the greatest skill. 1. State the main character's problem at the beginning of the story. 2. Make certain the character solves his problem. 3. Check to see if the story moves forward towards the climax with each scene, with each bit of dialogue. 4. When the story is ended be sure that it has said something, demonstrated some truth. To enlarge on this last important point: Demonstrating a truth is what is known as the theme of a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 story. 'The writer must ask herself, "What do I want my story to say to the reader? Will the reader after having read my story say to herself, 'I have the same problem the character in this story had. Maybe I can solve it as she did.' " Maybe your character couldn't solve her problem. Quite often people can't solve their problems, you know. Maybe you ended the story with your character — after she had tried to solve her problem by every method and means — being tesigned to this fact, but reaching the conclusion that, with the help of the Lord, she will live with the problem and in the end rise above it and be a better person. The theme of this story would then be, from courage comes strength and wisdom. Or you might write a story which — to give a few examples — demonstrates such themes as: good is rewarded, or evil is always punished, or love conquers all, or murder will out, or patience is rewarded. A theme is the type of homey moral which our grandmothers embroidered in crossstitch and hung on the wall. Just be sure that your story has a strong theme. It is of prime importance that your story end with a "lift." By this, I do not mean a sirupy, happy ending which would be inconsistent with what has happened in the story up to that point. If you have shown your main character as being very selfish all the way through the story, you cannot suddenly have him solve his problem with an unselfish act. Leave your reader feeling better for having read the story. If, in your HOW TO WRITE A SHORT STORY story, the main character, as I said above, has not solved her problem, but, has learned compassion for the person who created the problem, and resolves with divine help to find the courage to go on, your story will end on a note of hope and will give the reader a "lift." Remember that writing is a profession, and the writing of a short story is one of the most exacting tasks in the field of creative art. In only a few thousand words you must present a problem, do a skillful characterization, keep the story moving, end the story in a satisfactory manner. All this at the same time. 'The writer is not unlike a juggler. You will not become a writer overnight, any more than the medical student becomes a doctor overnight, or the law student sits in the judge's seat overnight. So don't be discouraged if your early efforts are disappointing. Only by writing and by the trial-and-error method will you learn. There is no easy road, there is no substitute for the, perhaps, million words, many of which will land in the wastebasket. But there is a reward which comes from those first million words because you will finally learn at which type of story you are the most adept, and what your best method of working is, and you will develop a story sense. The Church publications offer an excellent training for the beginning writer. I am grateful to The Relief Society Magazine and The Improvement Era for the encouragement 297 they gave me in my early days of writing, and I am always proud to see one of my stories in these magaZ1Ine€s. As to what other books I might recommend to help the writer: I found Dynamics of Drama* by Shaftel to be very good. Read any book you can get on writing. You may find one that suits you even better than the two I have named. Right now the short story field is in a highly competitive stage. Even established writers are not selling. Let me caution you at this point not to sell your talent short. Perhaps you dream of becoming a great financial success as a result of your talent. If you don't realize this ambition, don't let frustration and bitterness belittle this talent which you have. You may use your skill with words in writing the story of your life, so that your children and grandchildren may someday read it, or write newsy letters to missionaries, or to the boys in the service, or write skits for the different organizations of the Church. If you do this, you will have justified your talent. Remember that the money one receives for the sale of a story is the smallest part of the reward. One of my stories of which I am most proud was published in a magazine which paid nothing, but it was an honor to appear in its pages. Remember that the money is soon spent, but if you have written something which has influenced or brought a bit of joy or humor into someone's life, those are the lasting rewards. *Note: Dynamics of Drama, by Armin Shaftel, may be purchased from the Comfort Press, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, for $2.50. "This Is My Baby" Christie Lund Coles OU were so pretty standing } before me in your pink and black skirt, and your trim, little pink blouse. Your eyes were like blue delphiniums, and your fair skin took on some of the pinkness of your clothes. You looked little more than a child yourself as you reminded me quite emphatically, "This is my baby," in answer to a suggestion I had made, telling me that you were responsible for my adorable granddaughter. "That is right," I replied, "would you like some cookies and milk? We can give Anna graham cracker." You hesitated briefly, then accepted, smiling. We went into the kitchen to sit at the table where the sun made the yellow curtains more yellow, and the flowers on the sill shone in leaf and bud. We ate together while Ann did a delightful job of getting the cracker any place except in her mouth. We watched her in delight until her eyes became heavy, and you said you should take her home for her nap. "Couldn't she nap here, just once?" I asked. Sorry for your abrupt words, you smiled, agreeing, "I suppose so." And together we put chairs around the bed in your room which still stands the way you left it. I went out, you stayed a moment. You came out and sat opposite me in the blue mohair chair. You took out the socks you were knitting for Jim, the intricate heels Page 298 which you were determined to conquer. My heart went out to you in love and tenderness. I thought of the many times through the years when you had sat in that same chair: when you were very small, curled up in it; when you were larger, and there was company, and you would sit primly — in your best dress, and patent-leather slippers — your feet not quite touching the floor; when you were in high school. We talked a little as I crocheted a new edge on a white linen hankie. We didn't talk loudly because Ann is a light sleeper and we didn't want to awaken her. It was enough for me just to have you there. As I thought of the baby's coming, I remembered when you were born. The doctors had told me I shouldn't have a child because of my heart, badly damaged by years of semi-invalidism from rheumatic fever. But I wasn't afraid. My want of you transcended all fear. Even during the difficult and long birth, when even the doctor was fright: ened, I did not lose faith. When you were born, I saw your delicate head, your gray-blue eyes, your slim fingers that touched mine and made me forever your slave, and knew you were worth it all and much, much more. I thought fondly and swiftly of my own birth and my dear mother. I told myself again, we were all a part of this new and wonderful life. Ann is not yours, "THIS IS MY BABY" I recalled how much I had loved you... How I had sat by your crib and actually wept in gratitude, seeing you asleep, touching your hair, and glad because you were so perfect, so sweet. GOON you were walking. For a time we lived in the same apartment house as my mother and father. They were just above us. You used to climb the stairs some mornings before I was awake and tell grandma you wanted hotcakes. I'm sure she and grandpa loved you just as I love Ann. 'There was never enough they could do for you. And you were dear to Daddy's parents also though we were not as close to them. But I recall one day we were at their home in the country. It was some holiday and all the family was there, sitting around in the back yard visiting. You had followed the dog to the front lawn and, naturally, I had followed you. The flowing well was at the top of the lawn near the fence and it tan constantly into a large barrel sunk into the ground. You leaned over to take a drink from the running tap and, although I was holding you, you slipped and went headfirst into the overflowing barrel. You were a dead weight, heavy for me to try and lift out. I called frantically for help, but because of the distance and the talking and the laughter, no one heard me. I knew I must get you out, and do it quickly. Almost immersing myself I reached down to get a good hold on you and, with all my tather limited strength, pulled you to the surface, coughing and choking. 299 I took you into the house to dry you. What did you do? You looked into the long mirror and said, "All my curls are gone." And indeed they were, the curls we had worked so hard putting in that morning. "There will be lots of other curls," I whispered, gathering you into my arms, "lots of curls." You saved me from drowning later. And I, who was afraid of a tiny spider — once chased a tarantula all over the bed to protect you. There was the time, in another strange town, when your father was away, when we were ill at the same time, without a loaf of bread in the house, and with no phone to order any. But we managed. And we had fun... Fun. Until you were a big girl, you would ask me to sing to you after we were in bed. With the doors open between our rooms, I would sing sometimes for an hour, or until I was too hoarse to sing any longer. And there were nights when we were both nervous, and you would come and crawl into my bed. Today, as I looked at you across the room, trying to appear so mature, I thought of many things: The day we were wishing on a wishbone, and I said, "Well, you got your wish." You answered, your wish." "But you got the head," I insisted, "you got your wish." You smiled, shyly, "I wished that you would get your wish." And the day you said, "Maybe I could do something so you would stop loving me. But nothing you could ever do could make me stop loving you." "No, you got 300 Is it any wonder that I love you so very, very much? We Ke OK OK I recalled when Jim came along. He was a fine, good boy from down the street. It didn't seem serious at first. You went together for nearly two years. After he finished college, he asked to marry you. We thought you were too young — nearly nineteen — but you said you knew what you wanted, and since our wish for your happiness was sincere, we consented. The temple ceremony was beautiful and sacred and the wedding reception was lovely. Your dress was hand-sewn. I'm sure there has never been a lovelier, more radiantly beautiful bride. When the receiving was over and you cut your wedding cake, I sat at the side and watched you serving grandmas and aunts. I had not wept. But as you moved back toward the table, for just the fraction of a moment your eyes moved to mine with a sort of frightened, seeking expression. You stood as though you were about to run toward me, and I felt that I must run toward you and take you in my arms. But you went on and I turned my head. And cried—just a little. K &e &k ke O&K "Oh, dear, I dropped a stitch," you said, furrowing your smooth brow, "Can you help me?" "I'm not too good at it, you know, but I'll try," I told you, remembering the shawl I had begun before Ann was born and never quite finished — though I still had hopes. As though you knew what I was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 thinking, you smiled, "You may not believe it, but I'm going to finish these. He may not be able to wear them but they'll be knitted." "He'll wear them," I assured you, "you'll see." As you moved toward me the sunlight touched your almost transparent, fair skin, and I asked, "Are you sure your blood is up all right now? Do you feel all right?" "Never better. Actually, I'm fine." KK OK Ke GUDDENLY, I was seeing you when you were pregnant, seeing you pass the big living room window in your cute, blue-checked smock, carrying your white purse as only a little girl playing house could possibly carry it, coming in smiling as we rushed to kiss you. And the day before the baby was born, you said to me, "I think I'll drive out to Rita's tomorrow and spend the day." "Oh, no," I cried, "tomorrow's when the baby is due. You mustn't take any chances driving that far. Something might happen." "Oh, Pll be all right," you assured me. But I wasn't that easily put off. I insisted, "Promise me you won't," You finally promised, then rose to leave. You kissed me a bit longer than usual that day, clung to me, and I knew you were frightened. I assured you, "It will be just fine. Don't worry." At a quarter to eight the next morning the phone rang. It was Jim. You two had been at the hospital since midnight. Now you were in the delivery room and we could come out. Your Daddy went pale, and I trembled as I got ready, "THIS IS MY BABY" all the time saying a prayer over and over. We were in the waiting room for nearly an hour. Daddy had an appointment in Lake City to meet the manager of his company at the train. He kept saying, "I don't want to go, but I'm afraid P'll have to." Everything had gone fine, so we told him he had better go, and regretfully, he did. Shortly afterward, a nurse came into the room and said there were too many in the waiting room, and all except the fathers would have to go downstairs in the lobby. Jim's mother and I went reluctantly. It was in that half hour that we were gone that they brought you out, and word was sent to us that we could see you. When I walked into your room, you were very pale, but your eyes were bright and you said, "Oh, Mama, you should have been here. When they wheeled me out they put her in my arms and let me carry her down the hall. Oh, she's so sweet." I thought of when we had first reached the hospital and Jim and his mother had been talking about the name for the baby if it were a boy. I said, "Now, just think how badly she's going to feel about all this planning for a boy." I kissed you, whispering, "Of course she is sweet. Now, you must rest." E two mothers left. In the hall we met your doctor who asked if we had seen the baby. When we said, "No," he took us to the nursery. He went in, asked for your baby, brought it to the 301 door for us to see. I fell in love with her then. We came back to your room. I could see you were in pain, and I asked the nurse about it. She said it was natural and you would be fine. Still, I turned at the door to look at you, thinking, she's paler now than when we came in. About noon, I called your room. I was ready to hang up when you told me the doctor was there. But he wanted to speak to me. He said, trying to make his voice casual, "You and her husband might come out within half an hour or so. It is nothing to worry about...." In spite of his casualness, after a moment I knew he meant that there was trouble. You had looked so pale and tired. Jim and I knelt down and prayed together before we left, and I felt sure you would be ell right. Later, when you came out of the operating room, you were very pale and in pain. I could have stayed. But I knew you needed rest... Rest. And if I stayed Jim's mother would stay, too, and it might be too much for you. I left, my heart straining back to you, and your pain which I had no power to ease. It seemed no time at all until someone was at my front door. It was Jim's mother. She said the hospital had been unable to reach me and had called her. You had to have another operation. I stood trembling and managed to say, "I can't... I can't go this minute. I will be out as soon as possible." Alone, I prayed, then called my mother in Lake City, where your 302 father had gone, told her to try and get in touch with him. I sobbed on the telephone, "I can't bear to have anything happen to her."" My mother wept. I knew that nothing could keep me from the hospital. I called a friend, and she said she would be right over to take me out. I didn't think of a taxi, and I suppose the reason was that I needed a friend so badly. 'The ten minutes I waited seemed an eternity. HEN TI got to the hospital, I met the doctor and a specialist he had called in to help him, in the hall. "How is she?" I whispered. "She is in her room. If this doesn't help, we'll have to do something more drastic." "It must help," I whispered. I went to your room where you still lay. 'There was a blood transfusion (your fourth) in one arm, glucose in the other, and oxygen in your nose. You managed part of your wonderful smile, and I stroked back your hair — from which the curl had gone — and thought of you passing the big window carrying your white purse; thought of the time as a child when you were strong and insisted on stirring my cake batter, saying, "I'll be your electric beater." I kissed you, and not meaning to, let a tear fall on your cheek. 'Then I turned and walked out of the room. Soon, Jim's mother came out and admonished me not to let you see me cry. I nodded. You weren't her child. You asked me later why I cried, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 and I smiled, saying, "I was sorry that you had to go back into the operating room, and sorry I didn't get there sooner. But everything's just fine. Just fine." % oe eK HAT was months ago. Now you are sitting opposite me, well and strong again. You said, "She's stirring. Do you want to get her?" I nodded, rising, going toward the room which would always be yours. You were close behind me, however, for her every waking moment was a wonder to us all. We entered the room. She looked at us with her lovely eyes. I reached my arms out to her. But she turned and reached for you instead. Just as she still does when she first wakens or is tired or unhappy. Grandma is wonderful at other times, but in these moments, you are the one she wants. Suddenly as I watched you lift her to your shoulder, I knew with a strange pang that what you had said was true. She was indeed your baby. You had paid for her with your travail, just as I had paid for you. But it was infinitely more than that. All of my thinking and remembering had proved not my point, but yours. 'here is birth, and there is something else, knit by the moments and the hours that no one else ever shares. I said, "Yes, my darling, she is your baby." To myself I thought, But she will not always be. And that, too, is as it should be. As it must be if the world is to go on. Don Knight THE GRAND TETONS AND JACKSON LAKE, WYOMING o ——_—S Dawn Sylvia Probst Young Crimson streaked and gold is dawn, Lifting through the gray, Dew-bathed rose, and winging bird— Harbinger of day. Lift your eyes to wood and field, Look to rock-ribbed hill. In the gentle, waking hour, All is hushed and still— Peace be thine, oh, tired heart, Now the night is gone— God has willed it shall be so, After darkness—dawn! Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS" EGYPT: Egypt is a country in the northeast of Africa, extending from the Mediterranean Sea to the first cataract of the Nile, that of Assouan.... Its length from this cataract to the northernmost point of the Delta, is about 500 miles; and _ its breadth from the shores of the Red Sea to the Libyan desert, may be estimated at 250 miles. This land was inhabited at a very early period of the world's existence; and in ancient times it contained a great number of cities, and an incredible multitude of people. Egypt may be described as "the bed of the Nile," the cultivated territory only extending to the limits of the inundation.... —Julia A. Druce FROM NEW ZEALAND: The White Ribbon (New Zealand) states that two Maori ladies, Mrs. Hirani and Mrs. Taranaki, were members of a deputation which tecently waited on the premier of New Zealand in regard to native land disputes. —News Note PARTY IN THE LION HOUSE: On Thursday afternoon, April 29, Sister Margaret P. Young gave a most enjoyable party in the interesting parlor of the Lion House. Most of the guests present were Temple workers.... The afternoon was passed in social conversation mostly reminiscent of the house, its illustrious owner and its belongings, of incidents connected with it and the people who were familiar and frequent guests there in the days of President Brigham Young.... President Lorenzo Snow addressed... The sisters, alluding particularly to the work in the Temple and urging the benefits to the living and the dead.... —News Note ODE TO THE PIONEERS Hail to the year of Jubilee! Let pealing anthems rise, And bursts of echoing melody Loud mingle with the skies! Let earth resound with music's power; Glad welcoming the year, When Utah sees her natal hour The fiftieth time appear.... —Orson F. Whitney GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: Conference opened with singing 'O say what is truth"; prayer was offered by Elder Charles O. Card, President Alberta Stake, Canada; continued by singing "Redeemer of Israel." President Zina D. H. Young made a few opening remarks.... Sister Annie D. Hardy, representative from Mexico, spoke cheerfully in an interesting manner of the country, the mission undertaken by the people in that locality... Spoke in terms of praise of the sisters.... President Ann C. Woodbury, St. George Stake, felt sure they had a mint in sericulture, realized it would be a benefit to them in taking care of the poor.... Sister Woodbury also urged the sisters to be faithful and work for their dead.... Sister Zina Y. Card talked about home industries.... Thought we as a people had made too much of the things of this world... Thought it was displeasing in the sight of the Lord.... Page 304 IEUTENANT Colonel Mary L. Milligan, Edgewood, Pennsylvania, has taken over the Women's Army Corps command. She entered the WAC in 1942. EAUTIFUL Thailand Princess Wiwam Worawam is secretary to her father, Prince Wan Waithayakon, new President of the General Assembly of the United Nations. She is also being very successful as a general good-will ambassador. RS. GOLDA MER, reared in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, is Israel's Foreign Minister. 8 quarter of a century ago Spanishspeaking women were expected to be "like flowers decorating their homes." The men of their countries felt that being in business, pollitics, universities, and public life in general was "all right for the women of the United States, but not for our women." Today, in Spain, Cuba, and South America women are doing all these things. Young girls study in the universities along with the men. They are very ambitious. Yet with all their modern progress, they retain the romantic beauty and charm of the maidens who coquetted modestly behind iron-grilled windows some years ago. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RS. REED H. (AURELIA PYPER) RICHARDS, an active Latter-day Saint woman, a native of Salt Lake City, was recently named "U. S. Lady of the Year" by the magazine U. S. Lady, which is devoted to problems of servicemen's wives. On the selection committee were the wives of the Secretaries of Defense, Army, Navy, Air Force, and other service leaders. Her husband is Lt. Col. Reed H. Richards, also a Latter-day Saint, formerly of Salt Lake City, now of Fort Bragg, North Carolina. The couple has seven adopted children. Mrs. Richards won enthusiastic personal approval on her national television broadcast, following this honor. RITISH Betty E. Box is a noted producer of motion picture films in England. ALENE DALTON, Salt Lake City's nationally famous Story Princess, told the story, ""The Littlest Angel," on a_ national television broadcast, December 23. The N. A. Donohue Company, Chicago, has recently published a book of Mrs. Dalton's original stories, The Story Princess Stories, charmingly told and beautifully illustrated. Page 305 C—> EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 44 MAY 1957 Pon in Hand HE woman who takes her pen in hand to weave her thoughts into words enters an infinite world of far-reaching influence and_ significance. Her poem or her story may reach the hearts of thousands whom she has never seen, and their spirits may be enlightened and uplifted— may be changed and enriched— through the new patterns woven with familiar words. All the words of the language are ready for the writer to use—all the singing words, all the beckoning words, all the profound words. It is for the woman with her pen in hand to make the new patterns and to mark those patterns with the signature of her own personality, the depth and beauty of her thoughts; it is for her to communicate the meaning of life as it has been given her to understand the worth and the purpose of her days upon the earth. Poetry, as song, was the first form of literature, and it has become a heritage of harmony, singing through the centuries. It partakes of music in its sweep of rhythm; it is like sculpture in its use of form, and it is allied to painting in color and perspective vision. A great and good poem draws its richness from many sources, and may be compared to a precious tapestry of muted or glowing colors, symbolic of the spirit in its everlasting. Search for eternal values. Fictional and imaginative stories Page 306 have been told since time began, and in the scattering of the people, each land developed its epics and sagas, its small romantic legends, its great heroic narratives. Set in its framework of historic perception, the short story can be more than plot and people, more than problems and solutions. In presenting its illuminated segment of life, the story may unify, with the power of words, the discordant threads of earthly existence, and in its revealing design, the story may beckon its reader to heights of spiritual understanding not visible before. The ability to weave a tapestry of words is a precious gift—worthy of use and development. 'The strands for the weaving are endless, and their colors may be patterned in the aspirations and the hopes of women through the ages. Consider the natural world, the beautiful and ever-revealing earth, which the Heavenly Father has given us for our sojourn in time and for our habitation in eternity. Portraits of earth's loveliness may be made with words — perhaps the inspiration may come from a flower or a bird, or the greening hills of home. A writer may speak of the unfolding ways of children, the emotions of a mother's heart, the lasting communion of friendship, the abiding thoughts of maturity, the wise expanse of the minds of the aged. These may be the strands for the EDITORIAL beginning of the weaving, for the design and for the pattern. For the Latter-day Saint woman, the subject matter of her literary composition can be wide and lofty, spiritually beckoning, for to her has been given a priceless legacy of aspiration and understanding. Not only may she choose to recount the emotions and ideals which appeal to her womanhood, but she may place these thoughts in their rightful sequence in the eternal plan of family patterns. A woman, having the heritage of the gospel, may delineate the courageous ways of pioneering with the realization that the light of faith illuminated the dark plains and glowed upon the: unknown mountains. 'The story of sacrifice and accomplishment, the story of banishment and _rebuilding, the story of the desert turned to a garden—how various and how beautiful are the strands for our weaving with words. The poetry of Eliza R. Snow, for whom the Relief Society contest is named, expressed the ideals and yearnings of her people. Her poems were trumpets calling and banners waving; they were evening prayer and home fires burning. She has given to Latter-day Saint women an 307 example and a challenge. Realizing the importance of this challenge to Relief Society and to women interested in writing, the general board has provided an opportunity for the women of the Church to express themselves in poems of lasting significance. Each year the prize-winning poems are published in the Magazine in January, the birthday month of the pioneer poet, Eliza R. Snow. The story contest, initiated in 1942, as a memorial to the centennial year of Relief Society, has been continued since that time, offering to the sisters the wide field of fiction for the expression of themes dear to their hearts. Who will sing with strength and beauty the songs of modern Zion? Who will there be among us to tell the story of our people — their past and their present — their hopes for the future? When a woman takes her pen in hand, she weaves a tapestry which is intended to be shared with her sisters. For this far-reaching purpose, she will choose the strands with care, and she will carefully plan the design, make strong the weaving, and illuminate her tapestry. —V. P. C. Signal by Sun Maryhale Woolsey A little while each day, the sun shines in And lays upon the floor a golden square Patterned with lacy shadows of the leaves The window-arching elms and maples wear. And, watching, I renew a deep sweet sense Of peace, contentment, and serenity; This small design of light and shadow seems A token that all's well, and so shall be. Notes TO THE FIELD Brigham Young University Leadership WVoek Annual "Festival of Learning" — "The Family Faces the Future" BRIGHAM Young University Leadership Week will be held June 24-29, 1957, on the Brigham Young University Campus, Provo, Utah. Relief Society members have found the leadership classes of great interest and value and are looking forward to this year's program. The general board wishes to call to the attention of Relief Society members the following classes which, in addition to many others, it is believed will be of special interest to Relief Society women: Messages of the Doctrine and Covenants Shakespeare For Teachers of Adults Arts and Crafts for Adults Making Our Own Audio—Visual Aids Materials and Methods for Church Choirs Challenges of the Family in the Modern World Roots of Family Happiness Home Nursing Family Night Family Financial Planning "How" and "Why" for the Housewife Fashion Show — "Clothing the Latter-day Saint Family" Parenthood in a Free Nation Elder Roy W. Doxey, author of the theology lessons for the coming year, will teach the course on The Doctrine and Covenants; Elder Briant S. Jacobs, author of the Relief Society literature lessons, will teach the classes in Shakespeare; and Elder John Farr Larson, author of the social science lessons, will teach a course on Latter-day Saint family life. Many excellent courses on family life, in addition to those listed above, will be given. A detailed program may be obtained by requesting a copy of "The Family Faces the Future" from Brigham Young University Adult Education and Extension Services, Provo, Utah. While the instruction and teaching received at Leadership Week are not the official instructions representing Relief Society, yet the material is beneficial because it will supplement and enhance understanding. Page 308 A Year's Supply Mabel L. Anderson HE advice of the Church to store food has brought back to me many happy memories of my childhood. My parents would never think of starting a winter without a year's supply of coal and wood, without the barns full of hay, the granaries full of wheat and oats, the potato cellar bulging, cabbages wrapped in papers, carrots and parsnips dug and placed under the ground, great bins of apples, barrels of meat in brine, and smoked meat hanging from the ceiling, shelves of colorful jams, jellies, fruits, meats, and vegetables. We had, in addition, a case or two of canned goods, at least a hundred-pound sack of sugar, five gallons of honey, a gallon or two of "Dixie" molasses, and, hanging from the ceiling, was a platform on which were several sacks of flour. Before freezing weather, mother always made a goodly supply of homemade laundry soap. With our own cow and chickens, we were "prepared." My parents were not unique. 'That was the way most people lived. It was a sane, safe, secure way of life. We knew that our loved ones and the strangers within our gates would not need to hunger, because we had our cellars and our bins full. Today, as in the past, it is wise to have a year's supply of essentials on hand. Such a plan gives us a feeling of security, a knowledge that we are obeying the counsel of the General Authorities. It is a way of life which has been taught and practiced by faithful Church members over the years. 4 > Flold Every Moment Elise Bailey Collins Listen! The day is a beautiful song Playing for people to hear with their hearts, Hold every moment-note preciously long, Savor the magic before it departs. Violin sunshine and wind-cellos blend; Cymbal-puff clouds echo all through the sky; Quicksilver chords shimmer over a lake, Weaving a melody meant for the eye. Page 309 Be Honest with Yourself Tlodesty Gs the Best Policy MOPESTY, like honesty in the copy book adage, is the best policy. It is the best policy because it is best for you. Modesty is a many-sided virtue. It applies to your manner of speech, your manner of dress, your manner of conduct. And thus it reveals the manner of person you-are. Take speech. One who is modest in speech talks with restraint, sticks to the facts, gives to others the right to their own opinions without comPage 310 promising his own. His opinions are listened to; his advice is often heeded. Modesty in dress is another virtue. Smartness of style and modesty can go together, and often do. On the other hand, to flaunt one's figure, especially before persons of the opposite sex, may excite attention but not inspire admiration. Immodesty in dress is more likely to bring a "whistle call" of dubious compliment than a sincere proposal of honorable friendship. Modesty of conduct also brings its own reward. In a day when vulgarity is sometimes commercialized to the tune of "off beat" dance steps, it may take restraint to be modest on dance floor or in parked car, but true modesty will pay off in the lasting trust and enduring friendships of your companions. To these rewards of modesty you can add another — your own selfrespect — and without self-respect you can never have the true joy of living which a loving Heavenly Father put us here to find and cherish. So — be modest. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF >_> She Cereus Blooms Ethel Jacobson There is no more spectacular flower than the cereus Queen of the Night, whose enormous blooms open in summer for one night only. This is the night long awaited, When all the desert, breath bated, Watches loveliness unfold, Petal by petal, aureoled With lucent silver, till a queen Radiant as a star is seen Mantled in moonlight, crowned with dew Among her night-moth retinue. Dawn finds no trace of wonderment— Only a flowerhead withered, spent, And a ghost of fragrance on the breeze To hint of midnight witcheries. MODESTY IS THE BEST POLICY 311 Recipes CS nemtthie Norwegian |) ision Submitted by Zina R. Engebretsen Fish Bakep In Deep Fat 1 Ib. Fish fillet (can use frozen) Dipping Mixture: salt deep fat 1% c. Flour Y% tsp. Salt White Sauce: VA tsp. Sugar 1 tbsp. Butter % c. Milk 1 tbsp. Flour 1 tbsp. Butter 1-1% c. Milk 1 egg Add to the white sauce: 1 tbsp. Vinegar 2 tbsp. Minced parsley, cucumber cut % tsp. Mustard fine, or capers 1-2 egg yolks Cut the fish in slices of one-half inch, dip in the mixture, and bake in deep fat for about ten minutes. Serve with the sauce. BoiLep Cop 1 Ib. Cod *¥% c. Salt 1 qt. Water 1 tsp. Vinegar Cut the fish in slices of one-half inch and let stand under running water for ten minutes. Place in boiling salt water to simmer for seven minutes. Caution: Do not allow to boil after the fish has been put in. *The salt helps to bring out the flavor of the fish and keeps it firm while cooking. VEILED CountTrRyY-GIRLS 1 c. Bread crumbs ¥% tbsp. Cinnamon 1 tbsp. Sugar Toast the bread crumbs until they are golden brown. Leave to cool. Then sprinkle them with the sugar and cinnamon. Applesauce: 3-4 apples 1-2 tbsp. Sugar "2-1 ¢. Water Cook apples with water and sugar. Cool. Filling: 1 ¢c. Cream % tsp. Vanilla Place the bread crumbs and the applesauce in layers in a bowl and cover with whipped cream. Jam may be added to the top layer, if desired. LAMB IN CABBAGE 4-5 lbs. Lamb or mutton salt 6 Ibs. Cabbage water The meat should be washed in lukewarm water, cut into chunks, and then put into just enough hot, salted water to cover the meat. Skim the grease from the water when it begins to boil. Simmer, with lid on, for one-half hour. Remove from stove. Page 312 RECIPES FROM THE NORWEGIAN MISSION 313 Sauce: % |b. Butter 1 tbsp. Whole pepper (unground) % |b. White flour Melt the butter and blend in the flour. Thin with strained broth. To this sauce, add a layer of meat, and then a layer of washed, cut cabbage, then another layer of meat, and so on, until cabbage and meat have been placed in the sauce. Add the pepper (may be tied in small linen bag). Simmer, with lid on, until tender (at least three hours). LapsKAus 1 Ib. Salted side meat (pork) 1 small onion 1 Ib. Lean beef salt to taste % Vb. Pork fat pepper to taste 1% qt. Potatoes water The lean beef, pork fat, and potatoes are diced, covered with water, and put on to cook. The finely chopped onion, salt, and pepper are added to taste. Boil, under lid, for about one and one-half hours. The salted side pork should be added after the meat has boiled for one-half hour. This dish has a stew-like consistency. You Cannot LeEAvE Me ALONE 2 eggs % ¢. Cold water 2 tbsp. Sugar 1 c. Cream 1 env. Unflavored gelatine "2 tsp. Vanilla Sprinkle gelatine in the cold water to soften. Place on heat to melt. Whip the eggs and mix them with the melted gelatine. Stir slightly until mixture thickens. Pour into a glass bowl and cover with raspberries, strawberries, or other berries or fruit. Then cover with whipped cream. Potition Grace Barker Wilson I did not ask for sun to shine Along my way, But took the brightness or the gloom Day after day. I did not ask that all of joy Should come to me, But laughed or wept as time went on, Impartially. But for my child, I beg the road Be not too rough. Could not for her a few, brief tears Be just enough? The Third House Down Florence B. Dunford HE first Grace Warren knew that their neighbors, across the street and the third house down, were moving was when she saw it in the morning Chronicle. She looked across the breakfast table in the small perfectly appointed dining room at her husband. "T'om, the Normans down the street are moving to California. The Whites had a neighborhood party for them last night." Tom, one of those good-looking homely men, looked up from his half of the paper. "Oh. How come they didn't invite us?" "I guess because we're not friends of the Normans," Grace said. "Well, really, we scarcely know them at all." Grace was slight of build, and blonde, perhaps a little shy. But not really shy, she acknowledged to herself. People, she thought, just any people, were sometimes too much trouble to bother with. Still.... She looked down at the social item again. "The Kains were there," she went on. The Kains lived on the east of Tom and Grace, a house farther away from the Normans than themselves. Still, Betty Kain was more Janis Norman's age than was she, Grace. She read a little farther. ""The Moores were there, too." 'The Moores lived directly across the street; they were much older than even she and Tom. "T saw Olive and Dr. Moore going down the street last night," Grace said. ""Ihey were all dressed up. I wondered where they were going." Page 314 As though he detected the odd note of distress in her voice, 'Tom said, ""The Moores are friends of the Whites, aren't they?" 'The Whites were the ones who gave the party. "Yes, of course,' Grace said quickly. She brushed at an imaginary hair on her forehead. Really, for the last of August it was quite warm. It was not jealousy, of course. The Whites, who gave the party, were a young couple, younger than the Normans, who were moving. All of which added up to the fact, Grace had to admit, that age has little to do with friendship. The thought of the Normans moving away, and all the way to California, arose disturbingly in Grace's mind several times that day. When Mrs. Norman first moved into the third house down, three years ago, she had seemed a friendly sort of person. Though she was a busy one, too, with her three children. Even so she found time for golf. One morning she had even phoned Grace, who had never been to call on her. That was a couple of summers ago. és] was going out to Hill Acres to golf this morning with Betty Kain," Janis Norman had said in her quick, rather abrupt tone. "But now Betty can't go. I was wondering if you might go with me." There had been no good, valid reason, Grace remembered guiltily now, why she couldn't have gone. It was just one of those days when she hadn't cared about it. THE THIRD HOUSE DOWN "T'm sorry," she had told Janis. "T just can't." She hadn't given an excuse. The fact was that she had not had one. "But I have a baby-sitter here!" Janis had been very insistent; her voice almost excited. Evidently she would have to pay the sitter anyway. Or else with her three children, a baby-sitter and an outing had made an occasion for her that she didn't want to miss. GRACE had taken a moment longer. "I'm really very sorry," she had said then. 'Please call me, though, another time." Janis had not called her another time. Very often Grace would be out front as Janis walked by with one or more of the children. But though she always smiled and spoke, she did not stop and chat. This incident and several of less importance kept rising up to trouble Grace all through that night. She had not meant to be unfriendly. When Janis' new baby came, Grace was always going to run down. But somehow she hadn't. Now, this late summer of 1956, the baby was walking. "Tl rather miss the Normans," Grace told Tom that next morning at breakfast. "The children were nice. Sometimes I wished Janis would let their hair grow. I couldn't tell if they were boys or girls. I didn't much like that big old gray dog of theirs, though he never gave us any trouble." The Normans were still on her mind along about eleven-thirty that morning. Grace had been to the grocery store. As she drove their new shiny car into their driveway, Janis Norman, a hand holding each 315 of the two smaller children, was passing. Grace jumped out of the car, banged the door, and with some alacrity hurried out to the street. "Oh, Mrs. Norman!" Grace cried in her most friendly, charming manner. For the instant she could not recall the girl's first name. "I hear you're moving to California. And here I've never gotten acquainted with you yet." "No." Janis Norman showed even white teeth, but Grace could not have called it a very friendly smile. Still Grace persisted. She was truly sorry about it. She supposed it was her fault. "Where to in California?" she asked, wanting to prolong the conversation. "Oakland," Janis Norman said. "How nice!' Grace said, smiling, Funny, she didn't feel at all shy now. Could it be her laziness in getting acquainted had been just complacency, because she and 'Tom were so happy with their new home, their life, and their old friends? "T have two sisters who live out of San Francisco," she persisted now. "It's lovely and sunny in Oakland, I believe." "We've bought a big old house," Janis Norman said. "I'm trying to decide how to decorate it. I was just next door," she went on. "Mrs. Moore invited me to see how she has redecorated hers." Though Grace thought Janis Norman might get some ideas from her own place, too, she didn't feel she could ask her to come in now and see hers. 'hey spoke a moment longer and Grace wished them well. Then Janis Norman and the two children moved on down the street. 316 HE feeling of regret to see her neighbors move away, stayed with Grace. And it was tinged more than ever now with a feeling of conscience. How could she have lived so close to the Normans, and she without any children at home, and never have become acquainted with them? The next day was Wednesday. The weather had turned abruptly cool, though of course it was the last of August. Along about noon Grace took a cushion and a book and sat down on the front step to get the sun. But before she started to read, her eyes wandered down the street. A little shock went through her. In the driveway of the Normans' was a big moving van. The van was a dingy gray, and Shabbier than most vans she had seen. 'The double doors were open on this side. "F...1...." Grace tried to read the name blazoned across the side in red paint, but a tree blocked her effort—as she had blocked Janis Norman's efforts to be friendly? Guilt and regret tugged at her again. Her thoughts went back to yesterday's conversation with Janis. Janis had said that they were leaving today. Yet, even that had not registered on Grace's mind! How could she be so negligent, so careless! How could she put off things the way she did! She had lost an opportunity that could never be recalled. On impulse, Grace jumped up and hurried down the _ street. Skirting the big van and crowding between a tow car and a smaller car at the curb, she went up the walk, rang the doorbell. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 Janis Norman came to the door. "It's I," Grace said humbly. "I saw the van. I didn't really think you were leaving so soon. So soon," she echoed bleakly. "T told you yesterday," Janis said, again with the even, white, rather forced smile. "IT know. I don't know where my mind is," Grace said contritely. "I hate so to see you go. I was wondering if all of you couldn't come up for lunch?" "Janis, Jan!" Mr. Norman's voice came from the rear of the house. "We're all ready. Come get the baby!" "Y'm sorry," Janis said. Just leaving." They were going to stop downtown, Grace knew, or along the way. "Tm sorry, too," Grace said. Tears were in her throat. As she went back up the walk she knew somehow that she would always be sorry. It was something she would never forget. An opportunity lost to be friendly. A chance that would never come again. "We're [' was two weeks later when she looked out her kitchen window and saw a new, shiny green and blue van at the third house down. She was honestly and truly busy that morning. She had _ helped Tom with some letters before he left for work. She was going to a luncheon at twelve. She wanted to put a couple of batches of clothes in her washer and get them on the line, and she couldn't think of going away without the beds made, the house in order. "T'm going down the street," she called out to Tom, who himself was THE THIRD HOUSE DOWN just leaving the house. "Our new neighbors are moving in. I want to get acquainted with them, see if there's anything I can do." If it looked as if they needed help, the housework, she decided, would have to go. As she hurried along, the shyness she had always used as an excuse was not bothering her at all. Perhaps, she admitted honestly, it had never been anything but a shield, an excuse for being self-complacent, for laziness. She skirted the big van, went up 317 the walk. Even so, she decided, it was, perhaps never easy for anyone to make these first friendly advances. But they were necessary. They were what made life worth living. And when they weren't made, there was always the feeling left behind, as it was with her about the Normans, of regret, of something missed, like a shadow across the sun. Grace pressed her finger to the doorbell of her new neighbors. 'This time, at least, the shadow would not be of her making. > She Old-Fashioned Clock Vernessa M. Nagle H°' soothing can be the steady "tick-tock" of an old-fashioned clock. The regular repetition with which fragments of time are checked off can soothe frazzled nerves and afford a feeling of security. To the accompaniment of time's audible metering, memories can be stirred, silent prayers offered, and new resolves made. 'These brief moments of reflection daily can bring solace for disappointments, provide an opportunity for appraisal of values, or afford time to snatch a brief answer to the eternal question, "Whither?" Try stopping in the middle of a task, listening to the sound of fragments of time recorded—not with an attitude of relinquishment, but with a feeling of well being. The next task will be welcomed with greater optimism. Singing Nloments Mabel Jones Gabbott There are moments when the heart must sing; When lilac-laden breezes whisper spring, And husbands pause to press a stolen kiss. The heart goes spiraling in grateful bliss; Or when your three-year-old as twilight ends, Whispers softly, "Mommy, we are friends," And kneels to bless you in his simple prayers, Then raptures choke your speaking unawares. Or after darkened hours when the mind, Hopeless, hurt, bewildered, turns to find Faith reborne on fleet yet fervent wing— Oh, these are moments when the heart must sing. Bright Barrier of the Plains Nell Murbarger VEN the briskly trotting work EL team seemed to sense the big glory of the morning. If the air of the High Plains country still carried a little of winter's bite, and a few small patches of snow still lingered in the deeper coulees, it did not matter, since everything else told of spring's arrival! Our own hearts told us of that miracle: the new blades of grass appearing in the draws, the meadow larks newly returned from the south, the bold, bright blueness of the sky... All these things bore witness to winter's end. Standing proudly upright in the wagon box behind Father and Mother, my _ small, mitten-clad hands clutching the back of the spring seat for support, I looked about at my world. It was a big world — a terribly big world! — and, judged by some standards, I suppose, it might have seemed an empty world. As far as my eyes could range in any direction, was neither fence nor field, neither tree nor trail, and, with our own homestead shanty now hidden behind the shoulder of the hill, there was not even one house anywhere to be seen. In all this wide world, spreading away from our moving horses and wagon, there existed only blue sky and sunshine, and springtime, and gently rolling hills and swales matted over by the cured grass of the previous summer... Grass that never had felt the bite of a plowshare, and only now was beginning Page 318 to know the crunch of steel wagon tires. It would not always be so, Father was saying. He was pointing out the location of the section line that bounded our homestead on the south and east sides — a line still indistinguishable from a million other acres of virgin prairie. He was telling Mother that along that line eventually would run a smooth, hard-surfaced road over which we might haul to market our grain and produce. Grain and produce.... Those were wonderful words to my young ears! Almost as wonderful as the sounds issuing from the rear of the wagon box, where sledge and hammer and axe and post auger were rattling and bouncing together in a merry, mad rhythm, and even that mad rhythm was a poor match for the exultant rhythm in our hearts! On this day — after fourteen months of planning and disillusionment, and waiting and striving and planning again — we were actually to begin work on The Fence... The fence that would set our lands apart, and, for the first time, would bring to our homestead acres a promise of security and the joy of harvest! Thus far, in our homesteading experience, neither security nor harvest had been ours. With the passing of the buffalo, the Great Plains had become an empire for cattlemen whose droves of white-faced Herefords swarmed over the open range, un- BRIGHT BARRIER OF THE PLAINS restrained by boundary, unrestrained by law. When Father and Mother and I had emigrated west to file claim on 160 acres of land, cattle still had held the right-of-way, and the "nester" who dared trespass on their domain might as well accept the fact that neither peace nor crops could be his until his acres were bound about by the bright, singing barrier of barbed wire. But our first summer on the homestead had found a great many tasks to be done, and pitifully little time in which to do them. With building our claim shanty, digging a well, contriving a weather-tight shed for our animals and chickens, and cutting prairie hay and juniper wood for winter, there had been no time available for constructing two miles of fence. Lacking any previous experience with range cattle, Father and Mother had been hopelessly optimistic. Even without a fence, they had supposed, we should be able to raise at least a few "kitchen vegetables"; but it soon became obvious there would be no chance to raise either blade or root. Despite all our efforts to guard against the nightly pillaging of the cattle, we had seen our thriving field of emerald green sod-corn laid to waste by their devastating greed. We had seen our young Hubbard squashes trodden to pulp under their hooves. Even Mother's brave clump of petunias and marigolds by the kitchen door, and the box elder whip Father had planted so hopefully, had met the same discouraging end. I was only a little shaver, but I'll never forget the look that passed 319 over Mother's face the morning she stepped out the door and saw her little flower bed had been completely destroyed during the night. She had been using every drop of her kitchen waste water to keep the plants alive and blooming, and had seemed to draw a great store of strength and comfort from the bright flowers. And now, they were trampled into the earth as though they had never existed. "Just wait!" Father had said, reassuringly. "Things will be different, next year!" Nodding dully, Mother had mumbled something about it being of no importance... But I still remember the tired, beaten look in her eyes as she turned back into the shanty. UMMER is brief in the Great Plains country, and almost before we had realized what was happening, September had sent snow whirling across the land. Throughout the long winter, the gaunt range cattle had milled and bawled around our __ tar-papered claim shack, seeking to gain whatever protection they might from the icy blizzards. Whenever we had stepped out the door, they had circled away warily, pivoting to stare at us from their wild, hollow eyes. It had been impossible not to pity their desperate hunger — even as we had resented their presence on our land — but our meager store of hay had been barely enough to carry our own animals through the long, cold months. All that winter we had _ talked about The Fence. Some of our neighboring homesteaders — either 320 less resourceful or more affluent than we — were planning to fence their claims with split cedar posts imported from the State of Washington. Our posts, however, were to be made from pine saplings cut by Father the previous autumn and hauled from the "cedar breaks," twenty miles away. During the winter evenings we had peeled the bark and scraped each post until it had shone with the white smoothness of ivory; and always, as we worked, we had made plans for the time when we might incorporate those posts into a cattle-tight barrier. At last had come spring; and as soon as the snow was well enough gone that he could find our corner monuments, Father had begun surveying our boundary, sighting from each corner marker to signal flags raised on opposite corners. Stakes had been driven along this line and posts had been strung. HEN the first week of April showed the ground to be free of frost, we had known that our long-awaited fence might, at last, be started. Despite their lack of experience with range cattle, Father and Mother had come from long lines of eastern farm folk and were thoroughly conversant with this business of fence building. As for myself, I was strictly inexperienced labor. I had been in the world but a very short while, and in that period had never built a fence, assisted in building a fence, nor even watched a fence being built. As a matter of fact, I had scarcely seen a fence in all my short life; so about all that could be expected of me was that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 I would stay out of the way at least half the time, would carry the tools and lead the horses forward from one post hole to the next; and, meanwhile, would make a_ reasonable effort to remain unpunctured by cactuses and unbitten by rattlesnakes. This inexperience, however, did not prevent my being terrifically interested in the operation, and every phase of development found me a fascinated spectator. When a hole had been reamed to sufficient depth with the auger, Father would insert the larger end of a post, settling it in place with a few strong blows of the sledge. Mother, using the butt end of the hammer handle, would then tamp the loose earth solidly about the post until the hole was filled and rounded. Meanwhile, Father would have begun digging a new hole, two rods beyond. At noon we sat in the shelter of the wagon and ate a cold lunch of bacon sandwiches and boiled eggs, and not until sundown did we turn homeward. By that time, we were hungry and muscle-sore, and very tired, but posts had been set for the first half mile of fence. Father said it had been a good day's work. Next morning, the barbed wire was strung — the heavy spool being threaded on an iron bar laid across the wagon box. As the horses were driven along the fence line, the spool revolved and the wire played out smoothly behind. Upon reaching the farther end of our half-mile boundary, one end of the wire was attached to the wagon wheel, the other end first having been fastened to a well-anchored corner post. THE OLD TIN TRUNK As the horses strained forward, the wire grew steadily tighter until Father judged it sufficiently well "stretched." Setting the brake, so the wagon could not settle back, he and Mother then started stapling the wire to the proper height on the posts. Ten days later, with two miles of fencing completed, our homestead, for the first time, assumed a definite identity. Before, it had been only 160 acres of prairie sod, lost in the midst of a prairie-sod world, and cryptically designated in records of the Land Office, "NW14 S. 27, Twp. 7, R. 6 E." Now, however, we could see the actual extent of it! All the land encompassed by these three tight, singing wires — all these rolling 321 hills, that rocky butte where the lupines grew tallest, those green draws and fertile slopes — all this was our homestead. Our home, our empire, our world, our universe! The curlews and prairie chickens were free to fly over this fence and to light upon our land. The meadow larks and buntings could nest in our fields if they chose; and the jackrabbits and coyotes might pass through the fence and pursue their age-old ways. With all these we would share gladly our little square of prairie. But never again would we need share with the ravaging hordes of range cattle! Our security from fear, our freedom from want, had come not in legislation nor in proclamation, but in the bright barrier of barbed wire. She Old Sin Srunk Grace W. Ball T was moving day. The accumulation of twenty years was being sorted—some items to be packed for shipping, some to be sent to the Deseret Industries, and much to the trash heap. The basement held the most formidable array of things that had - been saved to the last. Toys, books, and fruit bottles could not all be taken. Only books would be sent, which could not be replaced. One big trunk that held Hawaiian missionary relics would be sent intact. My eye caught the old tin trunk. That was a problem, a sentimental one, too. It had belonged to my grandmother, After her death, it had fallen into mother's hands, and now I was heir to it. For years, when I was a girl, it was brought out of its resting place every spring and fall for airing and cleaning. 'The contents were most fascinating. 'There was the red plush family album, with pictures dating back to the old country, the stern faces of our ancestors, the women with severe hair-dos, and dark men with foreboding mustaches. 'There was an account book kept by my grandmother when she tan a store, soon after arriving in the valley in 1860; baby clothes that had belonged to my mother; and, added to these relics, were 322 treasures of mine and my children. The former things had outlived any sentiment for any but me, and the top of the trunk was rent and bent. The bottom was worn through with rust, and I knew it wouldn't stand the long trip to California. What to do with it was something to ponder. The relics were finally stored in a stout box and labeled. I set the trunk to one side, still thinking of its disposal. 'The time was going by fast, and my husband had warned me about taking anything superfluous. Surely, the trunk was just that. Silly to be so sentimental. Many times the stories had been recounted about my grandmother's trip across the plains. I could see her as a young girl of seventeen pushing a handcart all the way, with her belongings in the tin trunk. Grandmother had been a small person, with shining brown eyes filled with love and compassion for everyone and everything. She was the idol of her large posterity. Her lovely, well-kept home was a sanctuary for all who entered it. Everything about her was famous to all of us. Her currant biscuits, flowers, and genuine hospitality were known throughout the State. The hardships she had borne rested lightly on her shoulders, as her great faith carried her on to higher achievements. We loved to hear her tell of her trip across the plains with its dangers and privations. Now the trunk was one of the last links with that great migration. However, it was useless now and could do no good to anyone, as I thought. I breathed a little prayer of gratitude for her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 life and the heritage she had left us, and then decided on the garbage man as holding the fate of the trunk. The curb was piled high with refuse. I carried the trunk out and put it beside the other items. I was still disturbed about leaving it. The garbage truck was almost full when it arrived at our place, so the man was only able to take about half of the things. The trunk went with the first load. I felt a little easier after it left and decided to forget it and lock my storehouse of memories for the time being. A half hour after the departure of the garbage truck the phone rang. It was my aunt from out in the country, my grandmother's oldest living daughter. I had forgotten that she might be interested in the trunk. "Whatever you do," she said, "don't dispose of the old tin trunk.... You know that trunk is over one hundred years old, was purchased in London, and carried all of mother's belongings as she pushed it across the plains." My heart sank. I stammered out, almost incoherently, the details of the disposal. I assured her that I would do everything to get it back. "It belongs in the museum," she said. Of course it did, why hadn't I thought of that? Fortunately, the garbage man returned for the second load. I rushed out when he came back and told him of my plight. He told me that he had thought it an unusual old piece and had put it to one side and would bring it back to me. I paid him for his trouble, and the trunk was returned to repose in the museum as its rightful place of abode. The Bright Star CHAPTER 3 Dorothy S. Romney Synopsis: Kathy Tracy, an orphan, who wishes to become an artist, lives with her Aunt Emerald Jewel Tracy in an oldfashioned house overlooking San Francisco Bay. In order to help with household expenses, Kathy has applied to a neighbor, Phineas Fenton, who owns a shipping line, for employment, and _ is promised a position in his San Francisco office building. In the meantime, however, Aunt Emerald has a partial stroke, and Kathy gives up the position she has been promised. Jim Parker, in love with Kathy, suggests an immediate marriage, but Kathy declines. During Aunt Em's illness she mentions, incoherently, something about money in a Chinese chest which they keep in Grandfather Tracy's China house. K init walked up the steep hill toward the Fenton mansion. 'The wind blew chill through the lightweight sweater she had hurriedly put on. The Fentons would be inside in front of the fire on this cold evening. She rang the bell timidly, and was told by Tina, the maid, to go into the library. Old Phineas was dozing in front of an open fire, his pink-skinned cheeks lax. Kathy sat stiffly on the edge of the chair and waited. Suddenly the old man sat up straight and blinked his hard, blue eyes until he was awake. He looked at her with the round-eyed stare of an infant. "Hmm," he barked, "what do you want?" "IT don't want anything," Kathy replied. "I came to tell you I won't be able to accept that job you offered me yesterday." "Job! Job! What job?" "Why, the job you promised me in one of your office buildings in San Francisco," she explained. "Oh," the old man grunted, and Kathy had a feeling his memory wasn't as spry as he pretended it to be — that for all his past brilliant career and present riches, he was sinking down into a vague, unremembering, selfish childishness. He scrutinized her closely. Kathy sat quietly and waited. Finally he spoke. "Now where did Old Em get a pretty girl like you? Did a good job when she picked you up." "['m her brother's daughter," Kathy explained patiently. "He died before my mother did. She died when I was born." Old Phin threw his head back against the red leather of his easy chair and roared. "A likely story. Jon Tracy never had but one chick or child, and that one was Miss Emerald Jewel Tracy herself." Behind her, Kathy heard the soft voice of Grace Fenton. "Why, Father, what are you saying? Don't pay any attention to him," she whispered to the girl. "He's getting so old he doesn't remember things rightly." I was right, he is forgetful, and I'll take Grace's advice and not pay any attention, Kathy told herself firmly. She said her goodbyes and started for the front door. As she walked down the path, Old Phineas' words ran through her Page 323 324 mind again. "She did a good job when she picked you up." Just as though Aunt Em had walked up to a batch of new kittens and taken the pick of the basket. Kathy was inclined to dismiss the whole thing, but still, this might explain many past incidents. Why Miss Em—Aunt Em, had always been evasive when Kathy asked to see pictures of her parents, or mementoes of the past. 'Please, Kathy, not now," had been her unchanging answer. ATHY searched the memories of her early childhood. No, there had never been anyone but Aunt Em who cared for her. 'Tears stung her eyes. She was remembering the countless number of times Aunt Em had sewed through the night so that she, Kathy, might have some luxury their meager budget couldn't afford. And her graduation dress! The most beautiful dress in the high school class. She remembered how one of Jon Tracy's precious chests disappeared a short time before Aunt Em bought the frosty, delicate lace that had taken days to make into the exquisite dress, explaining "A Tracy must have the best." And now! Was it really possible that she wasn't a Tracy at all, but a waif Aunt Em had picked up some place? The house was dark, and Kathy felt cold fear rushing at her. Where was Marta, the nurse Dr. Ransome had sent in to care for Aunt Em? She opened the door and went into the kitchen. "T'm glad your're back," Marta whispered, so close to Kathy's ear it startled her. "I didn't turn on a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 light. We've had a prowler. He was poking around the China house." "Nonsense," said Kathy, and immediately flooded the kitchen with light. "If it will make you feel any better, though, Pll take Grandfather Tracy's sea glasses and have a look around. It may not be too dark." She took a flashlight and the glasses from the cupboard, and started up the stairs to the eight-sided cupola at the tip-top of the gray house. Night had spread its velvet mantle, but there was a full moon rising. Kathy directed her search toward the China house. 'There was no one there, she made sure of that, and was about to return to the kitchen when she saw a black object moving up Pine Road. She trained her glasses on it. It was a small coupe. It was then that Kathy remembered she'd left one of the chests in the China house unlocked when she'd gone down to search for the "bright star" yesterday to please Aunt Em. It had never before occurred to her that someone might be interested in the store of souvenirs and trinkets that Jon 'Tracy had brought from almost every foreign land during his years of piloting one of Phineas' freighters. She decided to check tomorrow and see if anything had been disturbed. We OK HK OK HE September sun flashed goldred lights from Kathy's lovely hair as her head nodded to the thythm of the hoe. She had neglected the garden shamefully during the last few tension-filled weeks since Aunt Em had become ll. THE BRIGHT STAR Besides, working in the fresh air might clear her mind and perhaps she could think of a plan whereby she might stay home and take care of Aunt Em, and earn a living at the same time. Marta was due to leave in a weck's time. Her own family needed her for a while. She shivered slightly as a gust of wind blew around the corner of the China House, then she started hoeing faster. She'd be warm soon enough if she worked as fast as she should to rid the garden of its accumulation of weeds. She heard the drone of a motor up the slope, and hoped it wasn't Jim — the garden needed weeding so desperately. She worked on, then stopped and looked up when she heard footsteps just beyond the berry patch at the end of the cabin platform. She saw the tall figure of a man peering in the window of the China house. "What are you doing here?" she demanded. "You're probably that prowler Marta saw last night?" "Probably," he agreed, turning around. Kathy was startled to see how pale and thin his face was. His eyes were shaded with a pair of dark glasses. "I had decided the place was uninhabited, and I could move right in, as there were no lights anywhere last night. However," he said, "T'm willing to pay rent." "To pay rent on what?" Kathy challenged. He laughed briefly. "On this contraption," he said, indicating the China house. "It's exactly the spot I need to recuperate from an illness, and I need it right away." 325 Kathy's heart softened at the mention of his illness, but his request was out of the question. "I'm sorry,' she said, "but it would be impossible for us to rent you the China house." She picked up her hoe and started working again. "The China house, is it?" he pondered. "And just why isn't it for rent? I'm prepared to pay far more than it is worth." Kathy was beginning to be annoyed at his persistence. "Because it's sort of a shrine," she explained. "My grandfather built it... It was his favorite spot, and he stored all of his treasures—relics in it." What a difficult man, she thought, then could have bitten off her tongue when she blurted out: "And don't you go bothering Aunt Em, she is far too ill." PPARENTLY the information that Kathy was not the person in charge around here was exactly what he was looking for. He turned and made straight for the house, with Kathy trailing along after him as fast as she could. She was right on his heels, protesting, when he rapped on the screen door of the kitchen. Marta, washing dishes at the sink, turned, startled. "You look like the prowler last night," she spoke impulsively. "I apologize for that," he said, coming unbidden into the kitchen. "All I wanted was to look in the cabin. I want to rent the cabin down by the water. You'd think I was a highway robber the way this young lady has been treating me." He laughed briefly. Marta dried her hands. "You 326 may as well go in," she said, nodding towards Miss Em's room. "She couldn't have helped but hear, and the cabin belongs to Miss Em." The three of them trooped into Miss Em's room, and Kathy explained the offer to her aunt. When she was through, she was astonished to see Aunt Em indicate that she'd take the offer. As Kathy accepted the money for the rent, she gritted her teeth hard and felt the hot tears stinging her eyelids. Oh, she thought, surely life RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 is hard enough right now without having a stranger under one's very nose for goodness knows how long! Besides having to give up our China house! "At least," said Kathy to Miss Em, after Marta had ushered their new tenant, Marc Hale, out, "it'll pay Marta's wages," and she noted that Miss Em looked grimly satisfied. She leaned over and impulsively kissed her aunt's cheek. "I'm going back to the garden," she said. (To be continued) May s Promise Catherine E. Berry The chugging tractor crawls across the field, And leaves brown ribbons lying in straight lines, For as the earth is turned, so shall it yield, When growth fills these symmetrical designs. A faith as old as man is breathing here, May's promise of new life is shining bright, The spring has come again with this new year, And seeds will root and grow through day and night. The wonder of this month, the magic found, Renews the heart as busy hands drop seeds, The knowledge of the harvest from this ground Sustains the mind, gives answer to our needs. Man turns the earth and plants the fragrant sod, Holding within his heart his faith in God. Jn Compensation Eleanor W. Schow No day ever brought a trial When sorrow or pain befell, But before its end some tender friend Brought balm to my heart as well. Then sustained by her cup of kindness And the healing rays of her smile, With my grief subdued and my faith renewed My day was again worthwhile. Mary C Hendry, Artist in Handicraft M** C. Hendry, Salt Lake City, Utah, loves beauty in all its forms. She writes descriptive poetry with a discriminating selection of words and phrases; she has made an illustrated scrapbook for each of her great-grandchildren. She has shared her spiritual insight and her many blessings with her large family and her neighbors, living daily her motto: "Love your Heavenly Father, love your neighbors, develop a sense of humor, and keep busy." Her handicraft hobbies have brought much pleasure to Sister Hendry and have beautified the homes of hundreds who have received her handmade articles as gifts. She makes crocheted doilies of many intricate patterns, designs and makes appliqued tablecloths, pieces quilts in original patterns, and makes lovely gifts of "odds and ends" of materials. On July 6, 1957, Mary Hendry will be one hundred years old. She is mother of eight children, grandmother of twenty, great-grandmother of forty-six, and great-greatgrandmother of one. Her long life has been devoted to family, friends, and to her Church—a century of loving service. > Sriu mp h, Eva Willes Wangsgaard It's not the prize I won that set me flying My little banner starred with joy and pride; But this: I struggled through the body's crying And did not heed the ache to turn aside. Page 327 Magazine Subscriptions for 1956 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp HE callings of stake and ward, mission and branch Relief Socicty Magazine representatives, if faithfully performed, have far-reaching results. Not only do they render service to Relief Society today through bringing the spirit of Relief Society into Latter-day Saint homes within the stakes of the Church and in the far distant lands of the earth, but their work will not be forgotten in the years ahead. By commandment of the Lord, the Latter-day Saints are a recordkeeping people. So, today, we turn to the pages of the Woman's Exponent to read of the record of Relief Society from 1872 to 1914, as it was reported from societies in that day. And for the enlightenment of those sisters, we find our early great Relief Society leaders sharing their experiences of Nauvoo in the pages of the Woman's Exponent. These precious papers give us understanding and appreciation of Relief Society's work of earlier years. Had sisters of that day not acted as agents for the Woman's Exponent, these copies would not be found today. In this day The Relief Society Magazine is presenting and preservRelief Society history. 'To the Magazine representatives throughout the world, the general board expresses its heartfelt thanks for their love of Relief Society which urges them to fulfill their callings so nobly. Year by year, as the blessings of Relief Society are extended to a greater Page 328 membership of Latter-day Saint women, The Relief Society Magazine likewise enters new portals to bring inspiring and refining influences to an enlarged circle of sisters. The increase in number of subscriptions in 1956 is the largest recorded — 10,465 — the subscriptions as of December 31, 1956 were 148,562 and the number in December 31, 1955 was 138,097. When one considers the zeal and effort sometimes expended in securing one subscription, one may realize even though dimly, the great amount of work and the devotion which this great number of subscriptions represents. One year's award subscription which is given to each Magazine representative whose subscriptions equal seventy-five per cent of the respective enrolled Relief Society membership, is but a small token of regard. The reward to Magazine representatives is in the blessings which each one receives for having accepted the calling and faithfully per. Formed it, and these blessings are not confined to our life here. Recently a mission Relief Society president said that she considered The Relief Society Magazine one of the best proselyting mediums in the mission over which her husband presides. For the tenth year, South Los Angeles Stake leads the stakes of the Church with 253 per cent. 'They have 1143 enrolled Relief Society members and 2896 subscriptions. MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1956 South Gate Ward of that stake reached 481 per cent, with eightyfive members and 409 subscriptions. In 1956 there are 222 stakes on the honor roll and 1949 wards. 'This compares very favorably with the 1955 report which had 204 stakes on the honor roll and 1739 wards and branches in stakes. 'Twenty-six stakes in 1956 had every one of their wards over one hundred per cent, which is seven less than last year. Fifteen missions are on the honor roll in 1956, an increase of one over the previous year, and 642 branches, whereas there were only 486 mission branches on the honor roll in 1955. 'Ihe missions are to be commended for this excellent increase. As each Magazine representative goes about her calling, her interest is centered — and rightly so — upon 329 her particular ward or branch. The stake and mission Magazine representatives are concerned with larger geographic-ecclesiastical units, but the real significance of the work of the Magazine representative is approximated only when the statistics for the entire Church are studied. Then the light of the service of each faithful, devoted individual Magazine representative joined with the lights of hundreds of her sister Magazine representatives bursts into a great flame of service. It is the hope of the general board that the words of instruction and encouragement in The Relief Society Magazine may be as a lamp to help guide the sisters who read and follow the teachings of their beloved Relief Society. Then will the Magazine representatives feel their labors have indeed borne fruit. Honors for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California) 253% Magazine Representative—Edna C. Stoutsenberger Ward South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 481% Magazine Representative—Eva Guynn Branch Eloy Branch, Mesa Stake (Arizona) 280% Magazine Representative—Flora Johnson Mission California Mission—103% Mission Relief Society President—Alta H. Taylor Mission District South Texas District, Gulf States Mission—130% Magazine Representative—(None given) Mission Branch Franklin Branch—250% West Virginia North District, East Central States Mission Magazine Representative—Maycel W. Sponaugle 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 Ten Highest Percentages in Stakes Sowth Loswhnngales..... Cccv.. Ere--seworeeve-vevevoevorenssd2g. Gllomadalle:.......... Sscnecsosenscossceoceosscensceccesssnsenvessecass 162:. Rio «:......-...28:... Re ___ ae150 OTTO «a.... Nnnnnsnn-nnnsnnssisansananeaanennnen-xse-naseee—-- 146. PRCT nnn see ceese sce nee eonenseenmannsinrsceneneees 138 oe a nn a134 DRAW pi aaa cease nnn nee oool 3es Santa) Monicay....... Ccose.—_.. Csscceuswsees———nasesurges. 28 Wye. THMMODAINC.. Cccssne oon nevnsno-nnsiusnnensunsnmsunssvertilizr one-ocs126.. OPTI nen ennennenennseenacnnenerornncaenaannenernenacs126.... Dna C. Stoutsenberger.. EIsie Weber.... Flora Buggert... Helen D. Jensen.... Martha J. Erickson...-Leona B. Hansen -Ione Church -Kathleen Savage.. Edith McKenny.-Helen G. Baxter Missions Achieving Ten Highest Percentages CMMI anna stn ena nnnnentltetion nn ncttesnereee103 Central States.............. Ccccecseeeecseseeeseseceeeeeeeees1OBs-.- WERE "SUAHES nn... Eccenenecndttnncennene ae eonniibee103... Gulf States -.......... Se -_ aees,_. An100..... Northern California -.....02020000000. 02sec eens a7 Whest Comtrade States: -.... Ciccsis.... Sieeeeneensctnceceneee lG... Theater SWateS ec... Cia..... Scssisscoseerennssvesssvernecnees 94. GaMAMIOD o.. N.-.2non.-cnnennennnncnneneevensesnnensssasesterieee 89. Northern States 22.20.0000. Eee ceeeeeeeeeeneeee 88... North Central States......0000020.2 ee eects 88...... Alta H. Taylor Mae E. J. Dyer Mildred P. Elggren Phyllis D. Smith -Hazel S. Love -Marteal W. Hendricks..-Florence S. Jacobsen... Leah H. Lewis. Nettie P. Smoot Dora H. England Ten Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions South Los Angeles 2896 Fast Jordan 917 Glendale 1058 Sugar House 911 San Diego 999 West Pocatello 908 South Salt Lake 949 Big Horn 899 Ensign 936 Fast Los Angeles 894 Ten Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions West Central States 1438 Central Atlantic States 9°05 Southern States 1174 Western States 785 Central States 1061 Northwestern States 747 Great Lakes 1005 Northern States 724 Eastern States 985 California 661 Stakes in Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or Over Holladay............... Audrie M. Kennington Idaho Falls........... Josie N. Scoresby Inglewood............. Janet C. Medina Las Vegas............. Lila H. Leavitt South Los Angeles. Edna C. Stoutsenberger West Pocatello..... Lona G. Slayden WHIRGIC....... Ccoeccsee=Lois Jensen Bonneville............. Ruth Peterson Burbank...............-. Edith McKenny Burley.........--------+- Jone Church Cottonwood......... Mabel R. Baker Covina..........20-s:000 Helen G. Baxter East Long Beach. Margaret Bryan East Los Angeles.. Orlene N. White East Mill Creek... Barbara L. Beesley East Sharon......... Edna M. Hansen Glendale..............-Elsie Weber Liberty.....-.....200-.-. Katherine H. McOmie Malad oo... Eee. Elizabeth B. Facer Ogquitth.......2.0...... Helen D. Jensen Pasadena.............--Vera Jean N. Jones Pocatello...........----Esther H. Hanks EOVO®..................... Flora Buggert Rexburg.......0.00005. Martha J. Erickson St. Joseph 0.0.0.0... Nira P. Lee Santa Monica....... Kathleen Savage Shelley...........-.---.-- Merle Young MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1956 Mission Percentages on Honor Roll California Central States Wester States Gulf States Norther California South Los Angeles Glendale Provo Oquirth Rexburg San Joaquin Burley Santa Monica Burbank Covina Shelley Long Beach Inglewood Idaho Falls New York Gridley East Long Beach San Francisco Minidoka San Diego Las Vegas Orange County Holladav Bonneville Valley View North Jordan Monument Park Maricopa Cottonwood Union Bakersheld San Bernardino Liberty Stakes by Percentages 253 162 150 146 138 134 133 132 126 126 123 121 120 120 119 119 115 117 117 116 114 114 114 113 113 112 liz 111 111 111i 110 110 110 West Central States Eastern States Canadian North Central States Northem States Nyssa East Sharon Blackfoot Pocatello South Box Elder Humboldt South Idaho Falls South Ogden Reseda West Pocatello San Jose South Salt Lake Calgary Mt. Graham Bountiful M«apa Portland Weiser Granite Los Angeles Portneuf Sacramento Sugar House Boise Malad Wilford St. Joseph North Davis Spanish Fork Yellowstone Ogden West Utah East Los Angeles iy fe) wi wi vi Northwestern States Great Lake: Southern States Wetern Canadian New England North Tooele Hayward Pasadena Bear River North Idaho Falk Kansas City Emigration Fast Millcreek Grand Junction East Mesa Phoenix Uintzh Mesa Wells East Provo American Falls San Juan Mt. Rubidoux Grant Rose Park North Rexburg Benson Salt Lake San Femando Wasatch East Phoenix Denver Twin Falls Butte Riverside Millereck Nampa 331 104 a » a -_ bo Lal bot od eal a oy a he be bt bee be bo be bee Ld ee Le) eo o 8 VW Yo DOD vY bBo DO GO Oo Oo OB Oa HO BY HW YW aAwY oO DO WO 0 Se ee | ne | fey i) a © ud ad ed Gud ud mt et (~y Q 332 South Bear River Big Horn Taylor East Rigby Lake Mead Chicago Highland Rigby Seattle West Boise Park Zion Park Palmyra Teton East Jordan Redondo Tacoma Southern Arizona Ensign North Box Elder St. Johns North Pocatello Taylorsville Reno Grand Coulee Timpanogos Star Valley Utah Cassia El Paso North Sacramento Mt. Jordan Kolob Washington South Blackfoot Bannock Tooele Woodruff South Summit Kanab Young East Ogden Murray Idaho Nebo Raft River Duchesne RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 Deseret Franklin Palo Alto Weber Alberta St. George Columbia River Houston Flagstaff Lethbridge Lost River Cache Parowan Cedar South Carolina Bear Lake Oakland-Berkeley West Jordan Oneida Lake View Ben Lomond Detroit Florida Grantsville Pioneer Dallas Davis North Sevier Garfield Lorin Farr East Cache Nevada Uvada Juab North Weber Emery Walnut Creek University Beaver Orem Blaine Mt. Logan Smithfield Wayne Carbon Fresno Gooding South Davis San Luis Spokane Alpine Montpelier Salmon River North Carbon Sharon North Sanpete New Orleans Millard Canyon Rim Springville Temple View Roosevelt Mt. Ogden Panguitch Cannon Riverdale Lehi Richland Farr West Santa Rosa Summit Santaquin-Tintic Juarez University Logan Snowflake South Sevier Honolulu South Sanpete Layton Hyrum Santa Barbara Hillside Morgan Willamette Gunnison Klamath Lyman Moon Lake Moroni Oahu 54 Brigham Young University [Limited Participation | Relief Society Alberta Alpine American Falls Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaver Ben Lomond Benson Big Horn Blackfoot Blaine Boise Bonneville Bountiful Burbank Burley Butte Cache Calgary Cannon Canyon Rim Carbon Cassia Cedar Chicago Columbia River Cottonwood Covina STAKES ON HONOR ROLL—1956 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 650 581 89 952 786 83 338 3438 101 440 486 110 376 352 94 526 457 87 495 515 104 505 427 85 466 401 86 587 592 101 905 899 99 540 590 109 289 244 84 472 500 106 734 832 113 750 807 108 552 697 126 608 808 1383 3864 364 100 618 545 88 876 406 108 428 345 80 630 505 81 712 594 88 3823 3807 95 641 559 87 452 446 99 563 502 89 3389 3875 111 515 650 126 Magazine Representative Ethel C. Pitcher Della M. Spafford Enid W. Thornton Virginia C. Hodson Ida Sorensen Millie Sprouse Lottie R. Potter Beulah Wood Elnora S. Empey Ruth J. White Pear] Asay Carol G. Williams Hazel Perron Della Means Ruth Peterson Eunice H. Van Orden Edith McKenny Ione Church Harriet Millecam Alice D. Griffin Hollie Sallenback Mildred W. Shortt LaVerna Ricks Gertrude W. Edwards Edith Warr Venice W. Prince Florence G. Andrew Viola Hackett Mabel R. Baker Helen G. Baxter Relief Society Dallas Davis Denver Deseret Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Millcreek East Ogden East Phoenix East Provo East Rigby East Sharon El] Paso Emery Emigration Ensign Farr West Flagstaff Florida Franklin Fresno Garfield Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee EnrollSubscriptions 539 463 86 778 666 86 792 793 100 780 705 90 336 289 86 219 ls 90 780 664 85 9438 917 97 658 773 117 856 894 104 654 668 102 248 256 103 670 619 92 556 558-100 A771 479 102 582 576 99 322 352 109 346 329 95 727 616 85 448 464 104 968 936 97 593 460 78 316 281 89 431 371 86 761 685 90 472 393 83 279 239 85 652 1058 162 502 518 88 489 468 96 Magazine Representative Opal Burch Effie B. Miller Bernice H. Brown Alpha Nielson Nora Jane Souter Ora Holgate Ines B. Bergeson Vera Cowley Margaret Bryan Orlene M. White Elva M. Brown Barbara L. Beesley Laurel B. Spencer Cora L. Mack Jane S. Watkins Dale H. Burtenshaw Edna M. Hansen Lola P. Wiley Dorthella Williams Adeline Jensen Mabel E. Wood Lila J. Lutz Barbara Cline Gertie Mae Keller Phyllis W. Kingsford Lucile H. Wright Lula Neilson Elsie Weber Hazel Pratt Florence E. Young HONOR ROLL 333 ment No. Pct. Relief Society Grand Junction Granite Grant Grantsville Gridley Hayward Highland Holladay Houston Humboldt Idaho Idaho Falls Inglewood Juab Juarez Kanab Kansas City Kolob Lake Mead Lake View Las Vegas Lehi Lethbridge Liberty Logan Long Beach Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Malad STAKES ON HONOR ROLL—1956 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 891 400 102 653 702 107 766 775 101 454 390 86 494 586 119 437 456 104 fol 876 98 612 695 114 502 447 89 191 208 109 420 382 91 596 715 120 512 617 120 507 4380 85 Eo wa i("% 436 403 92 289 300 104 460 434 94 298 290 99 627 541 86 629 718 114 621 495 80 681 606 89 803 882 110 5383 405 76 509 727 121 555 473 85 588 626 106 257 227 88 537 569 106 Magazine Representative Zelda L. Broadhead Toni D. Landwatter Evelyn L. Larsen Ruth Rydalch Lavaun Papa Agnes M. Nelson Lucy Harman Audrie M. Kennington Ida Mae Malone Charlotte S. Ferguson Jennie S. Gilbert Josie N. Scoresby Janet C. Medina Alligee L. Anderson Rhoda C. Taylor Nellie Heaton Erma Raper Hilda W. Cherrington Deney C. Stout Glenda Thompson Lila H. Leavitt Rosa Ashton Emily L. Anderson Katherine H. McOmie Ruby W. Amussen Silva Mahnken Maude P. Close Velma Shurley Marie Acor Elizabeth B. Facer Relief Society Maricopa Mesa Millard Millcreek Minidoka Moapa Montpelier Monument Park Mount Graham Mount Jordan Mount Logan Mount Ogden Mount Rubidoux Murray Nampa Nebo Nevada New Orleans New York North Box Elder North Carbon North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Sanpete North Sevier North Tooele EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 637 706 111 805 819 102 587 479 82 555 554 100 peo 677 117 280 301 108 715 590) =—83 744 867 112 576 621 108 769 726 94 658 551 84 642 520 81 579 587 101 953 876 92 698 696 100 665 603 91 396 337 85 275 226 8&2 326 389 119 604 583 97 452 372 82 817 861 105 818 851 104 665 747 112 486 468 96 639 645 101 552 524 95 632 520 82 402 344 86 475 496 104 Magazine Representative Beverly A. Harris Lola C. White Ethel B. Baker Orel A. Grennig Shirley R. Eames Era C. Jones Hilda Parker Beryl Newsome Ethel Cook Bertha S. Powell Lola H. Gibbons Shirley E. Wade Hilda Peel Clara M. Duffin Mollie Miller Vida H. Moore Urva Morley Evelyn G. Talbert Lyle N. Paine Christine N. Bott Marie Bryner Thora A. Martin Winona Telford Louisa Bradley Tura Hadley Arvilla Parkinson Laura P. Brew LaRue Burnside Rhea Mickelsen Mary M. McKeller 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 North Weber Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden Oneida Oquirrh Orange County Orem Palmyra Palo Alto Panguitch Park Parowan Pasadena Phoenix Pioneer Pocatello Portland Portneuf Provo Raft River Redondo Reno Reseda Rexburg Richland Rigby Riverdale Riverside Roosevelt Rose Park Sacramento St. George St. Johns St. Joseph 612 459 708 630 677 418 453 724 607 729 460 773 363 620 788 579 465 586 444 452 190 612 610 345 606 601 726 548 775 527 466 433 846 416 558 519 598 613 661. 585 610 516 612 591 654 372 756 any 646 805 498 508 630 472 680 172 595 585 875 834 468 714 440 775 427 A471 460 756 401 589 85 110 87 105 86 146 114 85 97 90 81 98 87 104 102 86 109 108 106 150 91 on 96 109 138 78 98 80 100 81 101 106 89 96 106 Esther H. Butler Vonda Huntington Ida C. Wolsey Chloe F. Summerill Mada Larsen Helen D. Jensen Fay L. Peterson Ella Washburn Juanita J. Howard Inez Suhlsen Ruby D. Whittaker Pearl E. Rhode Bertha W. Mitchell Vera Jean N. Jones Rose Openshaw Emma O. Frenette Esther H. Hanks Gertie Lewis Ada L. Parris Flora Buggert Alice O. Neddo Clarice Rentmeister Pear] S. Robison Hazel T. Oviatt Martha J. Erickson Ellis B. Smith Ruey A. Ball Edith Stacy Isabelle Sugden Katie Duncan Elizabeth N. Price Martha V. Gattiker Agnes S. Pickett Glenda G. Pulsipher Nira P. Lee Salmon River Salt Lake San Bernardino San Diego San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Juan San Luis Santa Monica Santa Rosa Santaquin-Tintic Seattle Sevier Sharon Shelley Smithfield Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Box Elder South Carolina South Davis South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles South Ogden South Salt Lake South Sevier South Summit Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Spokane Springville 195 ceo 485 864 529 A411 519 470 A474 487 484 468 413 823 822 499 668 673 628 560 581 631 446 662 704 1143 637 878 512 424 636 560 584 499 161 803 534 999 532 481 696 508 481 404 638 363 316 809 834 A411 821 562 A477 5do7 546 688 389 551 767 2896 694 949 382 396 612 590 483 405 83 101 110 116 101 117 134 108 101 83 132 78 rl 98 101 82 123 84 76 99 94 109 87 83 109 253 109 108 75 93 97 105 83 81 Anna Young Francis L. Kooyman Kathleen Cronin Enid Miller Cleo Hupp Gertrude P. Terry Leona B. Hansen Katherine M. Shaw Vivian W. Redd Opal McDaniel Kathleen Savage Dorothy Blaisdell Sylvia Steck Chelta D. Brown Iva Mae Ogden Norma Dee Jameson Merle Young Phyllis N. Allsop Irene Bates Dorothy B. Kerr Ruth Dance Naomi P. Larkin Blanche Stuckey Elsie Logsdon Wynnette K. Card Edna C. Stoutsenberger Ruth F. Jackson Hannah Deitrich Margaret Bown Susie D. Andrus Maud B. Post Dora H. Cloward Louise N. Davidson Clara Sumsion HONOR ROLL 335 Relief Society Star Valley Sugar House Summit Tacoma Taylor Taylorsville Temple View Teton Timpanogos Tooele Twin Falls Uintah Union University Utah Uvada Valley View Walnut Creek Wasatch Washington Wayne Weber Weiser Wells West Boise EnrollSubscriptions ment gil eg 859 345 570 659 618 780 511 662 443 767 860 487 612 584 303 407 419 690 691 821 172 435 875 482 No. 685 901 266 554 655 594 633 498 633 414 768 877 539 518 510 258 461 355 694 652 268 691 468 891 472 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL—1956 Pet. 96 106 77 oH 99 96 81 on 96 93 100 102 ial 85 96 85 113 85 101 94 83 90 108 102 98 Magazine Representative Vera H. Roberts Nellie J. Ehlers Thelma P. Brown Afton B. Dickson Nellie T. Ririe Afton L. Smith Mabel E. Snow Ruby F. Christiansen Ethel Fenton Jewel Halgren Hazel W. Stevens Elsie M. Palmer Lenora Blanchard Olive W. Coombs Bertha R. Memmott Edna Sprague Dorie N. Walton Fern S. Greenwood Leda E. Titus Mary E. Stimpson LaVird W. Balle Florence W. Wright Irene H. Winegar Edith H. Koelliker Georgia H. Weenig Relief Society West Jordan West Pocatello West Utah Wilford Woodruff Yellowstone Young Zion Park California Canadian Central States Eastern States Great Lakes Gulf States New England North Central States Northern California Northern States Northwestern States Southern States West Central States Western Canadian Western States ment 941 836 588 483 518 784 A493 374 No. 814 908 617 512 484 826 456 366 EnrollSubscriptions Pet. 87 109 105 106 93 105 92 98 MISSIONS 641 565 1032 1050 1179 561 525 534 432 840 868 1418 1514 563 763 661 502 1061 985 1005 561 417 468 421 724 TA7 1174 1438 451 785 103 89 103 94 85 100 79 88 of 88 86 83 95 80 103 Magazine Representative Vivian Ray Ione G. Slayden Edith Baum Lois Jensen Naomi B. Harris Alta H. Murdock Ida L. Allen Lillian E. Roundy Alta H. Taylor Leah H. Lewis Mae E. J. Dyer Florence S. Jacobsen Mary Pehrson Christensen Phyllis D. Smith Margaret R. Jackson Dora H. England Hazel S. Love Nettie P. Smoot Effie K. Driggs Lucile Bunker Marteal W. Hendricks Annie B. Larson Mildred P. Elggren 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for '""Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Mae C. Johnson WEST JORDAN STAKE (UTAH), HERRIMAN WARD, NOTES THIRTYFIFTH YEAR OF ONE HUNDRED PER CENT VISITING TEACHING The present visiting teachers are, front row left to right: Georgie Swasey; Fern Poor; Tola Butterfield; Nora Crane; Daisy Poor; Phyllis Swasey; Second row: Mae Read; Martha Christensen; Leone Parry; Persilda Eastman; Mayme Ingram; Bessie Butterfield. Third row: Dot Miller; Lottie Bodell, President, Herriman Ward Rclief Society; Mary Crane. Sister Mae C. Johnson, President, West Jordan Stake Relief Society, writes that Sister Bodell reports 'that many of these sisters have wonderful individual records. Sister Nora Crane, mother of seven children, has a perfect record of forty-three years. Sister Fern Poor has been a visiting teacher for thirty-five years. Sisters Martha Christensen, Leone Parry, and Persilda Eastman have been visiting teachers for twentyfive years." Sister Johnson also reports "Herriman has a flourishing organization with many young women enjoying Relief Society with their older sisters," Page 337 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 Photograph submitted by Betty Jo C. Reiser ROSE PARK STAKE (UTAH), ROSE PARK THIRD WARD VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT LUNCHEON, February 8, 1957 The visiting teachers of Rose Park Third Ward were honored at an "Academy Award" luncheon, given by the presidency, February 8, 1957, for completing three years of one hundred per cent visiting teaching. Sister Betty Jo C. Reiser, President, Rose Park Stake, reports, "The teachers are the mothers of 176 children, 113 of whom are under eight years of age and must be tended by other mothers in the ward when their own mothers do visiting teaching." Seated, left to right on the front row are Betty Jo C. Reiser, Ruth J. Harrison, and RosLynn W. Bunting, who have served as presidents of the ward Relief Society during the one hundred per cent record. Louise Linton, fourth from left, front row, is visiting teacher message leader. Photograph submitted by Margie D. Barber ZION PARK STAKE (UTAH), HURRICANE SOUTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE ONE HUNDRED PER CENT VISITING TEACHING FOR SIX YEARS Front row, left to nght: Fmmarene Graff, President, Hurricane South Ward Relief Society; Josephine Sandberg; Annie Stout; Sarah Thurston; Sarah Hinton; Rose Scow; Mary Workman; Mattie Spendlove; Lovinia Campbell; LaRue Heaton, Work Director Counselor, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 339 Second row: Alice Thurston; Mildred Bliss; Allie Wright; Doris Barber; Thelma Stirling; Kathleen Black; Sybil Hirschi; Isabell Hinton; Edna Heywood; Amelia Heaton; Artie Reeve. Third row: Vera Ballard; Mary Wright, Secretary-Treasurer; Winona Beatty; Helen Hall; Leone McMullin; Eva Woodbury; Itha Workman. Back row: Lettie Whitney; Elva Samuelson; Lorraine Lewis; Ruth Hinton; Beth Humphries; Margaret Nuttall; Sarah Lemmon; Margie D. Barber, Stake Relief Society President; Guenivere White; Delma Lemmon, Photograph submitted by Della H. Teeter DENVER STAKE (COLORADO) SINGING MOTHERS CHRISTMAS TREE BECOMES ANNUAL PROGRAM Sister Della H. Teeter, President, Denver Stake Relief Society, reports: "This Singing Christmas tree is presented every year at the December Union Meeting and also in several of the wards. Christmas carols and stories are used in the program, which is produced and directed by Sister Reta R. Beck, stake Relief Society chorister, on the left side of the tree in center and Sister Alleen Brown, stake Relief Society organist, right side of tree in center." 340 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 Photograph submitted by Aliene N. Bloxham HUMBOLDT STAKE (NEVADA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, January 13, 1957 Dora Westover, stake chorister, is on the front row at the right. Since Anna V. Nielson, stake organist, was away, Helen Wright, who is on the back row, third from right, accompanied the chorus. Sister Aliene N. Bloxham, President, Humboldt Stake Relief Society, writes: "We have tried so hard to have a Singing Mothers chorus in our stake, and at last we feel we are well on our way, having furnished the music for the stake conference for the first time." Photograph submitted by Ruth F. Heninger LETHBRIDGE STAKE (CANADA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Sister Ruth F. Heninger, President, Lethbridge Stake Relief Society, reports that the Singing Mothers' participation was "a successful undertaking and there were a few over a hundred, so we were very pleased." Standing at the right are Sister Ruby Pierson, (left); and Sister Grace Buchon, far right, chorister and organist, respectively. Seated next to Sister Pierson, Ruth F. Heninger and next to her Clara A. Smith, Second Counselor, Lethbridge Stake Relief Society. "Be Sull and Know That F Am God Mabel Law Atkinson AS a child I loved the beauty of the Bible verse, "Be still, and know that I am God...."". Whenever I heard it, I imaged a clear, still pool with pale pink water lilies reflected in its mirror-depths. As I grew into girlhood and young womanhood on the farm, the words often came to me when I beheld with awe the miracles of nature: the ever-new mystery of the sunrise; the unfolding of a wild rose; a gentle summer rain; a clear little stream, whose waters were ice cold, rippling lightly under the bridges, across the road to lose itself in a grove of white-limbed aspen fluttering their leaves like tinkling silver bells; a lark releasing a splashing fount of jeweled notes on a cool-dewed April morning; the clean, golden kernels pouring from the thresher at harvest; the silence of night beneath the stars with the moon silvering the ebon shade. At such times God seemed very near, and I experienced the serenity and strength of his love. After my marriage, the verse came to hold even deeper beauty and meaning. Crystal-clear in my memory is the sweet assurance, the faith that touched knowledge, which came to me when I first looked upon the miracle of my little daughter, my first-born. 'Be still, and know that I am God." I felt so near heaven that it seemed I could reach out and take the Father's hand. So many times the sacred words have bowed my head in reverence and _ thanksgiving in the rearing of my little group. Joy unspeakable has filled my soul as I have watched five pairs of blue eyes rapt with wonderment, and smiles slowly illuming trusting little faces as the principles of the gospel were unfolded in simplicity in the bedtime story. Even in death, when my kingdom has seemed on the verge of crashing, these beautiful words of sublime serenity and trust have given strength and peace. I have been able to say, "Thy will be done," and despairing bitterness has departed. My tears have become prayers of thankfulness for the loan of one of God's spirits, even for a few short years. Since my children have reached maturity and the "world" has called them to their labors in different places, I have come to value the calming power and strength of this quiet verse more than ever before, for so many times I have been reassured that God lives and watches tenderly over his children. At one such time beneath the stars, I sang a silent paean to the Lord for his everwatchful care. Then, looking up, it seemed that the crystal stars were warm and friendly and mutely singing of eternal love. Slowly and with awe I spoke aloud, "Be still, and know that I am God." Shese Shings JF Need Jennie Brown Rawlins These things I need to build my happiness: A little love, a little tenderness, A dream unrealized, goals I can reach; A chance to learn, and, yes, a chance to teach; A hand to cling to mine along the way, And faith that God will hear me when I pray. Page 341 Books for the CHURCH ORGANIST a AT THE CONSOLE—Felton.......... 2.50 wees CHANCEL ECHOES—Felton........ 2.50 ie CHAPEL ORGANIST—Presser...... 1.50 = DEVOTIONAL ORGAN ALBUM— OS |) 2.50 = FIRST LESSONS ON THE ORGAN—Nevin.................-.---2-0-+- 1.75 _— INSTRUMENTAL CHURCH SERVICE SELECTIONS 1 & 2— Kohbmann ooo... Eee eeeea. 1.25 —— LIGHTER MOODS—Presser.......... 1.50 re 93 SHORT SOLOS—Schirmer...... 2.50 —— ORGAN IN THE CHURCH—Asper 2.75 a ORGAN METHOD—Stainer........ 2.50...... ORGAN VOLUNTARIES 1 & 2— Schreiner 2.0.0.0... Ea. 3.50 ss 33 FAVORITE ORGAN SOLOS— Schirmer..............2-22000cocccccoeeeseeeeeee 1.50 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank 15 E. Lst South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. C) On Approval CL) Charge (1 Money Enclosed ddress OP 2 ity & State.... - | '15 E. Lst South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO! Salt Lake City 11, Uta Page 34? Herbs for Modern Cookery Garuic (ALLIuM SativuM) Elizabeth Williamson i Gea is a perennial herb. Set the cloves out in early spring, two inches apart, in rich soil. Harvest them in August. If you produce a large crop, braid the dried garlic, stems, and cloves. Hang this attractive addition in your kitchen, where it is convenient for your cookery. Garlic is one of the most ancient herbs — probably originating around the Mediterranean area, but grown in rich soil all over the world. Homer mentions garlic in the Odyssey. He says it was used to ward off evil spirits. We all know a whiff of garlic gives zest to salads, sauces, roasts, and vegetables. Garlic is a must for salad dressings of the French type. Never overdo garlic—it is delightful when suggested — but many people dislike the actual flavor. GUACAMOLE AND VARIATIONS 1 large avocado 1 crushed garlic clove, minced very fine or put in a garlic crusher Lemon juice, salt, and pepper to taste. Peel and mash the avocado, add the rest of the ingredients. Serve with crackers, tortillas, or sliced tomatoes. A variation of guacamole which is pretty served as an appetizer is the addition of one large package of cream cheese and a little mayonnaise. Whip the mixture in your electric mixer until very smooth and creamy and a beautiful pale green. Serve in a bowl for a cracker dip. Loneliness Vesta N. Lukei Tonight, perhaps on some far isle That I have never seen, awhile You watch the lonely, moving moon And think how brightly and how soon That silver orb will arch the skies And be reflected in my eyes. But cold, uncaring, high above, It brings no message from my love. EF Love a Window Caroline Eyring Miner I love a window to the east; I love to lift my eyes And look upon another day In glory of sunrise! I Jove to see the earth I know In magic glow and fire. It lifts my spirit to the skies And makes me aim the higher. E BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles —_....0.. 35 150 to 300 miles..........02......... 39 300 to 600 miles ~.....0000.2.. 45 600 to 1000 miles = 1000 to 1400 miles 1400 to 1800 miles a Over 1800 miles 0.00.0....87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah enroll now for... SUMMER QUARTER Begins Monday, June 3rd (May register later if necessary) Gain office skills which will secure you better positions in the business world. Select from our wide field of business courses and classes. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City PLAN LIGHT LIVING Live Better Electrically with FULL HOUSEPOWER UTAH POWER & LIGHT. CO. Page 343 344 VIDA FOX CLAWSON ANNOUNCES HAWAII Leave for a lovely Hawaiian Tour from Salt Lake City on June 6, 1957. Historie Train Leaves Salt Lake City, July 26, 1957 The Historic Train includes: Places of Interest in Church History, Pageant at the Hill Cumorah, and Large Eastern Cities. Warning: Both of these tour parties will be limited in number. Make reservations early. Write or Phone: Vida Fox Clawson 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hanlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built Beesley Music (0. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1957 Birthday Congratulations Ninety-seven Mrs. Eunice L. Moen Pocatello, Idaho Ninety-six Mrs. Nancy Foreman Hicxs Monroe, Utah Mrs. KATHERINE Perxs Harris Smithfield, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. EvizaABETH BLAIR Salt Lake City Mrs. EvizABETH JANE RussELL Day Hunter, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Saran McDrarmip McDonaLp Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. ELNorRA HAMMOND Moreland, Idaho Ninety-three Mrs. KATHERINE KNOLLMUELLER Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. ANNIE C, Evans Shelley, Idaho Ninety-two Mrs. JOSEPHINE DICKERSON WEST Pleasant Grove, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. EvizaABETH ADALINE POOLE Idaho Falls, Idaho Ninety Mrs. Annie May FULLER Mesa, Arizona She SJoken Enola Chamberlin I found a faded rose today, As fair as tinted lace. It lay within a treasured book As if it loved the place. I knew whose hand had picked the rose, Whose hand had placed it there. I knew the story, tender, sweet, Its secret heart could bare. I knew what limpid azure sky Beamed on it from above— For to the one who calls me wife I gave it with my love. ords of Inspiration from President David O. McKay 1. GOSPEL IDEALS Discourses of President David O. McKay An important LDS reference book with the essence of President McKay's lofty insight into gospel principles. Subjects discussed include: Priesthood and Church Practices, A Philosophy of Family Life and Religious Living, and many others. $4 00 2. CHERISHED EXPERIENCES From the Writings of David O. McKay Compiled by Clare Middlemiss From personal contacts with Saints throughout the world have come many faith-promoting experiences. President McKay shares these and many others in this heart-warming book that offers a powerful, motivating testimony of the truth of the Restored 3. HOME MEMORIES OF PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY; Compiled by Dr. Llewelyn R. McKay oY This book tells the story of President McKay's early ¢ lite—his home in Huntsville, his love for his parents 7 and other close family members. It relates many experiences he enjoyed as a teacher of youth, as ¢ a member of the Quorum of the Twelve and the First Presidency, and finally as President ¢ of the Church. Also included in this per- 7 sonal account are his ''war tour diary," a personal notes, and family poems. V7 $3.75 4 DESERET BOOK 0 COMPANY 4 44 East South Temple? Salt Lake City, Utah N @ the LDS Church oa Dear Sir: = Enclosed you will find a 7 ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) charge to your account for the encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 Name Address. OT cwenancccaneca. Mtinesscacese Zone........ State... Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. Gospel. $3.00 + + + + H HB HF Six Intensive Courses In Genealogy "Helps" For Effective Family Living "Helps" For LDS Auxiliary Organization Workers Special Cultural Programs Daily Special Family Day On Saturday Registration Fee: $2.00 For The Entire Week For Additional Information And A Complete Schedule of Activities, Send To: ADULT EDUCATION AND EXTENSION SERVICES BRIGHAM YOUNG NIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Elna P. Haymond Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Gladys S. Boyer Annie M. Ellsworth Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Leone G. Layton Josie B. Ba Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Afton W. Hunt Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring Wealtha S. Mendenhall RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Edito - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford Assistant to the Editor - - - - - - - - June Nielsen General Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 44 JUNE 1957 No. 6 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES They Shall Call Him Blessed ooo... Ee Christine H. Robinson 348 Wealtha S. Mendenhall Appointed to General Board W. Aird McDonald 352 The Samoan Mission 2.2... -cceec sc ceecescsceeeecceesecsconeeescssenensesesevescoceenees Preston R. Nibley 354 A Relief Society Gleaning errors taceeoeesoecsaecee steRachel Grant Taylor 363 Modesty Is the Best Policy............: 372 Mental Illness—A National Disaster... Ccc cseseesesseeeeneececeesccececsecseceeseeeeaenccoeeceercseeeeeoeseF. Barry Ryan 373 Help Yourself to Happiness 22.... C. Ccceeccceeec ccseeescsceeeescsseseessssseneescoeneesceaceacceceeensceceusseceeressFrances C. Yost 376 A Nursery Will Be Moarintaime dd oo... Cece cesses ci ceteeesceseeceetececceseecceceseeseenenececeeeaseeceneeeceseeesEdna H. Day 378 This Is My Buildirng 22.... Cecec ceceececcetencescenenssconseecccottsesossatsneecesccaeeceesscoceeeesesereeseuceeanenneececeseMaud H. Fullmer 383 Mother Had Seven Girls co. Ccccccceee cece cee. Ee, Jennie Brown Rawlins 384 FICTION Slight Hazards....... - Deone R. Sutherland 356 The Patchwork Quilt -......... CcesecscceeeeeeeeeeaElizabeth Cannon McCrimmon 382 The Bright Star—Chapter Four....... Dorothy S. Romney 386 Sixty Years Ago 366 Woman's Sphere oii. Eesceceececesceceneeesceceesseeesscceneeccecessoneees. Ramona W. Cannon 367 Editorial: The 127th Annual Church Conference = Helen W. Anderson 368 In Memoriam—Lucy Jane Brimhall Knight ooo... Ceseeccceeeeeceeeeees 3 Notes to the Field: Summer Work Meetings -......2.-... C.----cscec-cccceeessececceeneestececesenesseoeneescoseceseeessoceeeeeoversoees. Program for the November Fast Sunday Evening Meeting -.0........ Csccccccssssesccceseeseoeee — Copies of Wist Ye Not That I Must Be About My Father's Business available Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 20.0.0... CceecccccseecccsssnccenessesscceesesseseeneececeeeeHulda Parker 390 Birthday Congratulations.... C. C. Cess cssceesesesecescsseececeeenenessesssneseceeeeses 415 From Near and Far —. 416 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Samoan Mission ooe....... SessssscsesceessssececssseseneoeesoresccescessssessessesuerseacseaeansssoeeeeRita H. Stone 374 Mama's Cooking _ ee Christie Lund Coles 380 Martha H. McKaig Composes Lyrics and Music for Children's Songs...... Cc. Ccscccesseseees- 389 LESSON DEPARTMENT—PREVIEWS FOR 1957-58 Teaching Aids for the 1957-58 Lessons.00.0..0..... CescsesseesseeeMary R. Young 398 Suggestions for Music Leaders ooo... Ecccctccceecccceeeeccceeneeecceeeeescceeensecees 2Florence J. Madsen 400 Theology—The Doctrine and Covenants........... A Roy W. Doxey 403 Visiting Teacher Messages—Truths To Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson 405 Work Meeting—Living More Abundantly. William F. Edwards 407 Literature—Shakespeare in Our Lives............ Briant S. Jacobs 407 Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life —..-20000..... John Farr Larson 409 Notes on the Authors of the Lessons a = 410 POETRY Western Wife—FrontispieCe «0.2.2.... Eseceseeeccceeseceeeee ees Lizabeth Wall Madsen 347 Speak Softly, by Ada Marie Patten, 351; Summer's Cup, by Beatrice K. Ekman, 351; Another June, by Berothy J. Roberts, 353; Dear Flag, by Ivy Houtz Wooley, 362; June in the Kaibab, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 370; Bride's Choice, by Ethel Jacobson, 371; At the Ishtar Gate, by Elsie N. Chaney, 373; Mother and Child, by Enola Chamberlin, 375; A Woman's Years, by Elsie McKinnon Strachan, 379; The Berry-Pickers, by Maryhale Woolsey, 397; Mathematics, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 402; Mother, yf Lillian E. Miles, 413; Epitome, by Vesta N. Lukei, 413; Hitch-Hiker, by Alice Morrey Bailey, 413 _, PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. lM DOWNSTAIRS Ladies! The NEW "Mrs. America" SQUARE ANGEL-FOOD CAKE PAN Wear-Ever's most welcome development for cake making. Now you can make cakes that are bigger, more attractive and so much easier to decorate. Will hold full package of instant mix. Free decoration guide booklet. 3 35 ZCMI HOUSEWARES Downstairs Store Mail your orders to: Margot Manners, ZCMI, Salt Lake City 10. State cash, charge, or COD. Postage 34¢. Add 2% Sales Tax, Westra WV e Lizabeth Wall Madsen The aspen leaves are legion in my hair, And grasses thread a sandal for my foot. I wake thin strains of singing everywhere: A starling cries, a rabbit snaps a root, A browsing deer makes whispering in the firs. And I stand hill-borne, hand to heart, afraid To love too much the golds and lavenders That summer weaves of morning sun and shade. There is a house behind me on the hill, A man to rouse, a flame to touch to wood, And there is dust to sweep from window sill And floor, and prayers to say for all things good. Yet day long, warm against me I shall hold A shawl of summer, lavender and gold. The Cover: Native Home, Samoan Mission Photograph by Rita H. Stone Frontispiece: Vista in Yosemite National Park, California Photograph by Hal Rumel Cover Design by Evan Jensen They Shall Call Him Blessed Christine H. Robinson Member, General Board of Relief Society good name is a priceless inheritance. To be born of honorable parents is one of life's choicest blessings. This basic truth is emphasized throughout the sacred scriptures. Repeatedly in the Bible we are admonished, for the sake of our own progress and happiness, to love and honor our parents and to be guided by their counsel and advice. One of the greatest commandments is "Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee" (Exodus 20:12). 'The wise Solomon said: "My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother" (Proverbs 1:8). Solomon further reminds us that, "A good name is rather to be chosen than great tiches..." (Proverbs 22:1). The Book of Mormon is also replete with similar statements referring to the importance of a worthy heritage, and its writers make frequent reference to the wisdom of following the teachings of righteous parents. The great prophet Nephi considered his own heritage so important that he began his narration in The Book of Mormon with these words: "I, Nephi, having been born of goodly parents, therefore I was taught somewhat in all the learning of my father..." (I Nephi 1:1). It is bounteously evident that one of the prime reasons behind this Page 348 remarkable man's wisdom, humility, obedience, and leadership ability was that he hearkened to his father's teachings and followed in his righteous footsteps. Although it is the essence of wisdom to honor our fathers every day, it is nevertheless appropriate that one special day be designated as Father's Day. 'This special day, each year, is the third Sunday in June, and on that day we turn our loving attention to our fathers. Through this special recognition we reaffirm our determination to honor our fathers for the unnumbered blessings they bestow upon us, not alone on this day but throughout our lives. There is truly something special about this specially designated annual Father's Day. Each of us will observe this day in our own personal way. But, to each of us, Father's Day should bring to mind fond memories of past and present happy associations. It should provide for us the opportunity to fix indelibly upon our minds our father's teachings exemplified both by precept and example. On this day we should remember and redetermine that we will follow these teachings so that they may lead us to fuller and more useful lives. Motivated by the observance of Father's Day, we can build on solid foundations the kind of priceless heritage we so want to pass on to our children and to the generations that follow. THEY SHALL CALL HIM BLESSED On this, my own personal Father's Day, my thoughts are centered on the virtues and qualities of the fine man whose heritage I so humbly bear. What a privilege and a blessing it is for me to honor him and to contemplate that through me, if I am worthy, present and yet unborn generations may rise up and call him blessed. My father, Bryant Stringham Hinckley, too, was born of goodly parents ninety years ago this oth of July. Like some other humble but great men, he was born in a lowly log cabin. From this humble beginning he moved forward on paths charted by his own wise and righteous father to a life of service to his God and to his fellow men. As a portion of this service, to spotlight only a few of his many and varied activities, he served as secretary, second counselor, first counselor, and president of the Y. M. M. LA., both at the ward level and in the stake organization. He was a member of the Y. M. M. I. A. General board for twenty-five years. He served as a high councilman in the old Salt Lake Stake and as president of the Liberty Stake for twentytwo years. During 1935 to 1939, he served as president of the Northern States Mission. In his early life, Father was a schoolteacher—a_ profession which he loved and in which he started at the early age of eighteen. Under the inspired teaching of President Karl G. Maeser, in 1883, he attended the Brigham Young Academy. After graduation from this school, he sought further learning in New York and in California. Along with these busy responsibilities, Father wove into his ac- 349 complishments voluminous writings of articles and books which constitute an important contribution to the literature of this area. Yet, with all of these activities, he found time to be a wonderful father to fifteen children, eleven of whom still survive, and all of whom have been blessed by his exemplary life and effective teachings. Each of us is privileged to think that ours is the ideal father. 'The ideal father is one who possesses those qualities that endear him to his children and enable them to place him on a high pedestal of love and respect. Some of the qualities of which my own father's special pedestal is composed, consist of honesty, humility, steadfastness, courage, loyalty, modesty, faithfulness, industriousness, and a superb sense of humor. Obviously, I am biased, but my father is really special. Never have I heard him criticize or speak ill of another. Ever is he steadfast and loyal in his friendships. With absolute constancy, he sustains wholeheartedly the Authorities of the Church. My father is his own taskmaster and is never satisfied with anything but the best. He believes ungquestioningly that the glory of God (and man) is intelligence, and he seeks industriously for knowledge. My father is proud of his own heritage and constantly urges his children to follow in the footsteps of their worthy ancestors. Never has he used force as a method of teaching his children, but rather, by patience, persuasion, and unfaltering example, he has sought to lead them into the better paths. 350 These enviable qualities possessed by my father were developed and refined in the mill of hard experience which began at the frontier settlement of Cove Fort, Utah. Here my father grew up as a boy. His father, Ira Nathaniel Hinckley, was selected by President Brigham Young to go to Cove Creek and build a fort. ""To afford protection from the Indians to the telegraph and mail stations and to the travelers who are almost constantly on the road. Also to furnish food and protection to this latter class" (From a letter written by Brigham Young to Ira N. Hinckley, dated April 2, 1867). This little fort was twenty-two miles from the nearest white settlement. 'Those days, in the 1870's and the 1880's, were exciting and eventful days. The fort sheltered both good and bad. 'There were Indians and cowboys, miners in quest of gold, cattle rustlers and desperadoes and, as a vivid contrast, there were the regular visits of President Brigham Young and other prominent Church officials. These Church visitors usually spent a night or two at the fort during their travels from Salt Lake City to southern parts of the state. Life at Cove Fort was a rugged pioneer life, yet it provided the refining substance which laid the foundation for a strong character. Out of these pioneer experiences came the courage and ability which enabled my father to conquer life's difficult problems and to rise to high levels of service and accomplishment. Along the way my father met his share of tragedy and sorrow. While RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 still a young man and with the responsibility of rearing eight young children, the oldest fourteen and the youngest eight wecks, his beautiful and talented wife, my mother, passed away. In tragic sequence, in the years that followed he also buried his second, and then his third wonderful wife. And, to add further to his sad burdens, two of his fine sons died after they had grown to manhood. In spite of these sorrows, Father's faith and courage never faltered. His confidence in the sustaining influence of his Father in heaven never wavered. Some of the sterling qualities I see in my father are beautifully described in this statement by Robert Louis Stevenson: He has achieved success who has lived well, laughed often, and loved much. Who has gained the respect of intelligent men and... Love of... Children. HE tribute which I am privileged here to pay to my father is presented with the thought that perhaps it may encourage others to ponder in their hearts the real meaning and significance of Father's Day. It is my hope that my description of the qualities possessed by my father may serve in a small way to encourage all of us to express, while there is still time, our gratitude and appreciation to our fathers. Surely the best way we can show this gratitude and appreciation is to follow in their righteous footsteps and, by precept and example, to strive to instill in our children love and honor for the blessings of a worthy heritage. Let us remember that our worthy fathers have a_ special significant place, not only in our hearts, but THEY SHALL CALL HIM BLESSED also in our homes. As bearers of God's Holy Priesthood, they are the patriarchs and presiding authorities of our households. Righteous fathers carry heavy responsibilities. Not only must they administer to the economic welfare of the family, but also it is their duty to set the pattern for the family's spiritual well-being. Through wise counsel and loving 351 guidance, our honorable fathers strive to bring to us the blessings of genuine happiness. Such happiness is not dependent upon money and material possessions. Rather, it comes from the virtues of service, kindness, loyalty, trust, and love. Certainly, you and I, the children of such fathers, on this Father's Day and always, should honor them and rise up and call them blessed. <> Speak Softly Ada Marie Patten Guide your child gently, With tenderness sustain him, Assuaging all his fears. Speak to him softly, Hush not the heavenly cadence Still ringing in his ears. ——- Sieomonmenr's Cup Beatrice K. Ekman On the lush, green valley and wooded hills, Healing warmth of the early summer spills, And the air is stirred by the drone of bees And the call of birds from the orchard trees. Beside the cool stream in the willow-shade, Where flickering shadows of sun are laid, The white sheep with their young lambs lie at rest And a tranquil quiet is manifest. Beyond the wild hedge of the narrow lane A gentle breeze weaves through the fields of grain, Where the noonday sun climbs up the sky A feather-plumed cloud drifts slowly by. In the meadow pasture the clear creek flows Through the buttercup patches and clumps of wild rose; Here the magic enchantment that summer brings Fills my cup to the brim when a meadow lark sings. Wealtha S. Mendenhall Appointed to General Board of Reliof Society W. Aird McDonald Associate, Church Building Program WEALTHA Spafford Mendenhall of the Ensign Stake, and formerly from Stockton, California, was appointed to the general board of Relief Society, March 28, 1957. She was born in Springville, Utah, to Alma H. And Mary Clyde Spafford. She was married to Wendell Bird Mendenhall (now Chairman of the Church Building Committee), in the Salt Lake Temple, September 30, 1927. Her early education was received in Springville, where she graduated from high school in June previous to her marriage. 'They have two sons, Paul W. Of Honolulu, and Robert L., a student at B. Y. U., and three grandchildren. Elder Mendenhall and both sons have filled missions for the Church in New Zealand. Mrs. Mendenhall has just returned from accompanying Elder Mendenhall on a trip to the South Pacific for the Church. She was present when Elder Hugh B. Brown, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, laid the cornerstone for the New Zealand 'Temple, returning home only two days before her new appointment. The new board member is well qualified by temperament and training for her new position. She has served energetically and efficiently in almost every stake and ward position of Relief Society. She served in the ward presidency in Stockton, 1939-1941, then as ward president Page 352 WEALTHA S. MENDENHALL for three years. She served as the social science class leader on the Sacramento Relief Society stake board for two years and as visiting teacher message leader for two years. When the stake was divided and San Joaquin Stake was organized in 1948, Sister Mendenhall was called as the social science class leader on the new stake board. Later, she served for three years as stake Magazine representative. She was a visiting teacher in Stockton Ward from 1939 until she moved to Salt Lake City in May 1956. Besides her Relief Society work, she was a tireless and dependable worker in all activities of her ward. In the exacting role of wife of a bishop and stake WEALTHA S. MENDENHALL president, she was a charming and gracious hostess, and her home became the "hospitality center" of the stake. Visitors to their lovely home in Stockton will long remember those joyous and festive occasions. Before her Relief Society service, Sister Mendenhall was active in Primary and Sunday School in Provo, Ogden, and Logan, while Elder Mendenhall was finishing his schooling, after his return from his mission. In 1952-3 the Mendenhalls visited 353 their son Paul in New Zealand, and then proceeded on around the world, touring India, Palestine, Italy, France, and England. They returned to the South Pacific and made preparations for and accompanied President and Sister McKay on their tour of the islands in 1955. A life devoted to Church service has ably fitted Sister Mendenhall for her new position of responsibility which she will fill with grace and humility. Another June Dorothy J]. Roberts Today another June will come For new eyes to behold Where sweet-briars tumble down the fence In tides of stamened gold. And today another child will walk, Holding his father's hand Along the sorrel-colored road And the patchwork summer land. Another lad will learn his might Can turn the wayward streams; Will hear the rocket-song of birds Make music for his dreams. His mind will carry the crescent mark From a tawny, feathered throat; Retain the sweep of crystal air Hung with a lilting note. Another summer sun will pour Power and peace on the loam, That another heart may beat as mine Here in an alien home. Photograph by Rita H. Stone PAGO PAGO HARBOR, SAMOA She Samoan Mission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE first missionaries of the Church to carry the gospel to the Samoan Islands were two native Hawaiians, Kimo Belio and Samuela Manoa, who, in 1862, arrived on the Island of Aunuu, one of the Samoan group. They taught the gospel to the natives, baptized a small number, organized a branch and built a meetinghouse, but they were not adequately supervised and no assistance was sent to them. As the years passed the members gradually fell away from the faith. Belio died in 1876, but Manoa married and continued to live in Aunuu. The first American missionary to live in the Samoan Islands, appointed by the Church authorities, was Elder Joseph H. Dean, who, accompanied Page 354 THE SAMOAN MISSION 355 by his wife, arrived at Aunuu in Junc 1888. He was met by Samuela Manoa, who proved to be of great assistance to him in beginning the missionary work. In October 1888, three more elders arrived from Utah to labor under the direction of President Dean in the Samoan Mission. They were William O. Lee, Adelbert Beesley, and Edward J. Wood. With the assistance of the natives, the four brethren erected a new mectinghouse, held meetings, made converts, and organized a branch of the Church. In November 1888, in order to extend their activities, President Dean and Elders Beesley and Wood visited the Island of Tutuila. They remained several months and held meetings in all the towns and villages. Before beginning their return journey they purchased a small sailing vessel, in order that they might travel from island to island as they desired. The work was now greatly extended and branches of the Church were established in Upolu and Savaii. A statistical report of the Samoan Mission made in 1893, showed 253 members, which included two priests and twelve teachers. By 1930 the number of members had increased to 4,491, including forty-four elders, sixty-two priests, and one teacher. Today there are in the Samoan Mission, 7,558 members, located in fifty-six branches. The mission president is Charles I. Sampson, Fifty-five Relief Society organizations, with 700 members, were reported in December 1956. Thelma H. Sampson presides over the Samoan Mission Relief Socicty. <a or by Rita H. Stone HARVESTING COCONUTS, A STAPLE FOOD IN SAMOA Slight Hazards Deone R. Sutherland ATHERINE stirred the wheat K cereal into the boiling water and looked across Peterson's back yard into Arnold's next door. Carrie Arnold sat in the early springfrayed grape arbor painting a picture of what? "Of Mount Majestic." Katherine's eyes filled with tears. What was the matter with her? She had been like this almost ever since Bobby had been born just three weeks ago. She was so happy to have this fourth baby, she knew. Yet what was it that filled her with resentment every time she looked toward Carrie's? Katherine blinked the tears from her eyes as the Arnold's back door slammed. "Carrie! Carrie!" 'Tom Arnold's strident, exasperated voice carried into the Peterson's neat little kitchen. From habit Katherine Peterson shut her ears to it, but she couldn't help noticing how slowly Carrie rose to answer the summons, how she stopped to dab once more at the painting before, with the utmost serenity, she turned and, with flapping houseslippers, went dilatorily into the Arnold house. Katherine opened the drawer for the napkins and crossed to the breakfast room. The knock at the back door did not take her by surprise. She finished tucking each napkin at the five place settings and then went quietly to the door. Little Nana Arnold stood there blinking up at her, her small face seemingly all blue eyes, an elf child, a nymph, this little Nana. Katherine felt the same stir as if she'd read a line of Page 356 poetry when she looked into this child's face. "Mrs. Peterson, could we please borrow enough butter for our toast? Mama says she'll be sure to pay it back." "Of course, come in." Katherine had given up trying to keep the many borrowings of her neighbor straight. Besides, Carrie often brought over a whole sack of something or other or made some other extravagant gesture to make up for any inconvenience she had caused Katherine. At first Katherine had been annoyed. She would never dream of being so careless with what she might owe another person. But that was before she had become resigned to Carrie. As Katherine took out the quarter of a pound of butter, again there was that ridiculous lump in _ her throat. She busied herself in the refrigerator for a moment. "Hi, Nana, aren't you ready for school yet?" It was her Margaret, the same age as Nana, but half a head taller. "Not yet," said Nana, dismissing school with a shrug. "Guess what, Margaret? I'm going to dance in the Civic Auditorium at the May festival. My mother was really happy. She says I'm going to be a great ballerina someday," and Nana whirled and twirled around the Peterson kitchen, which suddenly seemed to Katherine so commonplace as to be almost unbearable. "That's fine," Margaret said kindly, her brown eyes scarcely noticing SLIGHT HAZARDS Nana. Her interest was in her schoolbooks at the window seat. "Did you read about Leeuwenhoek last night? We had family night, and Daddy let me read the whole story Margaret was putting her lunch on her pile of school books. "No," said Nana, on one toe eager to be out the door. Katherine handed her the butter. "You can call for me, Margaret," Nana offered. "Okay," said Margaret, "but we won't wait if you're not ready." Nana was whirling across the lawn. "Would you like to take dancing?" Katherine handed Margaret the sugar. "T guess so. Of course, I'm already taking piano and violin, so I'm pretty busy." Her brown eyes looked directly at her mother with an almost adult kindliness. "Mother, Miss Lester says I'm the best reader in the whole class." There was that lump in Katherine's throat again. She poured the milk so hurriedly she almost spilled it. DAvViP came in with four-yearold Mark piggyback. John was putting his lunch beside his cap, and then they all sat down to breakfast. David helped Mark say the blessing, and unfolded his napkin. "Was that Nana leaping across our flower beds?" "Yes." Katherine cut into her grapefruit. "Butter for their toast," she anticipated her husband's question. "If you could just pass me a few balls as soon as you get home, Dad- 357 dy—" John was saying earnestly. That conversation must have started upstairs, Katherine thought. She listened absent-mindedly while David agreed to hurry home. She rose as soon as David finished and then was tempted to sit down again. What would it be like to linger at the breakfast table and read the paper or even a magazine the way Carrie often did? But if she did that, there would-be no family prayers. 'They always retired to the living room for family prayers before David went, and then the children cleared the table while Katherine prepared for washing the dishes. Katherine had learned early that the children worked much more happily and willingly, if she worked at a _task along beside them. Katherine knelt beside the sofa and leaned her cheek against her hands. She was so thankful for the children and her lovely home, for David who always came home so promptly and eagerly from work. She thought of Tom Arnold who often did not get home until very late in the evening after the children's bedtime. She guiltily forced her thoughts back to John, who was taking his turn at saying the family prayer. David patted her on the back and kissed her goodbye. "Take a good long rest today—morning and afternoon. We can do anything that needs doing when we come home. You look kind of pale." "She looks sad," Mark said. "No, I don't," Katherine laughed at him as his father swung him into the air for his goodbye kiss. Margaret and John joined in the leave taking. 'They make such a fuss over 358 him, Katherine thought to herself. He is the world's best father. She'd banish all signs of disorderly thinking, she promised herself. Children were too discerning. After the kitchen was. Straightened, the two school children were ready to take their leave. John spelled his five new words for her proudly. He was always so careful with his work. 'There were no better children anywhere. But maybe she was spoiling them for all the fun in life by making them be consistent with their chores, be in by five on school nights because Daddy came half an hour later. Now there was little Peter Arnold in the top half of his pajamas, happily petting his cat on the back steps in the chilly morning air. Maybe in bundling up her children she had bundled up something of their spirits. John and Margaret hadn't waited for Nana. She bit her lip. Was it unnatural for her children to refuse to be late for school? What if they were late one morning? She couldn't believe that she was thinking such things. Mark had his cap on and was struggling with his jacket. "I can do it, I can do it!" he exclaimed proudly, when she offered to help. And, of course, he did do it. He was bundled against the chilly spring morning and out to play with a kiss from Katherine. She went upstairs when she heard the baby cry. How was it possible, she thought to herself, that each child was more wonderful than anything they had dreamed of? When he was bathed and fed, and sleepy, she laid him back in his bassinet. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 MARK and Peter were arguing in the kitchen. Katherine felt the calm that the nursery had brought her begin to disappear. Peter was dressed after a fashion, but his shoes were damp and sandy. She couldn't lock her door against the children, but they never seemed to remember to wipe their feet. At least Peter didn't. "Tm hungry," Peter said hopefully. "Didn't you eat breakfast at home, Peter?" At least her voice was perfectly calm. "Oh, yes," Peter said indifferently. "Well, go and tell your own mother you're hungry for a change." Katherine leaned against the sink. What had possessed her to say such a terrible thing? "She's painting," Peter said from habit. "Well, then, tell her to stop painting and to give you some food." Katherine felt it couldn't be she who was talking. Her voice must be perfectly normal, for Mark accepted the unusual conversation without the slightest indication of alarm. 'The two little boys trotted across the yard to the Arnold house. Katherine began dust mopping the upstairs bedrooms. She had finished down the stairs when she heard the Arnold screen door bang. She crossed to the window. The two little boys were happily eating slices of bread covered with jam. Carrie opened the back door and handed out two tall glasses of milk. She would have to dash over and tell Carrie she was sorry about being so rude to the boys. 'Then Carrie came out and sat on the back porch and ate a slice of bread herself. No, SLIGHT HAZARDS there was nothing to apologize to Carrie about. Carrie wouldn't have hurt feelings. She accepted the world as she found it. Perhaps Carrie was the one who had time to know she was alive, and Katherine was the one who was being bypassed. HE front door chime interrupted her thoughts. It was her mother, and she opened the door eagerly. The small, white-haired woman, so neat and cheerful, fragrant with a suggestion of scent, bustled in like a sudden warm south wind. How soft and familiar was the check she kissed. How sure and purposeful were the hands that drew off the gloves. "Oh, Mother, I'm so glad to see you. I'm having the blues this morning." Katherine had to stop talking. Another moment and she'd burst into tears. And the crazy thing was that there was simply nothing in her life to cry about. What on earth could be the matter? "You need to get out. It's just that you're feeling tied down. A new baby makes you feel like that sometimes. What you should do is call someone and go somewhere for lunch...." "Oh, no, I wouldn't like that really. But, Mother, would you mind, maybe I will just go visiting next door for a bit. I haven't been over to Carrie's for ages, and I can check on Mark." Her mother was already slipping into one of her aprons. "Stay awhile, won't you? I want to spend a little time with my newest grandson. He is such a darling. Papa says he's the 359 image of some of the Johnsons, but I guess the Petersons think he's a lot like David. His chin now...." Katherine pulled on her coat and fled through the back door. Carrie had gone in. She went up the back steps and knocked on the door. 'The boys were digging in the bare back yard. 'They were so busy they hardly noticed her. "Grandma's over to our house, Mark," she said. "Oh, boy," said Mark, but he went on digging. "I got to finish these caves." "Have to," corrected Katherine as Carrie called to her to come in. Katherine stepped into the cluttered kitchen. 'The breakfast dishes still lay on the table and cupboard. A cereal box had tipped over and spilled from cupboard to floor. "In here," Carrie called. "I'm in the living room." The ironing board was open, but Carrie was working at a sewing machine. Curls of dust looked bleakly into the sun slanting down from the long, bare windows. "T'm making me the cutest skirt," Carrie smiled, sweeping up some pins with her hand. She dropped the skirt on a small table and crossed to the couch where she curled up with her bare legs beneath her. "No, no, it's all nght. I've been hunting for an excuse to stop working. Besides, you never get over to see me, you're so busy, so this is a real occasion. All I have are some stale doughnuts. We can eat those." "No thanks," Katherine laughed. "['m just in need of—of someone to talk to, I guess. Someone not in the family—if you know what I mean." 360 Carrie nodded and twisted her hair up into her pony tail. How comfortable Katherine felt. Carrie always made people feel so at ease. Even if there was always such a clutter in her house, you always felt welcome. Katherine looked out the front window to the grass just beginning to show an interest in being green again. "You're always so calm, Carrie, you never seem to have any problems...." Carrie tossed her head back against the couch and began to laugh at the ceiling. "I admit I don't spend much time worrying about problems, but my, I really have them. I guess you didn't know about Miss Lester arranging appointments for me with a child psychologist over Nana...." Katherine stared at Carrie, "I'm so sorry, I didn't mean to...." "It's all right," Carrie smiled. "Nana's always had little nervous tics, but then she began bursting into tears in school—in class for no reason. Anyway, to make a long story short, it seems I'm too permissive as a parent. We don't have enough rules. The children aren't secure because I let them do pretty much as they please." ATHERINE shut her eyes and then opened them. Darling little Nana not feeling secure. She remembered how Margaret and John complained when they had to report home at five on school nights to take care of chores and homework and to help get ready for dinner. She had been feeling guilty about that. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 "And Tom," Carrie's voice went on, "well, Tom does most of his work in the office or the public library because he can't stand the clutter at home, he says. You should hear him about...." Katherine felt a moment's embarrassment. Yes, she had heard Tom, and she'd always wondered what kind of person he was to raise his voice so. She closed her mind to further thoughts on that subject. She had no right to listen to these problems. "But I'm going to try to change. I'm going to get over and visit you more, Katherine. I always used to feel happier after being over to your house. I'd determine to go home and be a better wife and mother. I'm going to work out a schedule and really stick to it." An hour later, when Katherine took a hungry little boy home to lunch with her, she felt in such good spirits that she wondered how she could have been so blue that morning. Her mother had finished folding the clothes out of the dryer and had fed Bobby. "T did your vacuuming, too," she greeted Katherine, "and your lunch is on the table. Come on, Mark, Grandma will help you get washed up for lunch. Then I'm going to slip home and fix Papa his lunch, but I won't go unless you promise to take a good long nap to make up for this morning. But I can see the visit did you good. You know, Katherine, a visit in your friendly, happy home is always such a joy to Papa and me." Katherine lay down beside Mark and held his hand until he drifted off to sleep. Then she slipped into SLIGHT HAZARDS her own room and stretched out on the big double bed. In a moment she was asleep. Mark never napped for much more than an hour, so Katherine usually provided an hour of quiet play for him after his nap, before he went outside again. He painted or colored or cut with toy scissors or molded with clay. Today she buttoned him into one of the many paint smocks she had made from David's old shirts and got out the tubes of finger paints. While he worked she lay on the floor and did her exercises. After a moment she got up and went to the back door. There had been no knock, but she opened it anyway. Yes, there was Peter waiting patiently on the back step for Mark. "Come in, Peter," she said gently, "come in and help Mark fingerpaint for a while. I have a smock just especially for you, too." Peter's eyes sparkled. It would be more fun for Mark with a friend, too. She should have done this before. OHN and Margaret dashed in after school to change clothes and then dashed out to play again. Promptly at five they came in and washed. John set the table while Margaret helped her mother with the dinner. Katherine looked out the window. Yes, it was five-thirty, and there was David. What a dash there was to the door to greet Daddy. "Plenty of time to pass a few balls," Daddy assured him. He put his briefcase away. "It's worth coming home to get a reception like that," David grinned at Katherine as he kissed her, 361 "Hurry, Daddy," John coaxed. Mark and Peter tagged along to watch. After dinner and the dishes, John said his combinations in arithmetic for David, and Margaret told about an electric magnet they had made at school that day. Then Margaret practised her music while Katherine put up the lunches for the next day. It was almost bedtime for the children. David would be carrying Mark up any minute. He'd already had his bath with John, and David had helped him into his pajamas. She could see his head curled against David's shoulder as he read about Winnie the Pooh pretending he was a cloud and floating up with a balloon to the hive of bees. Katherine looked around the neat kitchen, shining with anticipation for tomorrow's breakfast. She hung out fresh colorful dish towels she had embroidered before she and David were married. "['m going to help Carrie, and she can help me," she said softly to herself. One of Carrie's lovely paintings would look beautiful in the hall. It was wonderful to have a talent like that. But homemaking was wonderful, too, and it did take ingenuity and quick thinking and planning to make a day end happily and make the home a place where the family wanted to be. She flipped out the kitchen light and watched the moonlight lap against the window sill. The house was quiet. Family prayer, the trip upstairs, the tucking in, all were over for the night. Katherine carried Bobbie downstairs and rocked him in the big rocker while David read at his desk, 362 "Turn on the television if you like," David said, "it won't bother "? Me. "Tm enjoying the quiet," Katherine laughed, hugging the baby to her. "You've loved him long enough," David said in a few minutes. "It's my turn now." He cradled new little Bobby into his arms, and then when he absolutely refused to open even an eye, David took him upstairs and put him in his bassinet for the night. Katherine opened a magazine and tread: "Homemaking, the Ideal Career for Women." She would loan this to Carrie. Both of us need articles like this, she thought. "Katherine. Katherine." David had sat down on the couch beside her. He held out two white envelopes. It took her a moment to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 realize that David meant for her to open them. "Oh, David!" There were tickets to the spring Community Concert series and tickets to the Little Theater. "It will be wonderful to go," and she hugged him delightedly. "You seemed so downhearted this morning that I thought maybe you needed some cheering up, or at least a change of scenery." Had she been depressed this morning? Yes, she had forgotten. She concentrated for a minute trying to puzzle out just what had been the matter the last few days and this morning. Well, it didn't matter; she was back on an even keel now. She snuggled up against David and opened her magazine again. A homemaker was important; anyway, she knew she was, and she turned the page. > Dear Flag Ivy Houtz Woolley Dear Flag— Did you borrow the red from the reddest rose And match it with patriot's blood? Did the heart of that flower feel a soldier's last pulse While it still held that glow in the bud? Dear Flag— Did a soul before you were born Bring his whiteness and offer to you The unsullied promise of courageous ones Who died for the thing they held true? Dear Flag— Did the heavens above take a strip from her breast Bedeck it with resplendent stars, Then fashion it after a pattern from God Completed with red and white bars? Dear Flag— Do you thrill as I do when proudly you float In the air, on the land and the sea? Your message from God, "Right is might, right is right—" With this plan our great land was made free. A Relief Society Gleaning Rachel Grant Taylor and one-half by four inches, bequeathed to me_ because my name was Rachel, became a challenge. I had known three of the six women in the picture from childhood, my grandmother Rachel Grant, Aunt Emmeline Wells, and Bathsheba Smith, but who were the other three, and what offices did they hold in the Relief Society? They were all fine looking women and had been carefully posed. 'Their dark dresses with pleats and points, white collars, and long watch chains, were most interesting. Apparently, the photographer did not say "Smile," perhaps because they were the dignified officers of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society. The date, May 1873, on the back of the picture led me-to visit the Church Historian's office and ask if they had any records that might assist me in my search for the names of the officers of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society at that time. To my delight, the attendant brought out a much-used but well preserved brown leather book, containing 650 closely written pages of minutes. Included in the minutes were the names of all members and the dates they joined the society. The minutes of the May meeting in 1873, revealed the probable reason for the photo being taken, for Margaret Mitchell, Grandmother's second counselor, was leaving for the Sandwich Islands, where her husband was to become the mission Rt sae a tiny photo two president. 'The records gave desired names and dates for my picture— Rachel Ivins Grant, President, April 18, 1868; Bathsheba W. Smith, First Counselor, May 6th, 1869; Margaret Mitchell, Second Counselor, April 18, 1868; Elizabeth Goddard, Secre- - tary, April 18, 1868; Emmeline B. Wells, Assistant Secretary, May 1871; and Mary Musser, 'l'reasurer, May 3, 1871. Grandmother Grant and Elizabeth Goddard served as president and secretary of the society for thirty years. Here are some of the first and last entries of this outstanding historical record: Record of the organization of the Female Relief Society of the Thirteenth Ward, Salt Lake City: Bishop Woolley's residence April 18th, 1868 Present: Bishop Edwin D. Woolley [Grandfather of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.] and his counselors, W. S. Godbe and F, A. Mitchell. Meeting opened by prayer by the Bishop after which the bishop took the chair and Brother W. S. Godbe was appointed secretary pro tem. The bishop made some very interesting remarks relative to the organization about to be formed. Said that he had been slow with regard to the Society—that he had not felt the spirit of it until he had heard the remarks of President Young expressed at the last conference—that it was not his habit to be in a hurry in his movements but be cool and deliberate. He said in the organization he wished to select such sisters for officers as would listen to his council and carry out such measures as he should suggest from time to time. Page 363 364 Photograph by C. W. Carter RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 OFFICERS OF THE THIRTEENTH WARD (SALT LAKE CITY) RELIEF SOCIETY, May 1873 Front row, seated, left to right: Margaret Mitchell, Second Counselor, appointed April 18, 1868; Rachel R. Grant, President, April 18, 1868; Bathsheba W. Smith, First Counselor, May 6, 1869. Back row, standing, left to right: Emmeline B. Wells, Assistant Secretary, May 1, 1871; Elizabeth Goddard, Secretary, April 18, 1868; Mary Musser, Treasurer, May 13, 1871. The bishop continued by saying that if the sisters needed assistance the brethten would be on hand to help—that he did not wish them to perform heavy and laborious duties, such as would tax their strength. He wished them to go to work to make their own clothing and establish such fashions for dress as would be becoming for the Saints and not subject themselves to imitate fashions which are invented and worn by dishonorable women of the world. The bishop then suggested that the meeting proceed to organize the Society and moved that Mrs. Rachel R. Grant be chosen president which was seconded and carried unanimously. He then moved that Mrs. Grant proceed to choose her counselors. Mrs. Grant then made choice of Mrs. Annie Godbe for her first counselor and Mrs. Margaret Mitchell for her second counselor, which was carried unanimously. The bishop and his counselors laid their hands upon the head of Mrs. Grant and blessed and ordained her and set her apart to be the presidentess over the Female Relief Society of the Thirteenth Ward, the bishop officiating as spokesman. They then proceeded to ordain Mrs. A RELIEF SOCIETY GLEANING Godbe and set her apart to act as first counselor to the Presidentess. Brother Godbe officiating in the same manner, they ordained Mrs. Mitchell to act as second counselor to Mrs. Grant and with Mrs. Godbe to assist her in all the various duties of her office and councillor. It was then moved that Mrs. Elizabeth H. Goddard be chosen to act as secretary and Mrs. Ann L. Musser as treasurer, seconded and carried unanimously. (Fourteen sisters were named as teachers in the ward. ) The bishop invited Miss E. R. Snow to make remarks, when she arose and addressed the sisters present, by saying this society had much for its encouragement in the kind remarks of the bishop and also in combining a great amount of ability—that inasmuch as the sisters keep themselves humble and united there is nothing to prevent them doing much good, becoming truly a model society, as suggested by the bishop. Very appropriate and instructive remarks were then made by Elders Godbe and Mitchell. Meeting adjourned to April 30th at Mrs. Mary Godbe's residence at 2 p. M. William S. Godbe Secretary Pro Tem. NCLUDED in the' minutes throughout the book was a record of the donations of members. A summary of these was included in an item that mentioned Father's [President Heber J. Grant's] aid to the society. Through the management of H. J. Grant in 1886, the investment in the Thirteenth Ward store was sold to J. P. Freeze for $1,000 with which was purchased nine shares in Z. C. M. I. Have also deposited $432 in the State Bank of Utah at eight per cent interest. Bro. Heber J. Grant donated to the Society $50, whose liberality helped to increase our investment. The total disbursements to the poor amount to $3710 cash. In merchandise $1758. This is dating from 1868 to 1893. To Temple $805.50. Merchants $105.00, to hospital $102.00, to Emigra- 365 tion $161.99, Wheat $185.85. Building $232.40, Silk factory $20. Have dispersed from two to five hundred dollars in carpets, blinds, curtains and_ other adornments for assembly room. To make their record complete, Sister Goddard wrote of the first organization of the society: HisroricaAL SKETCH OF THE THIRTEENTH Warp RE. IEF SOCIETY First account of the society formed was on 29th August 1855. On September 19th Sister Pascal was appointed to act as president and treasurer and Sister Elizabeth Goddard as secretary. Meetings were held in the basement of the Social Hall, which were devoted to sewing, such as making quilts, sewing carpet rags towards making a carpet for the old 'Tabernacle, braiding straw for bonnets, etc. In 1857 the meeting discontinued on account of the unsettled state with regard to the army coming to molest us, which caused us to leave our homes and go south. On the 18th of August 1868 the society was organized according to the pattern of the first organization instituted by the Prophet Joseph Smith on March 17th, 1842. To end her records, Sister Goddard wrote the following touching message: These are the last minutes I can write in this book. Feel thankful to my Heavenly Father that he has enabled me to record so many pages in the 30 years acting as secretary. I now resign this book to others, on account of my advanced age. Praying that the work will prosper in younger and more efficient hands. And that the blessings of the Lord may ever be with my dear sisters of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society and all other wards engaged in this labor of love until it shall be said "There are no poor in Zion." Lovingly your sister and fellow worker, Elizabeth Goddard. ~> Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeN oF ALL Nations" HONORING OUR PARENTS: | It is right and proper that children should honor their parents, and what is more fitting than to meet together on their parents' natal day... And talk over the reminiscences of their childhood and rehearse all the good and pleasant things they have experienced, and store their minds with memories rich and precious to hand down to coming generations.... If children have differences they are soon forgotten and naught but the happy times remembered. 'Ties have been formed that will never be broken. Children grow up, get married and are in a measure separated, but there is in each heart a bond of love. A love that has grown with their lives and will continue to grow stronger and stronger while life shall last, and in the eternal worlds it will grow no less. —Editorial THE PIONEER JUBILEE: Great preparations are going forward here and in other adjacent locations for celebrating the Pioneer Jubilee of a half century; the Hall of Relics is nearing its completion and is quite artistic in design, and presents something of the appearance in its whiteness of the World's Fair buildings in Chicago.... The foundation for the monument in honor of Brigham Young is also in process and the work is being pushed as rapidly as possible. The pioneers themselves, the real veterans, should be honored and made to feel that their labors are appreciated by those who are reaping in great measure the benefits of their toil and endeavors.... —News Note VICTORIA THE GREAT The dew was on the summer lawn, The roses bloomed, the woods were green, When forth there came as fresh as dawn A maiden with majestic mien.... Longer and longer may she reign, As through a summer night serene, Whence day doth never wholly wane; God spare and bless our empress-queen. —Alfred Austin RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN SUMMIT STAKE: President Mary C. Atwood presiding, said: "I am pleased to say we have the annual reports from every branch in the Stake, we number seventeen branches, three of them being in Wyoming.".... Elmina S. Taylor said, "... The Prophet Joseph turned the key of knowledge for women; he made it possible for us to meet together and speak of the principles of the Gospel. I say God bless this noble band of sisters that administer to the needy."... Sister Emma Goddard... Advised daughters to love and cherish their parents while they live.... —L. N. MRS. GARRETT'S PARTY: There was a very pleasant gathering of brethren and sisters at the home of Elder Geo. B. Wallace in this city on the afternoon of Thursday June 10, the occasion being the birthday of his daughter, Mrs. Mary E. Garrett. The rooms were fragrant with the odor of June roses.... Sister Garrett is very fond of old ladics and quite a number were invited to her party. Sisters Susan Grant and Melissa Lambson, both pioneers of 1847, helped with their remembrances.... —News Note Page 366 MB:. ENRICO FERMI, widow of the famed nuclear physicist, attended in 1955 as historian for the Atomic Energy Commission, the Atoms-for-Peace Conference in Geneva, Switzerland. In the book she subsequently authored, Atoms for the World, she predicts that Russia between 1950-1960, will graduate 1,200,000 scientists and engineers, compared with goo, ooo in the United States—300, coc0 more graduates than we are likely to have. RICA ANDERSON is the author of The World of Albert Schweitzer, a book of unusual photographs taken at the famous mission hospital at Lambarene, French Equatorial Africa, where, for fifty years, this great medical missionary carried on his work of helping the natives and studying tropical diseases. His philosophy is "Reverence for Life." RS. IVY BAKER PRIEST, United States Treasurer, was the overwhelmingly amazed guest of honor on Ralph Edwards' "This Is Your Life" television program, on March 13. National admiration was hers as the story of her gallant early struggle unfolded—all the way from Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon her childhood epoch at Bingham Canyon, Utah, to Bountiful, Utah, to Washington, D. C. RS. R. F. HERNDON, of Springfield, Illinois, died in March at the age of one hundred and two years. She is believed to be the last person in Springfield who had seen Abraham Lincoln. MES. ARTHUR U. (Blanche) MINER, mother of four children, an intelligent, talented, public-spirited woman, and a Latter-day Saint, has been appointed to the Board of Regents of the University of Utah. ANY descendants of _ titled French families are influential in French life today. The Duchess of Montesquieu - Fezensac, one of the most beautiful women of France, is a grandmother and holds an M. D. Degree. The Countess of Paris, who would be Queen of France today had the Bourbon dynasty survived, is a very popular public figure and the mother of eleven children. Countess Jean de Beaumont is the capable mayor of the village of Mareil-sur-Mauldre. The heroic nurse of the Indo-Chinese war, the "angel of Dienbienphu," is young Viscountess Genevieve de Galard-Terraube, now wed. Page 367 Q- > EDITORIAL cm VOL. 44 JUNE 1957 NO. 6 She 127th Annual Church Conference A T the conclusion of the 127th annual conference of the Church, tens of thousands of Latter-day Saints had gained a renewed determination to live the gospel more fully. Each succeeding conference seems to be more vital, more spiritual and uplifting than the last, perhaps, because the need for renewed spirituality is more urgent. Hearts swelled with gratitude as words of encouragement, warning, and counsel were spoken by President David O. McKay and by other General Authorities. President David O. McKay presided and conducted all seven sessions of the conference and all of the General Authorities were in attendance. Elder Marion G. Romney gave the C. B. S. "Church of the Air' sermon, "The Voice of the Spirit." Proceedings of the general Priesthood meeting, which was held Saturday evening, April 6, in the Tabernacle, were carried by closed circuit to ninety-five assemblages of the Priesthood of the Church throughout the United States and Canada. After telling of the growth and activity in the Church during the past year, President McKay used as his text for his opening address, Matthew 7:21: "Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Page 368 Father which is in heaven." He said that "'salvation is an individual affair," and that it is "an outstanding doctrine of the Church that each individual carries the responsibility to work out his own salvation." He described salvation as a "process of gradual development," stating: "He who would ascend the stairway leading upward to eternal life must tread it step by step from the base stone to the summit of its flight. Not a single stair can be missed, not one duty neglected, if the climber would avoid danger and delay, and arrive with all safety and expedition at the topmost landing of the celestial exaltation." RESIDENT Stephen L Richards explained to the saints that reproof of the "wayward" is proper when given in love and kindness. He stated that the Lord had revealed to the Latter-day Saints the manner in which reproof should be given. He then quoted: No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned.... Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy (D. & C. 121:41, 43). EDITORIAL President Richards continued: "T know that a great effort is being put forth by millions of good people to hold before the youth the advantages and the lasting values emanating from the teachings of our Lord." He stressed that it is necessary "to make clear that the kingdom of God is a kingdom of law; that the governing laws are of divine origin; that they are eternally right and do not change — interpretations may vary, but the laws are eternal; that infraction of the law is sin and draws a penalty." PRESIDENT J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Stated in his scholarly address on the subject of the Constitution of the United States being a divine system of human government, that our "great and priceless liberties, including the security of our homes and property, our freedom of speech and of the press, freedom of religion and the free exercise thereof, indeed freedom itself and its liberties as our fathers knew and enjoyed, as also, ourselves, depend upon its preservation." President Clark further stated: ce 369 peatedly given by the Lord himself to the Constitution of the United States... Makes the principles of that document an integral part of my religious faith." He further declared: "God gave us the power, each of us, to enshrine in our hearts the eternal truths of our Constitution, that, come what may, we shall never desert these truths, but work always and unceasingly that, as Lincoln said, 'government of the people, by the people, and for the people, shall not perish from the earth.' " Conference is a miraculous time— conference time affects for good people in many parts of the world. It was a blessed privilege to hear the words of counsel, admonition, and encouragement from the General Authorities given within the hallowed walls of the historic 'Tabernacle on 'Temple Square, April 5, 6, and 7th, 1957. Relief Society sisters throughout the Church were impressed with a great desire to maintain homes where the gospel principles are taught and lived, and where spirituality prevails. > ie Memoriam a Lucy Jane Brimhall Knight December 13, 1875 — March 31, 1957 LUCY Jane (Jennie) Brimhall Knight, beloved leader among women, and former counselor in the general presidency of Relief Society, died at her home in Edgemont, Provo, Utah, March 31, 1957. She was a daughter of George H. Brimhall, former President of Brigham Young University, and Alsina Wilkins Brimhall. Her husband, J. Will Knight, devoted Church worker and prominent in the industrial development of the West, died in March 1956. 'I'wo sons and ten brothers and sisters survive Sister Knight.... The divine sanction... Re- —H. W. A. 370 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 Interested in civic improvement and in education, Sister Knight supported with her time and means many worthy endeavors. She and her husband were generous patrons of Bugham Young University, and she was honored by B. Y. U. In 1951 as a distinguished alumnus. One of the women's dormitories was named in her honor in 1954. She was a member of the B. Y. U. Emeritus Club. Sister Knight's service in the auxiliary organizations of the Church began in her young womanhood. While living in Canada, she was active in the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and in the Sunday School. She was appointed by President Heber J. Grant in 1921 as First Counselor to President Clarissa S. Williams in the general presidency of Relief Society. She acted in this position with devotion and gracious qualities of inspirational leadership. With the release of Sister Williams in 1928, Sister Knight, while relieved of her responsibilities in the general presidency, continued as a member of the general board until 1939. She was a competent administrator and a judicious and understanding friend of women. Blessed with fluency of expression and a beautiful speaking voice, she represented the general board on many occasions with distinction. She was a delegate to mectings of the National Council of Women and represented Relief Society at two national conferences on social work and attended many other important conventions and mectings. Sister Knight served as matron in the Salt Lake Temple from 1944 to 1947 while her husband served in the temple presidency. She will be long remembered as a lovely and capable woman in whose life the qualities of compassion, intelligence, and understanding were beautifully blended. June in the Kaibab Eva Willes Wangsgaard I walked alone into the wood And was companioned there; Not by the curious fawn that stood Then sprang off light as air. And not by pink and columbine That touched my sandaled feet. A greater comradeship was mine, Root-deep and leaf-complete. Here was a friendliness to gain Fir-tall and pinion-wide. Peace was as near as my own vein And courage walked beside. Notes TO THE FIELD Summer Work Meetings [' is the desire of the general board that a work meeting be held each month, as heretofore, during the summer period, June through September 1957. Program for the November Fast Sunday &vening Meeting HE special program for Sunday, November 3, 1957, ""T'o Build a Spiritual House," was mailed to Relief Society stake presidents in May 1957. We urge that these programs be distributed to the wards without delay. The program includes two numbers from the Singing Mothers chorus. For these numbers it is recommended that a sacred anthem already in their repertoire be chosen, and an appropriate hymn from the Latter-day Saint hymn book. It is suggested that these numbers be practiced during the summer months. Copies of "Wist Ye Not Shat J Must Be About May SFather's Business? Available COPIES of the book Wist Ye Not That I Must Be About My Father's Business? By President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Are again available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah, for $2 postpaid. An invaluable reference on the visit of Jesus to the temple at twelve years of age, the book gives details on temple ceremonies and sacrifices in the time of Christ, with illustrations. 'This book makes an excellent gift. Brides Choice Ethel Jacobson Satin shall I wear, or lace, Velvet shall it be, or silk, With a train of airy grace? Soft as ermine, white as milk? Thistledown and moonbeams, please, Weave a film of candle glow A thrush-enchanted summer breeze, Stitched with petals row on row, Pearls that decked a mermaid's ear, With morning's stars to wreathe my hair.... And silver moth wings, cobweb-sheer. Embroider me a dream to wear! Page 371 ITlodesty Ys the Best Policy Keeping Due Measure y Be Honest with Yourself GUSAN looked down at the beautiful alexandrite ring which she had recently received from her brother who had been touring in Egypt. She was watching the brilliances which were reflected from the many precision cut facets as she moved the ring from bright sunlight into the shadow. She had noticed that in the sunlight the stone would be a blue-green and, in artificial light, it would almost be a maroon color. "Look, Mother," she said finally, "this ring doesn't confine itself to just one beautiful color." Her mother admired the brilliant stone again and replied, "No, dear, it doesn't. It is like many of the virtues of life which aren't confined to just one phase of our lives." Page 372 "That's like modesty," Susan said. "Modesty is featured on the last new poster at the chapel. Modesty doesn't reflect good taste in clothes alone, but also in our actions. What else would you think modesty would include, Mother?" "What about the way you talk and the respect which you have for yourself?" her mother answered. Even though their conversation was interrupted by a telephone call, Susan didn't let the analogy of modesty and the ring go completely out of her thoughts. She remembered conversations with her girl friends, and how they had expressed the idea that modesty referred only to clothes and the manner in which people dressed. Susan checked the dictionary for the meaning of modesty and found that the word "modest" came from a Latin word "modestus" which means "keeping due measure." The thought came to her, one must keep due measure in every phase or activity of life. How grateful she was that her parents set this example before her and her brothers and sisters. In reviewing their home life, Susan could see that her parents did try to keep due measure. 'That would be a good motto to keep in mind— to keep due measure in all things— and then, perhaps, her life would reflect true brilliances as did her ring. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Mental GDness - A National Disaster F. Barry Ryan President, National Association for Mental Health (CLOUDED by fear, ignorance, shame, and sheer disinterest, the problem of mental illness has been hidden away in the closets of society for generations while its victims have suffered intense agony, disgrace, and banishment. Only now that it assumes the proportions of a national disaster have we begun to apply the same sane and intelligent approach to the alleviation of mental illness which has been used in conquering such scourges as smallpox, diphtheria, and polio. More than 250,000 new patients are admitted to mental hospitals each year, and mental disorders are estimated by the United States Public Health Service as an important factor in fifty or seventy per cent of all medical cases treated by physicians. The National Institute of Mental Health concerns itself with research and extension of community services through legally constituted bodies such as Bureaus of Mental Health in many states. The National Association for Mental Health, with forty state associations and over 500 local associations affiliated, has a six-point program for improving the nation's mental health: Education (both for citizens and professional personnel) Volunteer services (in mental hospitals and clinics) Information and referral centers Legislation (in support of sound mental health laws and appropriations) Sufficient facilities and personnel (through legislation, scholarships, institutes and seminars ) Research N vbw o ><> At the Ishtar Gate "Sic transit gloria mundi" Elsie N. Chaney Here is not glory that was Babylon But all glory in its last repose! Dust and broken brick, from which has flown All living fragrance, as a rose Lies scattered on the ground. From all their emptiness—no sound. No motion, save the flash of azure wing Wheeling where the Hanging Gardens stood. All dungeons open to the sky; no hidden thing Left secret; no sepulchre retains its golden hood. O Babylon, I never dreamed your fall so great Until I stood beside the Ishtar Gate! Page 373 Recipes rom the Samoan 1) lemon Submitted by Rita H. Stone BaxeD Fis IN Coconut CREAM 4 fillets of any white fish or 1 chopped onion 1 No. 1 can red salmon salt and pepper to taste pe'epe'e (coconut cream) Place fish in a shallow baking dish, cover with chopped onion. Salt and pepper to taste and cover with pe'epe'e. Bake in moderate oven for one-half hour or until set and nicely browned. Cocoa RicE 1 ¢. Tice 2 tbsp. Cocoa 3 qts. Water. 1 c. Pe'epe'e sugar to taste Thoroughly wash the rice and drain. Boil the rice in the water until soft, and add cocoa mixed with a small amount of water and sugar. Just before serving, add the pe'epe'e. This is very good for a breakfast dish. PALUSAMI taro leaves pe'epe'e small amount of chopped onion 1 12-0z. Can corn beef (if desired) Cook tender taro leaves for ten minutes in boiling water and drain well. Place the leaves in baking dish with a little chopped onion and cover with pe'epe'e. Place in moderate oven until set or thickened. Corn beef may be added for variety. Young taro leaves are one of the best Samoan greens and provide a good source of vitamins. 'This is a very common way of serving taro Icaves. However, spinach leaves and Swiss chard can be used. Banana Por 8 ripe bananas leaves from orange 1 c, pe'epe'e or lemon tree Mash bananas into a pulp and add the pe'epe'e. If leaves from an orange or lemon tree are available, put a few of them in also for added flavor. SALAKI 4 papayas 1 fresh pineapple or § ripe bananas 1 No. 2 can crushed pineapple 1 c. Pe'epe'e Cut papaya and bananas into small pieces. Peel and grate the fresh pineapple. (1 No. 2 can of crushed pineapple may be used in place of the fresh one.) Combine together with pe'epe'e and a few ice cubes. A very good dessert. Page 374 Coconut BALLs 10 ruskets (biscuits) 1 can condensed milk 2 tbsp. Cocoa sweeten to taste % ¢. Raisins coconut as needed ¥%, c. Chopped nuts Mix together the crushed ruskets, the nuts, cocoa, raisins, and the milk, and press into little balls, 'Then roll them in the coconut and leave to set. Do not bake. Coconut Biscuits % c. Butter 3 c. Flour 2 ¢. Sugar 3 tsp. Baking powder 3 c. Fresh grated coconut 2 tbsp. Karo syrup (not dried or processed) Cream the butter and sugar. Add the syrup and beat well. Stir in coconut and gradually add the flour and baking powder. If the coconut seems very moist, a little more flour may be added. Place spoonfuls of dough on a greased cooky sheet and bake in a moderate oven. Raw Fisu AND PE'EPE'E Cut any boneless white fish in small pieces. Cover with lemon juice and set for three hours. Drain well. Cover with pe'epe'e and a little chopped onion, and let it stand for a few minutes and then serve. Excellent for a buffet supper or as an hors d'oeuvre. Note: Pe'epe'e is the Samoan name for coconut cream and is used often in the preparation of food. It is prepared by grating the coconut meat and straining the cream from the pulp. Mother and Child Enola Chamberlin When she is well and filled with joy She races in ecstasy, Giving to others love and smiles As much as she gives to me. And yet when the little heart is hurt, And pain swells the small skinned knee, She eagerly runs to my open arms And snuggles down to me. RECIPES FROM THE SAMOAN MISSION 375 Help Yourself to Happiness Frances C. Yost IME. Was, when I had moods. Sad days would come along, and I could not lay my finger on the reason. Moodily, I would get to feeling that nobody liked me, and I brooded about it. Then one day I changed my whole way of living. I found how to help myself to happiness. There were things I decided to incorporate into my life to make it full and meaningful. Could I do these extra things in addition to my already heavy load? It takes time to be a mother to four, housekeeper to nine rooms, gardener to lawn, flowers, garden, and strawberry patch, and to serve community and Church. Although my days seemed steeped with work, I could not strike one item from my list. "You will need more hours in a day to accomplish what you have outlined," I told myself. Then my better self replied: "I shall find time for these things that really count." I pass along my guide for living in the hopes that you, too, can help yourself to happiness: 1. Do an unpleasant or neglected job. Time was when I would dread cleaning out a drawer, the basement, or typing a funeral service for someone. I was the world's worst procrastinator. Now, I never dwell on a task at hand, I just surprise myself by doing one. It is surprising how dreaded tasks get behind one when one a day is done. 2. Do at least one kind deed a day for someone. Few of us can be Page 376 philanthropists with money, but we can all be generous of ourselves. In my little way I started doing, like a boy scout, a good turn daily. I try to give of my substance, although I have found people are literally starved for attention, compliments, praise, and encouragement, and these things cost nothing. 3. Be a good listener. When someone speaks, I try to listen with the eyes and with the mind, and concentrate on what is being said, whether it is a child or adult speaking. If, for some reason there is an interruption, as soon as possible I say: "You were telling us about...." The informer will never forget your kindness, and will remember you as a good conversationalist. 4. Read something of lasting value each day. There is so much of good reading in the world, scriptures, history, biography, poetry, to name but a few. Choose something, even if you have to do snatch reading, for even an artesian well needs priming occasionally. 5- Do something in a musical way. Everyone can enjoy music. It was Congreve in The Mourning Bride, who said: "Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast." It is true that music lifts the soul as nothing else will. As a child I longed for a piano and lessons. Now I am grown I play each day for my own entertainment. The music that was hard to play last week is much easier this. No one is too 2? HELP YOURSELF TO HAPPINESS old to begin learning music. If no instrument is at hand, the dishpan is a lovely accompaniment for your own voice, and there is also radio or phonograph music to en- \@y- 6. Do something to beautify. This can entail a lot of time, or be as simple as pulling a weed, picking up a gum wrapper, setting a lawn sprinkler, or making tiebacks for the kitchen curtains. 7. Do something creative, something lasting. Someone has said, a woman's work is never done. True, she cleans, cooks, washes, and irons, and does those same tasks over and over, but you can save time for creating a little sewing, crocheting, embroidering, or, if you are gifted, each day you may work on a poem, or a painting. Keats wrote: "A thing of beauty is a joy forever." 8. Look up and out. 'Too many of us get in the habit of going around looking at our shoes. 'The beauty of the universe escapes us. Arise early enough to enjoy the sunrise occasionally, or watch the sunset, because they never happen exactly the same. 'Take time to watch the changing patterns of the clouds. An artist friend has seen the same bear-shaped cloud a number of times, and she watches eagerly for this facsimile. Look as far as the eye can reach. 9. Enjoy God's greatest creation, humanity. Each of us can find that people are interesting. Someone has said if you want to grow, associate with older people while young, and younger people when you are old. But each day enjoy all 377 people. It was Lincoln who said, "... The Lord prefers commonlooking people. 'That is the reason he makes so many of them." So, enjoy the imagery of little persons and the wisdom of the aged. 10. Be a real helpmate. If you have given yourself in marriage, remember to give of yourself. Be your best for that certain someone. Freshen up for him before the day starts, and make your voice, your smile, your personality sparkle for him all day. 'Try to do something special to please him, like making a batch of his favorite cookies or cake. A man's heart is very close to his stomach. So be a helpmate as God intended a wife should be. 11. Review the most beautiful experience of the day. When day is finished and you find yourself between cool white sheets, pick from your day a beautiful memory. All the cares and troubles of the day may pass into oblivion as you dwell on this happy memory. It need not be a big event, little things are beautiful too. Whatever it be, let the memory of it be your last thought, as you drift off to slumber. Pleasant memories will bring pleasant expressions to a_time-etched face. Those are some of my guides to living. Some of them take very little time. They fit into the regular doing of most any day. When too much time is spent on one, several others will work in, in almost no time at all, to compensate. I find that one often helps another. I pass them along to you, in the hopes that from them you, too, may help yourself to happiness! A llursery Will Be ITlaintained Edna H. Day LMOST always when a newspaper carries the announcement of a Relief Society meeting in our locality, this phrase appears: A nursery will be maintamed. 'The nature of the meeting varies: work, theology, social science, or literature, but the nursery announcement is constant. This helpful nursery service which the organization provides for its members enables young mothers to participate in the wonderful lessons which Relief Society affords. 'They can relax and pass on to a competent and interested person the responsibility of caring for their little ones while they give full attention to the lessons being presented. "A competent and interested person?" I did not know what to call the women who preside over our nurseries until the children themselves solved the problem very well by giving the nursery supervisor the dignified and complimentary title of "teacher." Usually the Junior Sunday School and the Primary nursery classes have been the first to teach the children reverence and group _participation, but often the first contact a child has with a Church organization is in the Relief Society nursery. Besides teaching reverence, nurseries introduce the children to the idea of sharing and getting along with others, and participating in games and other group activities. Page 378 A box of toys is usually provided by the organization, but good nursery teachers bring additional material which will interest and amuse the children as well as instruct them. Toddlers are satisfied with toys, but the older children get tired of playing with toys. 'They love to have supervised creative activities, such as cutting and pasting pictures from catalogues and magazines in selfmade scratch paper booklets, and painting pictures torn from coloring books; they enjoy writing on the classroom blackboards and _ placing pictures on flannel boards; they think it is fun to make chains from colored paper; they like to make posters; and they enjoy modeling clay. With most of these activities the supervisor needs four eyes and six hands, because paste, modeling clay, and crayons taste good to toddlers, and even blunt pointed scissors can be hazardous. The answer is not to deprive the older children of the pleasure these creative pastimes afford, but to safeguard the toddlers from harm. A table for the older children is the best answer, but a chair partition placed across the center of the room serves very well, and the chairs may be used as tables when the older children kneel by them. Finger plays and action songs amuse very young boys and girls as well as older children. Mothers are often amazed when toddlers go through the motions of "Heads and A NURSERY WILL BE MAINTAINED shoulders, knees and toes." Programs are always fun, especially if the teacher has a fund of nursery thymes to help the backward children so that all can participate. 'Television shows can be staged with an ordinary box without the bottom and top. Oddly enough, the children never refer to the room they occupy as the "Nursery." It, too, is Relief Society. "Teacher," they say, "I had to stay home from Relief Society last week because my little brother was sick and mother had to take care of him." Have you ever wondered how many times the children bring the mothers to Relief Society where a good nursery is provided? You might be surprised. Last month our local paper ran a full page spread of pictured activities in which Relief Society sisters were shown carrying out various projects: quilting, preparing for bazaars, presenting lessons and— guess what! One ward in our stake chose to feature a nursery full of 379 children, with a supervisor as the only grownup shown. 'The attendance of children in that ward is usually more than twenty-five for an ordinary meeting, and as many as seventy for special affairs, such as the opening social. About a year ago the same ward asked one of the supervisors to prepare and read an original poem for the mothers as part of a program. She said: GRANDMOTHER Pro TEM The little ones entrusted to my care I substitute for children of my own; And see in fairy forms and gleaming hair Images of my offspring long since grown. I thrill when tiny hands slip into mine, (Not questioning my scant ability); But say, with happy smile and eyes that shine, "Please, teacher, come and write a duck for me." Sometimes, with books we set our fancies free, Or sing, or build a block tower very high; And all of us are happy, for you see I seem to feel a grandchild standing by. I treasure these wee ones you've loaned to me. Be sure that I shall treat them tenderly. <> A Woman s Years Elsie McKinnon Strachan Cookies and milk, a story read, Nightgowns placed on a turned-down bed, Small hands of trust, love-halted tears, Bright banners these, of a woman's years. The music of snow sleds, of summer's stream, Teaching reality, sharing the dream; A son's tall strength, a bridal dress, These make a woman's happiness. And on the mind's deep-rooted tree, They leaf again in memory. Mamas Cooking Christie Lund Coles heard a young man say, recently, [ "We kids may not have had money for every change of show, but we always sat down to a table of really luscious food." I knew his mother, and I knew by the look in his eyes that the food really had been something special, something to remember. I remember Mama's cooking as something special, too. Don't you, too, carry such a memory? Maybe what made it so special was Mama herself, just the way she looked and moved; and tasted, and blended the food; and the warmth and coziness of the large, old-fashioned kitchen with its smells and wonderful aromas, and steam on the windows; and the sight of the food being carried to the golden-oak dining table. Hm!!! It makes my mouth water yet. It is strange, though, that the food I remember best, was not the fancy food, pies, cakes, and puddings, but rather the more simple, nourishing kind — which, after all, was what we ate when we were most hungry. I remember on wash day, how we nearly always had scalloped potatoes, because they could be put in the oven and not interfere with the tub of water boiling on top of the coal stove. 'They were not ordinary scalloped potatoes, mind you. 'They were special, made with rich, country milk and large slices of fresh side pork, or home-cured bacon (from a neighbor's recent kill) on top. In the oven also were large Slabs of Hubbard squash. Funny, Page 380 my fancy gas range doesn't seem able to make squash bake the same. Not a bit the same. In the summer, I recall we had raspberries and strawberries growing in our garden. Before them, we had tall, softly pink stalks of rhubarb. My mouth puckers at the thought of how we used to break off a piece and eat it raw. Yet, I remember best, how Mama would cook either the thubarb or strawberries or raspberries, strain them and thicken the juice with either cornstarch or tapioca, and serve with whipped cream. She called it "red mush" (the Danish name) but by whatever name, it was a dish. Of course, there was the inevitable chicken soup. And nobody, but nobody could make Danish dumplings to taste like hers. 'hey were not a fluffy, large, floury dumpling. But, rather small, and somewhat firm, made with lots of eggs and shortening, (butter, that is) and boiling water. I can tell you how, but I can't guarantee they will taste the same... Though even mine are something. First, she would take one-half cup butter (or margerine), one half teaspoon salt, and one cup of water. This, she would heat to boiling while she was sifting and measuring one cup of flour. When the water had reached a rolling boil she would add the flour at once stirring swiftly (preferably with a wooden spoon) until the mixture left the sides of the pan and did not cling to the spoon. When this dough was slightly cooled she would break MAMA'S COOKING three eggs (one at a time) into the dough. Each egg was stirred vigorously into the mixture before the other one was added. Then the dough was dropped a teaspoonful at a time into the boiling soup, the lid was put on the kettle for ten minutes, and... Well, I just can't tell you, you'll have to try it. Another thing we liked, was to cook these same dumplings in boiling milk and eat them with sugar and cinnamon. Enough about dumplings. Or is it? I can distinctly taste the meat dumplings she used to cook with boiled celery. She would take one half pound of ground beef and one half pound pork sausage, season with allspice, salt, pepper, a bit of onion, and drop with a spoon into celery that had been cut up and boiled for ten or fifteen minutes. She would thicken the water in which the meat had been added and cooked, and serve piping hot. This same meat preparation she would use to stuff a large, scoopedout head of cabbage, or scoopedout large onions. 'The tops were kept and tied on after the meat was put in, and the vegetables allowed to boil until tender. Then, water which had cooked down, was thickened and used for a gravy. And I might say, good gravy, when do we eat? But I can't go and see until I have told you about my very favorite dish of all. Sweet soup. And don't let the name frighten you. It has nothing to do with soup as such. Mother would cook prunes and raisins in about a quart of water until tender, thicken the mixture slightly with tapioca, then add two 381 or three lightly beaten, sweetened eggs just as it was ready to be taken from the fire. A stick of cinnamon added at the beginning added just the super flavor. Sometimes, she would add fruit juice and canned cherries, raspberries, or strawberries instead of the eggs, but the former was my favorite. It was a must when there was illness or convalescence. I remember the spareribs she cooked with prunes and apples, the "head cheese" made from the meat of a pig's head (sounds unappetizing, but you should live so long as to taste it), the homemade stuffed sausages, the liver loaf; the pressed veal roll, which took days and days to flavor in a salt brine with leaves of thyme and bay, and more days to press into a firm roll that was sliced on homemade bread, and what the thought of that does to my taste buds! And I must tell you about her sour-and-sweet red cabbage that practically made Christmas dinner with its goose or its turkey. Yet, it is so simple we should have it often. She would shred a head of ted cabbage, boil it in water, add several tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a half cup of sugar, and a bit of butter. And speaking of sour-and-sweet things, there was the sour and sweet gravy she made for boiled or steamed halibut, but we won't go into that. I feel hunger pains. How thankful I am for the food that so often satisfied those pangs, and for the memory of that food and the blessed hands that prepared it. There was just nothing quite like Mom's cooking. And there still is not. The Patchwork Quilt Elizabeth Cannon McCrimmon is going to give us a patchwork quilt for our wedding!" Vida confided to her Aunt Rose. To avoid the usual conglomeration of presents, Vida had seen that her friends learned of her selected patterns of silver, china, pottery, and sterling. If guests couldn't afford a spoon, they" could send a pottery dish. That shouldn't work a hardship on anybody, Vida had decided. Already Aunt Rose knew of some insurrection. Uncle George had selected an enormous kitchen clock, shaped like a sunflower, "So Jack can get to work on time." Rose herself had purchased a wall can opener, accompanied by a_ book Two Hundred and Fifty-Seven Ways to Prepare Canned Foods. She distrusted her niece's cooking ability. With all the present-day activities of young people, cooking, somehow, seemed relegated to the background. "You don't mean to say Mother is giving you the double-weddingring quilt? I always knew she fayored you, but I didn't think anyone would get that! It's her most cherished possession. The history of the whole family is sewed up in it." "What do you mean?" Vida asked curiously. "The wool bats are from Uncle Fred's sheepherd. With all these new synthetic materials, they say that sheep, like horses, are on the way out. But, to my way of thinking, there is nothing like a good wool filling for warmth." Page 382 66 0: dear. I'm afraid Grandma "That delphinium blue it is lined with is a lovely color," Vida admitted. "Do you know what that is? It's raw silk from China that Maud purchased in Honolulu. She brought it as a present to Mother when she made the trip to Hawaii on the Lurline." "And Grandma put it in the quilt!" "The double-wedding-ring is a beautiful idea. Many men nowadays wear a wedding ring on their left hands to indicate that they are married. The pattern was brought into our family by Great-GreatGrandmother Paul when she walked across the plains before the railroad came to Salt Lake. One Scotch plaid piece of cloth actually is from a dress that belonged to her little girl, Annie, who died and was buried by the side of the road." "Honestly!" "Yes, and it's the tartan of our ancestors in Scotland." "What about the Irish side of the house?" By now Vida was regretting her former feeling. "I guess the bits of green are from the Emerald Isle," Aunt Rose vouchscfed, with a twinkle in her eye. "We'll appreciate the quilt now, if we are lucky enough to get it," Vida confessed. "You must show us the pieces and tell us their history." "The most precious things to me," said Aunt Rose, tears coming into her eyes, "are the many hours THE PATCHWORK QUILT and the tiny stitches Mother put into it, to say nothing of the fine co-operative project the ward Relief Society members made of quilting - we oe ok OK OK The young people were married on a spring-like day in early summer in the beautiful new Los Angeles Temple. After the ceremony, they sped home to a family dinner. 'This was followed in the evening by a garden reception in the patio of the 383 bride's home, in a tropical setting of hibiscus, bougainvillaea, camellias, and fuchsias. The ushers, in white coats, led guests to the bridal couple, their parents, and attendants. Japanese lanterns lent an exotic atmosphere, while a_ string orchestra played sweet music. In the glassed-in lanai, the wedding gifts were displayed. Dominating the scene and spreading its ample folds in the place of honor, was Grandma's patchwork quilt. Shis ACE My Building Maud H. Fullmer AS I enter The Relief Society Building, I am not so conscious of the sturdiness of construction, the beauty of line or the blending of colors, as I am of the spirit of the building—the years of prayer, thought, longing, and work for just such a place. Not only do I sense a feeling of awe and reverence, but also a sense of ownership and belonging. ° Many times I sit in the lounge and read the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith inscribed on the plaque: "You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide, and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation; "And I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; "This is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads" (D. H. C., IV, page 607). Then it is that I have a song in my heart which repeats over and over again— This is My Building. I like to think that the courage, stamina, hopes, and dreams of the past leaders of Relief Society are incorporated in the spirit of the building and that Emma Smith, Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young, and the others who have gone on are pleased and happy with what we are doing. I am sure the work, prayers, aspirations, and dreams of the present valiant leaders are also becoming a part of the spirit of the building. I picture the women in all parts of the world who may never have an opportunity to see the building, that as they sit around their heating stoves, gather in their meetings in the cold countries; and the other dear sisters in the hot countries who sit under the shade of the trees during the heat of the day talking about the building, looking at the pictures and listening to the missionaries as they describe the beauties and functions of our building, that they, too, may feel that—This Is My Building. And so I dream of the future and vision my daughters, my granddaughters, and great-granddaughters down through many generations as they work in Relief Society with unshakeable faith; charity in their hearts and always with the light of hope in their windows, that they too may hear that same beautiful refrain—This Is My Building —This Is My Building. Mother Had Seven Girls Jennie Brown Rawlins S I switched on my automatic washer the other day I couldn't help thinking what a pity it was that Mother hadn't had a few of the modern conveniences when she was rearing her family of seven girls. 'Then, in retrospect, I went back to those old washdays, but contrarily, the picture my mind conjured up was not unpleasant. I could see the washer, with the copper bands and wooden tub, which was Mother's pride and joy after years of scrubbing clothes on the board. True, it had had to be turned by hand, but there was always one to turn the washer and one to turn the wringer. We used to sing as we turned, "Swinging, swinging, lulling cares to rest 'neath the old apple tree." (I used to wonder about lulling, and why she cared to rest), or read Ann of Green Gables. Occasionally, Mother, flushed and damp, would emerge from the kitchen carrying pans of steaming clothes or buckets of boiling suds. There were two to hang the sweetsmelling clothes on the long lines, rows of whites, fresh and snowy from being boiled in homemade soap and lye-water, and dozens of gaily colored dresses hung in graduated sizes. The next day, there was the big fruit-basket filled to overflowing with tightly rolled and dampened pieces. The stove glowed red, the irons were sizzling hot, and the house was filled with the fragrance of freshly ironed clothes, mixed Page 384 occasionally with the faint scent of scorch, for Mabel usually lingered too long on a ruffle. We used to take turns at the irons, the older ones doing the more difficult pieces. Lois, the youngest, was permitted to iron only the handkerchiefs and pillow slips—much to her annoyance. It was a mark of honor to be allowed to iron one of Father's white shirts, the collar and cuffs coldstarched to cardboard stiffness; and a lace-trimmed flounce ironed silken smooth was a thing to stir one's pride—almost a work of art. On a brisk Saturday morning what a stir we made—what scrubbing, shining, polishing, sweeping, dusting, and airing. There were two for the upstairs, one for the parlor, one for the kitchen, and one for the screened-in back porch and storeroom. Lois stood on a chair and washed dishes, being very careful with the hand-painted china that mother indulgently permitted her to wash. We rotated, and the one who got the parlor was always considered the lucky one, for she could dust the sea shells, cut glass, and other interesting things that were in the china cupboard. When we got through, how the old house sparkled and seemed to emanate a warm and friendly hominess. 'The beds looked fresh and inviting, with their plump straw ticks and smooth snowy cases; the old stove shone like polished ebony; and the upright piano in the parlor (with Mother and Father's wedding picture set at just the right MOTHER HAD SEVEN GIRLS angle atop it) glowed in all its ornate beauty. 'Then Father's suit must be pressed until the creases were knife-sharp, and shoes must be shined, and more water heated for baths. In the evening, as we sat in the cozy kitchen with a fire crackling in the stove, and the warm ruddy glow of the lamps shining upon the faces of those we loved, how the old house seemed to gather us close, as if it were enfolding us tenderly in its arms! THEN Sunday — that was a day of days. 'The whitetop buggy groaned with its weight of girls in white lawn or voile or embroidery, and Father's two hundred pounds and Mother's diminutive one-hundred-twenty. The horses trotted briskly along, the ribbons on our straw sailors fluttered in the breeze, and seemed symbolic of our lightly tethered spirits. After Sunday School the women spread out quilts and placed redchecked cloths upon them, and from well-stocked boxes unloaded toast chicken, potato salad, homecured ham, spice cake, rhubarb pies, and currant jelly. Then, after all had eaten and the tables were cleared, we older girls gathered under the big poplar tree and talked in low, animated tones, and the women sat on the quilts, tended the younger children, visited, and exchanged recipes. The horses, their tugs loosened, grazed contentedly, and the men leaned up against the buggies or squatted on the grass (being very careful of their Sunday trousers) and talked man-talk. Father kept 385 them entertained with stories of his amusing experiences, and though the other men chuckled appreciatively and Father's eyes twinkled and his mustache quivered, he never laughed at his own stories. Once in a while the women would stop to listen, and when the laughter got too loud, Mother would draw her brows close together in disapproval, but all she ever said was, "Now, John, remember it is the Sabbath." Promptly at two the afternoon meeting began, after which, filled with a deep, quiet peace, we made our way home. Father sat in the driver's seat and mused contentedly, letting the lines droop, and the horses sauntered sleepily along. Lois drowsed, her head in Mother's lap, Mabel finger-pressed a pleat over a hole in her new voile dress, looking furtively about to see if anyone else had discovered it; and Mother, her hand resting lightly on Lois' bright head, was happy knowing that here was her family about her, all safe and free from harm. The rolling fields, a deep lush green in the softened light, became to me the rolling waves of some far sea, and the gentle rocking of the whitetop became the rocking of a white-sailed ship. But always and always, instead of it taking me to faraway, glamorous shores, I was returning from those places to bring my treasures home—home, not so much a tall white house set in an apple orchard, as a circle of hands that opened to draw me in. Yes, we have many wonderful modern inventions, but let's not make the mistake of thinking, even for a moment, that happiness is one of them. The Bright Star CHAPTER 4 Dorothy S. Romney Synopsis: Kathy Tracy, an orphan, who wishes to become an artist, lives with her Aunt Emerald Jewel Tracy in an_ oldfashioned house overlooking San Francisco Bay. Kathy applies to a neighbor, Phineas Fenton, for employment; however, Aunt Em suffers a partial stroke, and Kathy gives up the promised position. Using her aunt's illness as an excuse, Kathy postpones marriage to Jim Parker. A stranger, Marc Hale, asks to rent the China house, and Aunt Em agrees. NCE back in the garden, () Kathy found that the exuberance she'd felt earlier had left her. She sat facing the hills, her back against the rough exterior of the China house. She ought to like the new tenant of the China house, she told herself. 'The money was a life-saver. But she didn't. For one thing he wasn't young enough to interest her. He looked all of thirty-five. And his highhandedness! No, she did not like the tenant of the China house. As she sat thus brooding, Marta's son, who delivered papers about the countryside, whistled from the road. "Hey, want a paper?" he called. "T've got an extra one today. Mom likes to read the society page." He tossed the paper in Kathy's direction, and was off on his bike again. A daily paper was a luxury the Tracy household could not afford. Kathy picked it up, and began brushing the loose dirt from it. A small headline at the bottom of the folded paper darted out at her. "Art Contest." She read the item carefully, excitement and interest rising in her. "Art Scholarship. One thouPage 386 sand dollars, or a year in a chosen school," it began. Excitedly Kathy ran into the kitchen and thrust the paper at Marta. "Hank left it," she cried. She started dancing around Marta in a circle. "I'm going to enter it. I'm going to enter it and win," she sang. "For goodness sake, sit down," Marta cried, "you're making me dizzy." ser not having paid any attention to what Kathy was saying, Marta spread the paper out on the kitchen table and started reading aloud. But Kathy wasn't listening. The picture she would send in to the contest was already taking shape in her mind. It would be hauntingly life-like, a ship materializing out of the fog, yet no ghost ship. Sturdy as the freighter Grandfather 'Tracy had piloted for the Fenton line. How often Kathy and Aunt Em had stood on the cupola at the top of the house watching—listening for Jon Tracy's signal as his ship rounded into the Golden Gate. 'The signal that meant happy days ahead until the time came for him to sail out again. She'd take the thousand dollars she would win and give Aunt Em a chance to be free from worry. Then another thought intruded on her mind—a few more months to be free herself—how wonderful that would be—she needn't marry Jim just yet. And suddenly she realized that now that Jim had been THE BRIGHT STAR ordained an elder, there was something else that was holding her back. Firmly thought. Kathy smothered _ this No one could be better to me than Jim has been—he's so dependable. We'll be happy together, surely we will, she told herself. If only he weren't so stubborn. HE Pacific Ocean had long been Kathy's friend. Whenever she was troubled she'd walk down to the China house, sit on its miniature veranda, listen to the rush of the waves, and think things out. She knew the ocean's moods and what they foretold. At times calm and blue as a summer sky, other times sullen and brooding under fog or rain, or rising im angry green waves, the white caps breaking almost under her feet. But now the China house was occupied by this highhanded young man. Kathy needed solitude desperately. She'd have to begin work on her contest picture immediately. The old-fashioned cupola at the top of the house offered the only haven. She selected materials, found a folding stool, and started the climb up to the third floor of the old house. She placed her stool so that the afternoon sun would warm her back, settled her eascl and looked out over the wide blue expanse of the Pacific. Finally her gaze came to rest on the China house. Stretched in his deck chair, the long length of him almost completely covering the small space of the veranda was Mr. Marc Hale, weeklong tenant of the cabin. 387 Kathy had decided it was foolish to go on resenting him, since there was nothing to be gained. He had nodded to her on several occasions, and had made a few inquiries as to their source of fresh eggs, vegetables, and butter. This had been her only contact with him. She tried never to think of him. Often, after having been absent for a few hours she had come home to find his laughter coming from Miss Em's room, her aunt pinkcheeked and almost gay looking. Aunt Em had smiled at Kathy's indignation after he'd gone. "He's good for me," she'd managed to say, almost her first complete sentence since her illness. Kathy found herself laughing at Marta's version of these visits. "What's-his-name,' Marta was no good at remembering names—'"the ex-prowler was here. Looking sour as crab apples—till he come out of Miss Em's room, all smiles, he was then." Or, " "His Happiness' of the China house," as she had finally dubbed him, "paid us a visit today. Got to laughing with Miss Em. Say, I'd like to know what their secret is." Whatever it was, Kathy had decided, they could keep it, although she was grateful to know that Aunt Em was finding a few moments of pleasure now and then. She shook her head impatiently. This would never do. She turned her stool away from the view of the China house and started to paint. She must have been working for hours, too absorbed in what she was doing to notice that it had begun to grow chilly. She felt a shiver go through her, relaxed her hold on 388 the paintbrush, and looked up just in time to see the fiery red sun begin its plunge into the Pacific. Gracious, she told herself, I must have been sitting here for ages, and I promised Aunt Em fresh peas from the garden for her supper. ATHY hurriedly folded her camp stool and started down the steep stairs that led directly to the garden, the picture in hand. Luckily for her, she thought, "His Happiness" had abandoned his post on the veranda. At least she'd be spared the dubious pleasure of his company. She put her picture down in a safe place and started pulling the plump green pods off the vines. Both hands were full before she realized that she had nothing to put them in. She looked around. "Here, put them in this," a voice behind her said—a voice so bland and soft she failed to recognize it until she looked into the face of Mr. Marc Hale himself. He was holding out a small, shiny saucepan to her. "You look as if you'd never seen me before," he stated, grinning. "T haven't," she blurted out truthfully, and realized for the first time that her imagination had been playing tricks on her. He looked almost boyish and good-natured, with his hair shghtly rumpled and a faint brush of sun-tan on his face. "Hmm," he mused, "I wonder." Then went on, "I saw you working on the cupola. Your aunt tells me you're an artist." "That's for the future to decide," Kathy murmured. "I do want to enter this contest, the one for the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 scholarship or the thousand dollars in cash." She so desperately needed someone to talk to she forgot for a moment that this arrogant man was her enemy. "A contest, is it?" he said, and thrust the pan at her. 'There was nothing for Kathy to do but take it with a murmured thanks. He reached down, and without so much as a "by your leave," picked up the picture she had been working on and started studying it. "Not bad—not bad at all," he conceded after a few moments, and Kathy felt her cheeks coloring under this faint praise. "But contests are a disappointment. I understand they're strictly for the professional." "Maybe not," Kathy retorted sharply. "Anyway, I'm going to try it. It's a way of finding out if I'm any good." <A way of making expenses, if I win, she thought. "Atta girl. I like a person with spunk." He laughed a little, as though ashamed. Of his confession, and Kathy noticed he was looking at her curiously. He must have suddenly realized he was staring, as he turned hastily back to studying the picture. "Say," he exclaimed after a moment, "this might go places in a 'contest at that. You've got a good beginning." Kathy sparkled. "Oh, you really think I might have a chance?" she asked, and realized all of a sudden that she was thoroughly enjoying this conversation. "Well, I shall certainly try. Id never get any place just sitting around." Hale's laugh was short and mirthless. "Yes, I suppose you're night. I must say, however, that you've THE BRIGHT STAR chosen a hard role. Artists and writers are a dime a dozen. Better forget contests and get married. Don't tell me that fellow with the scrubbed look about him comes to see auntie." Kathy was angry again. She clutched the pan of peas in one hand, and with the other gingerly accepted the picture Marc handed her, and started up through the berty patch, the red-gold of her hair flashing in the last rays of the sun. At least, she thought, "that fellow with the scrubbed look" has someMla rtha FL. 389 thing you don't have, Mr. Marc Hale, as she thought of him now being an elder. Her anger had softened a little by the time she reached the house. I wonder what church he does belong to? She asked herself. Since Aunt Em's illness, Kathy hadn't been able to get to church as often as she liked. She missed the peaceful, secure feeling she got from attending services in the little ward chapel in San Rafael, the warmth of her many friends. (To be continued ) cKaig Composes Lyrics and? Tlusic for Children 3 Songs ALTHOUGH she is nearly ninety-one years of age, Martha Hardy McKaig of Oakland, California, enjoys many varied activities and hobbies. Besides writing the lyrics for children's songs, she also composes the score for the songs. Sister McKaig is a fine quilter and homemaker and still bakes excellent bread. She is active in the Church auxiliaries. Mrs. McKaig was born in Salt Lake City and graduated from the University of Utah in the class of 1886. She is the mother of four children, grandmother to five, and great-grandmother to ten. She has seen the branch Relief Society in Oakland grow into three stakes with more than forty Relief Society organizations. She has devoted many years to Relief Society compassionate services. Hulda Parker, General Secretarv-Treasurer All material submitted for pxblication in this department s should be sent through Fe e ~ its. See regulations governing the submittal the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. © Saag RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Ae ts <. Ied _ 1) | ot Phewsgraph submitved by Hope Beus RIGBY STAKE (IDAHO). ROBERTS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HOLDS ANNUAL BAZAAR AND DANCE Left to right: Catherine Paulsen; Ardis Fullmer, President. Bang 1 Ward Relief Society: Ann Surerus. First Connselor; June Duke. Sectetary-Treasurer; Jessie Lake. Secex. Work meeting leader: Shirlee Holm; Inez Zollinger; "Hage Bews President. Rigby Stake Rehef Society, reports: "A large variety of articles was displayed on tables representing a train engine and cars" at the annual of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Mag e for Apzil 1950, page 278, and NOTES FROM THE FIELD 391 a" — J dad wGape keh. Jee Photograph submitted by Rhoda Thorpe HYRUM STAKE (UTAH). EIGHT WARD RELIEF SOCIETIES JOIN TO PRESENT MARCH SUNDAY EVENING PROGRAM Rhoda Thorpe, President, Hyrum Stake Relief Society, reports: "Eight wards of Hytum Stake Relief Society joined together to present the March Sunday night meeting, 'Portrait of a Dream' under direction of the stake board. Music directors were Matilda Miller. Chorister, and Alta Petersen, organist, who are both seated in front of the Singing Mothers chorus." Photograph submitted by Marie J. Monson BUTTE STAKE (MONTANA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, February 24, 1957 Verla Boetticher. Chorister. Stands in front of the piano: Lucile Rossiter. Organist, is seated at the piano: Viola Shuman: First Counselor, Butte Stake Relief Society, stands eighth from right on first row: Marie J. Monson, President. Is second from left on second tow; Helen Smith. Secretary-Treasurer. Is third from left on back row. Sister Monson reports: "There were seventy-two: women who participated. These women traveled from as far as 115 miles away. They practiced in their own wards and branches. Having only one combined practice Sunday moming before the session of conference." 302 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 Photograph submitted by Ida H. Gallagher MURRAY STAKE (UTAH), MURRAY SEVENTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE ONE HUNDRED PER CENT FOR FIVE YEARS Sister Ida A. Gallagher, President, Murray Stake Relief Society, reports that the visiting teachers of the Murray Seventh Ward have achieved one hundred per cent in their visiting teaching since the ward was organized five years ago. In the picture, beginning sixth from left in front row are: Marjorie H. Newman, First Counselor; Ina H. Day, President; Nola S. Winget, Second Counselor; Lovella J. Green, Secretary-Treasurer, of the Murray Seventh Ward. Photograph submitted by Olive C. Phillips FRESNO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC AT STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, February 24, 1957 Leida Anderson, chorister, is standing second from right, on the third row; Mary Thompson, organist, is third from right, third row; Olive C. Phillips, President, Fresno Stake Relief Society, is at far right on third row. Sister Phillips reports: "This is the first time the Singing Mothers of this stake have sung for quarterly conference and, although they live in widely scattered localities, and their practicing together was limited to one session, their singing was beautiful." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 393 Photograph submitted by LaVora S. Wood NORTH DAVIS STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE LaVora S. Wood, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society, reports that the Singing Mothers recently furnished the music for stake conference. Carol Steed is chorister, and Mary Christiansen is organist. SE Photograph submitted by Pauline Stevens BIG HORN STAKE (WYOMING), COWLEY WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HOLDS COUNTRY STORE AND BAZAAR Left to right: Louise Taggart, Cody, Wyoming; C. Golden Welch, Cowley; Helena Belnap, former President, Big Horn Stake Relief Society; Cleone Crosby, Secretary, Cowley Ward Relief Society. Pauline Stevens, President, Big Horn Stake Relief Society, reports that "This country store and bazaar is an annual affair where old as well as new articles are sold. An old-fashioned lunch is also sold." Sister Stevens writes that the organ in the pire was the first organ in the Cowley Ward and the round table is seventy-five years old. 394 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 Photograph submitted by Lucille S. Condie HILLSIDE STAKE (UTAH), COLONIAL HILLS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HOLDS BIRTHDAY PARTY Left to right: Alta Brown, organist; Irene Platt, chorister; Ann Borg, social science leader; Ida C. Bowers, Second Counselor; Lena Glauser, visiting teacher supervisor; Agnes R. MacKay, President, Colonial Hills Ward Relief Society; Elder LeGrand Richards; Sister Richards; Governor George D. Clyde; Sister Clyde; Helen Hedquist, First Counselor, Hillside Stake Relief Society; Ruby S. Ockey, Secretary; Ruth Schoenhals, literature leader; Harold M. Wright of the Hillside Stake 'Presidency; Genevieve Wright, theology leader; Marian Johnson, work meeting leader; Joy Slack, visiting teacher message leader; Ray C. Johnson, Bishop, Colonial Hills Ward. Lucille S. Condie, President, Hillside Stake Relief Society, reports: ""The birthday party was given in honor of Sister Glauser, who has been the visiting teaching supervisor since the ward was organized. Elder LeGrand Richards was guest speaker." The party was held March 15, 1957. I!: eK Bale ae ¥ i Photograph submitted by Bertha Burch MINIDOKA STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS PAGEANT March 1957 Bertha Burch, President, Minidoka Stake Relief Society, reports that the pageant, "Characters and Tcachings of The Book of Mormon," was presented with great success NOTES FROM THE FIELD 395 under the direction of Jean Hansen, stake theology leader, assisted by Sister Burch; Bessie Dixon, First Counselor; 'Thelma Attridge, Second Counselor and Maybell Stevenson, Secretary-T'reasurer. Main characters in costume, left to right beginning fifth from right are: Alene Summers representing a Lamanite sister; Cathleen Keolanui, of Hawaiian descent; Leah Heiner, a Jewish descendant; Marjorie Crofts, theology class leader; Lester Tracy representing King Benjamin. Back row, Earl Corless representing Nephi, son of Lehi; Ferrell Catmull representing Mormon; Calvin Heiner representing Moroni. Organ music was furnished by Lapriel Stoddard, stake organist, standing left. Of organ. The Singing Mothers chorus was directed by Thelma Widmier, stake chorister, standing second from left on front row of chorus. Photograph submitted by Mary P. Christensen GREAT LAKES MISSION, YOUNGSTOWN (OHIO) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY HOLDS ANNUAL CONFERENCE Front row, seated, left to right: Hazel Carman, Work Director Counselor; LaRue Barnett, President, Youngstown Relief Society; Mildred Martin, Secretary-Treasurer; Robert C. Martin, Branch President. Second row: Vernell Markusic; Helen Schmidt; LaWanna Robison; Barbara Cummings; Estella Eshbaugh. Back row: Emma Dear; Agnes Ohl; Goldie Flesch; Charlotte Beeler; Lelah Geist; Olivia Lundstrum; Nola Mallery. Not present when the picture was taken: Lena Robison, Educational Counselor; Lois Samsa; Leota Hurley; Betty Nemenz. Sister Barnett reports: "Our activities have been numerous and joyous. We have our goal set for a lovely chapel here in Youngstown, and are earnestly working along with the Priesthood toward that goal." Sister Mary P. Christensen is president of the Great Lakes Mission Relief Society. 396 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 Photograph submitted by Annabell W. Hart OAKLAND-BERKELEY STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PROVIDE MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, February 1957 Annabell W. Hart, President, Oakland-Berkeley Stake Relief Society, is ninth from left in front row; LaVern W. Rock, Counselor, is seventh from left in the front row; Phyllis Warnick, Counselor, is at far right on front row. Emma C. Harmon, chorister, is on the podium and Elnora Jensen, organist, is at the piano. Sister Hart reports that the chorus sang during the morning session and that there are 120 women in the chorus. Photograph submitted by Ruby M. Dobbins PALO ALTO STAKE (CALIFORNIA), REDWOOD CITY WARD RELIEF SOCIETY DRAMATIZES ITS HISTORY Ruby M. Dobbins, President, Palo Alto Stake Relief Society, writes: ''Re-enacting the history are six former presidents and four officers of the Redwood City Ward Relief Society." Left to nght, standing: Della Rose; Naomi Bodily, who represented Mrs. Redwood City Ward Relief Society; 'Thelma Howard; Melba Stevens; Geneva Coy; and Eileen Weaver, all former presidents. Margaret Grubb, narrator for the program and President, Redwood City Ward Relief Society, stands at far right. Seated are Ida Knight; former President Theda Farnsworth; and Ruby Cannon. The program told the story of the life of the society from its organization in 1939 to the present time. The eleven presidents of the ward Relief Society were represented in person or by others and "'life'' memories of activities were presented. Photograph submitted by Avez M. Goodman TUCSON STAKE (ARIZONA) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD ORGANIZED Avez M. Goodman, President, Tucson Stake Relief Society, reports: ""We were made a new stake December 2, 1956, and the members of the stake Relief Society presidency were sustained that day, but we did not start our work until January 1957. We have a very excellent board who all are so enthusiastic in their work that I feel we can accomplish a great deal." Front row left to right, the stake board includes: Lola Killpack, visiting teacher message leader; Virginia Swanson, organist; Rose Clifford, Second Counselor; Avez Goodman, President; Nina Brewer, First Counselor; Zina Skaggs, social science leader. Back row: Veda Blain, work meeting leader; Ethel Clawson, theology leader; Joan Cornia, Secretary-T'reasurer; Belva Jones, Magazine representative; Jean Dees, chorister; Louise Call, literature leader. —- She Berry-Pickers Maryhale Woolsey Today's strawberries in the market-place Reminded me of summers long ago; Those berry-picking hours.... We used to race Each other down the patch, and proudly show Cups grown to crates, crates tallied up for pay; This our one aim, day after sunlit day. Now I remember long rows, glossy green And sparked with luscious fruit, bright ruby-red; Now recall sun-warmed fragrance, and the scene Of summer loveliness around us spread. Now I remember beauty our young eyes spurned, Seeing only the pennies our filled baskets earned. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 397 ) LESSON: N DEPARTMENT Seaching Aids for the 1957-58 Lessons Mary R. Young Member, General Board of Relief Society UDIO-visual aids can help promote good teaching when used properly and effectively. A class leader should understand that visual aids are a means toward achieving her major purpose—good teaching. Teaching aids are not new to us today. They were used in the time of Moses, some 3,000 years ago, when the Ten Commandments were written on tablets of stone by the finger of God (Exodus 31:18). Christ, the Master Teacher, showed us the value of appealing to the eye as well as to the ear. As class leaders in Relief Society, we are privileged to walk modestly and reverently in the footsteps of the Master Teacher. To see as well as hear helps to stimulate interest and focus attention. It aids in remembering, and clarifies and enriches the lesson. Teaching becomes increasingly effective when we understand and know our class members and use aids that have been carefully selected as suitable for Relief Society. Page 398 Theology We suggest that in the study of The Doctrine and Covenants that the course objective be written on the blackboard or printed on a chart so it may be referred to frequently during the course of study. We also could list on the blackboard or print on butcher or poster paper, the points we wish to stress throughout the course, such as: 1. Reading of The Doctrine and Covenants. 2. Application of the teachings in the lives of women. 3. Teaching of the doctrines in the home. Well-chosen pictures definitely increase understanding and interest and can be used to good advantage if they forward the objective. The use of one or two good mounted pictures is better than using a number of small ones that are difficult to be seen by the entire group. Visiting Teacher Messages The blackboard may be used to good advantage and should be read- LESSON DEPARTMENT ily available. Let your chalk talk, too. When the visiting teachers can read the scriptural reference and the objective from the blackboard or from a printed chart, it definitely focuses attention and aids them in remembering the message. Points to stress in the message might also be listed. Literature Pictures which may be used again this year include Shakespeare, the Globe Theater, and London in Shakespeare's Day. A blackboard may be used to good advantage in pointing out contrasts in some of the plays. List the main characters, or make a listing of them according to their good and evil characteristics, using different colored chalk. Blackboard or chart presentation of the three plot threads might be used for plot clarification in Lesson Eleven, ""T'welfth Night." The love interest might form two triangles centering in Olivia, the second triangle would include Maria and Sir Toby who were its instigators. Character growth of King Lear might be charted in Lesson Fourteen. Make blackboard patterns of primary and secondary plots in contrasting colors of chalk. Recordings of applicable music may be stimulating. Social Science Pictures and charts will add interest and make the lessons more forceful in this year's course of study, "Latter-day Saint Family Life." We must be sure that the pictures and 399 aids have a direct relationship to the lesson subject matter, however, and will forward the lesson objective. In Lesson Nine we may use blackboard or charts giving interesting statistics, use Church posters, or pictures of family groups, or list values and dangers of television programs and comic books. In Lesson Twelve, pictures of the temples may be shown, and a listing of the eternal blessings of temple marriage may be made. For Lesson Fourteen, a picture representing "I'he Good Samaritan" may be shown. Music Leaders will find their lessons will be more effective by the use of good visual aids. Flash cards of music symbols, of scales in a few different keys, and of Italian words and their meaning used for tempos like andante, largo, etc., may be used as aids. Material in the text, Fundamentals of Conducting, by J. Spencer Cornwall, will aid in teaching. Magazine Representatives Magazine representatives can make use of attractive posters, charts, graphs, and bulletin boards effectively to stimulate interest in their work. There is an excellent article and chart on successful selling by Thomas S. Monson in The Relief Society Magazine, April 1957, "Selling The Relief Society Magazine." The lesson previews appear far enough in advance of the time the lessons will be taught to acquaint 400 class leaders with the year's course of study, so that they may be alert to collect pictures, articles, and various aids which will enrich their lessons. The following articles on visual aids have been published in The Relief Society Magazine: "The Value and Use of Audio-Visual Aids in Relief Society," by Leone G. Layton, January 1953, page 27. "Suggestions on 'Teaching Aids for 1953-54 Lessons," by Leone G. Layton, June 1953, page 418. "Teaching Aids for 1954-55 Lessons," by Edith S. Elliott, June 1954, page 400. "Teaching and Teaching Aids for the 1955-56 Lessons," by Mildred B. Eyring, June 1955, page 403. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 "Audio-Visual Aids for 1956-57," by Mildred B. Eyring, Julye 1956, page 475. Note: The following sets of pictures are available at the Deseret Bookstore, 44 East South Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah. For social science: Set of twelve black and white pictures of the temples, 6oc. Set of twelve colored pictures of the temples, 8oc. Set of seven pictures pertaining to the theology lessons, which include the following: The Prophet Joseph Smith, Angel Moroni Appearing to Joseph Smith, The Susquehanna River, Oliver Cowdery, Martin Harris, David Whitmer, and the Restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood, (six colored, one black and white) soc plus 5c postage. One picture of the Good Samaritan, 10¢. Suggestions for ITlusic Leaders Florence ]. Madsen Member, General Board of Relief Society HE following article is presented, along with the previews of lesson courses and helps in audio-visual aids, in the hope that it will be helpful to stake music leaders in conducting their union meeting departments during the coming educational year. In order to make the music department of union meetings profitable for all concerned, sufficient material on the techniques of music should be presented and considered. 'This may mean that at times the very rudiments of music may have to be discussed for the benefit of those who are new in their positions and who have had but little contact with the subject. Encouragement and help should be given these inexperienced leaders who feel their inadequacy because of limited knowledge of music. The subject of music, like all other subjects, is learned through constant study and perseverance. It seems a bit difficult for some conductors to learn to conduct music with definite baton patterns; therefore, time should be given in the departmental sessions at union meeting for the conductors and the accompanists to learn and practice the needed baton techniques together. Place on the blackboard a large picture or drawing of the baton pattern that is to be learned. 'This helps to fix the design in the minds of those who are conducting and safeguards those who might stray from it, While counting the rhythm LESSON DEPARTMENT aloud, have the group take their batons and reproduce the pattern that is on the blackboard, at first, without any music. After the pattern is sufficiently learned, practice hymns and songs of different styles and tempos that require the same baton pattern, this time with the music, and including a few retards. Practice songs starting on both the up beat and the down beat—with cue beat preceding each one. To introduce the baton patterns in this way will give the conductors a feeling of assurance and result in a night and artistic performance. In teaching baton techniques, however, do not move too rapidly from one pattern to another, as this often causes confusion and uncer- 401 tainty in the minds of those learning to conduct. Change the songs, but retain the same rhythm so that the baton pattern can be used until it is thoroughly learned. Other techniques might be introduced similarly, for instance: some of the music symbols and _ signs found in Elson's Music Dictionary under the title "Signs." Keys and scales should likewise receive attention, as should also note values and their corresponding rests. In other words, our aim should be to understand all the symbols that we encounter in the pages of the music we conduct, play, or sing. This would eliminate the guessing as to what is meant and replace it with knowing what is wanted. Note: Study the textbook Fundamentals of Conducting, by J. Spencer Cornwall; the lesson series "Fundamentals of Musicianship" and Accompanying, The Relief Society Magazine, —Appreciation, Conducting, Singing 1951-52; "Prelude Music," The Relief Society Magazine, April 1954, page 243. BOOKS FOR ORGANISTS AND PIANISTS This list provides suggestions for different types of music books from which books may be selected as desired. A. Reep Orecan Books: Organ Voluntaries, volumes I and II, Schreiner and J. Fischer _ $2.50 Thirty-Eight Voluntaries for Reed Organ, Jackson & G. Schirmer............: s-: sses00++ 1.00 Thirty-Eight Voluntaries for Reed Organ, J. Fischer 0) (0 ne 1.00 VOT eee 2a tenes peeer ean enen neon enennecncenencecesensnenecerereeserecess 1.50 Reed Organ Player, Walter Lewis and T. Presser..................-:-cessssseceseseeecesnseoeeee 90 Forty-Three Organ Voluntaries, Lorenz.................200-0+0seeseeeseseseceeeeseseceeeseeseensene 85 Gems for the Organ, Shelley and G. Schirmer 0.0.............2.. Sseseeseceseseseseeseseseseeeeee 1.75 Harker's Harmonium Collection, G. Schirmer.................--.---. S--0--se-essseeseeeeeeeeeeeeee 1.00 Ninety-Three Short Pieces for the Hammond Organ or Piano, B. Sacrep Piano Music: Sabbath Day Music for the Piano, O. Ditsom................ Scscsceseceesseeeseseseeeseseeeseneneesl.00 Chapel Musings, Perry and Presser...... - "75 C. Pier Orcan Booxs: Devotional Organ Music, Asper and Carl Fischer (also for electronic organ).... 2.50 Jackson and G. Schirmer (written in two staves).........- Church and Chapel Voluntaries, Dreisbach and G. Schirmer Organ Voluntaries, volumes I and II, Schreiner and J. Fischer 2.25 2.00 2.00 402 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 Church Music for the Smallest Organ, Nevin and J. Fischer -..........2..---.-:-:-eoessoe0 1.00 Organ Melodies, Landon and Presser..............2....-.------+0+++- 1.50 Ecclesiae Organum, William C. Carl and John Church.....22022222.2.2-2----eeeeeeeeeee 2.50 Oli Mirvitngs POR Or 2a ononopseesoreconoero-enencnsocs ebramgae teases seetnagautes eesceemnnass 1.50 Chancel Echoes, William M. Felton and Presser..........22.22---00eeee-------ceeeeeeeenneeceee 1.00 Organ Vistemmy Passer" clean ee cee cecccmoeereneeeosteereece noes tiersscens 1.50 Twenty-Five Pieces for the Small Pipe Organ, Schreiner and J. Fischer............ 2.50 The books listed above are recommended by the Church Music Committee. SUPPLEMENTARY LIST OF BOOKS RECOMMENDED FOR ORGANISTS AND PIANISTS Perry's Piano Voluntaries, Lorenz.............--.-+-+---+--+0+e-+0+--++ 12 Church Service Selections for Organ or Piano, No. 2, Rodeheaver............--.----- 135 Chapel Voluntaries for Organ or Piano, Edward B. Marks.........22.2.22.2--2s+20e0-e000-* Fi Chapel Voluntaries for Organ, Harmonium, or Piano, Edward B, Marks (from books I to X, inclusive) (2 staves)..............------ 95 Thitty-Two Short Pieces for Hammond or Pipe Organ, G. Schirmer (Arranged by Charles Boyd).............2...2-00-++- ees 1.50 The Sacred Hour at the Organ, Arno, Carl Fischer «.......22..2..2.--: esceeeeeeseceeeeeeeeeeees 2.00 Sunday Piano Music (For Church and Home), Presser.......2....2..2:.:-ssesecceseseeeeee 1.00 Piano Voluntaries, Presser...............-...-.---2--0--0---2-s2eseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 1.00 Sacred Piano Album for Home and Church, Carl Fischer........2.......-----eseeeeeeeee-* 1.00 Twenty Preludes and Postludes for Pipe Organ, Truette, Schmidt................-++ 1.00 The Liturgical Organist for Pipe or Reed Organ or Piano, J. Fischer and Brothers (two staves) (1-6) -...-.-.--.-seecesceceeeeeeceeseeasceecceeseenencenernseneenee 3.50 Belwin Organ Album, Belwin Music Company (volumes I, II, and III)............ 1.50 Classic and Modern Gems for Organ or Piano, Presser..............---0+-+-1--0-eseeeeceesee Leahy Instrumental Church Service Selections (for Organ or Piano) Rrodélieaver Co. 2.2.2. Ennsnoecnen coco nstinsn scence ner - 1.25 Church and Chapel Voluntaries for Piano, G. Schirmer.................--.-------0+0+-0++" 2.00 School of Organ Playing (op. 31) edited by Shippen Barnes................. S. Scsseee+ 2.50 If your local dealer is unable to supply the above books, they may be ordered from the following stores: Beesley Music Company, 70 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah Daynes Music Company, 15 East—First South, Salt Lake City Glen Brothers Music Company, 74 South Main Street, Salt Lake City _- Mathematics Mabel Jones Gabbott When I was proudly sweet sixteen, I thought that middle age Was old as ancient history And dull on every page. Now I am twice sixteen and more, I wisely hold my tongue; The years have brought me such rich store, What waits at sixty-young? Sheology— The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1957-58 Elder Roy W. Doxey THE course of study beginning this year and continuing for several years is a section-by-section or chronological study of The Doctrine and Covenants. 'The Doctrine and Covenants is the textbook. 'This standard work of the Church holds a unique place among the books of scripture in this Church. It is a modern book revealing eternal truths for the people of this generation. If these truths are followed, they will lead the saints to the highest blessing of which we know that the Lord bestows upon his children— eternal life or exaltation. It contains the message the Lord would have this generation understand that repentance may take hold of the hearts of people throughout the world that they, too, may receive the greater blessings in store for the obedient. The Doctrine and Covenants begins with the revelations which brought The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints into existence and carries into the period of the Church's infancy up to and including a section on the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum. Section 136 is a revelation given to Brigham Young on January 14, 1547. To us living in the year 1957, the Lord has provided in his book of revelations: (1) the counsel of our all-wise Father whose object is to bring joy into the lives of his children today by their following instructions given to _ individuals, groups of persons, and the Church over a century ago; (2) a knowledge of how to live in this present world of uncertainty and insecurity; (3) the meaning of world conditions and events; (4) a philosophy of life that enables one to see God's justice and purposes for mankind; (5) a spirit of conversion to the truthseeker which bears witness that Jesus is the Christ and of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Doctrine and Covenants breathes the spirit of truth with the divine promise: And if your eye be single to my glory, your whole bodies shall be filled with light, and there shall be no darkness in you; and that body which is filled with light comprehendeth all things. Therefore, sanctify yourselves that your minds become single to God, and the days will come that you shall see him; for he will unveil his face unto you, and it shall be in his own time, and in his own way, and according to his own will (D. & C. 88:67-68). It is believed that the greatest good will result to class leaders and the women of the Church if the lesson discussions are based on the material given in The Relief Society Magazine. Inasmuch as 'The Doctrine and Covenants is to be studied section-by-section or chronologically, with few exceptions, the class leader will find most value in using as reference books, the following: Doctrine and Covenants Commentary (Revised) and Documentary HisPage 403 404 tory of the Church, also known as the History of the Church by Joseph Smith, especially Volume 1. The purpose of this course of study may be stated as follows: To reaffirm that Jesus Christ is the Savior and that Joseph Smith is a Prophet of God, through a knowledge of the contents of The Doctrine and Covenants; and to re-establish the application of its teachings to the lives of the women of the Church, that they may realize the eternal importance of setting themselves and their houses in order. It is hoped that during the period covered by this course of study every member of the Relief Society will have read and studied the entire book of The Doctrine and Covenants. The first two lessons for 1957-58 are intended to give some _background material on The Doctrine and Covenants. A study of the Lord's purpose in giving revelation in our day is considered in Lesson 3 which takes up the study of Section 1 which is one of the few sections in the book that is out of chronological order. The remaining five lessons of this course discuss items in connection with the preparation of the Prophet and others in the reestablishment of the kingdom of God upon the earth. In so many of the revelations given during this pre-Church organization period one finds great truths that apply to the lives of us who live more than a century after their being received. This year class leaders will become initiated into some of the ways in which this course will be studied. One important part of this procedure begins with Lesson 5, based upon Sections 3 and 10. You will RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 discover that the objective of this lesson does not include some important ideas found in these revelations. In order that these points might not go unobserved, they are set forth under the heading of "Additional Items" with section numbers as sub-headings. Entire sections will be discussed briefly under this general heading. 'This procedure will be followed to take care of some sections which do not always lend themselves to an objective common with other revelations. For the first year Sections 1 to 13, and 17, excluding 7 and 11, are to be studied. 'The lessons for this year have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 1—The Lord Speaks Through His Prophets Objective: To recognize that by revelation the Lord has led his people in the past, and that by a reopening of the heavens he has restored the gospel and re-established his Church upon the earth in fulfillment of Bible prophecies. Lesson 2—Origin of The Doctrine and Covenants (Explanatory Introduction of 'The Doctrine and Covenants and Chronological Order of Contents; 67:1-7) Objective: To learn of the events which brought forth The Doctrine and Covenants. Lesson 3—What to Expect From a Study of The Doctrine and Covenants (D. & C. Section 1) Objective: To show that a principal idea throughout the revelations is to warm the world of judgments to LESSON DEPARTMENT come and that the means of escape is by the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. Lesson 4—The Prophecy Concerning Elijah the Prophet (D. & C. Section 2) Objective: To show the value of the prophet Elijah's predicted visit to the earth in our dispensation. Lesson 5—Satan's Opposition to the Coming Forth of The Book of Mormon (D. & C. Sections 3 and 10) Objective: 'Remember, remember that it is not the work of God that is frustrated, but the work of men" (D. & C. 3:3). Lesson 6—Qualifications of Those 405 Who Labor in the Ministry (D. & C. Sections 4 and 12) Objective: To show the importance of service and the qualities necessary in the lives of those who are called into the Lord's work. Lesson 7—The Three Special Book of Mormon Witnesses (D. & C. Sections 6, 8, 9, 5, and 17) Objective: To emphasize the importance of the testimonies of the men who assisted Joseph Smith at the time of the coming forth of The Book of Mormon. Lesson 8—The Restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood (D. & C. Section 13) Objective: To point out the importance of the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood. Visiting Seacher IT lessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1957-58 Christine H. Robinson UR Father in heaven is ever mindful of us his children. In order to make sure that we have the opportunity for happiness in this life and eternal joy in the life to come, he has again, in these latter days, given us revelations for our direction and guidance. These revelations, as compiled in The Doctrine and Covenants, apply to our particular times and conditions and have special value for us today. The Visiting Teacher Messages for 1957-58, "Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants," are taken from those sections of this inspired book which will be studied in the theology course of study. The material used as a basis of these messages has been written from a practical point of view. Each message is illustrated with a pertinent example which can easily be applied to the lives of the sisters. One definition of a message is "a divinely inspired communication sent from one person to another." The messages taken from 'I'he Doctrine and Covenants are directly 406 from our Savior Jesus Christ. If we study them and put their truths into practice in our lives, we will enlarge our understanding of God's teachings, we will improve the spirituality in our homes, increase our faith in the Lord, and lay the foundation for a happier, more useful life. The messages and their objectives for 1957-58 are: Message 1—'"And 'the Voice of Warning Shall Be Unto All People, By the Mouths of My Disciples, Whom I Have Chosen in These Last Days" (D. & C. 1:4). Objective: To show that the Lord reveals his plan of salvation through his chosen leaders and that only when we heed their warnings can we build strong, useful lives. Message 2—"And Inasmuch As They Were Humble They Might Be Made Strong, and Blessed From on High..." (D.& C. 1:28). Objective: To point out the meaning of true humility, the need for it in our lives, and to show that the Lord blesses and makes strong those who possess it. Message 3—"... O Ye That Embark in the Service of God, See That Ye Serve Him With All Your Heart, Mind and Strength, That Ye May Stand Blameless Before God at the Last Day" (D. & C. 4:2). Objective: To emphasize the importance of wholehearted, conscientious service and to show that to serve God means to serve our fellow men. Message 4—""Remember That Without Faith You Can Do Nothing; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 Therefore Ask in Faith... Do Not Ask for That Which You Ought Not" (D. & C. 8:10). Objective: To show that all things are possible to him who has absolute faith, and who exercises it wisely. Message 5—'... Behold, You Should Not Have Feared Man More Than God..." (D.& C. 3:7). Objective: To show that to fear God means to love him and to keep his commandments and that in so doing we earn the respect of all good people. Message 6—"Fear Not to Do Good, My Sons, for Whatsoever Ye Sow, That Shall Ye Also Reap; Therefore, If Ye Sow Good Ye Shall Also Reap Good for Your Reward" (D. & C. 6:33). Objective: To emphasize the fact that everything we do, our every word or deed has its effect for good or evil, and we shall be blessed through our good acts. Message 7—"Look Unto Me in Every Thought; Doubt Not, Fear Not" (D. & C. 6:36). Objective: To emphasize the fact that when we place our complete trust in the Lord we gain strength and peace of mind. Message 8—"... Be Faithful and Diligent in Keeping the Commandments of God, and I Will Encircle Thee in the Arms of My Love" (D. & C. 6:20). Objective: To show that the only way to earn and share God's love is through keeping his commandments. Work ITlecting—Living More Abundantly Preview of Lessons for 1957-58 Elder William F, Edwards HE purpose of this series of lessons, "Living More Abundantly," is to help each family live more -abundantly. The Prophet Lehi understood so well the real meaning of life when he stated,... "men are, that they might have joy." Every person should be challenged to reach that high ideal to the greatest possible degree. We should strive to have a well-managed home where the wise spending of money will bring a more abundant life. We must desire the more abundant life so strongly that we will challenge our present way of doing things, and change our ways when we find they are not the best. As has been so wisely stated, "We can't make footprints on the sands of time sitting down." Equally, we cannot improve the way of our daily living without dreaming and then working to make those dreams come true. And what could be more thrilling. The questions do not appear at the end of the lessons, but will be embodied in the lessons. Titles for the 1957-58 course of lessons are as follows: Lesson 1. Spending Money Wisely Lesson 2. Increasing Our Standard of Living Lesson 3. Living Economically Lesson 4. Making Money More Valuable Lesson 5. The Family and_ the Home Lesson 6. The Importance of Insurance Lesson 7. Debts and 'Trouble Savings and Added Happiness Lesson 8. Of iterature — Shakespeare in Our Lives Preview of Lessons for 1957-58 Elder Briant S. Jacobs HETHER you come: to Shakespeare new or renewed, this study course should yield abundant challenge and reward. Class leaders who have already enjoyed the first year of "Shakespeare in Our Lives" are eagerly anticipating a second year. Many class leaders believe with us that everyone learns most aptly and memorably from one who is a friend. Shakespeare is a friend and will continue to prove himself so, both in the study course immediately ahead and in decades to come. And just as all good things ceaselessly must be sought, just as necessarily must they be earned—and shared. Prepare to share insight into greatness now. Our primary goal is to help others know Shakespeare well enough that they may come to know themselves more deeply and truly, both individually and in the sustaining groups which comprise our way of life. Three subsidiary goals, but nonetheless vital and compelling, are: Page 407 408 (1) To witness with wonder and humility the workings of genius as Shakespeare organizes reality into communicating words and dramatic art forms; (2) To realize more intently within ourselves the timelessness of beauty and immortal truth; (3) To frame Shakespeare's name with the emotions of gratitude and love, inasmuch as he has for all time put great words in our mouths, pure poetry in our ears, and living characters embodying wisdom and insight into our hearts and heads. Our study this year should give us a concept of tragedy as it deals with universal moral issues and is concerned with great problems or weaknesses which mankind faces at one time or another. As last year, the text is G. B. Harrison's edition of Shakespeare's Major Plays and the Sonnets, Harcourt, Brace and Company, 1948. It is recommended that each class leader have this text, which contains footnotes at the bottom of each page and is competently edited. Lesson titles and objectives for 1957-58 follow: Lesson og—William Shakespeare, Dramatist Objective: —To become more aware of Shakespeare's genius in integrating within the art-form of drama the great truths and eternal conflicts within all mankind. Lesson 10—Othello, The Moor of Venice (Text, pp. 700-743) Objective: To review and consider pride, jealousy, and passion as tools of self-destruction, through re-experiencing this artistic record of life's truths. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 Lesson 11—Twelfth Night, or What You Will ('Text, pp. 565-599) Objective: To show that even though exaggerated through comedy situations, Shakespeare's characters reveal to us traits common to all humanity. Lesson 12—The Hamlet. Frame (Text, pp. 600-654) Objective: 'To appreciate Shakespeare's most provocative drama that we may find new meaning for our own lives and deeper or more adequate expression to our thoughts. Lesson 13—Hamlet, Prisoner in Denmark (Text, pp. 600-654) Objective: To seek to understand Hamlet's mind and heart, that we may better understand our own, Lesson 14—King Lear (Text, pp. 780-827) Objective: To rise above life's tangible trivia and conceits and feel about us the sustaining bonds of universal family love. Lesson 15—Macbeth, Villain or He: ro? (Text, pp. 828-862 ) Objective: To realize the ruin which comes to one who, possessed of basic virtues, yields to the powers of evil. Lesson 16—The Tempest (Text, pp. 1001-1031 ) Objective: To recognize that in The Tempest Shakespeare shares with us a serene view of life; and to perceive that contentment and happiness are dependent upon self-mastery and reconciliation with our fellow men. Social Science — Latter-day Saint Family Life Preview of Lessons for 1957-58 Elder John Farr Larson What is a home in the sight of God?... I define home as being a divinely appointed institution in which a servant and handmaiden of the Lord prepare themselves in righteousness to receive chosen spirits coming from our Eternal Father, and give them bodies in the flesh for mortal probation, and then undertake with all the power at their command to lead these spirit children entrusted to their care back into the presence of God whence they came (President Stephen L Richards, Address at Sunday School General Conference, October 7, 1956). A year's study of the Prophet Joseph Smith's teachings and contributions to the women of the Church has given an appropriate foundation for further consideration of the Latter-day Saint family and its role of returning its members to the presence of God. Having learned of the personal characteristics encouraged, taught, and exemplified by the Prophet, as well as the unique relationship of women to the Priesthood, as clarified by him, we are now ready to consider the family in its twentieth century setting. Perfection, as taught by the Prophet and his inspired successors, will be our goal. In the social science lessons for this year, an effort has been made to discuss the basic human needs which must be met by the home and family, if healthy personalities are to result. We shall view the family through the eyes of its members at various age levels, and we shall note the contributions of these age groups to the family development and happiness. 'The characteristics of the Latter-day Saint home will be studied. Our relationship to one another in the family, and to our neighbors, the responsibilities of these relationships as well as their eternal consequences will be our concern. Latter-day Saint families are not without problems, but these problems can be met and solved better when seen in proper perspective and when the solutions applied are based on Church teachings. "Love at Home" will have a new meaning as we study its power to weld family members together with happiness. One of the greatest needs in the world today is for parents who are willing and who make themselves able to assume fully their responsibilities and their role in the family. If the Latter-day Saint family is to maintain its rightful place in the social structure of today and to take its place in the eternal scheme of our Heavenly Father, we must set our households in order by putting first things first; we must treat family members as children of God, which they are, and help each of them to grow in faith toward perfection; we must use love wisely and make living happy and purposeful; and we must make the Lord's way our way of life. Only then can we live in happiness as families, in peace with our neighbors, and in partnership with God. Page 409 410.. « Moses, herding his father-in-law's sheep at Mount Horeb, saw one day a flaming bush, and the flame did not consume. Being curious, he started to walk toward this flaming bush, and the voice of the Lord came out of the bush forbidding him to come farther, for, said the Lord, "... The place whereon thou standest is holy ground" (Ex. 3:5). So I think that in every Latter-day Saint home the Spirit of the Lord is a flaming, non-consuming fire, there to light our way, to guide us, to protect us, and to help us do our duty, and every inch of space in the home is holy ground. We should never forget it. Always remember, and always live so that we shall not defile in any way the holiness of the home which should be ours (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., General Conference, October 1951). The lesson titles and objectives for 1957-58, the second year of the social science course, "Latter-day Saint Family Life," are as follows: Lesson 8—The Family Is Forever Objective: To show the influence of gospel principles on the Latter-day Saint family. Lesson g—Families Have Problems Objective: To illustrate the nature RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 and extent of problems which face families of today. Lesson 10—Eternal Marriage Objective: To show the significance of temples in the Church of Jesus Christ and the advantages of temple marriage to the family. Lesson 11—"As the Twig Is Bent" Objective: To illustrate how we are influenced by our environment, particularly by the environment of the home. Lesson 12—Families Have Members Objective: To show how the family unit meets the needs of the various family members. Lesson 13—Love—A Basic Ingredient Objective: To show that love is essential for family happiness. Lesson 14—Families Have Neighbors Objective: To show the importance of wholesome neighborhood relationships on family life. Totes on the Authors of the of essons HIS year, two writers, not previously represented among the authors of the lessons, are introduced to Relief Society members and readers of the Magazine. They are Elder Roy W. Doxey, author of the theology lessons, and Elder William F. Edwards, author of the work meeting lessons. Christine H. Robinson, author of the visiting teacher messages, previously wrote the work meeting lessons "The Art of Homemaking" for 1950-51. Biographical sketches of Elder Doxey, Sister Robinson, and Elder Edwards, follow. FeLDER Roy W. Doxey, author of the Relief Society theology lessons, "The Doctrine and Covenants," was born in Ogden, Utah, the son of 'Thomas and Bessie Wat- kins Doxey. He was graduated from Weber College and earned his A. B. And Master's degree from George Washington University, Washington, D. C., in 1940. He was elected to membership in Pi Gamma Mu, social science honorary society, and Omicron Delta Gamma, honorary economics fraternity, while attending George Washington University. Elder Doxey was a housing economist with the National Housing Administration until 1944, at which time he was called to be the PresiBooks for the dent of the Eastern States Mission, CHURCH ORGANIST with headquarters in New York. Pasa | |) 2 AT THE CONSOLE—Felton.......... 2.50 City. He served in this capacity for | | ~~ CHANCEL ECHOES—Felton 250 more than four and one-half years. | | ----. CHAPEL ORGANIST—Presser...... 1.50 In 1948, he became a member of | | ~~ ae RCA) HP SUM aso the faculty of Brigham Young Uni- | |...... FIRST LESSONS ON THE versity, where he is chairman of the peel a 1.75 department of Bible and modern i SERVICE SELECTIONS 1 & 2— He has long served the Church in | | ~~ ig i ee lla Nets both Priesthood and auxiliary lead- _. ORGAN IN THE CHURCH—Asper 2.75 eelip"eapaciies. "a ORGAN METHOD-Stainer........ 2.50 ieee | ee ORGAN VOLUNTARIES 1 & 2— Arlington Ward, Washington (D. | | ~~ SS"FaMORITE ORGANS OLOS— Schirmer........0.....00:0:000cce-ceneeeeeneeee 1.50 C.) Stake and also was active in stake | ve.; missionary work and on the high | y., sis caec ee ee council in the Nation's capital. In | a i lh ee etl 1930, Elder Doxey served a mission for the Church in Eastern Canada. Since the latter part of 1948, he has Please send the music indicated above. Been a member of the general board COnNiaegiol: — TlGlarge | 15 E. Ist South of the Y. M. M. I. A. L Money Enclosed |! Salt Lake City 11, Utah Elder Doxey married Alberta Name Opheikens, in the Salt Lake Temple Miers in August of 1934, and they are the Giy che parents of three sons and one daugh- | | |----------------------------___ ter: Douglas Allen, seventeen; 7 Clarke Benson, thirteen; Kimball (Ce | Roy, eleven; and Cheryl Diane, Daynes hyena eight. LUPE TELE e. Ist south NOTES ON THE AUTHORS OF THE LESSONS scripture in the division of religion. He served in the bishopric of the Eevieetheeauthar'GP lessons for 411 Kohlmann.........-------s-eecceeeoeeeeea. 1.25 Schreiner...-.. Sssseesceoeeeenneeeea. 3.50 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO® Salt Lake City 11, Uta 412 the M. I. A. And has written articles for The Relief Society Magazine and The Improvement Era. He is the author of The Doctrine and Covenants and the Future, the second edition of which is now just off the press. Under the direction of the First Presidency, he delivered a series of addresses during the latter part of 1955 over Radio Station KSL on the Sunday Evening Program of the Church. CHRISTINE H. Robinson, author of the visiting teacher messages, was appointed a member of the general board of Relief Society in May 1948. She is a daughter of Bryant S. Hinckley and Christine Johnson Hinckley. Her mother died when Christine was an infant, and she was reared in the home of her maternal grandparents in Provo, Utah, and educated in the Provo City schools and Brigham Young University. Later, she attended New York University where she specialized in home economics and interior decorating. For several years she was a teacher in the Foster School of Fine Arts in New York City. Sister Robinson is the wife of O. Preston Robinson, General Manager of the Deseret News Publishing Company, and the mother of three children: Miriam Rebholz; Bruce Hinckley Robinson, recently returned from the British Mission; and Christine Carol, a high school student. The family lived for twenty years in New York City, where Sister Robinson was active in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, particularly in Relief Society, where she was a class leader, and later served as a counselor in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1957 Dear Friend: The Historic Train, originated by us in 1933, has through the years thrilled literally hundreds who have acclaimed it "The Best Trip they have Ever had." Our 1957 Historie Train is more inclusive than ever, for, besides all the things it has always included, (Nauvoo, Kirtland, Sharon, Vt., Hill Cumorah Pageant, etc., etc.) there is the JAMESTOWN FESTIVAL, celebrating the Three Hundred and Fiftieth Anniversary of the arrival and establishment of the First Permanent Colony in Our America. Because of the great amount of activity going on in Virginia, All Eyes are turned there this year! Be sure to write for a Day by Day program, and whatever you do, "Don't Miss This Golden Opportunity" to renew your admiration and appreciation of our Forebears. Most sincerely yours, Vida Fox Clawson, 966 East So. Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Tel. EM 4-2107, the stake Relief Society presidency. She is a gifted writer and has contributed feature articles to The Relef Society Magazine and other Church publications. She has also written numerous professional _articles for newspapers and magazines, and collaborated with her husband in writing the well-known text and reference book Successful Retail Selling. LDER William F, Edwards was born in Emery, Utah, and at the age of eight the family moved to Rigby, Idaho. In common with so many young men, he worked his way through the Brigham Young University and there met his eternal sweetheart, Catherine Eyring. They were married in the Salt Lake Temple, in September 1929, and they have six children: Carolyn (Mrs. NOTES ON THE AUTHORS OF THE LESSONS Clifford Cline); Weston, also mattied; and Robert, Mildred, Catherine, and William. After graduation, Brother Edwards continued his education at Columbia and New York Universities by working in the financial district. He obtained the Master of Science degree in 1930 and the doctorate of Commercial Science from N. Y. U. Graduate School of Business in 1937. His major subjects of interest were banking, economics, and investments. From 1929 through 1950 Brother Edwards was engaged in investment and banking activities in New York. The family moved West when he was appointed Dean of the College of Commerce at the Brigham Young University, effective in January 1951. In 1953 he was given additional duties as Vice-President in charge of finance and business administration for the University and the Church School System. In April 1957, he was appointed Secretary of Finance to the First Presidency. Always active in the Church, he was President of the New York Stake at the time the family came West. Elder Edwards has had a special interest in the economic welfare of people, and he is qualified by training and experience to present a helpful series of Jessons. For biographical sketches of the authors of the literature and social science lessons, see the following references in The Relief Society Magazine: Elder Briant S. Jacobs, July 1949, page 471. Elder John Farr Larson, June 1956, page 412. 413 Mlothers Lillian E. Miles I used to smile at mother hen Whose ducklings took to sea And paddled gaily out from shore, Diving merrily. But now, land-bound, I stand in fear, And, anxious, watch the sky; I smile no more at mother hen— My lad has learned to fly! &pitome Vesta N. Lukei It takes a single meadow lark To make a spring, A single fern frond curled, a tree Bright flowering. A star, a cradle moon, a firefly Flickering, Or single breath of violets Will make a spring. A hillside slope of grasses, green And burgeoning, An orange blossom, or lilac plume Holds all of spring. What joy! For me, each bird, each bloom Each single thing Of nature's loveliness creates Enchanting spring. + Hitch-Hiker Alice Morrey Bailey It leaped across a dreary place And made it lively, sweet. Then, passing so from face to face, A smile went down the street. ATTEND SUMMER SCHOOL %. Bn E3 2 ah With Gain a Full Quarter of Study All the Brigham Young University Extras ® Distinguished Faculty — Nationally famous teachers will visit to augMORE SPECIAL FEATURES FOR YOU AT BYU Nursery school. Ment able and adequate resident faculty. Visiting artists also teach. @ Devotionals and Lectures — Church Speech and hearing clinic. Pict Workshop in speech for cerebral Workshop on teaching food and nutrition. Summer workshop of Utah Council of Teachers of English. Summer institute of Junior Engineers and Scientists. Health education workshop. Economics education workshop. Theater workshop. Debate and forensics workshop. Radio and TV workshop. Creative dramatics workshop. Children's Theater. Thirteenth annual music clinic. Piano teachers' clinic. Page 414 series of concerts by finest artists in music, drama, dance. Paganini Quartet will be featured again this year with other artists. Recreation — Full program of outings, dances, athletics and the scenic Wasatch Mountains near at hand for brief trips. The Timpanogos Hike in July is the experience of a lifetime. FIRST TERM: June 10— July 12 SECOND TERM: July 15— Aug. 16 Medical aspects of orthopedically eae Workshop on exceptional children. Palsied. General Authorities, religious scholars, and experts in many fields speak in outstanding BYU assem- @ Culture — Thrilling, summer-long Birthday Congratulations Ninety-nine Mrs. Hatrir Taytor McCLe. Len Provo, Utah Ninety-seven Mrs. Acnres GRIFFIN BRANCH Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. EvizaBeTH JANE Terry BLAIR Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Eima LunpBEerc JENSON Logan, Utah Mrs. Mary Crarx RicBy Bancroft, Idaho Ninety-three Mrs. Saraw JANE ANDERTON PERKINS West Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Hannan Stusss JONES Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Se. Tina Beppous KE. SEy Springville, Utah Mrs. E: MILy Kinc Orr Orton, Alberta, Canada Mrs. ExvizapetH Mour FE. Ix Logan, Utah Ninety Mrs. Lizzie ANN WHITEAR Santaquin, Utah Mrs. Resecca Harriet TAYLorR TRACY Springdale, Idaho Mrs. Mary CuristTENSEN BAXTER Gunnison, Utah e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advanced payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles W000. Eee 35 150 to 300 miles.... 39 300 to 600 miles ences 145 @ 600 to 1000 miles — Wo..54 1000 to 1400 miles -... 64 1400 to 1800 miles _.......02.02222...... Over 1800 miles -.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Margaret Lund Tours Northwestern Tour Passion Play, South Dakota; Yellowstone Park; Glacier Park; Cardston Temp! E; Canadian Rockies to Vancouver and Victoria; San Francisco and the Redwoods. Leaves Salt Lake City August 12, 1957. Re? For 14 days, includes everything but ood, Hawaiian Tour Ask about our Hawaiian Tour which leaves Salt Lake City in June and July. L. D. S. Tour The Peageant at Hill Cumorah; Historical places of the Church; New York; Chicago; Washington; Canada; Niagara Falls; Boston. Leaves Salt Lake City July 20, 1957. $198 for 21 days via new chartered bus, includes everything but food. For further information write or phone: Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East Salt Lake City 9, Utah Phone: IN 6-2909 or CR 7-6334 Page 415 From Near and Sar Today as I picked up my December issue of The Relief Society Magazine, I was again thrilled with the beauty of this most inspiring edition with the pictures of our officers, and with the enchanting beauty of the interior scheme of our new Relief Society Building.... Then came the blessed thought that we, our entire sisterhood, claim a share in the beauty and inspiration of this new building. How proud and grateful we should be! Thanks for every issue of our precious Magazine. —Cleopha J. Jensen Brigham City, Utah I have read and enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine since I was a young girl. I offer sincere thanks for a Magazine filled with so much value we can have just for turning the pages, and it takes so little effort on our part to gain it. —Mrs. Ida H. Johnson Garland, Utah I appreciated and enjoyed reading the story 'Hearts United" by Frances C. Yost in the February issue of the Magazine. After reading her article in the May 1956 Magazine, "So You Want to Write a Story," I can see why she is successful in having her stories published. Everything she said I believed, and it was very inspirational to me. —Mtrs. Lily Norton Hortnag]l Long Beach, California You are to be congratulated on the quality of the work you are able to maintain in The Relief Society Magazine. It is wonderful for poets to have such a fine market for their wares. I especially enjoy the frontispiece poems. —Ethel Jacobson Fullerton, California I wish to express my gratitude to all who make up our wonderful Magazine. Being converts nearly a year now, the Magazine has helped our whole family— a mother, three sisters, and myself. In our time of sorrow recently, the articles published brought great comfort to us. —Mary Jane Gustafson Washburn, Illinois Page 416 In reading Thomas S. Monson's address "Selling The Relief Society Magazine," in the April issue, his "Be Chart," page 228, was appropriate to the hopeful signs of spring, and quite provocative of poetic strivings (laying no claim to talent): If blessings we'd bring, Best virtues we'd sing; Nor leaving a sting, Be a Humble Bee, Not a Bumble Bee! —Sam J. Black Logan, Utah I enjoyed the editorial "Yet Your Light So Shine," by Vesta P. Crawford, in the January issue of the Magazine. I ask myself "Is my light shining brightly enough?" I am teaching the two new songs to my group of Singing Mothers for the March 3d program. —Dora Toone Brough Tremonton, Utah I have just finished reading the short stories in the April issue of the Magazine. They are all so excellent that I cannot decide which one of them I like best. It is a real joy to read such wholesome realistic work. I felt myself camping in the mud with Margery Clark (in "Mountain Vacation," by Deone R. Sutherland); walking barefoot with Flo Harris (in "New Shoes for Flo," by Wanda F. Hilton); sharing her joy in the acquisition of a new baby brother; realized the reluctance of Tom Gordon to part with a fine piano (in "Going Modern," by Frances C. Yost); and poignantly lived. With Sally and her mother-in-law through the storm (in "Two of a Kind," by Maude Rubin). There is no doubt about it, The Relief Society Magazine has achieved another. Success in its April issue. —Gene Romolo Provo, Utah I wish to express my pleasure in the Magazine, with the history of our beautiful Relief Society Building. It represents a large portion of what faith can do, in unison, —Mrs. Delta Williams Uravan, Colorado Rolie Sveitly READING SUGGESTIONS Text: The Doctrine and Covenants 1. Doctrine and Covenants (Cloth-bound library edition) $1.75 2. - Doctrine and Covenants and Pearl of Great Price (Plastic binding) $.55 (add 12c postage for mail orders) References: Documentary History of the Church 3. 7-Volume Set $14.00 (add 65c postage for mail orders) 4. Volume | $3.00 (postage on individual volumes 15c each) 5. Volume Il $1.00 6. Volume III $1.25 7. Volume IV $3.50 8. Volume V $1.25 9. Volume VI $1.25 10. Volume VII $3.00 11. Kit of 7 Pictures $.50 (add 5c postage for mail orders) Contains following pictures: Prophet Joseph Smith Angel Moroni appearing to Joseph Smith Three Witnesses (3 different pictures) Restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood Susquehanna River 12. Joseph Smith, the Prophet Preston Nibley $3.50 13. Doctrine and Covenants Commentary $4.00 14. Text: Shakespeare: Major Plays and the Sonnets G. B. Harrison $6.00 (add 20c postage for mail orders) ORDER BY MAIL with Coupon Below 44 East South Temple - r---—: DESERET BOOK company ' 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Enclosed you will find ( Gentlemen: order ( SoOciAL References: 15. Gospel Ideals Discourses of President David O. McKay $4.00 16. Gospel Doctrine Discourses of President Joseph F. Smith $3.50 17. Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. I, Hl, and Ill Sermons and Writings of Joseph Fielding Smith Compiled by Bruce R. McConkie $3.25 Ea. 18. Articles of Faith James E. Talmage $1.50 = Book (0. - Salt Lake City. Utah ) check ( ) charge to my account for the encircled (numbered) books or items: 1234567 89 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 ) money Address.... LO 5 Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. Zone.. State... Eee W JOR-LA-33-291il FEB 58 HAPPY FAMILIES... Do things TOGETHER Steve has a birthday this month... His eighth, and one of his most important ones en route to manhood. If he could cut the cake in enough pieces, he would like every one of you to share this experience with him. His Dad has a birthday this month, too... One of two he has every year. His real birthday is in November, but his "insurance birthday" is in May—six months earlier. That's the date the premiums increase on any new life insurance he takes out. You can beat the birthdays yourself by inviting your Beneficial Life agent over for his visit soon. Ask him to check over the life insurance program you now carry, and see if it meets the needs of your growing family and your present standard of living. The few minutes you spend with him now may save you many dollars over the next several years. Write today for folder BENEFICIAL LIFE hos VUE Com UZ ( PUM UNECE 7" | David O. McKay, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah "Planned Futures' VOL. 44 NO. 7 So Our Sorerunners Eva Willes Wangsgaard The years are long, but oh, how fast they go! And you who knew our towns when they were young Have watched their early struggles, helped them grow To busy cities, noisy, neon-strung, Take now belated thanks so long deserved For many tasks performed for men unborn. However simply you have lived, you served, Who wrested wheatlands from the drouth and thorn. Something there is beyond the strength of man Which stays behind when he is deep in sod, And something which you left for us will span The gulf between mortality and God— A dream... Ahope... A faith that leads us on With eager hearts and eyes raised toward the dawn. The Cover: Victoria Falls, Rhodesia, Africa Courtesy South African Railways Submitted by Nora C. Duncan Frontispiece: Wasatch Stream, Utah Photograph by Hal Rumel Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Near and Sar A very dear sister of the Church, Mrs. Stayner Richards, subscribed to have The Relief Society Magazine forwarded to me every month. I would like to tell you how much I appreciate its wonderful, inspiring lessons, also how much I look forward to receiving this beautiful Magazine. —Mrs. Oliver London, England When I read Alice Morrey Bailey's poem "Ballerina" in the May issue of The Relief Society Magazine, I was thrilled. I am especially fond of lyrics, and this one not only dances, it sings. —Gene Romolo Provo, Utah Lael Hill did a beautiful job with her article "The Gift—and the Giving of Poetry" in the May issue of The Relief Society Magazine. —Ethel Jacobson Fullerton, California All issues of The Relief Society Magazine are truly outstanding. We in the Church can justifiably feel proud of the publications prepared for us. No other publications equal them. Sister Elna P. Haymond (of the general board of Relief Society) was my "mission mother" in the Northern States Mission in 1946-47. —Mtrs. Coleen Hill St. Anthony, Idaho Thank you for a gracious response to my letter asking birthday recognition for Mary Ann Smith of Randolph, Utah. One of the most precious things about Relief Society is that older women feel they are needed and wanted. I hope that this attitude will always be cherished. So much emphasis is placed on youth at this time, but I feel that the experience, wisdom, and tact of the older women have a real value. —Faye B. Gardner Tacoma, Washington Page 418 I enjoy the poetry in the Magazine so much. It seems there is always a source of inspiration in the poetry for me. —Millicent Kendall Blackfoot, Idaho I have been an appreciative subscriber and reader of the Magazine since my missionary days in 1939-1941. I have been a counselor and class leader in "our'' organization, and recognize the Relief Society as the "Mother" organization in the Church as the Priesthood is the "Father." —Wanda F. Hilton Walnut Creek, California I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine and read it from cover to cover. I realize its great worth to the women of our organization as I have been president of this Bothwell Ward Relief Society for four years. 'This experience is giving me great pleasure and knowledge I could get nowhere else. —Mabel C. Anderson Tremonton, Utah I would like to say how very much we enjoy our wonderful Magazine. I am a convert to the Church, and I would like to tell all the sisters everywhere how much the Church has done for me. I am indeed grateful for being a member. —Mary Baker San Jose, California My May Magazine came yesterday, and I read the editorial "Pen in Hand," by Vesta P. Crawford, and was so thrilled with the writing, I read it and read it. It reads like something out of Proverbs or Psalms. It says things, too, but the way they are said is what impressed me so forcibly. It is really a poem without thyme. I liked the story "This Is My Baby," by Christie Lund Coles, also, and I thought Florence Dunford's story "The Third House Down," was very good. The Magazine continues to become better and better. —Dorothy Clapp Robinson Boise, Idaho THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Elna P. Haymond Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Gladys S. Boyer Annie M. Ellsworth Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Leone G. Layton Josie B. Ba Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Afton W. Hunt Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring Wealtha S. Mendenhall RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 44 JULY 1957 No. 7 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Habits of Industry and the Abundant Life for Children and Parents........ Madeline B. Wirthlin 420 The South African Mission....... Preston R. Nibley 424 Let's Visit a Desert Botanical Garden. _...... Marijane Morris 430 The Joy of Renewal. DeereNaomi M. Manwaring 434 The Long and Short of Marriag 448 America, Cradle of Liberty eeElsie Matthews 449 JTC RG ee Celia Luce 451 Your Child Is a Music Lover w. E.... CccccescccesseccececeeccseececcoseecececosceqeccessnesceseesneseeseceanscececeeeneneecotersHelen Morris 452 Life Is a Journey ee! EaeCleopha Jensen 463 No Hate in Our Hearts Wilma Boyle Bunker 487 FICTION Holly—Part I Margaret S. Hardy 426 Ice Cream for the ''Fourth'': Maryhale Woolsey 435 The Bright Star—Chapter 5 Dorothy S. Romney 455 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 418 Sixty Years Ago 440 Woman's Sphere: Ramona W. Cannon 441 Editorial: The Spirit of the Pioneer.................. Wee Marianne C. Sharp 442 Notes to the Field: Buying Textbooks for Relief Society Lessons 200........0..--.:: scccses-cecsessseeeeesseeecsesseeeees444 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 2.2.... Ccc. SsssecsccsecessecessesessseeseceeseeseseeeeHulda Parker 458 Birthday Congratulations 488 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the South African Mission.......... = _ Nora C. Duncan 445 Leah A. Hamilton Collects Potted Plants and Does Handwork, Weaving, and Painting............ 454 When Mother Made Butter Mae R. Winters 486 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: The Lord Speaks Through His Prophets Roy W. Doxey 464 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''And the Voice of Warning Shall Be Unto All People'' Christine H. Robinson 470 Work Meeting: Spending Money Wisely.......... William F. Edwards 471 Literature: William Shakespeare, Dramatist. Briant S. Jacobs 473 Social Science: The Family Is Forever..... Tececcsssecsces0:... John Farr Larson 479: POETRY To Our Forerunners—Frontispiece Eva Willes Wangsgaard 413 Bread of Beauty aa Gene Romolo 423 Lupine and Larkspur. Ivy Houtz Woolley 429 Sorrow's Treasure Ada Marie Patten 434 Mother to Daughter —.. Eee Elsie McKinnon Strachan 438 Mountain Pine = Vesta N. Lukei 439 $SX 3 S65 5Dora Toone Brough 444 Together They Walk 20... Esceccccscceesceessseteee eens Maude Rubin 447 Fulfillment oo. Ecce sc cceceesesececeececeeeeeeeeeee. OeLouise Call Nelson 462 Black Hills a Ethel bson 487 Oh, Foolish Heart el Jacobson oe _ Lillian E. Miles 488 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Habits of Industry and the Abundant Life for Children and Parents Madeline B. Wirthlin My son, keep thy father's commandment, and forsake not the law of thy mother: Bind them continually upon thine heart, and tie them about thy neck.: When thou goest, it shall lead thee; when thou sleepest, it shall keep thee; and when thou awakest, it shall talk with thee. Light... (Proverbs 6:20-23). HE above was a_ favorite Mutual theme. It contains a commandment and a law, but it also gives great and wonderful promises to children. 'T'o parents, it implies the responsibility of example, counsel, good judgment, justice, kindness, consideration, and consistency. One sees a well-knit family where righteousness and love of the Lord are dominant, where prayer is a daily ritual, where faith in God is nurtured ana where love dominates all that is said and done. Summer, vacation time is_ here! The children are home, happy in their release from the curtailments of school. What promise does vacation hold for us as a family? Are our commandments, as parents, such as can be bound about the hearts of our children—will they truly lead them, keep them, talk with them, and be a lamp and a light to them always? It has been said we start to train a child at the birth of his greatgrandparents. I am grateful for the training the paternal grandparents gave our children when in_ far-off England a great-grandfather prayed for divine direction to find the true Church. In a dream, he saw the Page 420 For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is hall in which two Mormon missionaries were preaching. He accepted their teaching, and after years of frugality brought his ten children to Utah. Struggle and privation followed them, but their loyalty and devotion to the Church never failed. Gratitude increases with thoughts of the great-grandmother who gave birth to her children in a dirt-roofed dugout, and who sold their only cow that her husband might go back to Switzerland to carty the gospel message to his native land. She then sewed salt sacks for one dollar a thousand to support her family. The maternal grandmother left her home in Christiania, Norway, when only eighteen years old to immigrate to Zion alone for the cause she had espoused. She reared a family of twelve children and never faltered in her faith and devotion to the Church. When the maternal grandfather was a boy of fourteen, he drove his widowed mother's ox team across the plains and then supported her by herding cattle on the foothills surrounding the city. Their cabin floor was covered with straw, ready to burn, if their Prophet Brigham Young gave the word when the invading Johnston's Army came into the city. Memory takes me back to my childhood. 'The farm was _ large, the house had many rooms, and the family was ever increasing, with our own children, workmen, and guests. There was always work to do and meals to prepare. Milk and butter, fruit and garden vegetables, chickens and lambs were our responsibility. Wool was washed, carded, and made into warm quilts for the family and the sheep camps. I never remember of being tired of the work. We all worked together. An older sister always had a younger one to do the upstairs or the kitchen work. Mother prepared the meals with the vegetables and took care of the milk, but it was accepted by all that she needed help when we had finished our appointed tasks. What pleasant memories of the fun and jokes we enjoyed while picking over the peas on the shady lawn or singing the arias of the operas in which the girls had participated. While picking cherries, strawberries, raspberries, and currants in the cool of the morning OT evening, these melodies became very dear to our hearts. About four o'clock, nearly every afternoon, all would go down to the Cottonwood Creek for a swim. We followed a path through the tall, sweet-smelling meadow grass to enjoy an hour of complete relaxation and enjoyment. OTHER'S admonitions have carried through to my children when she said, "Let your head save your heels," and, "It is your responsibility to pay your tithing, but someone else's_ responsibility to spend it." It has always seemed such a shame to take thirty minutes to do the dishes when they could be done in ten. 'There is real satisfaction in two or three hustling with plenty of clean towels, cloths, soapy water and rinse water so the dishes can drain shiny bright or be wiped and put straight and clean on the cupboard shelves. Every child can do a good job if, as adults, we realize sustained effort cannot last too long. It is better to give them a boost and let them enjoy the satisfaction of a finished job. Kathy's assignment was to clean the bathtub, which was accomplished with all the scouring and rinsing necessary for a_ six-year-old, although her school dress suffered from cleanser. Michele was to dust. Yes, the lamp shade was taken completely off and rubbed inside and out before it was precariously replaced. Grandfather said to Jamie from across the table, "If you will stay on the farm with us, you can have your pony and Queen, the collie, and we will have good times together." Jamie looked up with his big brown eyes and said seriously, "I would like to, Grandfather, but my mother needs me." Yes, he was needed—he had a job to do —a definite responsibility—his mother "needed" him! When we are needed, how much more can we do —how many difficulties can be overcome, for with need, there is appreciation, which is the greatest reward for work! We have all been interested in ten-year-old Robert Strom and Charles Van Doren, two TV celebHABITS OF INDUSTRY AND THE ABUNDANT LIFE 421 422 rities, who have won great sums of money recently. I have wondered what their home, family, and parents contributed toward their amazing mental powers. Mr. Strom, Robert's father, said: We feel there are a great number of gifted children all over the country who are lost because their very young curiosity is not satisfied... They become frustrated, get lethargic habits and their interest is atrophied. Mrs. Strom said: I have not worked since the children were born. I am staying home and bringing them up myself. We never have a question unanswered, an idea undiscussed. We always had a policy that if something wasn't finished we couldn't start something else. My favorite motto is "Not failure, but low aim is crime." As long as they tried their best, they knew no one was going to reject them. Once something excites their interest they will ask many questions, run the thing down to the bottom. If we can't answer, we always point out how they can find it. "Talk to me" is a favorite phrase around our house. "All right," I say, "what will we talk about?" 'Then we discuss the project of the day or some scientific idea. Robert said: I think I have been curious since I was born; so often kids don't get a chance to learn enough to get their curiosity satished. (From an article in the Deseret NewsSalt Lake Telegram, April 12, 1957, by Joseph R. Marshall. Quotation used by permission). F Charles Van Doren, it is said his mind comes through on T'V as a reasoning instrument that exposes a memory clearly embedded in taste. Everything interested him, nothing was unimportant. He had a passion for getting facts straight RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 and checking them in reference books. He read the dictionary as living literature. When he looked up a word, he would browse, and the next thing he knew, he would read four or five pages. One weekend he picked up the Bible and read it through. He systematically read his way through the Columbia Library stacks on English Literature in which he got his Ph. D, averaging twenty books a week for two years. A friend said, "I have always thought the Van Dorens the most successful family I've ever experienced in terms of closeness, intellectual vitality, mutual respect, in terms of exchange of ideas and the flow of electricity that keeps everybody learning all the time." Few of us have a Robert Strom or a Charles Van Doren in our homes, but we can stimulate and help to satisfy our children's curiosity. If we have a good dictionary and an encyclopedia, we can answer correctly most of their questions. Grammatical errors and mispronounced words can be corrected and not forgotten when children are young. How broad would our horizons be as parents, if we continued intelligent discussions with each of our children through the elementary grades, high school, and _ college. Would not we be more understanding parents, better Church auxiliary teachers, and would not our children know and enjoy difficult subjects better if they had the opportunity to explain a problem to an understanding father and mother at home? Summer is a good time to catch up on our reading. Libraries are full of classics that when read will always be remembered. HABITS OF INDUSTRY AND THE ABUNDANT LIFE We are all grateful for the surge of interest taken by civic clubs, newspaper and magazine articles that offer real help and many suggestions for compensating work opportunities for teen-agers. Church auxiliary and playground programs are helpful and well-supervised. Care should be taken, however, that these activities should not become too demanding and interfere with home responsibilities. Music, carpentry, cooking, gardening, and sewing fill a need in every child's life. Are we not told, "Seek and ye shall find"? What are we seeking for this summer vacation? If we were given one wish, we might say, "I want to be happy, truly happy, and have my children enjoy this 423 great blessing." Iam sure we can't all expect to be happy all the time when we know "some rain must fall, some days must be dark and dreary." I like this prayer: God grant me serenity To accept the things I cannot change, The courage to change the things I can, And the wisdom to know the difference. Ten Rules of Happiness have been written by our own President David O. McKay. They are beautifully written, concrete, and practical. He says happiness does not just come. It must be worked for. It must be earned. May these rules be incorporated in every home, that as parents and children, we may develop habits of industry and the abundant life. —y ° Sen Rules for Happiness By President David O. McKay Develop yourself by self-discipline. Joy comes through creation—sorrow through destruction. Every living thing What you think about when you do not 2. Can grow. Use the world wisely to realize soul growth. 3. Do things which are hard to do. 4. Entertain upbuilding thoughts. Have to think shows what you really are. 5. Do your best this hour, and you will do better the next. 6. Be true to those who trust you. 7. Pray for wisdom, courage, and a kind heart. 8. Give heed to God's messages through inspiration. If self-indulgence, jealousy, avarice, or worry have deadened your response, pray to the Lord to wipe out - these impediments. G. True friends enrich life. If you would have friends, be one. 10. Faith is the foundation of all things—including happiness. Bread of Beauty Gene Romolo If you would be to higher being borne, Choose a way that loveliness has spread With perfumed petals— Though now and then your palms be brier-torn. Beauty for soul-sustenance is said To be as needful as wheat is for bread, Courtesy South African Railways Submitted by Nora C. Duncan JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA She South African Mission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian Al a special missionary conference, held in Salt Lake City on August 28, 1852, under the direction of President Brigham Young, Elders Jesse Haven, Leonard I. Smith, and William H. Walker were called to open a mission for the Church in South Africa. These faithful brethren made their way to their field of labor in poverty and distress, a journey which consumed more than six months time, before they reached Cape Town on April 19, 1853. Elder Haven was designated as the mission president. As soon as they began to distribute their literature and hold meetings they met with opposition. However, a friend, Nicholas Paul, of Mowbray, a suburb of Cape Town, opened his house to them and offered them protection. Meetings were held in this home and the first convert, Henry Stringer, was baptized on June 15, 1853, by Elder Smith. Other baptisms followed, and on August 15, 1853, the first branch of the Church in South Africa was organized at Mowbray. The work continued, and at a conference held at Port Elizabeth on August 13, 1855, it was reported that there were six branches of the Church in the South African Mission with a total membership of 126. On November 27, 1855, Elders Walker and Smith began their return journey to Utah, 'accompanied by fifteen emigrating saints." In December Page 424 THE SOUTH AFRICAN MISSION 425 Elder Haven left Cape Town for America, and the work was left in the charge of local brethren. As many of the Saints had emigrated to Utah, and as the Civil War was being fought in the United States, the South African Mission was closed in the 1860's. Missionaries were not sent there again until 1903, when Elders Warren H. Lyon, William R. Smith, Thomas L. Griffiths, and George A. Simpkins were called to reopen the mission. The work has continued since that time. On March 31, 1957, there were 2,363 members of the Church in the South African Mission, located in seventeen branches. Glen G. Fisher is the mission president. Sixteen Relief Society organizations, with 249 members, were reported in December 1956. Holly Wood Fisher presides over the South African Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, "Victoria Falls, Rhodesia, Africa."' was submitted by Nora C. Duncan, former president of the South African Mission Relief Society. See also "Recipes From the South African Mission," page 445. Courtesy South African Railways Submitted by Nora C. Duncan CAMPS BAY, CAPE TOWN, AFRICA Holly Part I Margaret S. Hardy HE red hills had never been so hot, nor the sun so cruel. Holly's legs moved like stilts over the rocky path that led to the cabin in the hollow below. Heat waves rising from the scorched earth fanned her face as though a grass fire burned at her feet. The sharp, spiny fingers of a mesquite bush clung to her skirts and she tugged to free them. "Grabbing thorns," she cried as she tried to work them loose. "Oh, what's the use to spare this old thing?" A sudden pull and the bush snapped back triumphant, holding a wool piece of faded red. The goal was in sight. A few more steps—then a step from the path and shade; a resting place worn smooth from use before. She settled herself down, her back against the curve of the gnarled pine trunk and closed her eyes against the glare, then opened them again. Her home was in view from where she sat, and Jesse somewhere near—the garden by the stream's edge burned as red as the earth in which it grew. How they had struggled to save it when the creek began to dry, coaxing the last trickle of water into pans. But the withering Utah sun had won the battle, with even the springs that fed the tiny reservoir above, threatening to dry. Water. That was what she wanted. Everyone here was thirsty all the time it seemed. A Mormon bride of seventeen, she had come to this land of promise, Page 426 leaving family and loved ones far behind. She and Jim would build a home here in the wilderness— their children would inherit it, and their roots would go down strong and deep. A log cabin was their home now, a stone house to come later, a story and a half, and it would tower there above the cedars. Holly braced one hand on the ground beside her, the other she laid on the rock cleft at her side and pulled herself to her feet. 'The path grew steeper, with each stone trying to roll when she stepped on it. 'Three weeks by her count—could be only two, and she would be lithe again and never care a fig for the stones in her path. But she would never attempt the trail again in this condition. Never. July into August, and the promise of more glimmering sun continued unbroken, relentless heat. Food bins nearby empty and crops shriveling back into the ground brought the farmers to their knees and the Indians to their rain dances, praying for the miracle that would save them —rain. This August day started as every day that summer had started; with Jesse up and out searching the heavens, determined that the barren sky should yield its share to life. Holly watched the morning ritual from the open doorway, hoping with him, laughing when he wet a finger and held it up to catch a hoped-for breeze. He stood, a giant in her eyes, strong and noble, a man to HOLLY lean on, and willing. She loved everything about him. Everything. As she watched this morning, a quickening of his movements told her something stirred. Again and yet again, his hand went up before him. Suddenly he turned and bounded toward her. "Today we'll have rain, Holly love," burst from his lips. "And maybe more." Holly whispered it, for even now the twinge grew faintly stronger. HE rain came as Jesse had said; in large, separate drops, making little mounds where the dust puffed up as it fell. A gentle rain it was, feeling its way to the thirsty earth. They went outside and let the huge drops splash on their upturned faces in childish delight. "It will cool you down," Jesse said, "then let me go for Stacy." Of a sudden the rain stopped as they stood there. The trees stopped their quivering and the darkening sky turned darker still. Hushed, dead silence hung from the leaden sky holding all in its grasp. Then, like giant cymbals clashing together, a thunderclap crashed down over the hills, bringing torrents of water sweeping down from the sky. Holly threw her hands over her ears, crying out her terror, with Jesse pulling to get her to the cabin. A fire, stirred up from dying embers, to dry her dripping hair; a rocking chair; and Jesse at the window, the storm his interest—Holly's thoughts on Stacy, wishing she were here. But, no bother. It took days at times, so she had been told; and time for supper, rain or not. Still... 427 "Jesse? How can Stacy come in this storm?" "Now, Holly love." He turned at hearing Stacy's name. "The storm won't last for long. It is coming all at once and will end as it started." "T can wait, Jesse. It will be a while yet. In the morning maybe— and it's suppertime." The sound of horse's hooves sloshing near the window made Jesse jump from the table to pull open the door. An excited voice calling out reached Holly's ears. "There's been a cloudburst The dam's washing away. We _ need men." Jesse wheeled around to look askance from Holly's startled face. "They need you. I need you, too. Oh, Jesse. The dam—our house—we're right in the path...." Jesse's hands gripped her shoulders. "Look at me, Holly. What shall I do? A broken dam will flood the settlement below. Our house will go, too. Say it, Holly. If you need me, I'll stay. Is it time?" "How do I know if it's time? I've never had...." She stopped and closed her eyes, found control of her rising voice. "Go, Jesse. But, hurry back. And get word to Stacy if you?? Can. FE was gone—vanished into the downpour of the deepening night, and Holly was alone. She leaned against the closed door to steady herself, for her body went weak with fear and all strength was gone. Rain! How badly they had wanted it, and now it came and threatened to destroy everything— even herself, perhaps, if Stacy didn't 428 come. Across the cabin she swayed and knelt down by the bed, her head bowed to her hands, and prayed— for Jesse and the men—and for the dam—and for herself and her babe soon to be born—and for Stacy. Her terror lifted somewhat and her strength came slowly back so that she busied herself with whatever she could find to do. But each hour became a night, and morning a thing never to come. Water ran a steady stream across the cabin floor. The bottom of her nightdress clung like ice sheets around her legs as she walked and rocked, walked and _ rocked, until she climbed feebly into bed, only to pull herself back out again. The cookstove She had forgotten the fire in the cookstove. 'That would warm her. Split logs laid on embers burst into flame, and she cried out, half laughing, half crying at sight of the dancing blaze. Almost immediately the room became so hot she dripped with perspiration. Slowly she sank into the rocker and raised her feet to the oven, hot and cold at the same time. And then the candle went out. It was that that made her do it. Panic took her senses and she could not find another candle. The creek roared louder in the dark, a terrifying enemy. 'The loneliness became unbearable, and she put a coat over her shoulders and went out into the storm. The trail over the hill seemed not so far with Stacy waiting at the other end. The thunder seemed to be farther in the distance, and the hardest of the pelting rain had ended. Yet, how could a trail so well remembered in the daytime RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 have to be felt for now? Hands found familiar places; rocks which days before had threatened to unfoot her were friends to hold her feet against the slippery clay. It was two steps up and a slide back— but progress nonetheless, with each step a prayer that she would find her way in time. Holly reached the rock where last she had sat and vowed not to pass the rocky trail soon again. She stopped and squeezed the water from her sodden hair. 'The crest of the hill was ahead, then the down path and not far to go. Sucking clay pulled at her shoes, so sodden and heavy she could no longer pick them up one before the other; so she pulled her feet free and left the only shoes she owned buried in the mud on the trail. Now she prayed aloud in gasping breath as she worked her way up the hill; then she called for Jesse until she felt herself go suddenly warm and pleasant with a comforting weakness where pain had been. This is how people die, she thought. This is where they'll find me—lying here on the muddy trail. The last ounce of strength ebbed from her body. 'There was only the warmth and the weakness and the sound of her own voice calling — Jesse — far away as in a dream. W OK OK KX HEN Holly opened her eyes it was daylight, and she was lying in a bed. She snapped her eyes shut again. Her hands explored the rough woolen quilt. She felt so good, the air smelled so clean— and new—like freshly washed clothes not yet worn. She opened her eyes HOLLY again. A ribbon of water trickled down the wall near the foot of the bed. She strained to hear something forgotten for the love of this sweet moment. Rain! Jesse! The horrible, slippery trail. She popped up to a sitting position and looked around her. "Stacy!" A cry, this, from a throat hoarse with crying. "Stacy! How did I get here? Where's Jesse?" "No need to cry out now, Holly, nor to fret. It's all over—and don't kick up the end of the bed. You'll send your son a flying." Jesse stood, when he came, in the doorway, a man grown older in a night. He stood with shoulders stooped a little, the bold stance of his legs gone, as he paused, shaking the water from his hair, brushing down his trousers with one hand. In the other he held a silty cloth behind him. Holly tried for a smile, but brought a flood of tears instead that had Jesse on his knees by the bed. "It is all over now, Holly love," he exclaimed, "and you a mother...." His head burrowed on her chest, his voice came muffled. "I 429 never should have left you. Not ever." He raised his head and found Holly's hand warm in his. "What fortune I found you when I did. Your nightdress white against the blackened trail stopped the horse from trampling you where you lay." "T thought I would die on the trail. I did for truth.... What do you have in your hand, Jesse?" "Your bonnet. It was hanging on a bush near where the cabin door had been tossed there by the water." "And everything is gone?" "Everything." "And those below?" "Washed out some. Not much left for the sun or the crickets or for anyone else. But don't you worry, Holly love, the Lord won't see us starve." "Oh, Jesse! Your love is true, and mine as strong as yours." And on that day Holly started a diary: August 17, 1854 So much has come to us this day. Our home is gone, the plantings washed away —and I have had a baby. (To be concluded) <> Lupine and Larkspur Ivy Houtz Woolley Hot fingers of the sun stay not their will to rise And bloom above the sand, blue magic in their eyes. Hot fingers of the wind touch petals, tenderly, Then leave each silken flower to glow where none can see. Blue gypsies of the waste, with stardust on their lips— Winged nomads of the plains find nectar in deep sips. In azure velvet dress, they stand in clusters tall, The desert urges them to blossom at her call. Blue gypsies of the waste, small fragments of the sky, Come bringing subtle charm where all is drab and dry. Lets Visit a Desert Botanical Garden Marijane Morris ountain-born, island born, or from the desert country, you will find yourself completely fascinated when you begin the nature walk in the Desert Botanical Garden of Arizona at 'Tempe. This garden (on Highway 8g) is not marked with road advertising. There are only a simple sign and stone entrance posts proclaiming what it is, and marking the way into an enchanted land of thousands of desert plants in a single setting. In this world plants grow erect, climb, creep, or are just small growths in the ground. 'Their very grotesqueness will rouse your admiration and respect. The Desert Botanical Garden is operated by the Anzona Cactus and Native Flora Society, a non-profit, educational organization supported, in part, by an endowment from the late Gertrude Divine Webster, but, principally, by membership and donations. It costs the visitor nothing to see these plants in a setting produced by many hours of planning, vision, love, and dedication. All that could be required of anyone is a camera permit and that the tourist stay on the black-topped walks and away from the cacti. (There are seeds that might be killed and plants too small to be seen.) For a small amount, the visitor may purchase a bulletin giving detailed information about each species. 'The different kinds of cacti and other desert plants: are numbered to correspond with the numbers in the pamphlet. You may be surprised to find that cacti are found almost exclusively Page 430 in the New World. There are something like one hundred genera and 1,800 species, wild and cultivated. Here in the Desert Botanical Garden, there are 8,000 to 9,000 species of desert plants, of which about 1,300 are cacti. Once we let a cactus or any desert plant "stick us," we are forever awed by this vegetation that survives in an area of little rainfall, a high percentage of sunshine, and high temperatures. Only the most heroic of plants can prosper in a desert. The plants now on our deserts seem even more remarkable when we learn that they are relics of a heavy plant population that once occupied the area when rainfall was greater. 'These survivors gradually built up resistance to drought conditions as the area became increasingly dry. Many of us know by sight the stately Saguaro (so-wha'ro). This cactus is Arizona's state flower and the best example of the desert's living reservoir. 'The pronounced ribs of this plant expand and contract in accordion fashion to store and use water. The one in the Botanical Garden is approximately 180 years old. The Saguaro produces a waxy, showy flower, followed by ted, juicy fruits of delicious flavor, and, if you have ever wondered at holes found in their stems, they are produced by the Gila woodpecker. 'This bird finds the Saguaro a wonderful place to nest. The Saguaro is a sensitive but stubborn plant. Whenever it is disturbed either by wind DESERT BOTANICAL GARDEN W. Taylor Marshall 431 ADMINISTRATION BUILDING, DESERT BOTANICAL GARDEN TEMPE, ARIZONA or earth movement, it is likely to throw out another branch. Saguaro wood can be fashioned into furniture, lamps, can be used in house construction, and in numerous other ways. It doesn't take long to recognize the chollas (chaw-ya), either, and there are thousands of other curious and beautiful varieties found in the Desert. Botanical Garden. Among these are the so-called "jumping chollas." 'These cacti are supposed to jump at unwary visitors to the desert. AS we continue through the Desert Botanical Garden, we find at stake number six, a cactus called the "Old Man of the Desert." Here is truly an oddity. The spines have a hair-like appearance and cover the tall, pole-shaped cactus as does an old man's beard. Their spines look soft, but how deceiving! 'This plant is young and is expected to attain a height of thirty feet or more. Before you finish your walk, you may have a favorite cactus picked out. Maybe it will be the creeping plant called the caterpillar cactus. This one is found only on the Magdalena Plains of Baja, California, outside of cultivated gardens. One wonders where its roots are, as its branches crisscross over each other. If we consult our pamphlet, we read that its roots form the portion of the stem against the ground and that it grows forward at the rate of about five inches a year, dying off at the back at the same rate. In its native soil it forms dense colonies. It is correctly named; it looks like a caterpillar on the crawl. But unlike the caterpillars we know, its 432 NIGHT-BLOOMING CEREUS YUCCA BLOSSOMS (Desert Lily) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 PRICKLY PEAR Opuntia Englmannii Family Liliaceae dagger-like spines can penetrate the heaviest of boots. As we follow along the trail, we discover the organ-pipe cactus, which has a night-blooming flower and a delicious fruit. Quite possibly, we may look at the next plant and exclaim: "A Saguaro" But it isn't. It resembles its relative, the Saguaro, and meets the Arizona cactus just south of the border, but from there on it belongs to Baja, California, and Sonora, Mexico. Technically it is called Pachycereus pringlei. However, once we have seen the knobby surface of this totem-pole cactus we will never forget it. It lacks the pronounced ribs of most cacti and has a bumpy surface much like an Indian totem pole. As this garden contains not only cacti, but desert plants of all kinds, you will discover that the century plant and the Joshua tree, and many other plants in this garden are not true cacti. The century plant is a curious thing, which spends its entire life storing food and water in its leaves and then sends up a flower stalk, five to thirty-five feet into the air. 'This stalk shoots upward at the almost unbelievable rate of six to sixteen inches a day. Its lifetime is over after it produces one crop of flowers and the accompanying fruits. This plant belongs to the Amaryllis family. The Joshua tree is a member of the lily family. It is regarded as the oldest living thing on the desert! Some are estimated to be 1,000 years old. Yucca, the "Spanish Bayonet," with its radiant creamy blossoms, also belongs to the lily family and adorns the deserts throughout the Southwest. The prickly pear is said to be the only other desert plant whose range is more widespread. Most of us recognize the Ocotillo (ok-o-te-yo) or scarlet torch, also not a cactus. For much of the year the Ocotillo presents leafless, spiny wand-like stems up to twelve feet long, all arising from the common base. When it rains these stems leaf out with small groups of leaves at the base of each spine. 'Then, in a few days, the scarlet, tubular DESERT BOTANICAL GARDEN flowers grow from the apex of each stem, and as the flowers open the leaves fall off. At the next rainfall the process starts all over again. AS every story or event must have a high interest at one point, so does our nature walk through the Desert Botanical Garden. It is the aluminum lath house we reach about half way through our walk. 'There is enough lath in this desert shelter to reach to the heart of Phoenix, westward some eight miles. Hundreds of cacti and desert plants are housed here, the ones that cannot take the full sun or the winter temperatures or which must have humidity. The soil is especially prepared and the plants are in raised beds. They thrive in this soil and atmosphere. (The soil consists of silt, sharp sand, and fertilizer. ) In this lath house are some of the garden's most unusual plants. 'There is a cactus, Pereskia, a plant from the West Indies which represents the first transition from roses to cacti. There is the plant with small blood-red blooms called "crown of Photographs by Josef Muench RAINBOW CACTUS Echinocereus rigidissimus HEDGEHOG CACTUS Echinocereus Arizonicus 433 thorns," which belongs to the Poinsettia family, and the "firecracker" species of cacti from South America. This type has red day flowers that resemble firecrackers in size, shape, and color. 'There is a swamp cactus that requires so much water during hot weather that an overhead sprinkler operates day and night to stimulate natural environment. In a glass-topped display case, are species of the fig-marigolds from South Africa, which closely resemble the pebbles among which they grow. The lath house shelters desert species of the pineapple family, trees and shrubs of the American and African deserts, including two elephantwood trees and a coral tree, as well as crested forms of cacti. This cresting is a breakdown of cell structure probably caused by radio-activity of the soil in which they were growing when they were found. There is a crested Saguaro cactus, with a fan-shaped top, at the garden entrance. Outside, and on the path again, one is quite unexpectedly in a small clearing. It is an outdoor living SUN CEREUS Heliocereus speciosus 434 room which in time, will be completely shaded by umbrella trees. The desert quietness is persuasive here and tends to relax and invigorate as one sits a few precious moments. Many curious and beautiful varieties of cacti are prized as _hothouse plants, among them the night-blooming cereus. <A_ perfect way to end our nature walk is to visit the "night-blooming patio," by going through the administration building and out the south door. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 Here, we will find the nightingales of the cacti. They "sing" with their lovely night beauty, but are gone when the sun lights the desert. Last year some 120,000 visitors viewed these desert plants. The garden is open to the public October ist to May lst daily, except Mondays, from 10 A. M. To 5 P. M. In May, June, and September it is open only on Saturday and Sunday from 1 P. M. To 6 p. M. And is closed during July and August. She Yoy of Renewal Naomi M. Manwaring oa are times, when through the necessity of making a daily living, or through too much cluttering of our lives with nonessentials, we lose contact with the more important and worthwhile activities. Sometimes we take so for granted that which we have that we fail to enjoy our blessings. Then, when they are taken away from us for awhile, we come to the full realization of what we have missed, when we experience a renewal. It happened to me yesterday, the joy of renewal, when for the first time in two years, I was privileged again to attend Relief Society. Now, as I look back, perhaps I was not appreciative enough of the wonderful blessings that were mine during the many years I attended and worked in Relief Society. Perhaps I needed that fallow period in order to realize the full significance of this inspired organization. This I do know, that yesterday when I attended Relief Society, the full impact of the greatness of this work enveloped me. I realized the abundance of blessings attending those sisters who came out to partake of the testimonies, prayers, lessons, and music. Humbly I bowed my head in prayer and gratefulness for the blessings of the sweet spirit of love, the friendliness and companionship of my sisters that was present, for the contentment and happiness that surrounded each one of us at that meeting. I am truly grateful to my Father for the blessing that is mine again and the joy that comes from the renewal of my active membership. Sorregin 's reasuaa Ada Marie Patten Sorrow has a treasure It yields in generous measure, It is the rare endowment Beyond all we have known To feel another's heartache As keenly as our own, Ice Cream for the ""Fourth'' Maryhale Woolsey ROM its first sunup moment, it seemed, that day—July 4, 1904—was bright and _ hot. "She's a blazer," Papa said when he brought the morning milk in, frothing high in the shiny brass pail; and "She's sure one blazer!" he said again when he came in from the beeyard to eat dinner. His face was rosy and perspiring, and his blue madras shirt had wide streaks of wetness down its back. He filled the washbasin with cool water and dipped his face in it, and doused it over his hair. I went to the wide-open door and stared over the expanse of Oregon sagebrush stretching away to the top of a hill, past the curling line of green that was Willow Creek meandering its way. Over westward were our neighbors' ranches, where lay the purple-bloomed fields of alfalfa where Papa's bees flew to gather honey. I couldn't see anything anywhere that looked like blazes. Puzzled, I came back and slid into my chair. "Blazer or not, it doesn't seem like the Fourth of July," Mama was saying, as she set a big bowl of creamed peas and new potatoes on the table next to the platter of fried ham. Her blue-flowered calico dress looked wilted, her bangs were coming uncurled, and her face was dampy pink. "No parade to go to, no program with speeches and singing, no flags to wave." Her voice sounded wobbly. "Dickens of a note," said Papa. "Why didn't we think? We could have sent to Sears and Roebuck and got a flag. We really ought to have one." "No picnic like back home," Mama went on. (Home, to Mama, was a Utah farm near mountains, with a canyon always deep-green and cool and tangy with smells of pine trees and spruce. I almost knew what it was like, myself, from hearing her tell about it so much.) "Not even...." Here Mama's voice had a break in it, and I looked up and saw her eyes blinking tears back. "Not even a dish of ice cream to eat!" "We sure ought to have ice cream for the Fourth of July," Papa said. "It'd sure taste good, too, a day like this." He looked sad. I felt sad, too. I remembered ice cream, from a day last summer in twenty-miles-away Vale, where Papa had taken us to an ice-cream parlor. It was all pink and white, with tables that had round wood tops and queer—but pretty—twisted-wire legs; one set was children's size, special. I sat at that one with Benjie and Freddie, who ate their ice cream down real fast and howled for more—which Papa said they couldn't have; but I ate mine slowly, savoring the cold delightful sweetness of long thin "licks" off each spoonful, so mine lasted longest of anybody's. Came back from remembering, to hear Mama say, "Oh, it isn't really important, I guess. We've got so much to be happy about— Page 435 436 the honey crop looking so good, and... Everything...." Benjie and Freddie, with bibs tied over their blue denim rompers, were eating peas and potatoes as fast as they could. I guessed they couldn't remember ice cream yet; I guessed remembering didn't start till you were about five and had napkins instead of bibs. I tucked mine carefully in at the neck of my favorite red and white checkered gingham everyday dress, feeling glad I didn't have to have it all covered up with a big bib like Mama was tying around baby sister Linda; her dress, made of the same goods as mine, hardly could be seen. All at once Papa spoke up so loud it made me jump. "Lib, why can't we make some ice cream?" ("Lib" was Mama when Papa got excited or mad.) "I could get some ice from old man Gregory's place; he's got a cave full of it up there, he stored from the creek last winter. He'd let me have enough to freeze a gallon of ice cream." Mama's eyes lighted up brightblue for a minute and then faded. "It's five miles, at least, to Gregory's. 'Take half a day...." "Well! What's half a day when it's the Fourth of July? We ought to have some ice cream, and I guess we can knock off for the afternoon —when it's a holiday like this!' "Besides, we haven't any ice cream freezer," Mama said. "Oh, I had forgotten," Papa said. "Why didn't we bring along the Co-op store when we came to Oregon? The hardware department, anyway." He began to rub his chin, his face thoughtful. "Maybe we can rig up something; there ought to be some way...." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 "T don't know... Ice cream freezers are so different from anything else,' Mama began. 'But you're good at rigging things up, dear; just maybe, you...." "T've got it!" Papa jumped up and went to the corner where the wash tubs were, and set the smallest one on the ironing table. 'Then he got a ten-pound size lard pail from the high shelf, one of the extra strong pails that we were saving to put honey in, when the extracting was done, and set it inside the tub. Taking hold of the pail by the little round knobs at the sides, he began to turn the pail this way and that; a half-turn left and then a half-turn night. "Now, see—we put the custard in the pail and put the cover on; then we put the ice and salt around it, in the tub, and I move it back and forth this way. Every so often we open it up and you can beat the custard with the eggbeater to make it fluffy. See?" "Oh, darling!" Mama said, breathless. "If you aren't the smartest man! Do you suppose it'll really work?" "I don't see why not." Papa came back to finish his eating. He looked mighty proud. "Anyway, we're sure going to find out. Now, look, you'd better get the custard made nght away, so it'll have time to cool. Ll raise you a tubful of water to set the kettle in; that'll help, and you can save the water for washday or Saturday baths. And how about making a chocolate layer cake to go with the ice cream? Seeing as you have to have the stove hot anyway to cook the custard?" "Tll do it!' Mama _ promised. "Shall I make the ice cream with ICE CREAM FOR THE "FOURTH" mixed vanilla and lemon flavors?" The bright-blue sparkle was in her eyes again, dancing with happiness. "Mixed will be fine," said Papa. Att four of us children trailed Papa excitedly while he drew up the buckets of water from the deep walled-up well, and chopped extra stovewood from the pile of sagebrush clearings, and hitched up the horses to the spring wagon. Then we stood by the gate watching him drive down the long lane between tall white-clover hedges, until he crossed the creek bridge and turned out of sight onto the hill road. It was a long, long afternoon—in spite of the busyness in the kitchen. Mama and I wore our best white aprons and Mama let me help beat eggs and mix flour-and-milk thickening for the custard, and stir the cake batter while she was greasing the tins. I got a few good licks at the mixing spoons, too; but Benjie and Freddie, as a reward for carrying in wood and kindling chips (thereby keeping out from underfoot), got the bowls to scrape. Linda slept nearly all afternoon. "Thank goodness!" Mama said, telling Papa afterwards. Long before we could expect him, we kept going to the gate and squinting our eyes down the lane to watch for Papa. Especially with a slow old team like our 'Tom and Jonah, ten miles of driving along the dusty, rutted wagon road up Willow Creek would take hours, Mama said. Of course, Papa and Mr. Gregory would have to talk some, before ever they'd start to get the ice out and load it, and cover it all up with sawdust and lots of 437 gunnysacks so the hot sun wouldn't melt it away before Papa could get home with it. Mama's sigh of relief, when at last Papa's wagon appeared turning into our lane, was no deeper nor longer than mine. Then, such excitement—ice—and not wintertime! We drank ice water enough to float us away, Papa said. We fondled chunks of the cold, sparkling, miraculous stuff until our fingers were blue and stiff—and we loved it! The rigged-up ice cream freezer wasn't exactly perfect, Papa was finding. He got tired standing up by the table "agitating" the pail, so he had to stop and fix a low bench so he could sit down. His hands got cold, and he said it must have brought on his rheumatism, the way his fingers hurt. He stopped again while he hunted up a pair of wool gloves to put on. He would rest each time the pail was opened up for Mama to use the eggbeater. She took a few whacks too at the "agitating," but she had to get our supper—we had the rest of the peas and potatoes and some canned salmon and lettuce leaves with vinegar, and because we were so hungry and the ice cream wasn't frozen yet, we ate the chocolate layer cake! 'Then Papa went back to the freezing business again. AMA and I did the dishes; the sun went down and the twilight deepened. After awhile the midsummer full moon came sailing up above the east hill. Papa moved out to the back yard. "Too pretty a night to stay inside," he said, "and besides it's quite a lot cooler out." 438 We brought chairs out and_ sat around, waiting. At last, opening the lard- = for maybe the twentieth time, Papa said, "I'm fagged. It's not like it ought to be, but I'm going to call it ice cream and we're going to eat it. Now or never." "Poor darling; you've worked so hard!" Mama said. She began to fill the glass dishes. Oh, but they looked festive, heaped with pale-yellow mounds and with their rims sparkling in the moonlight like fairy rings! At the very last, Mama piled two extra spoonfuls into Papa's dish. He grinned tiredly. "Don't know if J want it now that I've made it," he said. "Why, darling!" Mama told him, "of course you want it. 'Taste it!" He did, and perked up at once. "Why, it's not half bad!" he exclaimed. "Not bad at all. Not half bad!" We all began joyously to eat. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 There were hard icy lumps that had escaped the eggbeater's blades, and the texture was splintery with ice crystals; but it was cold and sweet and tasted wonderfully of mixed vanilla and lemon flavorings, and the moonlight added magic, I guess, to make it unforgettable. "Next year," Papa said, "I'm going to organize the ranch folks around here for a Fourth of July celebration that will make you sit up and take notice. We'll have flags and ice cream freezers, and speeches and—everything. You'll see..." We did see, and it was wonderful and we never had another Fourth without its just due of celebration. But no ice cream that ever came after had quite the miraculous quality and flavor of that which was made in Papa's rigged-up freezer and eaten, lumps and ice splinters and all, joyously in the midsummer moonlight of that first Fourth on Willow Creek. Mother to Daughter Elsie McKinnon Strachan I have been here before, before, With bright gifts in my hand, Viewing the waiting walls, as you, From where you stand. I brought crystal and china, too, Hung each cup on a hook, Placed each pan and kettle so, Each shining vase, each book. Oh, I was here before, before I knew your lovely face; Or knew those tender hours would bring Joy, indefinite as grace, To blend with this new wonderment, Nebulous in tone; While you who reached to light my lamp, Now light your own. Jeff Thomson SENTINEL PINE IN YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK, CALIFORNIA Mountain Pine Vesta N. Lukei If it can reach the sky Where wild geese go, If it has strength to bear The winter snow, If cones at bough-tips stand Like candle glow, If, sheltered near it, quaking Aspen grow. And gold Brodiaea, asters Bloom below, How tall a pine may be I need not know. Page 439 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" LETTER FROM CANADA: The Relief Society is still looking after the interests and welfare spiritually and temporally of the sisters in this locality, there are comparatively few who require financial assistance, but there are many who are willing and able to assist in sickness, of which we have very little, or aid in the manybenevolent enterprises to keep means in our treasury. We have organized one new society in the last year that is composed principally of young married sisters.... It is a matter of surprise the amount of talent and excellent ability that seems to be the natural inheritance of the children of the Saints.... —Zina Y. Card THE BRIGHAM YOUNG MONUMENT UNVEILED: The immense multitude burst into applause as President Woodruff arose, then silence fell again and the honored veteran of ninety years said in clear tones and audible voice while the great multitude was hushed in eager listening, "In the name of God I now unveil this monument," and instantly the Stars and Stripes began to unfold and fall away from the granite column, revealing to the people the heroic, bronze figure of the great Pioneer leader Brigham Young. —Editorial DEATH OF THE GOVERNOR'S WIFE: We offer a tribute of love to Teresa Clawson Wells, the beloved wife of Governor Heber M. Wells and daughter of H. B. And Sister Margaret Clawson of this city.... As a child the writer remembers Teresa as very beautiful in face and figure, fair as a lily, with long golden curls, and better still, gentle in all her ways and beloved by her associates for her unsefishness and amiability.... She was a devoted daughter and affectionate sister.... Mrs. Wells died in the very bloom of womanhood in the midst of a rich life... An exceptionally devoted wife, a tender and true mother and well calculated to entertain and do honor to the position of her husband as the Chief Executive of the State.. —Editorial OLD AGE How grand, how beautiful is old age! The crowning glory of a life well spent, That, looking back, can see no rent, But noble effort writ on every page; Truly it is a noble heritage, That lovely, gentle grace which time has lent.... —Ruth M. Fox A PIONEER WOMAN'S BIRTHDAY: Monday, June 14th, was the birthday anniversary of Sister Mary Jane Thompson, a pioneer of 1847, although at that time she had not entered her teens. Sister Thompson's parents were veterans in the Church and she is the cousin of Prest. Joseph F. Smith, their mothers were sisters and the daughters of Joseph Fielding, who with his family was among the first who embraced the Gospel in this dispensation. Sister Sarah M. Kimball and Sister Thompson's son Robert, arranged a surprise for Sister Thompson and invited a few of her intimate friends and Sister Kimball presented her with an elegant ornamented birthday cake with her name on it. —News Note Page 440 ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, in May, attended the convention of the American Association of Practical Nurses in Atlantic City, New Jersey, as a member of their board. She also met with the members of the National Board of the American Mothers Association in New York City, the association which selects the American Mother of the year. She conferred with leaders of the National Council of Women of the United States, and met informally with officers of the New York Stake Relief Society. MBs. HAZEL HEMPEL ABEL, of Lincoln, Nebraska, sixtyeight year old mother of four daughters and one son (all outstanding), is the American Mother of 1957. An ex-school teacher, she successfully managed her husband's big construction company, as president, for fifteen years after his death. She also contributed much to her home, church, and community. For fiftyfive days, in 1954, she filled an unexpired term as United States Senator, having beaten fourteen men competitors in a political race. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RS. GENEVIEVE RAINE CURTIS, Salt Lake City, a great-granddaughter of Brgham Young, and wife of A. R. Curtis, retired businessman, was named Utah Mother of the Year. Mrs. Curtis is the first and only woman to be elected to the Salt Lake City Board of Education. A director of several business firms, she has also been very active in civic assignments and Church work. Adept in the domestic virtues, she has reared eight sons, two daughters, (one died at seventeen), and a foster daughter for twelve years. Mrs. Curtis has given years of devoted service to Relief Society. All her children hold positions of responsibility. RS. DAN SHERWOOD, sixtyseven-year-old Latter-day Saint widow of Mesa, Arizona, was selected as Arizona Mother of 1957. Mrs. Sherwood is the mother of ten sons and four daughters, all of unusual accomplishments. She also has sixtyseven grandchildren. ERRI BUCHER, — Latter-day Saint girl from Salt Lake City, is doing some beautiful ballet work. She has been on an extended tour with the San Francisco Ballet Company through the Far East, including India and the Philippines, and will be on another foreign tour soon. Page 441 O—> EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 44 JULY 1957 She Spirit of the Pioneer ERE come the Pioneers! Each year the children watched eagerly for the first glimpse of the "whitetop" with the side curtains rolled up to reveal the row of pioneers sitting smiling and waving at their townfolks who lined the roadside. 'That was always the climax of the July Twenty-Fourth parade. A pioneer woman to the children was an old woman with skin weathered and wrinkled from the burning rays of the sun, the cutting winds of winter, and the dry, alkali dust. Her back was bent from bending over a washtub, bending over to stir the soap grease, bending over the hot cook stove, bending over the ironing board, bending over the cradle. Her palms and knees were calloused from kneeling to scrub, kneeling to weed her garden, kneeling to pray. The soles of her feet were leathery from walking miles with worn or no shoes, either walking of necessity, or walking to minister to the sick and dying who would otherwise go uncared for and uncomforted. The children were in their teens before they realized that, when those pioneer women came West, they had been young, not old. 'They had grown old in fulfilling their destinies. 'They had, in the beginning for a short time, been straight in form, with light step, ruddy, smooth cheeks, with quick, easy movements, red lips ready for a song or laughter. In their youth Page 442 they chose their future path—dictated by a firm conviction and knowledge of the truth—the path which caused them to forsake their silken gowns, their mahogany bedsteads, their fragile china, their flowering gardens. But each tried to include in her scant stores for the journey westward, just a sample of her former gracious living. The journey had been hard, for many of the old, the middle-aged, and even the young—dearly beloved ones—had finished their earth journeys before they finished the western journey. 'Those who remained had stilled their sorrow, their heartache, and silently endured homesickness, loneliness, hunger, pain, and anguish. 'They joyed in the small pleasures of each day, filled with a rare contentment that they were in the Lord's work and helping to fulfill his prophecies. The pioneer women would gladly have traveled much further had they been permitted to settle, at length, in green pastures. But they gave reverence to the Priesthood of God and were obedient to its decisions. The pioneer women were to be smoothed and polished in_ the friction of adversity so that, deep bedded within them, the abiding qualities of thrift, unselfishness, perseverance, patience, diligence, and humility might increase and_blossom. Today, Latter-day Saint women, by lineage or adoption, are four, five, EDITORIAL six generations removed from their pioneer mothers. Do the same attributes of character continue to abide in their descendants who now live in ease, blessed with plenty? In a time of adversity, do their convictions of the truth carve out a straight path to be followed? Do the same hidden forces of spiritual discernment guide Mary in the rearing of her children after her husband was killed in an auto accident, as guided Sister Bailey to rear her faithful family after her husband was killed by the Indians? Sister Owens accompanied her husband to a desert wasteland and there bore and reared his children amid dangers and privations—but in a home filled with love and consideration. Does Jane possess the same qualities as she leaves her small girlhood community to accompany her husband to live among a strange people in an alien land? Sister Johnson left all she loved on earth for the greater love of the gospel and found joy among faithful, welcoming saints. Does Gretchen receive the loving welcome in this day from her sisters in the gospel? The same opportunities for acquiring a pioneer spirit along life's way continue to be offered Latterday Saint women today, although in different surroundings and under different guises. The way no longer holds the prairie schooner, the Indian, the buffalo. It traverses the earth, the waters, and the clouds with incredible speed, yet the way remains hard. Household tasks are accomplished with incredible ease, yet love must grow and be nurtured to fill the home. In the evening family members may sit and behold 443 with varied interest the wonders of the world; but the closeness and solidarity of family life must be carefully cultivated. No longer does the family invariably gather around the dining or kitchen table beside the warm stove while the clock ticks and the eight staccato strokes mark the time for prayers and bed for the younger family members. 'This pattern has passed away, and a new one must be charted to reap the former harvest. The pioneer mother accepted harsh conditions to build upon everlasting values. Pleasant conveniences and the wish for luxuries did not blind her to her supreme duty of motherhood. She served her household first and her presence was considered vital to the well-being of family members. She stood a source of virtue and strength in times of trouble and joy—a beloved companion and a gracious, loving mother. Perchance a pioneer woman is any woman who accepts her daily living pattern and performs its tasks as they are allotted to her. This she does because of her firm conviction in the individual plan for her of an all-wise Heavenly Father. She sees beyond the present through to the glorious end. Her pioneer spirit gives her an incentive to make do with what is at hand and causes her to stand independent of the urges and follies of the world. Of overwhelming importance is the spiritual welfare of her family. Habits of industry and thrift set the example for her children. When the children who watched the parade are themselves old, will they, too, be pioncers, respected and revered? —M. C. S. Notes TO THE FIELD Buying Textbooks for Reliof Society oLessons ROM inquiries which come to the general board it would seem that some Relief Society officers and class leaders are not acquainted with the recommended procedure for acquiring necessary textbooks for lessons. The education counselor in both the stake and the ward should present to the president of the respective organizations, a list of the textbooks which will be needed to teach the Relief Society lessons during the coming season. She should then be authorized to purchase these books with funds from the Relief Society general fund. The education counselors should see that the name of the Relief Society organization is written in each book before giving it to the respective stake or ward class leader for her use. At the end of the course the education counselor is responsible for collecting the books and placing them in the Relief Society library. Where a teacher wishes to purchase her own textbook in order to be able to mark it and keep it after the conclusion of the course, it is recommended that the Relief Society organization should also purchase a textbook: 1. In order that the book may become a part of the Relief Society library; 2. To be available for use by those given special assignments; 3. Because a change of teachers might be necessary during the course, and at that time it might be impossible for the Relief Society organization to purchase a copy of the desired textbook. Education counselors are urged to safeguard Relief Society libraries and to be alert to opportunities of adding to them gifts of Church and other worthwhile books. > Sere nity Dora Toone Brough I saw serenity today in such Abundance, and I lingered for awhile— A woman's countenance with just a touch Of tenderness that blended with a smile; Her aged face showed wisdom and a ray Of brightness beamed, much like refiner's gold In rare design, for she had found each day A lasting graciousness while growing old. Life's twilight calm had brought tranquility, And love of God gave her serenity. Page 444 Recipes Srom the South African Tlission Submitted by Nora C. Duncan CHUTNEY 1 |b. Dried apricots 4 c. White vinegar 1 |b. Onions 10 chilies or 1 Ib. Raisins; 3 tbsp. Cayenne pepper 2 ¢. Sugar (amount of pepper may be decreased 2 oz. Salt if desired) Leave apricots in vinegar overnight. The next day mince all ingredients. Add sugar and mix well and then bottle. Do not cook. Serve as a condiment with beef curry or chicken curry and rice, but can be served with any kind of meat. PickLeD FisH 3 Ibs. Fish (salmon or halibut) % tsp. Salt % ¢. Water % tsp. Pepper Cut the fish into half-inch thick slices, season with salt and pepper. Arrange carefully in a large baking pan and then pour in the water and bake in a hot oven, 400 degrees, for fifteen minutes or until tender. In the meantime, prepare the curry sauce as follows: Curry Sauce: 3 large onions 3 tbsp. Sugar 2 c. Vinegar 2 tbsp. Curry powder 1% c. Water 2 tbsp. Flour or corn flour (corn meal) Peel the onions and cut into fairly thick rings. Put into the saucepan and add the water. Then bring the onions to the boiling point and allow them to cook for two or three minutes, but not until soft. Mix together in a bowl the dry ingredients and add the vinegar. Then stir mixture into the onions and water. Cook until smooth, for a minute or two, Arrange the fish carefully in a glass dish into which pour first a layer of the curry sauce and then a layer of fish. Cover the layer of fish with the remaining curry sauce. Leave for a day or two before serving. It will keep indefinitely in a refrigerator or cool place. BoBOTEE 1 Ib. Beef (raw or cooked) 6-8 almonds 1 onion 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Curry powder 1 tbsp. Lemon juice or vinegar 1 tbsp. Chutney 1 large slice of bread 1 gg Put the meat through a food chopper, together with the onion. Add the curry powder, chutney, coarsely chopped almonds, salt, and vinegar or lemon juice, together with bread soaked in cold water then squeezed dry. Break in one egg, then mix well together. Put into a pie pan and place on top shelf in a hot oven (400 degrees) for about fifteen minutes or until a crust has formed. Raw meat will produce a better flavored Bobotee than cooked meat. Mutton for this dish is superior to beef. (Instead of chutney, apricot jam may be used, or sugar, and should almonds not be available, they may be omitted.) Page 445 446 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 Custard for Bobotee: 2 eggs 1 tbsp. Corn flour (corn meal) 1 tsp. Sugar 1% c. Boiling milk 1 tsp. Curry powder 2 tbsp. Butter While the pie shell (Bobotee) is baking prepare the custard filling. Break the eggs into a bowl, add the sugar, curry powder, and corn flour diluted with a little cold water. Mix well. Gradually pour in the boiling milk. Return to saucepan over the fire and stir until custard mixture just commences to thicken, then remove and pour on top of hot Bobotee. Put in a 250 to 300 degree oven and bake thirty minutes or until a nice golden brown. SWARTBEK Boontjies (BEAN) Curry 1 c. Small lima beans 2 Ibs. Beef or mutton pinch of soda salt and pepper to taste 2 onions 2 tbsp. Curry powder 2 tbsp. Drippings (fat) 1 tbsp. Flour or meal 1% tsp. Sugar lemon juice Soak the beans overnight in cold water, and the following day put over the fire, together with a pinch of bicarbonate of soda. Cook gently until slightly tender. Cut up the onions fine, and cook to a nice golden brown in the drippings (fat). Add stewing beef or mutton cut into small pieces and sprinkled with salt and pepper. Then cook gently for about an hour, without adding any water, as the meat will draw its own juice. Blend together the curry powder, flour or meal, and sugar. Stir into the meat and allow to cook for a few minutes. Then add the beans, together with water in which they are cooked. Cook gently until meat and beans are quite tender and the curry nicely browned. Season well with salt and pepper and a little lemon juice. Serve with rice. The beans used for this curry are small white beans with a black center. They have a characteristic flavor and are popular in Cape Town. But, if they are not available, small lima beans may be used. KoESISTERS 2 c. Flour 1 tbsp. Baking powder 2 tbsp. Butter pinch of salt 1 egg % c. Milk (or less) Sift the dry ingredients into a bowl and then cream in the butter. Add the milk to the well-beaten egg, and then add to flour mixture to make a soft dough. Roll out to about one-fourth inch thick. Cut with cutter or twist. Fry in hot oil to golden brown and dip at once into cold syrup. Syrup: 2% c. Sugar % tsp. Tartaric acid 1 c. Water 1 piece of cinnamon Boil the sugar and water for ten minutes, then add the tartaric acid avd cinnamon. This syrup will keep for months in an airtight tin. HoNnEYCOMB CREAM 2 c. Milk 1% tbsp. Gelatine 3 eggs 4 tbsp. Cold: water 4 tbsp. Sugar pinch of salt 1 tsp. Vanilla RECIPES FROM THE SOUTH AFRICAN MISSION 447 Bring milk to boiling point. Then pour onto the beaten yolks of the eggs and sugar. Return to the saucepan and add the gelatine soaked in cold water, and bring again to boiling point. Then remove at once and add vanilla and a pinch of salt. Cool slightly, then pour onto the stiffly beaten egg whites. When mixture comes to the boil, curdling will commence, and eggs will separate from the milk and sink to the bottom. The egg whites, being lighter, will rise to the top, and so when the mould is turned out there will be a layer of clear jelly at the top, next a layer of cream, and lastly a frothy layer. Serve with fresh or canned fruit and top with a thin custard or vanilla pudding. Mix Tart Filling: 1 tbsp. Flour 4 tbsp. Brown sugar 1% tbsp. Corn flour (corn meal) (or sweeten to taste) 2 eggs 2 tbsp. Ground almonds 2 c. Milk 4 sticks bark cinnamon 2 tbsp. Butter Pour milk into a saucepan, add cinnamon, and bring to boiling point. Mix the flour and sugar, add a little cold milk, and mix to a smooth paste. Pour into the boiling milk and cook for a few minutes. Remove from the stove and add the butter. Allow to cool off and add the wellbeaten egg yolks. Mix well. Then add stiffly beaten egg whites. If not sweet enough add more sugar and stir in ground almonds. (Almonds may be omitted.) Line plates with flaky pastry. Pour in the mixture and bake in hot oven of about 400 degrees, When baked, sift sugar and ground cinnamon (1 tsp. Each mixed) over the top. 'This is better when served warm. YELtLow RIcE 1 ¢. Rice % tsp. Salt % c. Seeded raisins 1 tbsp. Butter 2 c. Water 1 tsp. Turmeric 1 c. Milk 1 tbsp. Brown or white sugar Wash the rice and add the other ingredients. Cook on low heat until the rice is well bulged with the consumed moisture. 'Then add the sugar. Leave twenty minutes longer. (Raisins may be omitted.) Yellow rice is always served with roast potatoes, roast meat, and vegetables. > Sogether Shey Walk Maude Rubin I watched two doves.... They've raised their brood— Now, iwo alone, They walk along my garden path— A path of stone. No buds unfurl; the yellow leaves Say summer's done... But see them walk along together In the sunl Be Honest with Yourself The Long and Short of Marriage HIS is a picture of an idea—and an ideal. It is a picture of two fine young newlyweds—a tall, handsome, wholesome young bridegroom and a sweet but not-so-tall young bride. 'They have stars in their eyes—stars of eternal hope and happiness. But the artist intended to suggest to us far more than this. He has here painted the dream of every normal, healthy young man and young woman—a dream filled with a honeymoon, a happy home, laughing, loving children, faith, trust, honor, achievement—all these and a never-ending love and life together. Page 448 Ask any starry-eyed newly-wedded couple how long they want their marriage to last, and the answer will come easily: "Forever" Forever? Do they really mean forever? Not to end in the divorce court as thousands of American marriages now do? Marriage till death? Yes, that long and longer—for even then separation forever would be tragedy. Theirs is the hope of eternal living and learning and loving together— an ideal—an eternal "togetherness" of parents and children in the old and hallowed patriarchal pattern, consecrated and enriched by the blessings of a loving and eternal Father in heaven so long as love and faith and fidelity shall endure. There you have it: the long and the short of marriage. Which will you choose? BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF America, Cradle of Liberty Elsie Matthews IBERTY is something very | dear to the heart of everyone of us. It has been offered down through the stream of time as a reward for righteous living. When Lehi and his family came to America some six hundred years before Christ, the Lord told him that this was a choice land, choice above all other lands, and it should be a land of liberty to him and his descendants for evermore if they would live righteous lives. The Lord said he had kept this land from the knowledge of other nations for a wise purpose. But the Nephites forgot the wonderful promises of the Lord and, although there were many very righteous people among them, as a whole, they became very wicked, and as the centuries passed, Jacob said they were more wicked than the Lamanites, and after the Nephite prophets pleaded with them for hundreds of years it seemed that their cup of iniquity was full, and the Lord allowed them to be swept completely off the land that would have been theirs for evermore had they repented. There was only one man left—that great Nephite prophet, Moroni. He was hiding in the hills, watching the battles in the valley below, and he saw the last of his people destroyed and, being alone, he had no one to whom he could deliver the golden plates—the records of his people—the written history of the Nephites, so he buried them. With the death of Moroni, the world entered a period of spiritual darkness, which the world called the Dark Ages, and for many centuries the Lamanites roamed at will. But America was destined to become the birthplace of the restored gospel, and for that it had to be prepared. It had to be repopulated. But first it had to be discovered. And we see Columbus filled with THE LONG AND SHORT OF MARRIAGE 449 450 an irresistible urge to sail out over the ocean—nothing could stop him. The Book of Mormon tells us that the spirit of God came down and wrought upon the man, and he sailed out over the great waters and came to the land of Lehi's children. Thus was America discovered. There seemed to be a spirit of unrest over all the countries of Europe at this time. Many reformers sprang up, many new religions were started. People were beginning to rebel at religious oppression and they broke away from the established churches. 'These reformers were good men, deeply religious, and though they did it unconsciously, they prepared the way, they softened the path, for the Restoration. 'They were really the forerunners of Joseph Smith. Martin Luther did as much or more than any of them to break down religious oppression. Truly, "God moves in a mysterious way, his wonders to perform." Then we see the Pilgrims—that courageous little band of people, willing to brave the dangers of the Atlantic Ocean because they hoped that out here in this new land they would find freedom to live, work, and serve the Lord the way they wanted to, and after a voyage of nearly four months, they landed at Cape Cod, Massachusetts. Although many of them died the first winter of cold and hunger, enough survived to establish themselves, build little homes, and rear their families. Many others came from different parts of the Old World, and after 150 years from the time the Pilgrims came, the white population had greatly increased, and again we see RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 the will of the Lord being done. But the colonies didn't possess the kind of liberty they believed they were entitled to, because they were still tied to the apron strings of the Mother Country, and at that time England was a rather harsh, tyrannical mother. King George III was becoming more demanding all the time. The thirteen colonies were heavily taxed and they had no voice in government, and naturally the people rebelled. HERE were many outstanding men during those war years, many great and unforgettable characters. Patrick Henry was but one giant—in an age of giants. Who can forget Nathan Hale, that twenty-one-year old lad, standing on the scaffold, waiting for death, and regretting that he had but one life to give for liberty. And George Washington! How our hearts swell with pride and gratitude as we ponder him crossing the Delaware that bitterly cold night, spending a winter of hardship with his soldiers who were starving and freezing, their uniforms in rags, and Washington kneeling in the snow pleading with his Heavenly Father to show him the way. His prayer was answered, the colonies won the war, and were now free to form their own Government, make their own laws. And liberty was born. And on a little island in New York harbor stands the Statue of Liberty. She's a magnificent lady as she stands there with her night hand held high above her head, holding the torch of liberty. She gazes out over the Atlantic Ocean as if to welcome the ships that sail AMERICA, CRADLE OF LIBERTY into the harbor. And down beneath her feet there is an inscription, a little verse, written by Emma Lazarus, and it reads like this: Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore, Send these, the homeless, tempest tossed, to me: I lift my lamp beside the golden door. Now the time was drawing very near for the restoration of the gospel. In just a very few years the Prophet was born, and his name was Joseph, and his father's name was Joseph—just as the prophecy said it would be. And to him was given the power to bring forth a "voice from the dust,' a voice of those who slumbered, which we know to be the golden plates that Moroni had buried there many centuries before. The Prophet Joseph's mission was to organize and establish the Church, then seal his testimony with his blood. Because of cruel persecution, the Lord made it known to President Brigham Young to bring the Saints to the western desert. The Lord prepared and reserved this place. It was unattractive to everyone else, these large sagebrush valleys—these 451 tugged, defiant mountains. This area was not a bit alluring; in fact, it was believed that the white man could not survive hereabouts. But the Latter-day Saints were glad to come here because they could establish their own kingdom, could worship God with liberty and according to the dictates of their own conscience. And the Lord had said that he would hide them up for awhile until they were able to take care of themselves. So the valleys of the Rocky Mountains became the cradle of the infant Church. But now it has grown and is able to stand on its own feet, and is spreading out its borders in all directions, forming new stakes and missions in many parts of the world. Freedom is the responsibility of everyone. If we wish to keep this the Land of the Free, we must live the gospel. That is the only condition under which freedom and liberty are promised to us. If we love Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness, we must obey the laws of the land, and keep the commandments of the God of this land, who is Jesus Christ. I know of no better way to begin than to say with Joshua of old, "But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." Prayer Celia Luce RAYER is like a pathway between God and man. The wise man keeps the path constantly open through daily use. If the path becomes overgrown, through disuse, man may get lost when his need is great, and be unable to find God. Your Child Is a Music Lover Helen Morris Y little red-headed boy loves music. Almost as soon as he could talk he was singing "Pop Goes The Weasel" and clapping his hands delightedly. A tiny blond toddler cuddles her rubber baby, rocks it in her rocking chair, and sings "Bye Baby Bunting." My _ kindergarten warrior dons a feathered headdress and beats his ice-cream carton drum chanting the words to a rhythmic Indian song. A child usually loves music. Sound and rhythm, its basic elements, are his, just waiting to be tapped and enjoyed. As a newborn baby, whose only impressions of his world come from what he feels, he responds favorably to pleasant sounds. Yesterday I watched a young mother bend over the bed of her tiny two-weeks-old son. She lovingly stroked his head, talked to him for a moment, then hummed a quiet melody. His entire body responded with relaxed, secure contentment. In a few weeks he will turn his head, smile, and coo at the approaching sound of her voice. His arms will fly and his legs kick in excited reply. He will be fascinated by the sounds of rattles and bells as he learns to grasp them in his hands. As soon as he is able to sit he will join in a game of "Pata-cake" and delight in the rhythm of "The Pig That Went to Market." If you make singing and rhythm Page 452 a natural part of the mothering of your baby, you are not only helping him to be happy and secure— you are laying a foundation for future years of musical enjoyment. As the baby grows into an exploring adventurer and begins to discover his awesome world, he will find that he can create pleasant sounds for himself. He loves the crisp crackle of crumpling paper. He likes nothing better than to open kitchen drawers and find pots and pans to clang together or to beat with a spoon. You may join the fun by lightly tapping a pan yourself and singing a rhythmic tune. Often the child will laugh excitedly and may even attempt to imitate your game of rhythm. With his early vocalizations come many simple imitations of the familiar sounds of his everyday experiences. He will moo at the sight of a cow or choo choo when a train speeds by. 'These spontaneous responses are easily transformed into simple chants, grow into jingles, or may be accompanied by homemade tunes. Chants may accompany bodily movement. Try singing down, down, down on the notes of the scale as you come down the stairs. Soon your child will join the chant himself. My own sons quite willingly follow me up the stairs for naps as together we sing up, up, up, with each ascending step. Once you begin, you will naturally find YOUR CHILD IS A MUSIC LOVER many opportunities to translate a simple activity into a_ simple thythm. A little three-year-old neighbor girl, like most children, loves to swing. She composed her own rhythmical accompaniment and can be heard chanting "swinker swanky" as the moving swing carries her up and down. HY is Mother Goose a favorite friend of every boy and girl? It is the rhythmic beat of "Peter, Peter, pumpkin eater," or "Jack and Jill went up the hill" that stimulates and entertains. As soon as a toddler can repeat a few simple words, or even before, he eagerly joins hands for "Ring Around the Roses." As soon as his balance is sure he combines thythm and melody as he joins other children in a game of "London Bridge" or "Farmer in the Dell." Each time I sit at the piano my three-year-old mounts his rocking horse, and my five-year-old shifts his tricycle into high gear. The horse gallops at full speed and the tricycle circles the living room. Soon they request a march, then parade around the room singing, waving flags in the air, or beating the rhythm on a cardboard drum. A favorite rainy day activity for the three of us is to sit at the piano with a songbook. Favorite nursery thymes are illustrated and written with musical accompaniment. Often the children sit at the piano alone, turn the pages of the book, drum on the keys, and sing the rhyme indicated by the picture. There are many excellent songbooks for children of nursery ages. 453 A phonograph has great value in developing a love for music. Children respond with skipping, marching, and dancing to the easy rhythms of children's songs. They relax readily at quiet time with soft classics playing in the background. While they naturally react to the simple, their developing minds and emotions should be challenged to reach and explore. A musical instrument and phonograph are valuable aids in musical enjoyment, but they are not indispensable. 'There is no instrument more flexible than the human voice. Children often enjoy their singing more when there is no loud accompaniment to limit their spontaneity. It is fun for them to play their own accompaniment by tapping out rhythm on a tambourine or a cardboard drum as they sing their favorite songs. Later, other thythm instruments may be added, and, in time the entire family can join in a kind of musical companionship. In my opinion, a love for music should not be considered an indication that a young child is ready for formal music training. In the early years he is entitled to uninhibited enjoyment. He should dance when he feels like dancing, and sing when the urge to sing is upon him. He should march or rock or just sit and listen as the feeling within him dictates. Performance and drill are enemies to the natural growth of his inborn love of pleasant sounds. If he has been given his freedom, he will be eager to learn the skills that will permit him to play a musical instrument when he is mentally and 454 physically mature enough to take this step. With musical activities in your home, your own love for this important part of our heritage will be deepened as you watch it daily growing within your child. You will thrill when your tiny toddler says, "Mommy, let's sing a song." Your own awareness of your RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 world will deepen as you see the creative expressions of your child and know that his enjoyment is deep and full. You will be convinced that music is not something to be ignored until a determined point in the child's life, then suddenly turned over to a specialist. You will know that it is an inseparable part of growth and development from the very beginning. Leah A. Hamilton Collects Potted Plants and Does Handwork, Weaving. And Painting os rearing a large family of eleven children, Mrs. Leah A. Hamilton, Magrath, Alberta, Canada, now finds time to relax and work at her hobbies, which include quilting, crocheting, embroidery work, painting, weaving, handicrafts in copper and aluminum. 'To add to the variety, she keeps an interesting collection of potted plants as well as a lovely outdoor garden. The singing of her jovial little canary is a pleasant accompaniment for her working hours. In addition to the four quilts pictured above, she has made at least one hundred other quilts for friends and relatives. Baby quilts, which she says do not count. This number does not include the numerous She shares the pleasure of these works of art by giving the completed articles to her family and friends. The Bright Star CHAPTER 5 Dorothy S. Romney Synopsis: Kathy Tracy, an orphan, who wishes to become an artist, lives with her Aunt Emerald Jewel Tracy in an_ oldfashioned house overlooking San Francisco Bay. Kathy applies to a neighbor, Phineas Fenton, for employment; however, Aunt Em suffers a partial stroke, and Kathy gives up the promised position. During her illness, Aunt Em mentions some money in a chest which is kept in Grandfather Tracy's China house. Kathy, using her aunt's illness as an excuse, postpones her marriage to Jim Parker. A stranger, Marc Hale, rents the China house, and Kathy begins to work on a painting to enter in an art scholarship contest. Marc tells her that he thinks the painting is very good. ATHY worked furiously at her K household tasks during the next few weeks to allow time for her painting. She was determined not to think about Mr. Marc Hale and his exasperating manners, but he kept slipping into her mind, regardless. About eleven o'clock one morning she heard the chug-chug of Jim's old coupe coming down the hill. Hurrah, she thought, Aunt Em can have fresh eggs for lunch. Jim was a dear to leave his work and come over two or three times weekly to bring them fresh eggs, especially since he refused to accept a single penny in payment. She dropped her dustcloth on the elaborately carved old grand piano she had been polishing and dashed out onto the side veranda. She hoped "His Happiness" would be draped in his deck chair, and observe with what enthusiasm she greeted the visitor. Kathy ran down the veranda steps, the morning sun so bright in her eyes that for a moment she didn't see the figure seated beside Jim. He stopped his car with a jerk. All of his movements were decisive and quick. It wasn't until then that she saw a buxom young lady. Without getting out of the car, Jim handed Kathy three cartons of eggs, then he surprised her by saying, "That'll be ninety cents. I'll give you wholesale prices." Then, after a poke in the ribs from the elbow of his companion, he turned and introduced her to Kathy. "This is my new neighbor, Lina Carlson," he said. "We're on our way into town for a poultry-raisers convention. Lina has bought the place next to mine, the one that belonged to Lars Swenson." "Hello," said Kathy, thinking that interest in this new neighbor might explain Jim's absence from the Tracy place the past few days. "Pleased to meet you," the girl replied, looking at Kathy curiously. "Tll get the money for you," Kathy said, slightly embarrassed, and wondering what Jim could have told the girl to make her stare so openly. "No, Pll drop back tonight. You can give it to me then," he answered, and Kathy saw the surprise and hurt in the eyes of the girl beside him. "IT do believe she's in love with him," she thought. She was amazed that she felt no sense of loss. As soon as they had driven away, Kathy turned to go back to her cleaning, but not before she saw the tall figure of Marc Hale coming toward the house. Page 455 456 Her first impulse was to turn him away—tell him Aunt Em was resting, but no, she told herself firmly, he's good for Aunt Em. And _ besides, Kathy discovered, Marta had already seen the visitor approaching the house, and was on her way to bid him come in. Here was a young man with a problem on his mind, Kathy had decided. HE was in the hall dusting the banisters a few munutes later, when the voices of her aunt and Marc Hale came clearly to her. 'They were apparently discussing the art contest. "She'll win," ing. "She might," doubtfully. "T don't know why not,' Aunt E. M's voice held a note of defiance. "T had artistic ability, and she's my niece, isn't she?" Kathy fled up the stairs to the privacy of her own bedroom. She'd win all right. She'd have to. She couldn't bear to let Aunt Em down. She'd finish the picture this very day, then go into the village and see if there was some parttime job she could get. Perhaps at that little souvenir shop. 'The proprietor was a Mr. Rickson, whom Kathy knew slightly. A job such as this would give her time for the housework, and to care for Aunt Em, too. She gathered her materials and almost flew up the stairs to the cupola. The ocean was calm, shimmering under the autumn sun. She turned her back to it, away from the golden brilliance, and could see that Marc Hale was just nosing his coupe Aunt Em was saythe young man said, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 into Pine Road, headed toward the bridge and San Francisco, no doubt. She reluctantly turned back to her picture, thinking there'd be no pleasure trips for Miss Kathy Tracy from this day on. She worked furiously for some time, then tilted her head back and surveyed her work. Satisfied that the picture was at last as good as she could make it, she put down her paint brush. She could hear the crash of the waves against the cliffs below the Fenton place, and she suddenly realized that a brisk wind had sprung up. The mother-of-pearl sea had turned to an angry green. It's certainly lucky, she thought, that the waves pound out their fury before they reach our China house. She remembered then that Aunt Em had told her to clear out one of the chests in the China house. She had a buyer for it, and since Marc Hale had given permission for her to enter his domain, she'd hurry and clear it now. Kathy had not entered the China house since Marc Hale had moved in. 'The place was orderly and clean. She tiptoed reverently about, almost able to feel Grandfather Tracy's presence here, almost able to hear his voice as he told his fascinating tales of the sea. It had grown quite chilly, but even on the warmer days Marc built a fire in the tiny fireplace. Kathy could often see the smoke curling comfortably up over the little cabin. The embers were still aglow. She couldn't resist tossing a small log on them from the store in the miniature woodbox. She stood watching as the flames built up, grew taller, THE BRIGHT STAR lit up the ceiling and the corners of the little room. HE took off her sweater and threw it on a nearby chest. Dear Aunt Em, she thought, it's like parting with a friend for her to have to give up one of her treasures, but she never complains. Well, this will be the last one, she vowed. As her sweater skimmed over the top of the chest, she heard a small crash, and looked down to see one of the smaller chests on its side on the floor—the one Aunt Em had told her never to touch. Its contents tumbled out in a musty assortment of trinkets. Aunt Em's most cherished childhood mementoes, Kathy knew. Some tiny carved animals, bits of Indian beadwork, an old doll with a china head, an elaborate pink satin skirt, and staring black eyes. Nothing of any real value, Kathy found herself thinking. Then she picked up a small parcel. Carefully wrapped in yellowed tissue paper tied with ribbon, its diamond encrusted star shape plainly visible through the thin cov ering, was Aunt Em's "bright star," surely the one she had muttered about in her illness. Kathy sat down shakily on the larger chest, the points of the star digging into her palm, as she pressed it in her hand. She had had the feeling from the first time her aunt had mentioned it that the bright star concerned her own destiny. Had she the courage to unwrap it? She finally bent down and replaced the contents of the chest. She was much too excited to delve through the larger chest now. The flames had died down to a glow again as Kathy gathered up her belongings and closed the door of the 457 China house. Like a burning ember from the tiny fireplace the star lay in her hand. She would take it straight to Aunt Em. Her aunt was sitting in the kitchen in the light mobile chair Dr. Ransome had provided for her—for although she had some use of her limbs now, the doctor thought it best for her to reserve her strength. A bright spot showed in each of her cheeks, and her eyes sparkled—a sure sign that she was excited. "Now, Aunt Em," Kathy said immediately, "you know the doctor said positively no excitement, so whatever it is just..." But evidently Aunt Em had no intention of calming down until she had gotten this matter off her mind. "T've been calling you, Kathy," she said. "Marc was here! He's gone into town!" She paused for breath, and watched Kathy closely. "Yes, yes, I saw him leave," the girl replied. "Is that what you're so excited about? Remember...." "You don't understand," Aunt Em went on. "You've got to stop him." "Stop him from what, darling?" But she wasn't to find out that evening, for at that moment the bell rang. It was Marta, and she took one look at the bright spots in Miss Em's cheeks, and wheeled her into the bedroom, after giving her a glass of warm milk. She put her to bed, then declared, "Now you go straight to sleep," and sat down by the bedside to see that her orders were obeyed. Aunt Em evidently knew Marta too well to protest, Kathy found herself thinking. (To be continued ) Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "(Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Irene T. Erekson AUSTRALIAN MISSION, HURSTVILLE BRANCH (NEW SOUTH WALES) RELIEF SOCIETY HELPS COMPLETE PROJECT Left to right: Adelaide Adams, Second Counselor, Hurstville Branch Relief Society; Irene T. Erekson, President, Australian Mission Relief Society; Florence Wardingly, President, Hurstville Branch Relief Society; Pauline McMaugh, Secretary; Judith Bailey, First Counselor. Sister _Erekson reports that "the recent dedication of the Hurstville chapel of Sydney, New South Wales, was a great thrill to the branch Relief Society," which helped in raising funds to enlarge and beautify the chapel. "Elder Hugh B. Brown, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, dedicated the chapel during his recent tour of the Australian Mission.... The sisters raised their quota with banquets, street stalls... Dances, concerts, and home parties. All was done with a spirit of humility and enthusiasm, with nothing too great a sacrifice. "The Hurstville chapel has the first Relief Society room and kitchen in New South Wales, with up-to-date facilities for the work of the sisters. "The Relief Societies throughout the mission are in 'top condition'—all are following the Magazine, all are up-to-date on lessons, and there are capable teachers in every department. The recent March birthday programs were very successful." Page 458 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 459 Photograph submitted by Evelyn P. Brown BURBANK STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE EVENTS Evelyn P. Brown, President, Burbank Stake Relief Society, writes: "Many weeks of rehearsing were climaxed for the Singing Mothers of Burbank Stake, when they sang several numbers on March 15th at the Relief Society birthday party, held this year on a stake basis. "The same group had performed previously at stake quarterly conference on February 3. The chorus is conducted by our stake Relief Society chorister Beth Sorenson, front row at extreme nght; and Jean Wilcox, the accompanist for these special events, is seated next to Sister Sorenson." Photograph submitted by Gladys R. Winter SAN FRANCISCO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE March 17, 1957 Gladys R. Winter, President, San Francisco Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Singing Mothers were honored by being asked to present the music for San Francisco Stake Conference, which was held March 17, the anniversary of the Relief Society. The chorister, Nada W. Fluckiger, is in the second row at the extreme tight. 'In the first row in front of her is Mabel M. George, the organist. Sister Winter is in the second row, fifth from the right; and Vera M. Murray, First Counselor, is in the first row, second from the right. 460 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 Photograph submitted by Virginia R. Vaterlaus MONTPELIER STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE FIFTY-YEAR RECORDS Virginia R. Vaterlaus, former president, Montpelier Stake Relief Society, writes: "We have in our stake six Relief Society sisters who have served fifty years or over as visiting teachers." Left to right: Janet Dunn, who has served fifty years as a visiting teacher; Martha Mouttsen, fifty years; and Deborah Rich, fifty-three years. Women not in the picture because of illness are: Mary Simmons, who served fiftysix years; Carrie Teuscher, fifty-three years; and Nellie Lyons, fifty years. Ye ¥ Mg s: A 4 tj Photograph submitted by Mildred P. Elggren WESTERN STATES MISSION, WEST NEW MEXICO DISTRICT SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC AT DISTRICT CONFERENCE February 3, 1957 Mildred P. Elggren, President, Western States Mission Relief Society, reports that the Singing Mothers represent six of the eight branches of the West New Mexico District—namely, Albuquerque First, Albuquerque Second, Albuquerque Third, Bluewater, Las Vegas, and Santa Fe. The conference was the first meeting to be held in the Albuquerque Second Branch chapel. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 461 Photograph submitted by Anna O. Smith MOUNT LOGAN STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, March 10, 1957 Anna O. Smith, President, Mount Logan Stake Relief Society, writes that 124 members of the 191 Singing Mothers in the stake sang at the quarterly conference. Front row, left to right: Cumorah Alder, stake theology leader; Margaret Kloepfer, stake visiting teacher message leader; Anna O. Smith, Relief Society Stake President; Ella Rinderknect, First Counselor; Emily Larsen, Second Counselor; Ella Davis, Secretary; Blanche Thompson, organist; Alvina Pehrson, stake chorister; Lila Jones, pianist; and Joan Peterson, assistant pianist. Sister Smith continues: "Our chorus has increased in numbers and has become a very important part of Relief Society. Sister Pehrson has directed the chorus since 1948 and has now been released, having moved from our stake." Photograph submitted by Hazel S. Love NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, SHASTA DISTRICT SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR DISTRICT CONFERENCES Hazel S. Love, President, Northern California Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Singing Mothers from Shasta District have presented music for the last two quarterly district conferences in the afternoon sessions." Seated left to right, front row: Irma Angus, district Relief Society organist; Lois Rhodes, chairman, district music committee; Lucile Hansen, district Relief Society president; and Theressa Sims, district chorister. Photograph submitted by Vesta M. Lewis KLAMATH STAKE (OREGON), KLAMATH FALLS WARD, FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS ATTEND AND ASSIST AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY Front row, seated left to right: Helen Caseman; June Peterson; Eudora Morris; Velta L. Shaffer. Back row: Afton Shaffer; Mable Behnke; Vesta M. Lewis; Maxine Lawrence; Inez Blessinger. Vesta M. Lewis, President, Klamath Stake Relief Society, reports: "Klamath Falls Relief Society was organized January 9, 1930, as a branch. There have been seventeen Relief Society presidents since that time—two of those presidents have served for a second time, two are deceased, four have moved away, and nine are still active in the ward and stake work." Si ulfillment Louise Call Nelson You lived in all my childhood games, I nursed you at my play; I saved you for my choicest names, And modeled you in clay. In fervency of hope I knelt At your prenatal shrine. In my maternal flesh you dwelt— Then one day you were mine. Fruition reached the hallowed peak Of its potential crest The moment that your tiny cheek Was pillowed on my breast. Now consummation of your borning Has given you and me—our morning. 462 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 et Cleopha Jensen IKE a mountain trail, life's journey should wind upward to more lofty heights. Sometimes we seem to be going downward when we are merely winding around the mountainside—through dark paths where night seems to have fallen—only later to come out on higher ground and into brighter sunlight. Our narrow path gains altitude, and, although there may be descents into shallow valleys, we gradually trend upward. The first part of our journey may be harsh and rugged; the grades may be steep and painful, but, as we travel on, we gain strength for the trail ahead. Perhaps, after some strenuous traveling, we may come to a pleasant valley—green pastures and still waters. Here we may feel inclined to loiter, to pause and enjoy nature's beauty, as we meditate and languidly dream—life is beautiful. But we can't remain. We realize "life is a journey and not a destination." Everything in life means motion and change. Nor, strangely enough, can we keep anything by holding on to it—we must let it pass on. We continue on our journey, "just over the next hill,' we tell ourselves, "there may be a quiet path leading to another pleasant valley." Perchance, however, just around some turn on the trail, we may come abruptly face to face with a steep rocky cliff—as when life is at the crossroads with a crisis to be met. A crucial decision must be made as to which road to take. By faulty decision we may get off on the wrong trail for some distance, only to have to retrace our steps and begin anew. Thus, we must learn to accept the barriers on life's highway as a means of teaching us the things we need to know. With renewed strength and courage, we press on, perhaps for some distance through another pleasant valley, only to come unexpectedly to the brink of a chasm, deep and wide. We ponder dejectedly—there is no detour. These are the occasions that test our faith. Finally, we reach a summit on our mountain trail—when a pause comes in life's activities. From our vantage point of experience, we look back across the years, reviewing the trail we have traveled. We see our many mistakes, heartaches, successes, and failures. We view life from a new perspective which reveals life's real value and meaning, and within us, we have the assurance of having learned many of the fundamental values of life and that life is good. But, as we further meditate, we come to realize that life is but a vantage ground for a future step; we can never arrive at a point of completion, for our journey in time is only the prelude to eternity. Page 463 N DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 1—The Lord Speaks Through His Prophets Elder Roy W. Doxey For Tuesday, October 1, 1957 Objective: To recognize that by revelation the Lord has led his people in the past, and that by a reopening of the heavens he has restored the gospel and re-established his Church upon the earth in fulfillment of Bible prophecies. Why Study The Doctrine and Covenants? N this course of study of The Doctrine and Covenants, we are to learn what God has revealed in this dispensation to his prophets. We should recognize that there is still need for divine direction to the leadership of the Church as anciently. Individually as members of that Church, we have a need for divine guidance in our lives that we may eventually become joint heirs with Christ. Acceptance of the revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants as being divine, will bring great blessings to the adherents. The Prophet Joseph Smith instructed the brethren of the Church in 1834 in regard to the holy scriptures as follows: We take the sacred writings into our hands, and admit that they were given by Page 464 direct inspiration for the good of man. We believe that God condescended to speak from the heavens and declare His will concerning the human family, to give them just and holy laws, to regulate their conduct, and guide them in a direct way, that in due time He might take them to Himself, and make them joint heirs' with His Son. But when this fact is admitted, that the immediate will of heaven is contained in the Scriptures, are we not bound as rational creatures to live in accordance to all its precepts? Will the mere admission, that this is the will of heaven ever benefit us if we do not comply with all its teachings? Do we not offer violence to the Supreme Intelligence of heaven, when we admit the truth of its teachings, and do not obey them? Do we not descend below our own knowledge, and the better wisdom which heaven has endowed us with, by such a course of conduct? For these reasons, if we have direct revelations given us from heaven, surely those revelations were never given to be trifled with, without the trifler's incurring displeasure and vengeance upon his own head, if there is any justice in heaven... (D. H. C. If:11). LESSON DEPARTMENT The Christian World and Revelation When the clergy of Joseph Smith's day learned that Joseph professed to have had revelation from the Lord in the actual appearance of the Eternal Father and his Son Jesus Christ, there began a controversy which continues to this day. Aside from other points of difference arising from the first vision of the Prophet, the fundamental issue was the claim of Joseph Smith to revelation from God. This claim meant that the "Christian" churches had departed from the true doctrine and Church established by Jesus in the meridian of time. It was contended by the adversaries of the Prophet that revelation from the Lord was neither expected nor necessary. The canon of scripture was closed—for God had spoken in the past through his Son Jesus and the apostles, and _ thereafter there was no need of revelation. It is not difficult at all to understand that where divine revelation was not received by the clergy who denied its necessity, they would immediately oppose such a claim as Joseph Smith put forth. This position would take on added zeal when their own standing as ministers was set aside because of a claimed apostasy. Many were the arguments presented from the Bible in an attempt to show that revelation in a post-meridian period was not to be expected. It is by no means an unfruitful experience to examine a few of those assumed reasons for declaring that no more scripture or revelation was necessary. In other words, how would you, as a member of the 465 Church, meet such arguments as the following? Arguments Advanced Against Further Revelation (It is suggested that in considering these arguments against further revelation, that you first read the scripture and then the application used by those who denied that revelation would be received in our time. Next, consider how you would reply to this application or interpretation. Finally, read the answer generally used by the Latter-day Saints to prove wherein the application of the clergy was out of harmony with the facts, and, therefore, false.) For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book: And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out of the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book (Rev. 22:18-19). Application by "Christian" clergy: No man has the right to add to the Bible; therefore, no further revelation (scripture) is to be expected. Answer by Latter-day Saints: The Bible as a collection of books did not exist when this inspired scripture was given; consequently, this injunction was not intended to include other scriptures written after the Book of Revelation, such as the Gospel of John, and other parts of the New Testament. Furthermore, this admonition was given to 466 man, and it was not intended that God could not or that he would not give further revelation. Notice in Deuteronomy 4:2, the same admonition is given concerning the writings of Moses. If the same application was made as was made for Revelation 22:18-19 by "new revelation" deniers, there would have been no inspired writings after Moses.... From a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus (2 Tim. 3:15). Application by "Christian" clergy: If there was sufficient revelation to give salvation to 'Timothy as a child, there would be no further need for additional revelation. Answer by Latter-day Saints: 'This application would do away with the New Testament; for, again, there was not a New Testament in existence when 'Timothy was a child. He was acquainted with the Old Testament. Charity never faileth: but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away (I Cor. 13:8). Application by "Christian" clergy: Prophecies and the other spiritual gifts, among which is revelation, were to cease after the days of Jesus and the apostles. Answer by Latter-day Saints: 'The next two verses (1 Corinthians 13:9-10) point out that prophecy would be unnecessary "|,. When that which is perfect is come...." The day — RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 of perfection has not yet come, so these gifts are still necessary. The absence of scriptural justification to deny new revelation is established by the accepted Christian standard of judgment — the Holy Bible. When the Lord desires to give new revelation to man, he will do so, but only in accordance with his designs. (See 2 Nephi 29:1-14; Alma 29:8.) Revelation in the Past The Latter-day Saints learned early that "Where there is no vision, the people perish..." (Prov. 29:18), and that "Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets" (Amos 3:7). It then became a matter for the early day Latter-day Saint missionaries to demonstrate from the Bible that God had always directed his people in the past. Furthermore, there were sufficient grounds for knowing that, if God's purposes for his children were to be fulfilled, new revelation from the Giver of all truth would be necessary. One of the outstanding lessons the Latter-day Saint missionary saw in the Bible was that the Lord's servants in the meridian of time were directed in their ministry by revelation. In fact, Jesus had promised his disciples that the Holy Ghost would direct them after his ascension. (See John 16:1-7, 13-14; 15:26.) Paul received the gospel by revelation (Galatians 1:11-12), and instructions came from the Lord by a vision and from the Holy Ghost as to when to teach the gospel and when not to teach it. (See Acts 16:6; 18:9-10.) LESSON DEPARTMENT It was also apparent that the leadership of the Church was directed in matters which affected the entire Church of Jesus Christ. An example of this may be found in the revelation to the apostle Peter concerning the preaching of the gospel to the Gentiles. (See Acts 10:19-48.) During Jesus' ministry on earth he confined his teaching to the house of Israel. (See Matthew 15:24.) Paul also knew by revelation that upon the rejection of the gospel by the Jew it was to go to the Gentile (Acts 13:46). John the Revelator directed the Church by revelation when the seven branches of the Church in Asia required rebuke and admonition (Revelation, chapters 1-3). This guidance was, in part, the fulfillment of Jesus' promise concerning the Church. In conversation with his disciples Jesus asked whom men declared him to be. Various answers were given; whereupon, the Lord asked them, "... But whom say ye that I am?" 'The reply of Peter was "... Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." Jesus then said to Peter that. Flesh and blood [man] hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." It was then that the Master declared the great truth that upon the rock of revelation, he would build his Church. (See Matthew 16:13-15.) Another reason for knowing that revelation was necessary in our times was found in the fact that the scriptures spoke of many lost or missing books which do not now form a part of the Old and the New Testaments. (Examples of these are given in 1 Chron. 29:29; 2 467 Chron. 33:18-19; I Cor. 5:9; Eph. 3:3; and Col. 4:16.) Contending Christian Churches The great number of divisions in Christianity which existed at the time of the Prophet Joseph Smith, each contending against the other, and new churches coming into existence, were evidence that men without revelation could not interpret the Bible correctly. The differences, which existed among the various churches and which often give rise to new organizations, were based upon this simple fact. It was pointed out that the wisdom of man's learning was not sufficient to give true doctrine. (See I Corinthians 2:11, 14.) Only God could provide man with the way of eternal life and that required continuous revelation from the Lord. An outstanding example of the lack of revelation in modern Christianity was evident in that the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ as made known in the New Testament could not be duplicated by men. Although officers in the Church were mentioned, their duties and privileges were not clearly made known. Only new revelation from God could bring into being the true Church organization with saving principles and ordinances. A New Dispensation Prophesied The apostles of Christ had foreseen that the gospel and the Church would be lost to the world by the apostasy of the members of the Church (See Isaiah 24:1-6; 2 Peter 2:1-3; Galatians 1:6-10) but gave sufficient evidence to know that revelation was not to cease forever. It was proclaimed by three New Testa- 468 ment writers—Peter, Paul, and John the Revelator—that subsequent to their day the Lord would usher in the greatest dispensation of the gospel. It was the apostle Peter who said that before the second coming of Christ there would be a "... Times of refreshing... From the presence of the Lord" (Acts 3:19), which would constitute a "|.. Times of restitution [or restoration] of all things...." 'These are Peter's inspired words: Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord; And he shall send Jesus Christ, which before was preached unto you: Whom the heaven must receive until the times of restitution of all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began (Acts 3:19-21). The word of the Lord would come in preparation for the great second coming of Christ. The second apostle of record to predict the restoration of the gospel was Paul. In his letter to the saints at Ephesus, after reminding them of their pre-earth existence and of the mission of Jesus, he set forth the purposes of the Lord concerning the day in which we live. These are his words: Having made known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure which he hath purposed in himself: That in the dispensation of the fulness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth; even in him (Eph. 1:9-10). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 In what way does Paul's prediction relate to the latter days? 'This period was to be the "fulness of times," an expression which connotes a culminating or concluding period. 'The Lord's word was to be dispensed again in the final dispensation. Notice the similarity of thought and language of Peter's statement on the "times of restitution" before Jesus' second coming (which was to include "all things' ) and Paul's prophecy that Christ would "... Gather together in one all things in Christ..." things "~.. Which are in heaven, and which are on earth" (Eph. 1:10). In effect, what these two apostles prophesied is the same thing which the Prophet Joel said would occur "... Before the great and the tertible day of the Lord..." or the second coming of Christ (Joel 2:28-32). A third prophecy, made by the apostle John, is that of the coming of an angel in the hour of God's judgment or in the latter days preceding the second coming of Christ. This holy messenger was to bring "the everlasting gospel" which was to be preached "to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people" (Rev. 14:6). Thus, the apostles Peter, Paul, and John had spoken as directed by the Spirit, and the missionaries of the new dispensation carried this message to the world. Latter-day Saints Fulfill Prophecies The Prophet Joseph Smith remarked at a conference of elders of the Church that "we are differently situated from any other people that LESSON DEPARTMENT ever existed upon this earth; consequently those former revelations cannot be suited to our conditions; they were given to other people, who were before us; but in the last days, God was to call a remnant, in which was to be deliverance, as well as in Jerusalem and Zion" (D. HA. C. II:52). 'This fact was apparent to our people when they discovered that Bible prophets foresaw the time when God would raise up a people in the last days who would fulfill the prophecies spoken by them. What were some of the things to be accomplished in the dispensation of the fulness of times? New scripture was to be made known in the form of a "book" from ancient American peoples that -would "speak from the dust" at a time when the religious world was in a condition of apostasy. By this book of scripture, faith in Jesus Christ would increase and_ bring people to understand the plan of salvation. (Read Isaiah ch. 20, especially verses 4, 9-12, 17-19, 24.) This book was known by Ezekiel as the "stick of Joseph" and the Bible as the "stick of Judah" (Ezekiel 37:16-28). The prophets had made known that in the latter days Israel was to be gathered from her scattered condition. (Isa. 11:11-12; 35:4, 10; Jer. 3:12-15, 18; 16:14-16; 23:2-4, 7-8; 31:7-12; Ezek. 37:21-27.) That portion of Israel which would constitute the Latter-day Saints was to be a temple-building people (Isa. 2:2-3) and the fulfillment of the ancient prophecy of Malachi, chapter four, verses five and six, concerning the coming of Elijah would also 469 mean new revelation subsequent to the time of Jesus' apostles. Summary The true ministers of the Lord in this dispensation knew that the Lord had never said by his prophets that there was to be no more revelation or scripture after the meridian dispensation. 'I'hey were also assured that the Lord had (1) directed his servants by immediate revelation; (2) that the leadership of the Church was led by revelation in order to govern the Church; (3) that there was a need for further revelation because the Bible was incomplete; (4) that uninspired men were unable to interpret the Bible correctly and thereby many divisions in Christianity were created; (5) that the restoration of the gospel was prophesied; (6) that new scripture, as The Book of Mormon, was to be revealed; and (7) that Israel was to be gathered, temples were to be built, and other prophesied events were to take place as a part of the dispensation of the fulness of times. These reasons obtained from the scriptures give to us Latter-day Saints confirmation of our faith in what God has done for us in the establishment of his Church upon the earth. Questions for Discussion 1. What reasons can you give for believing that Joseph Smith would be opposed by the "Christian" ministry? 2. In what ways was the Church directed by revelation in the days of the apostles? 3. Name some of the "lost" books of scripture, and indicate what they might contribute to the objective of this lesson. 470 4. Illustrate from the New Testament by the use of a Bible Concordance, how one could not determine the specific duties of the Priesthood officers of the Church. What does your conclusion contribute to the need for additional revelation? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 5. In what ways have the Latter-day Saints fulfilled Bible prophecies? 6. Do you believe that "the will of heaven'' is contained in the scriptures? If so, answer each question raised by the Prophet Joseph Smith in his statement quoted in the beginning of the lesson, Visiting Seacher I lessages — Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 1—"And the Voice of Warning Shall Be Unto All People, By the Mouths of My Disciples, Whom | Have Chosen in These Last Days" (D. & C. 1:4). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, October 1, 1957 Objective: To show that the Lord reveals his plan of salvation through his chosen leaders and that only when we heed their warnings can we build strong, useful lives. EFORE constructing a building, the architect works out detailed plans and specifications. 'Through his knowledge and experience he knows the stresses and strains to which the building will be subjected and that only when the right plans are followed will the structure stand strong and firm. Our Father in heaven, the great Architect of our souls, has prepared the necessary plans for us to follow if we would build strong, useful lives. He knows the pitfalls, the stresses, and the strains, which are ever present to weaken and divert us. It is his work and his glory to lead all of his children to exaltation, and he has appointed his chosen disciples to guide and direct us in paths of righteousness. The Bible and 'The Book of Mormon are both replete with illustrations of what has happened to God's children when they accepted or rejected the warnings of the Lord's anointed. When they heeded the counsel of their prophets, they had peace, prosperity, and happiness throughout their lives. When they turned deaf ears to the warnings of their leaders, misery and misfortune resulted. The story is told of three fishermen who, unmindful of the rough rapids and falls ahead, were rowing their boat down a river. A young man on the shore, sensing the danger before them, called out, "Ahoy, there, beware, the rapids are ahead of you!"" The men could see no immediate danger and went on fishing and enjoying themselves. Again and again the young man called, "Beware, beware, the rapids are ahead of you!" 'The river looked calm and safe to the fishermen so they failed to heed the warning. LESSON DEPARTMENT Suddenly, they were in the midst of the rapids and the great falls were immediately ahead. It was too late to make the shore. Row as they might, the stream was too swift and turbulent for their frantic efforts. Some of us today hear the voices of warning and fail to heed them. We lull ourselves into a sense of false security thinking all is well. We fail to realize that it is not enough just to listen to the teachings and admonitions of the leaders of our Church. We must heed their warnings and put their teachings into action in our daily lives. We must follow the admonition of James, when he wrote, "... Be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only..." (James 1:22). 471 In these latter days, we have been warned that: Wherefore the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear:.. And the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord neither the voice of his servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people (D. & C. 1:11, 14). In this day, we are signally blessed to have God's chosen apostles to counsel and advise us in the gospel plan of salvation. 'These dedicated leaders devote their time and efforts in teaching us the gospel, in warning us of the dangers in our paths, and in helping us build useful and abundant lives. Let us be wise and heed their warnings. WVork ITleeting—Living More Abundantly (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 1—Spending Money Wisely Elder William F. Edwards For Tuesday, Octeber 8, 1957 Objective: To show that it requires skill and wisdom to spend money wisely. We are all blessed with the same amount of time, and with a sufficient amount of time to achieve great success in life. But some use their time more effectively than others and achieve a richer life. There is a parallel in the financial art of living. With minor exceptions, we are all blessed with sufficient income to live a good life, but some people achieve it more fully because of how they use what they have. In this lesson we want to see clearly the wise way of spending money. [N this busy work-a-day world, do we always remember that we are not happy unless we are confronted with a shortage of time? Can you think of anything worse than a surplus of time—a period of time each day you wish you could avoid because there is absolutely nothing you desire to do? Source of Happiness Happiness comes from making wise choices of things that you desire to do. The Master was con- 472 stantly mindful of this principle of life. He taught the importance of choosing to do the things of eternal value in contrast to worldly things. "Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal " (Mt. 6:19-20). That was the challenging issue confronting the Prophet Joshua who testified, "choose you this day whom ye will serve... But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord" (Joshua 24:15). First Things First The Chinaman, Ling Po, saw the importance of wise choices when he said, "What a fool does in the end, a wise man does in the beginning." The successful student must learn how to balance his time between study and play, and which to do first. The housewife must choose between preparing in advance for Sunday, with its blessings, or doing extra work on the Sabbath Day. Brigham Young expressed it this way for the fathers: "This is the greatest wealth we possess—to know how to direct our labors rightly, spending every hour advantageously for the benefit of our wives and children and neighbors." Success or failure is largely a matter of doing the nght thing at the right time, putting first things first. Use of Precious Time Life will never be more important than it is today. "This life is worth RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 as much as any life that any being can possess in time or in eternity. There is no life more precious to us in the eyes of eternal wisdom and justice than the life we now possess. Our first duty is to take care of this life' (President Bigham Young). Time will never be more precious. Oh, how important it is for our happiness that we use _ this precious time doing those things that will bring us the greatest measure of satisfaction. Use of Precious Money All that has been said about the use of time applies equally to money. We must recognize that we will be unable to acquire all of the things we desire. This is a blessing. There would be few "temporal" thrills left in life if we could. Would we be equally interested in working hard at our job if, when pay day came, there was nothing we desired to do with our earnings? The challenge is to learn what we need most, what will give us the greatest satisfaction, so that the more beneficial things will be obtained and those not obtained will be the less important. Let us apply the principle to two women, each with twenty dollars, and both entering an_ attractive store. 'The first woman is favorably impressed with what is displayed just inside of the door. She forgets all of her other desires and spends her money on these items. After the money is spent, she continues throughout the store—only looking, of course. 'The second woman is also favorably impressed with the first displays. But she has given careful consideration to the things LESSON DEPARTMENT she desires. She goes on to different parts of the store and compares items and values, until she is quite certain that she has selected the things that she desires most. Need we ask which woman will return home happier to prepare supper and obtain the greater satisfaction explaining to her family for what she spent the money? "A fool can earn money; but it takes a wise man to save and dispose of it to his own advantage." This statement of President Brigham Young makes it clear that it requires skill and wisdom to spend money wisely. 'The housewife who regularly spends a large per cent of the family income, bears a great responsibility in spending the money 473 in a way that brings the family maximum satisfaction. Success in handling family financial affairs is usually determined less by the amount of income and more on how it is spent. It requires very little local research to confirm this observation. If you take a particular area, is it likely that the ten families with the highest income are the happiest families? Can you determine which mother spends the largest amount of money for her food by the healthy appearance of the children? It is hoped that this series of lessons and the thoughtful discussion of the sisters will help each participant to build a financially safe toad along which to travel to the goal of more abundant living. Ol iterature — Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 9—William Shakespeare, Dramatist Elder Briant S. Jacobs Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948 For Tuesday, October 15, 1957 Objective: To become more aware of Shakespeare's genius in integrating within the art-form of drama the great truths and eternal conflicts within all mankind. Knock there, and ask your heart what it doth know That's like my brother's fault. URING our first year with Shakespeare, we studied his greatness. We found out how much he meant to us already, as we identified long-known expressions as having been written by Shakespeare. In separate lessons we considered his rare quality of (Measure for Measure, II.2. 137-138). Evoking sensory and music-magic in his poetry, his beliefs and conflicts as he depicted the Elizabethan world about him, and his ability to see truth so truly that always he depicted good or evil as such. As each phase of his genius was thus treated separately, each of his individual ex- 474 cellences within itself proved to be a rewarding introductory approach to our greatest writer in English. In last year's introductory lessons Shakespeare was thus studied one phase at a time because such an approach seemed the best preparation for a discussion of his individual plays. Yet, it is in the plays, not in any part of Shakespeare, that our interest lies, and our purpose in studying each play is three-fold: we strive to realize (1) how near us Shakespeare lives in our daily lives; (2) how much our awareness of the human and natural worlds is quickened through knowing him; and (3) how deeply indebted we are to him for his words of universal truth and beauty. Now it is time for us to acknowledge the quality which climaxes and unites the separate parts of Shakespeare's genius into the cohesive oneness we know each of his plays to be. That quality is his dramatic power. Above all else Shakespeare was a dramatist, a maker of plays for the Elizabethan theater. It was as a playwright, not as a poet or a philosopher, that young Shakespeare hoped to achieve identity and success. And, having achieved this success of which he dreamed—both in the judgment of his contemporaries and of the centuries following — it is pre-eminently as the dramatist that he marshalled together all his various artistic powers. Within the theater, his chosen artform, he combined his talents into the harmonious oneness which every great dramatist must possess before he can create great living characters. And Shakespeare's characters are greatest of all. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 The Elizabethan Achievement In medieval England, when the Catholic Church was the church, and the church was all, the choirs told stories from the Bible in music, the most popular and elaborate, of course, being the depiction of the resurrection and the Easter themes. One voice or phone within the choir would sing a theme or cadence; this was then repeated by another group of voices seated opposite the first singers, and was called the antiphon. Once individual priests began personifying the three Marys and the angels visiting them at Christ's tomb, this individual singing proved spectacularly successful, and the foundations of the English theater were laid. About 1000 A. D. These performances became so elaborate that they were moved outside the churches where the yeoman peasantry enjoyed them even more, especially since they were being sung in English rather than in Latin which only the educated few could understand. Then the mayors and town councils took them over, so successful were they, and the various guilds or workingmen's organizations sponsored them as the great entertainment spectacles of the entire year. Series or cycles of plays extending over three or four entire days were presented annually in certain villages, favorite themes being the dramatic representation of the plan of salvation, or the lives and miracles of various saints. When around 1350- 1400 vigorous folk and comic elements began creeping in, the religious elements gradually became weaker and the imaginative, folksy, melodramatic, but, most of all, zest- LESSON DEPARTMENT ful roots of Elizabethan drama were laid in place and began to grow. It is to be credited to the eternal glory of the Elizabethan playwrights that they perfected the first "modern" stage and first wrote "modern" plays. And, as so often happens, this first period in the modern theater still remains the greatest, nor has its superiority ever been seriously questioned. While Shakespeare is the giant playwright of the period, towering above all others and intensifying their virtues, he is by no means the only genius of the day. Marlowe, Jonson, Massinger, Ford, Tourneur, Heywood, Webster—all shared with Shakespeare and each other a participation in the vibrant excitement of the day which had long been fermenting during the emerging Renaissance. 'The Elizabethan theater was the "mirror held up to nature, as t'were" which Hamlet defines; it reflected the entire image of Elizabethan culture more fully than has any other art-form from that day to this. As evidenced by mass hunger for it among the common people, the Elizabethan stage not only lay at the very center of community life; but it created that throbbing center. In its integrating role, the stage filled the functions played in our present-day culture by comic books, magazines, newspapers, books, radio, movies, Hi-fi, TV, telephone, and the stage. With his contemporary dramatists, Shakespeare shared his abundant talents: a sensitive ear for melody and word-music and actual dialogue, a deep understanding of individual and group humanity, and, above all, a life-giving zest and vitality. These he blended together with- 475 in his brilliant, creative imagination which, through its dramatic powers, erected into life on the stage many hundreds of Shakespearean characters as throbbingly alive as actual Londoners walking the streets either then or now. Such a concentration of dramatic virtues has never since been achieved; surely such excellence was inspired by a most responsive audience. But whether it was the great audience which called forth this dazzling display of genius from the playwrights, or whether the playwrights first created within their plays the causes for electric responses within their audience, it is impossible to say. However, it is undeniable that their stimulation was mutual, and that the result of this mutual enrichment was the greatest drama we have ever known. Problems of the Dramatist Drama is derived from the Greek word meaning to do or to perform. From the beginning, the essence of drama has been action and voice; it is no more designed to achieve its ultimate power by being read than is a score to a symphony. But does this mean that drama is, then, a form of literature not to be read at all? Or, since it emphasizes movement, spoken dialogue, representation, costume, and scenery, is drama literature at all? Because drama attempts to recreate life as it is seen and valued through the temperament of one subjective individual (the dramatist himself), it is one of the seven sister arts. And because without the use of words it would become pantomime or dancing, it must be classed as literature, whose main concern is with words. Yet all word-communi- 476 cations are not literature; far from it. Why, then, is drama literary? In the words of Dr. P. A. Christensen, "To read great literature greatly is always an emancipation and an exaltation. It is, in a very real sense, to be born again. Great literature is great experience. It is experience that awakens, quickens, challenges, enriches all that man is when he is most truly himself.... Those books are good which would in some degree transform us." When seen from this point of view, Shakespeare's dramas best exemplify this highest definition of literature. Even so, drama differs greatly from the essay, poetry, and fiction, and, at this point, those differences deserve our attention. Drama might be defined simply as one way of telling a_ story. Drama's way of intensifying human life which it seeks to recreate is to build up an "illusion of reality," one which entirely justifies our "willing suspension of disbelief." Life itself is rarely exciting or dramatic; therefore, mankind perpetually hungers for some intensifying, condensing representation of life. 'This is found in all art-forms, but it belongs most of all to drama. For it is drama which recreates with that greatest artistic power peculiarly its own. Before ever a play can be spoken and acted, it must be written. And while the playwright is aware that the imaginative, child-like willingness of his audience to suspend disbelief and to be captured by his "llusion of reality" gives him much leeway, it is still his great problem to create an illusion which is successful, or which seems real. 'This he must do by impersonating reality. His tools: costume, scenery, occasRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 ionally music, movement, gesture, action, and the spoken word. Like all other. Makers, Shakespeare first had to decide what dramatic form he should choose to express best that particular condensation of human reality which still lay unrealized and uncommunicated within himself. Once he decided whether to write a comedy or a tragedy, his next problem was to write the play which would create the particular illusion of reality he desired, but which, at the same time, concealed within itself all the artistic devices by which it was realized. How cunning a maker he had to be, for example, to fashion each speech precisely so the audience could know the true character of the speaker as, unconsciously, he reveals himself! But how much more complex was his problem of creating just the right tone for an entire scene, in which the words of each person might be likened to one note, and the playwright must harmonize all such "notes" until exactly the most effective musical chord or dramatic tone is produced. Here are magic and genius at work, and in abundance. Comedy Defined Two of the six plays to be discussed this year are comedies; the remaining four are tragedies. Roughly, all plays belong in one or the other of these major divisions. Comedy is a light form of drama designed primarily to amuse, with a happy ending. Wit, humor, music, and dancing are commonly employed, as is incongruity of speech, action, or general behavior. Comedy is concerned more with depicting social patterns and the "way of the LESSON DEPARTMENT world" rather than dealing with the great moral problem of human destiny and weakness. Yet we must remember that the wit and irony of comedy are not always merely trifling or amusing. Both in Muidsummer Night's Dream and King Lear the Fool's comments contain serious criticisms of human weakness, and Falstaff is one of Shakespeare's best-loved characters, largely because beneath his banter lies a great awareness of society's foibles. Yet we should never forget how often laughter and tears are intermixed. Nor should we ever forget, as Shakespeare never did, that a keen sense of humor implies a good standard of judgment. Tragedy Defined In our contemporary world the word tragedy is used very loosely. We speak of some child's disease or imperfection as "tragic," yet in strict usage tragedy concerns only adults. Melodrama is concerned with hair-raising escapes from physical danger; tragedy deals with universal moral issues which some great character must confront alone, and whose inexorable laws he cannot escape. 'Tragedy is concerned with some great problem or weakness which all mankind must face at one time or another; it results when out of man's nature come conflicts resulting from his own inward grapplings with the forces of good and evil. Great tragedy does not "escape" from life; instead it forces man to face the serious problems of mortality, usually as exemplified by his personal strengths and weaknesses. Instead of bringing us relief with a happy ending, tragedy makes 477 us marvel at mankind's power to endure life's greatest sufferings without breaking. And seeing strength in such extreme sufferings, we find ourselves stronger in facing our own whenever they come to us. One of our great statements on tragedy was written by William Hazlitt in his discussion of Othello. Because he both knows the true spirit of tragedy and expresses it within this passage, we can do no better than read his words: It has been said that tragedy purifies the affections by terror and sympathy. That is, it substitutes imaginary sympathy for mere selfishness. It gives us a high and permanent interest, beyond ourselves, in humanity as such. It raises the great, the remote, and the possible to an equality with the real, the little and the near. It makes man a partaker with his kind. It subdues and softens the stubbornness of his will. It teaches him that there are and have been others like himself, by showing him as in a glass what they have felt, thought, and done. It opens the chambers of the human heart. It leaves nothing indifferent to us that can affect our common nature. It excites our sensibility by exhibiting the passions wound up to the utmost pitch by the power of imagination or the temptation of circumstances; and corrects their fatal excesses in ourselves by pointing to the greater extent of sufferings and of crimes to which they have led others. 'Tragedy creates a_balance of the affections. It makes us thoughtful spectators in the lists of life. It is the refiner of the species; a discipline of humanity. This great statement personalizes and interprets Aristotle's definition of tragedy which appeared in his Poetics long before Christ and to this day is the springboard for all discussion of tragedy. Says Aristotle: Tragedy is a form of drama exciting the emotions of pity and fear. Its action should be single and complete, presenting a reversal of fortune, involving persons re- 478 nowned and of superior attainments, and it should be wntten in poetry embellished with every kind of artistic expression. Shakespeare knew this "classical" definition of tragedy and honored it in his plays. Yet to this concept Shakespeare added something of his own. He believed that the basic conflict in tragedy should be that of wills, either within some great person, or between a person and circumstance. According to this concept, the hero or protagonist can never place the blame for his own suffering and fall upon a malignant fate, or upon our modern equivalents of fate, namely economic cycles, glandular secretions, or heredity and environment. Shakespeare's concept of tragedy is an extremely moral one, since in his greatest characters we see exemplified his belief that, within a moral, ordered universe, it is man himself who carves out his own fate. Thus, within himself lie both the causes which bring on his own suffering and, at the same time, the strength to bear such sufferings nobly. Because by its basic definition and purpose, tragedy attempts to search out the entire range of man's soul, that he may better see its workings and, therefore, come to understand himself and humanity more fully. It is forced to use a language which is most comprehensive in its versatility. Since poetry is widest and deepest and richest, and therefore best enables the dramatist to create the dramatic sense of vitality and exalted rhetoric which is ever the hallmark of great tragedy, it is not by chance that poetry is the language which high tragedy must speak, if it is to express itself and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 thus create its own identity. And this must always be so, not because the beauty of a soaring soliloquy balances the suffering or evil which it expresses, but because poetry alone can pull us out of our selfish, separate shells to become completely at one with the exalted suffering which Shakespeare's great tragic heroes express. 'Thus it is, and only thus, that poetic tragedy universalizes all those who would feed their unsatished hungers to find a still more comprehensive view of man than they have known heretofore. And, once discovering Shakespearean tragedy, which represents this master dramatist at his best, people not only find their mature hungers fed, but in witnessing such passages as the one referred to below, when spoken by a great actor, they find their inward selves cleansed and exalted by the catharsis which Aristotle defined so long ago as the greatest justification of tragic drama. Witnessing the artificial passion of a hired player, Hamlet suddenly revolts at his own inability to express his own inner turmoil, and worst of all, to kill King Claudius, whom he now knows murdered his father. 'This famous soliloquy unifies the talents of the dramatist Shakespeare in a furor so terrifying but so immediate that we can no more escape the realism of its power than we can escape ourselves. (Read Hamlet IT. 2. 576-615.) How better exemplify the magnificent, terrifying power which drama alone can produce than through this soliloquy? In such a passage, then, we experience not only the best of Shakespeare but the best of English drama. LESSON DEPARTMENT Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why is drama art? Why is it literature? 2. Many still believe that the greatest period in English literature and drama is the Elizabethan age. Do you agree? Regardless, how do you account for such 479 superiority in dramatic power and poetry so long ago? Why isn't the modern best? 3. For you what is Shakespeare's supreme accomplishment as a dramatist? 4. How can any good come from enduring a spectacle on the stage which makes us suffer? Can suffering ever be good? Why must pity and terror always be present in great tragedies? Social Science — Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 8—The Family Is Forever Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, October 22, 1957 Objective: To show the influence of gospel principles on the Latter-day Saint family. The family is like a book—the children are the leaves, The parents are the covers that protective beauty gives. At first the pages of the book are blank and purely fair, But time soon writeth memories and painteth pictures there. Love is the little golden clasp that bindeth up the trust, Oh, break it not, lest all the leaves shall scatter HE pattern of life provided by the gospel in its fulness has produced a philosophy of family living which is peculiar to Latter-day Saints. Its application brings happiness and satisfaction as well as the acceleration of the God-like potentialities of family members. Family life is regarded by the world as the social institution of greatest influence in molding the lives and personalities of people. While Latter-day Saints agree with this, the deeper significance of the family as a character builder is seen only when the eternal nature of the family is understood. Because of its eternal nature, and its importance in shaping the destinies of the individual and be lost. —Anonymous family members, we must strive to make family life what God intended it to be. What Is a Family? "Family" is easily defined, but the meaning it holds for family members depends upon many factors. 'The age, background, training, status, and belief of the individual all make for important deviations from a general concept. In one sense we are the product of the family. Just as certain physical characteristics are passed from one generation to another, so, too, are personality characteristics passed by means of family living. Webster defines the family as: 480 "The body of persons who live in one house, and under one head; a household." But a family is more than this. It is many things. It is at once a social institution, an accomplishment, an opportunity, a dream, the pleasant past and future hope. A family is what you make it, a burden or blessing. It is warmth, security, tender care, and "happy birthday" all rolled into one. Contentment, pride, and memories are all parts. Most of all it is togetherness, the sharing of substance and love. Its pleasures erase its sacrifices. From it spring the hope of today and the leaders of tomorrow. Basic Family Responsibilities In our present-day civilization families have three primary responsibilities: 1. The function of child bearing. 2. The responsibility for physical care and support. 3. The responsibility for teaching children personal virtues. While the family is logically situated to perform _ this important function, there are many children who are deprived of full opportunities because of the families with which they live. The Latter-day Saint Family Latter-day Saint philosophy of family life has certain ingredients which characterize it as unique and different from traditional family life. Its flavor stems from the basic principles of the gospel. 'To understand it fully, all Latter-day Saints should strive to know and understand the principles of the gospel. 'T'o achieve the maximum joy and happiness it offers, we must translate this philosophy into a pattern for everyday living by making it our constant RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 guide. Below are set forth, in brief, some of the major doctrinal influences of the gospel upon family life. A fuller discussion of these and other items will be had in subsequent lessons. 1. The Personality of God: Latter-day Saints believe that when the Lord said "... Let us make man in our image, after our likeness..." (Gen. 1:26), he meant exactly what he said. The life and teachings of Christ, as well as of the prophets since the creation, further convince us that we worship a personal God. This concept within the family creates a feeling of kinship with Deity and makes worship a natural, joyous, and comfortable experience for all family members. Children can approach the Lord as an understanding Father, with faith and confidence rather than with fear and apprehension, and talk to him as they would converse with an earthly father. Families with this knowledge feel that they have an additional member who watches over them with love and understanding, who provides their joys and blessings and lightens their sorrows, and who stands at the door ready to dwell in their midst, if their homes are in tune with his teachings. His nearness must be recognized and the power of his influence comes by invitation from within the heart and soul of each person who seeks it. It is as if his entry is through a door having an inside latch only. 'True Latter-day Saints are thus impelled conscientiously to conduct their family life on a higher spiritual plane than they would otherwise, and having done this, their homes are ready for the Spirit of the Lord to enter. LESSON DEPARTMENT Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me (Rev. 3:20). 2. The Nature of Man: The eternal nature of the spirit of man, together with the correlative doctrines which regard the spirit of man as sacred and the body a temple of God, unite to create within the hearts of Latter-day Saints a reverence for the individual and a high regard for the dignity of the human soul. 'These become influential and integral parts of the everyday living of all true Latter-day Saints. What is man, that thou art mindful of him? And the son of man, that thou visitest him? For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honour. Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet (Pss. 8:4-6).... For I, the Lord God, created all things, of which I have spoken, spiritually, before they were naturally upon the face of the earth.... And I, the Lord God, had created all the children of men... For in heaven created I them... (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 3:5). The following is taken from a letter of President Joseph F. Smith and his two counselors on this important subject:... The written standards of scripture show that all people who come to this earth and are born in mortality had a preexistent, spiritual personality as the sons or daughters of the Eternal Father.... A spirit born of God is an immortal being. When the body dies the spirit does not die. In the resurrected state the body will be immortal as well as the spirit... (Gospel Doctrine, gth Edition, page 12). 481 The elements are the tabernacle of God; yea, man is the tabernacle of God, even temples; and whatsoever temple is defiled, God shall destroy that temple (D. & C. 93:35). Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God (D. & C. 18:10). 3. The Plan of Salvation: Three aspects of the plan of salvation have tremendous impact upon family life within the Church. A. The Principal of Eternal Progression. Our knowledge of where we came from, why we are here, and where we are going is a powerful force in directing our conduct during mortal life. Knowing the end from the beginning and the direct course to be followed is, in itself, a great time and effort saver. It has been said that the world steps aside for the man who knows where he is going. Surely if we pursue the "straight and narrow road," nothing can deter our progress. We know that much must be accomplished on earth, if we are adequately to prepare for eternity. Life is a brief span in the eternal scheme. 'This gives purpose and direction to our goals and helps us utilize our resources to best advantage. Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect (Mt. 5:48). No man will ever enter there until he has consummated his mission; for we have come here to be conformed to the likeness of God.... And we must become more and more like him... In love, in charity, in forgiveness, in patience, long-suffering and forbearance, in purity of thought and action, intelligence, and in all respects, that we may be worthy of exaltation in his presence (Gospel Doctrine, gth Edition, page 276). 482 The doctrine of eternal improvement and progression instills within Latter-day Saints a desire and determination to teach their children correct principles upon which they can grow spiritually. B. The Marriage Covenant: 'The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that "marriage was an institution of heaven, instituted in the garden of Eden," and that "it was necessary it should be solemnized by the authority of the everlasting Priesthood" (D. H. C. II, page 320). Not only do Latter-day Saints believe that marriage was instituted of God, but that a marriage solemnized in the temple of the Lord by the authority of the Holy Priesthood extends beyond this life into eternity. This concept not only strengthens the Latter-day Saint marriage, but causes young people to prepare for parenthood and to choose a mate with much greater care than if it were a union for this life only. C. Family Life Eternal: The Prophet Joseph Smith also taught: Except a man and his wife enter into an everlasting covenant and be married for eternity, while in this probation, by the power and authority of the Holy Priesthood, they will cease to increase when they die; that is, they will not have any children after the resurrection (DHC. V, page 391). Neither are the relationships that exist or should exist, between parents and children, and between children and parents, of an ephemeral nature, nor of a temporal character. They are of eternal consequence, reaching beyond the veil, in spite of all that we can do (Gospel Doctrine, page 272). This great principle provides ample incentive for parents to teach children the importance of preparRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 ing for temple marriage and to resolve to settle for nothing less. It also firmly roots the family unit here on earth. Elder Joseph Fielding Smith has said: The family unit continues only in the celestial kingdom.... The family is the unit in the kingdom of God.... Outside the celestial kingdom there is no family organization. That organization is reserved for those who are willing to abide in every covenant and every obligation which we are called upon to receive while we sojourn here in this mortal life (Doctrines of Salvation, II, page 67). 4. Priesthood Presides in the Home: Nowhere in all the world, except in Latter-day Saint homes, do you find the Priesthood presiding over the family. 'The recognition of the husband and father as the ultimate authority within the home does much to avoid dissension. The patriarchal order is of divine origin and will continue throughout time and eternity. 'There is, then, particular reason why men, women and children should understand this order and this authority in the households of the people of God, and seek to make it what God intended it to be, a qualification and preparation for the highest exaltation of his children.... The father presides at the table, at prayer, and gives general directions relating to his family life whoever may be present. Wives and children should be taught to feel that the patriarchal order... Of God has been established for a wise and beneficent purpose, and should sustain the head of the household and encourage him in the discharge of his duties, and do all in their power to aid him in the exercise of the rights and privileges which God has bestowed upon the head of the home (Gospel Doctrine, page 287). 5. Free Agency: And now remember, remember, my brethren, that whosoever perisheth, perish- LESSON DEPARTMENT eth unto himself; and whosoever doeth iniquity, doeth it unto himself; for behold, ye are free; ye are permitted to act for yourselves; for behold, God hath given unto you a knowledge and he hath made you free (Helaman 14:30). (See also Joshua 24:15.) The right to choose is fundamental. How we choose, in this life, will largely determine how we progress and what our status will be hereafter. 'The process is a power by which man can reach great heights. The principle covers all phases of life which involve decision. Parents soon learn that children develop most when they have grasped the process of choosing. 'The direction in which they develop depends upon what they have absorbed from their environment which influences their decisions. When they learn to make sound decisions they are prepared to progress in relation to God and in relation to the things of this life. 6. Gift of the Holy Ghost: In addition to the principle of free agency, the Lord has given us a great gift to assist us in the exercise of our agency—the gift of the Holy Ghost. This can serve as a constant guide in our decisions, if we are attuned to its promptings; it is our spirit of truth. This gift sets us apart from the world and can radiate a great influence in our homes, if we choose to let it. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever; Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you.... 483 But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you (John 14:16, 17, 26). 7. Family Responsibilities: Latterday Saints are taught responsibility for one another. Parents are charged of the Lord:. Inasmuch as parents have children in Zion... That teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion.... And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord (D. & C. 68:25-26, 28). The Authorities of the Church have continually stressed that parents are responsible for their children physically, morally, and spiritually. The great Welfare Plan emphasizes the prime responsibility of the family in meeting the material needs of family members. Children are trained to care for needy and aged parents. Children visualize the reality of eternity when taught to seek out their ancestors so that temple work can be done for them. While not strictly doctrinal influences, two other areas of family influence connected with the Church are worthy of mention. Religious Training From the cradle Latter-day Saints are taught the principles of the gospel, the attributes of God, his nearness, the power of prayer, and are surrounded by sweet and refining 484 influences. The missionary system contributes understanding and spirituality. All of this tends to make children fine individuals, good family members, and it prepares them for their responsibilities of parenthood. Pioneer Heritage There are characteristics to be found in our people which are traceable to our pioneer ancestry. 'These are particularly noticeable to "outsiders" who observe our religion in action for the first time. In October 1947, Mr. E. Kent Kane, grandson of Colonel Thomas L. Kane, was a guest at general conference. President George Albert Smith invited him to address the conference, a privilege rarely extended a nonmember. He spoke "'as an outsider who has had the good fortune to come and observe with a friendly, if not an understanding heart." 'The following excerpts are taken from Mr. Kane's remarks:. When I came out here to Utah I saw how your people believed that the Lord was your shepherd. You have created your own green pastures where there were none and brought in your own running waters when you could find none to walk by. I read how the women of this Church had at one time prepared a table in the presence of your enemies from the food that their husbands had wrenched from these deserts.... I saw that the Lord has restored your souls. I could not help but observe that here in Utah I had beheld the works of the Lord made manifest.... Your religion is strong.... It is impressive to look over this vast audience and to see to what extent the religion of your Church is a religion of men. I am afraid there are a lot of churches that would perish entirely if it were not for the fact that their religion reposes today RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1957 almost entirely in the hands and _ hearts of the mothers. And yet I can't believe that the battles of the Lord are to be fought entirely by the distaffs but I think it takes the good strong arms of the men of any religion such as I see before me here to fight those battles with a good frm hold upon the sword of the spirit.... Yours seems to be a growing religion.... You are not static.... Yours is a joyous religion.... Yours is a singing religion and I believe... The words of religion dissolved in music soak into the human soul better than any other way.... It is as if when you open your mouths to sing the spirit entered in.... Yours is a family religion.... For three years in this last war I was a division officer in the Navy... Some of the very finest men that we had in our commands in the service were from the Mormon Church and they were by all odds the cleanest. I don't know what they do elsewhere, but I do say that those I saw... Were very creditable members of your congregation. And I want to add that it was not always as easy as it would have been in Salt Lake during conference week (Reports of the One Hundred Eighteenth Semi-Annual Conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, October 1947, pp. 161-164). Such observations as these reactivate our desire to let our light so shine before men that they may see our good works and glorify our Father which is in heaven. If this light is properly kindled in our homes the result will be a spirit of love, devotion, democracy, industry, service, progression, peace, and tranquility. Supplemental References 1. "Contributions of the Church to Home and Family"—Stephen L Richards, The Relief Society Magazine, December 1954, Page 790. 2. "The Mission of the Church and Its Members" — President David O. McKay, Improvement Era, November 1956, page 781. 3. "Influence of Relief Society in' the Home"'—Marion D. Hanks, The Relief Society Magazine, September 1955, page 566. Questions for Discussion 1. How can Latter-day Saint parents teach their children to live their religion without compromise, and yet be tolerant and friendly with young people of other faiths? — Books for the 2. What are the basic religious beliefs and practices which distinguish Latter-day CHURCH ORGANIST Saint homes from the rest of the world? | | __ AT THE CONSOLE—Felton 2.50 3. What pioneer characteristics are | |...... CHANCEL ECHOES—Felton........ 2.50 worthy of perpetuating in our homes? = |_| ------ CHAPEL ORGANIST—Presser...... 1.50 4. What Church influences do you tre- 4 NS |) 2.50 member most from the home in which _—f _— FIRST LESSONS ON THE examples in yourown home? Ss _...... INSTRUMENTAL CHURCH SERVICE SELECTIONS 1 & 2— KohImann................200022eeee eeea. 1.25 a LIGHTER MOODS—Presser.......... 1.50 —— 93 SHORT SOLOS—Schirmer _.... 2.50 ——— ORGAN METHOD-—Stainer _....... 2.50 —_ ORGAN VOLUNTARIES 1 & 2— Schreiner __..........-220.0-002-2--2----ea. 3.50 Wl == Be ieee 33 FAVORITE ORGAN SOLOS— Vk | Schirmer..........-..---.. Cc--ssssececeeseeees 1.50. Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah | | 1 { I | | | | | | | | | | Please send the music indicated above. | (J On Approval (] Charge f © Money Enclosed | i] | | | | | | | | | | |! L | | t 1 ' HEATER ddress LIVE BETTER [aioe ELECTRICALLY [ijl ieee: HOUSEPOWER |_Dayees Mise) 15 E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO ef Salt Lake City 11, Utah Or Zz UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. LESSON DEPARTMENT you grew up? Are you emulating these " 485 ORGAN—Nevin...................--.... 1.75 "Te | | (...... ORGAN IN THE CHURCH—Asper 2.75 When Mother Made Butter Mae R. Winters ON of the most vivid memories I have of my home and my mother was when she made butter. To her, making butter was not a task but an art in which she excelled. Mother was very proud of her skill. First of all came the separating of the golden cream in the separator. 'Twice daily the warm milk was brought from the barn into the milkhouse; there the cream was separated from the milk. The cream was caught in a large blue bowl and allowed to cool completely before it was emptied into a big crock with the other cream. It was then allowed to ripen. Mother seemed to know just when the cream was sour enough to make the best butter; she judged more by the smell than by anything else. The churning of the cream took place very early in the morning, usually at five o'clock in the summertime. Morning was the best time for working, and the cream was just right when it was cool. Singing always went along with the swish-swish of the cream as it dashed to and fro in the old wooden churn. Most often it was a hymn mother sang or an old English folk song. Many times we children were awakened by the churning and mother's singing as she went cheerfully about her task. I suppose my mother owned many churns in her life, but the one I remember best was an old wooden one that was also owned by my grandmother. It had been brought from England and then across the plains in an ox-driven wagon. The churn stood on legs just the nght height for sitting and turning. I was never allowed to turn the churn, for mother declared that I turned either too fast and slopped cream all over the kitchen, or too slowly and the butter never came. Churning morning found us close to the kitchen as we watched in fascination. The golden butter was lifted from the churn with a wooden paddle into a large, flat wooden bowl. We were not allowed to wash this bowl with soap, for this would make the butter stick to the bowl. Mother had found this out through long years of experience. The molding of the butter into pounds was a ritual in itself. It called for extra care because all of the buttermilk must be removed. Over and over again it was pressed against the side of the bowl, turned and worked, and, finally, washed in ice-cold water. Then the right amount of salt was added. The salt was never measured; mother knew just how much was needed. The mold was supposed to hold just one pound, but Mother always heaped some on top so that the top of each pound was round instead of flat. When weighed at the store, each so-called pound was actually much more. Oh, how sweet and good the butter tasted on hot biscuits, on pancakes made from the buttermilk, or on big slices of homemade bread with strawberry jam! After the butter was molded, each pound was wrapped in tissue-thin paper which bore Mother's name and address. She was justly proud of her name on that butter wrapper because it was a symbol of her ability and artistry. Taking the butter to market was a joy to all of us children. To be denied the privilege of hitching the horse, Old Dan, to the little buggy and riding with Mother into town was the most severe punishment that could be administered. Most of the butter went to the local merchant where it was traded for our food and clothing; some, however, was distributed to customers. Mother had the same customers for years. 'Twenty-five cents was a good price per pound. Mother often received as much as ten cents a pound more, because her butter was always sweet, clean, and of good measure. Yes, one of the fondest memories I have of my dear mother was her making of butter. Page 486 To Hate in Our Hearts Wilma Boyle Bunker IS our relationship with others, little irtitations sometimes creep in which, if given a chance, grow far beyond their importance. It seems that most of us are capable of taking the big problems in our stride, but find ourselves nettled and frustrated by the small and, actually, unimportant annoyances. Could it be that we are so engrossed in our own narrow point of view that we fail to consider the other side of a situation? Could it be that we are not big enough to overlook the faults of others, or recognize that, probably, we have a few imperfections, too? If we would find contentment and happiness, we can't hold grudges, we can't be petty or envious or jealous. We must look for the good in others; we must acknowledge our own failings; we must be tolerant and understanding; we must forgive seventy times seven. We must leave no room in our hearts to hold the memory of an injustice, for life is far too brief and too precious to hate. Black Fills Ethel Jacobson Black Hills of the Dakotas, Black Hills—I did not know It was your brooding pine trees That named you so. Trees so dark and somber That on each craggy height They stand like peaks of thunder, Swarthy as night. It was your ponderosas Whose sable shadow spills The length of the Dakotas On mourning hills, THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH @ BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles ou... 35 150 to 300 miles 0.0000... 39 300 to 600 miles —......002 45 600 to 1000 miles _....54 1000 to 1400 miles 0.00.2... -64 1400 to 1800 miles _... W... 0... 76 Over 1800 miles;.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 487 Vida Fox Clawson's original Historic Tours which will take you to the HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT and _ the JAMESTOWN FESTIVAL, New York City, Washington D. C., Mount Vernon, Williamsburg, Yorktown, Sharon Vermont, Boston, etc., are the finest Historic Tours there are. Incidentally, you get the most for your money. Our Historic Train Tour leaves Salt Lake City July 26th. Our Historic Bus Tour leaves Salt Lake City July 20th. We shall be glad to send you our day to day programs. Write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EMpire 4-2017 CRAFT SUPPLIES The best in the most popular supplies for Handwork Basketry, Aluminum Etching, Copper and Brass Tooling, Textile Painting, Shellcraft, Flower Making, "Chenile" Supplies, Plastic Plant Making, Ice Cream Stick Craft Supplies Copper Enameling Free Craft Instruction ZIM'S HOBBIES 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah Page 488 Birthda Yy Congra tu la tions One Hundred One Mrs. Harriet Persis TANNER WATSON St. Anthony, Idaho Ninety-five Mrs. Tora N. JAcoBseN STARKIE Vernal, Utah Mrs. Amanpa J. Hartman Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Matiipa C. Rossins Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. MinniE PETERSON Brown Coalville, Utah Mrs. LouisA ANN ByBEE Grantsville, Utah Ninety Mrs. Evizapetu McKay GLeep Malad, Idaho Mrs. Laura LAURETTE WoopDLAND TANNER Salt Lake City, Utah —_ Qh, Foolish Heart Lillian E. Miles Tonight the waves come rushing Across the sandy bars, With their foam caps tipped with silver By a nebula of stars. Beneath that shimmering star-glow The tides run deep and strong, And with their outward racing They take my heart along. Oh, foolish heart that follows To lands remote and strange, Oh, heart forever seeking In restlessness for change, Awake and know that moon tides Which wash a far-off shore, Turn backward in their season And flow toward home once more, Study Helps on the Doctrine and Covenants 1. TEACHINGS OF THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS William E. Berrett Elder Berrett points out how these revelations provide personal directives to members of the LDS Church in their manner of living and how these scriptures also provide the basis of Church government as restored in the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times. $3.00 2. THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS AND THE FUTURE Roy W. Doxey In twelve succinct chapters, the author brings to the fore the unique features of the Doctrine and Covenants and points up the three principle purposes of this Standard Work: to warn the world, to tell events of the future, and to give evidence of the reality beyond the grave. $1.50 3. DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS QUESTION GUIDE Roy W. Doxey Here's a new and different approach to the study of the Doctrine and Covenants. Over twelve hundred questions in this new book bring out salient doctrinal points. After each question, references are listed. This is indeed a valuable aid to all who wish to study or teach Doctrine and Covenants scriptures. $1.50 - naw ) Le of ie j Va ad, y Wa off Be Decectl Goon co | | Salt bake City Utah DESERET BOOK COMPANY a a 2 3 | 44 East South Temple | | Salt Lake City, Utah Name oo eeeecccceccccceceeesecccceeccceeceeecceccenesseeccenearees | I Gentlemen: Add | Enclosed you will find ( ) check ne ] i ( ) money order ( ) charge to my acCity... Eens eee Zone.... State............ | L count for the encircled (numbered) books: Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. | This little boy (and his daddy, too) loves Remember: You can rely on U and | THE UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY pt {ot Np tot sugar "sugar 'sugar #sugar Oe Z; pawnte? 0 Ibs, set wirens ie SUGAR PURE FINE GRANULATED Inventory for August Maryhale Woolsey Now measure carefully the shadows shortened By this majestic tallness of the sun; Record the coral sculptured dawns, the heartened Rich breath of earth as daytime's course is run. Compute the wealth in heads of grain slow-filling And ripening on golden stalk and ear; And weigh the stars in midnight's sapphire ceiling— While crickets call the turning of the year. For morning winds rehearse a song of autumn, And urgency is in the running sands! Count well, and claim in full the lavish quotum Of summer treasure offered to your hands— Not to be kept for later, laggard holding, But each day's largesse in one brief unfolding, The Cover: Swan River From King's Park, Perth, Western Australia Courtesy Australian National Travel Association Photograph submitted by Adelphia D. Bingham Frontispiece: Granite Dells, Near Prescott, Arizona Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen Srom Tear and Sar The cover of the April Magazine (Japanese Cherry Blossoms) is most intriguing, one of the nicest to date. —Adelphia D. Bingham President South Australian Mission Relief Society My husband is in the Air Force, and is stationed here in Okinawa, so the April Magazine, spotlighting the Northern Far East Mission, was enjoyed by all of us here in our active Relief Society. —LuWana Edwards Okinawa I think you would like to know that Sister Frances Yost's article in the June Magazine, "Help Yourself to Happiness," served as a spark-plug to a very interesting evening recently. It was a spur-of-the-moment occasion, with no time to plan the evening's entertammment. I took along the new Magazine, thinking we might talk over the new course of study, since it was a group of Relief Society women. 'Then one of the women said, "Did you 'see Frances Yost's article entitled 'Help Yourself to Happiness'?" 'That gave me the idea of reading the headings listed by her, one at a time, and having the women comment on each one. It proved to be a most enjoyable evening, with every guest present having a chance to express herself spontaneously. It was revealing, too, to hear the intimate reactions of various members, and helped all to understand one another better. I am always proud to show The Relief Society Magazine to my non-member friends. They are always amazed at the scope of our program, especially. —Mrs. Geneva E. Wright Hamilton, Montana I love our Magazine, not only for its worthwhile messages, but also because it is published by the sisters of our wonderful Church. 'The warmth and love that go into this publication come forth as the Magazine is read. I have enjoyed the stories and poems greatly. —Patricia Reid Pett Pasadena, California Page 490 I was happy to see the articles in our June Magazine by two of my writer friends: Frances C. Yost and Edna H. Day. I love the poem "Grandmother Pro Tem" concluding Mrs, Day's article. "Mama's Cooking," by Christie Lund Coles is delightful, as is all her work I have seen. And how good to be recalled to the past by the beauty of '""The Patchwork Quilt" (by Elizabeth Cannon McCrimmon). Nostalgia filled my soul when I read "Mother Had Seven Girls" (by Jennie Brown Rawlins). There were six of us girls, and I saw us as I read. —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho I love my Magazine so much. I have had it in my home ever since I was married, and I think I learn so much from the articles and stories. I especially love the poetry. We, as young mothers, need help with our children and our homes. I give much of my time to the suggestions from the Magazine and from Relief Society meetings. I also like the lessons as they increase my knowledge in many fields. —Mrs. Earl M. Yearsley Preston, Idaho I am a convert and realize my need for knowledge of our Church and its teachings. The Relief Society Magazine is a wonderfully informative book, and from reading it one cannot help but learn. Thank you so much. —Mrs. Dorothy E. Westergren Seattle, Washington My name has been on your subscribers' list for a good many years, and I read every issue of the Magazine from beginning to end. I think it is a most wonderful Magazine. —Barbara Savage Gabbitas Bakersfield, California I look forward to receiving our wonderful Magazine each month. It is truly a joy to read it. I would like to express my appreciation to the ones who publish such a great Magazine. —Carole Rich Blackfoot, Idaho THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spatford - - - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Elna P. Haymond Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Editor - - Associate Edito General Manager Louise W. Madsen Aleine M. Young Josie B. Ba Christine H. Robinson Alberta H. Christensen Gladys S. Boyer Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winnietred S. Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall - Marianne C. Sharp - Vesta P. Crawford - Belle S. Spafford AUGUST 1957 No. 8 Vol. 44 Con tents SPECIAL FEATURES John Longden 492 Preston R. Nibley 496 The Worth of Souls The South Australian Mission The Long and Short of Marriage—The Continuity of Companionship -—< 510 A Need for Patience: ee Myrtle M. Dean 518 Annual Report 1956 outs ececeeccecseeeeeeceeeeceecececeneeeeeseocesenesceusecessacentessnsaacecasennetsocecaccesnenmeaneceaeneeHulda Parker 528 FICTION Society Sonnets Frances C. Yost 498 Holl y—Parrt [I ou... EcesessscnecccesceneneseecesnenenesnecsseseceensaeteeesececessesessssesseassenanseseceneeeeseenensssseneseesesMargaret S. Hardy 514 All Is Well........ = _.- Queenie Jenkins 520 The Bright Star—Chapter 6 Dorothy S. Romney 523 Editorial: A Day of Doing Common Things 220.2... Ceeneecsenecea ecsestaveteeseeveeeeeesereeVesta P. Crawford 508 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities.00.00... Hulda Parker 537 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the South Australian Mission oo... Oo eeseeeeescceeccceeceescceeserceseeeeeeesAdelphia D. Bingham 51] Ella J. Kotter Finds Self-Expression Through Color Combinations and Designs for Quilts........ 513 Flowers and Children oo.... Ccccse cscscceesccecsecccccsenecesenesecseceusececcvaesvacscsusvevsnecsvonapaeeescsnenseecsesnsuessasanecesCelia Luce 527 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Origin of the Doctrine and Covenants on... CececescecceccececsseseseseresevereverererereseesRoy W. Doxey 545 Visiting Teacher Messages: 'And Inasmuch As They Were Humble...." Sa _ _......... Christine H. Robinson 551 Work Meeting: Increasing Our Standard of Living cece cecccccccceccesessenseseeeseeeeeWilliam F. Edwards 552 Literature: 'Othello, The Moor of Vemice') o. C.. Eeecssccsccsscees-csseescsessesecseeseecesssaveneneeececee: Briant S. Jacobs 555 Social Science: Families Have Problems oo.... Ce.. CcccsccscccecesncceessseesecaeoeceseeseseseevenseeeeeeeesJohn Farr Larson 562. POETRY Inventory for August—FrontispieCe -.......-. EcecscecsceccececeessussesocsesesetssscavenencssensneesseeevecesMaryhale Woolsey 489 Caring Is Mortar 2... Ccccce eee eeeee ee. EeeMargery S. Stewart 495 ono.. Mabel Jones Gabboit 505 1904.0) —<J<} Lo) ¢ a i _ Gene Romolo 518 End of Summer... Eee ee eeCatherine E. Berry 519 They Fell the Ancient Elms Today 0...... Cesccceccsscecseseceeee; Dorothy S. Roberts 522 To Any Parent Pee _...-.-Christie Lund Coles 527 VES) G) ee neLeslie S. Clark 567 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year: payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 38, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Prom Near arid Far wo. C. A. Ececescseccccccececsececececeeceseceeeeseeesensseseseescneseees Sixty Years AGO oo.. C.. Ececsecceceeceeccscenecececeececacsensscesceseecseseesecsseacescesecsuccesesscsecscereesecssnsnenesesonecseessesenseseeneee Woman's Sphere 00... Eeceecenceenceeceeeeccaseecceceeeneeceennececeeceeeseeeesesoceace Birthday Congratulations -0. N2......-ecesecececccceceeeesceeceeeccceeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeees Glimpse of Heaven... Seasonal Reminders oo... Cccecseeccessssesseceeseeseecesesee=-ssesnesucaseseceenesesesoseeesseosssseesece 490 906 aeRamona W. Cannon 507 ee... 568 Ruth Lounsbury 517.. Enola Chamberlin 550 The Worth of Souls Elder John Longden Assistant to the Council of the Twelve young mother expressed the misgivings in her heart when she knew her firstborn was to attend school for the first time. She said, ""There are railroad tracks to cross and a highway. I wish it were possible to go with him every day! But, of course, I have the other children to care for." So motherlike! The child's father, more like a father, said, "We've taught him to watch where he is going, to be careful. We've tried to teach him the rules of the road. He'll have to be on his own." The little mother insisted, "I know this, but he is so young and may forget for a moment." How great is the worth of our children's lives in our earthly eyes. What one of us does not say a quiet prayer as they leave our homes in the morning for school or work, or in the evening for dates and other social events—a quiet but most devout prayer that our Father in heaven will watch over them and help them to remember who they are? There are some parents who have forgotten who they are, while still worrying and watching over their precious earthly charges, parents who are doing things which must worry our Heavenly Father. What of the young scout who told his scoutmaster that "Mom and Dad sure live it up with a bottle when we go fishing, but they're okay at home." We wonder if our Heavenly Mother and Father must not be worried Page 492 and concerned over some of our antics. It must be quite an occasion in heaven when our Heavenly Mother bids us a loving farewell for the time being! Perhaps, like earthly mothers, she thinks, "hey are so young, and they might forget for a moment." Yet, our wonderful, allwise Eternal Father has repeatedly given us tules and commandments by which we are privileged to live, for our souls are precious in his sight! 'The Master has told us, "This is my work and my glory— to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). Beyond the comprehension of mortal man, God has placed a supreme value upon a human soul when he says: Remember, the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; for, behold, the Lord, your Redeemer suffered death in the flesh; wherefore he suffered the pain of all men, that all men might repent and come unto him. And he hath risen again from the dead, that he might bring all men unto him, on conditions of repentance. And how great is his joy in the soul that repenteth (D. & C. 18:10-13). We read the other day something that expressed the thoughts of many of us. It was to the effect that in the beginning years a parent's fears are for bugs, and the less visible the worse the fear, but not much can be done about them. In the later years the bugs are still there, but the enemy is people and things, THE WORTH OF SOULS some of them no more visible than the most dangerous bugs. Relief Society mothers can do much to fight this invisible enemy, for they truly rock the cradle of the Church. At the knees of our mothers we learn about our Heavenly Father and the protection he has for us. We should learn to talk to our Father in heaven at our mother's knees. Men of the Church rely heavily on their wives and the mothers of their children to make their homes heavens on earth. Wives can help them to remember who they are—truly sons and daughters of God, and that their souls — every one — are precious in the sight of our Father in heaven. E have watched hundreds of paicnts proudly acknowledge the accomplishments of their children as they graduate from high school and college. How proud a mother and father whose daughter earned a Phi Beta Kappa key! — and true accomplishments these things are, for have we not been told "The glory of God is intelligence, or in other words, light and truth"? (D. & C. 93:36). Without at all belittling scholastic achievement, it is important also that we balance our lives with spiritual achievements. Each individual must grow up spiritually, if he would enter the kingdom of our Father. Oh! The majesty of the individual! Each of us born of our mothers may, if we keep all the commandments, look forward to exaltation in the kingdom of our Father, yes, to inheriting part of our Father's kingdom. How much is a human soul worth? The psalmist exclaimed about the greatness of man's worth: 493 For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honour. 'Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet (Psalms 8:5-6). We were all interested back in 1949 in the story of Kathy Fiscus, who fell into an abandoned well by her home. Under a blaze of lights men and machines battled with mother earth for Kathy's life. Fiftythree hours after the accident, after a total expenditure of a quarter of a million dollars, Kathy's lifeless body was brought to the top. A quarter of a million dollars to attempt to save one life! In New York this year a little boy's life was miraculously saved. He had a similar experience. Young Benny Hooper, Jr., most of the time did what his parents told him, but one evening he played in a forbidden area where his father had dug a twenty-one foot hole for a well. Again, many man hours and thousands of dollars were expended in his rescue. OMETIMES we wander into forbidden areas both in our thoughts and our actions. Daily there are forces in the earth battling for men's souls. Why? Because the mere loss of life is not a penalty inflicted on man, but Satan knows that he must spoil men's souls if he is to win his battle. It was his wish to force us back into the presence of our Father. Most wisely, our dear Father rejected this plan and through his beloved son Jesus Christ, gave us our free agency to return to his presence on our own power. Know this, that every soul is free To choose his life and what he'll be, 494 For this eternal truth is given That God will force no man to heaven. He'll call, persuade, direct aright, And bless with wisdom, love, and light, In nameless ways be good and kind, But never force the human mind. (William C. Gregg) Some of us interpret free agency to mean license to do many forbidden things. Thank goodness for many who realize that free agency points the way to majestic self-mastery in all things. 'Through free agency we may climb to the high peaks of spirituality. Our lives will then become guideposts and lights to others who meet us along life's highway. Most of us who are earthly parents do everything in our power to bring happiness to our children here. How our hearts swell when our offspring are truly obedient! Our happiness cannot even compare with the joy of our Heavenly Father when we are obedient to his laws and commandments, and his blessings to us will be far greater for "eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man..." (I Cor. 2:9). In our homes today, through the mediums of radio and _ television, beautiful young women and _ handsome young men for money do quite a selling job on us and our families, selling ideas, philosophies, and prod. Ucts which are absolutely adverse to the teachings of the gospel of Jesus Christ — Satan's way of spoiling souls! What are we doing in our homes to combat these influences that we are meeting on every hand wherever we go? We are wondering if, when we left the presence of our Heavenly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Father and Mother to come to this earthly existence, we did not say something like the little child who went for the first time to school, "Yes, Pll remember the rules and regulations. I'll watch all the signs on the road. I'll be good." We wonder! HE Church of Jesus Christ is replete with signs along the road, pointing the way for young and old, to help us to keep on the straight and narrow path, close to the Master. Our scriptures contain complete formulae for a good, rich life. The rumors of wars, the hate, envy, jealousy, strife, in the world today would not be, if we all lived by the tenets of the gospel. And, if we lived by the tenets of the gospel, we would all return to our Father, exalted beings. There is so much mothers can do to insure the eternal salvation and exaltation of the souls of men! A little lad came home to his mother one day and said, "Mom, I hate Judy!" 'The wise little mother took the young child on her knee and said, "Darling, you must not hate anyone. Try to find out why she acts the way she does. You don't have to be like her, but maybe you can help her instead of hating her." Then she showed her son that hate and help contain the same number of letters, but what different meanings! There is great need in the world today for us to help each other. Our neighbors need us. We need our neighbors in so many ways; to help us, not to hate us, to pat us on the back once in awhile and say "Well done, old timer!" The little mother who taught her son not to THE WORTH OF SOULS hate but to help had a real tangible lesson in mind. Bless the mothers of the Church who make their homes spots of wisdom, shrines and castles for their husbands and children. Bless the mothers who know that perhaps they, more than any others, have it in their power to save the souls of men. Bless the parents of this Church who remember who they are, who know that their souls are the offspring of God, as are the souls 495 of their earthly children; who daily remember the promise we might have made as we left our heavenly parents that we would remember the rules and regulations, that we would watch the signs along the way, and that we would be good! Bless the parents and others who know that "If ye are faithful ye shall be laden with many sheaves, and crowned with honor, and glory, and immortality, and eternal life" (D. & C. 75:5). >< Ca ring Gs Mortar Margery S. Stewart All day I lived in the shadows of uncaring, For the morning had been long, the noon Too burning. Night came with new thorns for my mind, Ashes for remembrance, A broken sword and the battle not over. All day I lived silent and blind In the shadows of my own uncaring. Then I saw what uncaring is. I held it In my palm. Uncaring is disintegration. Caring is mortar, Mortar for the stones of the universe. There is no building without caring. It is many things... A tender mother Answering her new child, a husband Breaking himself on the wheels of trade, A teacher planting the endless seeds With no hope of seeing the harvest. It is the lonely woman being beautiful Because she wills to make even loneliness Lovely. Caring is the call remembered, children Comforted, votes on election day, a party For the stranger. It is compassion for One who has lost all right to compassion, And it is a single flower for the beloved. Caring builds, oh, how it builds, cities, Nations, worlds, schools, hospitals, Friendships, loves, and the tender peace. He, who would destroy his own caring Destroys himself... While he who will Not surrender holds always material For another tomorrow. She South Australian Mission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE South Australian Mission was formed on July 3, 1955, at a conference of saints and missionaries at Melbourne, held under the direction of Elder Marion G. Romney of the Council of the ''welve. Elder Romney had made the journey from Salt Lake City for the purpose of dividing the Australian Mission. The new mission comprises the states of Victoria, South Australia, West Australia, and Tasmania, with a Church membership of approximately 1,500 persons and an over-all population of about 5,000,000. 'lhomas Sanford Bingham was sustained as the first president. Shortly after he was installed as mission president, President Bingham chose as his counselors, Elders Edward Armstrong Johnson and Percival W. F. Davis. He also purchased for the Church a new mission home, located at 189 Koo Yong Road, Toorak S. E., Victoria. The gospel had been taught in Australia over one hundred years before the mission was divided. As early as 1840, a young Elder from England, William Barrett, a sailor on a ship plying between England and Australia, delivered tracts in Sidney and attempted to make converts. In 1842, Andrew Anderson, a convert from Scotland, who had moved to Australia, baptized a few members in Sydney, where he had located. Then, in 1851, the Australian Mission was organized, with Elder John Murdock of Lehi, Utah, as the first president. 'The missionary work has continued since that time. Australian National Travel Association Photograph submitted by Adelphia D. Bingham CENTENARY REGATTA FROM THE AIR, HOBART, TASMANTA Page 496 THE SOUTH AUSTRALIAN MISSION 497 Australian National Travel Association Photegraph submitted by Adelphia D. Bingham KOALAS, LONE PINE FAUNA RESERVE, AUSTRALIA Through the years many of the converts made in Australia have emigrated to America and joined the saints in the valleys of the mountains. With the building of the new Latter-day Saint temple in New Zealand, it is thought that more of the members in the South Pacific missions will remain permanently in their homelands. Elder Hugh B. Brown, Assistant to the Twelve, accompanied by Mrs. Brown, arrived in Melbourne on January 6, 1957, to make a tour of the South Australian Mission, with President and Mrs. Bingham. 'They visited the principal branches of the Church and held many meetings. Everywhere he went Elder Brown delivered inspiring and faith promoting messages and the saints, missionaries, and friends profited by his visit. Ten Relief Society organizations, with 177 members, were reported in December 1956. Adelphia D. Bingham presides over the South Australian Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, "Swan River From King's Park, Perth, Western Australia, was submitted by Adelphia D. Bingham, President, South Australian Mission Relief Society. See also "Recipes From the South Australian Mission," page 511. Society Sonnets Frances C. Yost ARAH Barnes listened attentively to the literature lesson given by Sister Nellie Morris. "It is generally agreed that no other writer was so universal, so timeless, so full of all kinds of wisdom and so rich in beauty, as was Shakespeare." Sister Morris smiled at her class of sisters. It seemed to Sarah Barnes that the world of literature opened for her here at these meetings each month. 'They seemed to fill the abyss of her meager education. She loved to read Shakespeare's plays and his poems. Why, Sarah thought, his sonnets are out of this world. If I could write a sonnet like one of his! Sarah wished she weren't so timid. Why, even when she had a good thought, even when she knew the answer, and no one else did, she was too timid to raise her hand and participate. What was Sister Morris, the literature teacher, saying? "Now, for a special assignment for next month, I want each of you to try to write a sonnet." A groan rippled through the class of Relief Society sisters, followed by a mild chuckle. But Sister Morris, always in command of any situation, spoke, "Now mind you, I said try. Perhaps all of you won't be successful, but I hope you are. At any rate, I know of no better way for a person to appreciate the many wonderful sonnets Shakespeare has written, than to try to write one, Page 498 "Now, to help you carry out this assignment, I'm going to take a few minutes and here, on the board, outline the pattern of a sonnet, and give you some tips, which should make it easier for you. "First, a sonnet has fourteen lines, and it is written in pentameter. Can someone explain what pentameter means?" Sister Morris smiled helpfully. Her method of teaching was always by class participation. At first Sarah Barnes didn't recognize the word. She had always thought the pronunciation was penta-meter. But Sister Morris, who was so well grounded in English, pronounced it pentam-eter. So it surely was correct that way. 'That was the nice thing about Relief Society, you could learn things here that you would never learn at home, studying alone. Sarah wanted to raise her hand and tell the group that pentameter meant five feet to a line. She knew it was right, but she just couldn't make her hand go up, or her voice stay calm enough to speak. She wished she weren't so timid, when all of these sisters were her dear friends. She looked about. Sister Vera Means had raised her hand. "Sister Means, will you tell us what pentameter means?" Sister Morris spoke kindly. "Tt means five feet to a line. A foot in poetry is much like a bar in music, though the lines of course, are imaginary," Vera Means explained. SOCIETY SONNETS "Yes, that is correct, five feet to each line," Sister Morris repeated. Then, turning to the blackboard, she wrote the first line from one of Shakespeare's sonnets. When forty winters shall besiege thy brow.... "Now, we'll use this for an example. Will someone step to the blackboard and mark this line of poetry off in pentameter?" Sister Morris smiled as she challenged them. Sarah Barnes studied the line carefully. She would mark the first line through the center of forty; the second through the center of winters; the third after shall; and the fourth after besiege. But she couldn't raise her hand to answer the question, much less walk to the front of the room, pick up the chalk, and mark the meter in the line. She glanced about the room. Sister Pearl Moffett, with a little embarrassed laugh, walked to the blackboard, and marked it off just as Sarah. Barnes had figured it should be. "That's just fine," Sister Morris complimented. "Now we have the line marked off in meter. Let's talk about accenting syllables. Words are like children, they have their tender places, which are not meant for spanking, such as the ears. We must tap them lightly in some places and accent them harder in others." HE sisters were enjoying the humor of Sister Morris. 'Then she continued: "Words have proper places for accenting, and we must never line them up in poetry, so they will be accented improperly. Now let's study this line for accent. 499 Sarah Barnes studied the line for awhile. She even repeated it in her mind: When forty winters shall besiege thy brow. 'The accents would, of course, fall on: for, win, shall, siege, brow. "It's easy, sisters," Sister Morris encouraged. She looked about the room. Her eyes fell on Sarah Barnes. She must have seen her lips forming the accented syllables. "Tm sure you can do this, Sister Barnes. You accent your own words so well." Nellie Morris handed the chalk to Sarah Barnes, saying: "Just draw a line like this, over the accented syllables." Sarah Barnes was glad she had worn her nice suit today, if she was to stand in front of the ladies. She swallowed part of her timidity, and walked to the board and put the same diagonal accent line Sister Morris had used over: for, win, shall, siege, and brow. "Perfect," Sister Morris beamed. "Now let's all scan this line. That is, let's te-tum it." Sister Morris laughed, and her laughter was catching. She had the ladies enjoying their lesson in poetry. "Here goes, put the stress on tum—te-tum, tetum, te-tum, te-tum, te-tum. 'When forty winters shall besiege thy brow.' "Now, the easy thing about a sonnet is that every line is the same as far as accent and meter go. So, instead of it being hard to write a sonnet, it is really quite easy when you get the idea." Sister Morris smiled encouragement. Sarah Barnes, watching _ her, thought, yes, it is easy if one has as fine an education as Sister MorTiS. 500 "Now," continued Sister Morris, "Jet's scan this whole poem of Shakespeare's. This is one of my favorites, even though it isn't quoted as widely as others." Her voice was excellent, in diction, emphasis, and interest. Sarah loved to hear Sister Morris read poetry. When forty winters shall besiege thy brow And dig deep trenches in thy beauty's field, Thy youth's proud livery, so gazed on now, Will be a tattered weed, of small worth held. Then being asked where all thy beauty lies, Where all the treasure of thy lusty days, To say within thine own deep-sunken eyes, Were an all-eating shame and _thriftless praise. How much more praise deserved thy beauty's use If thou couldst answer, "This fair child of mine Shall sum my count and make my old excuse," Proving his beauty by succession thine! This is to be new-made when thou art old, And see thy blood warm when thou feel'st it cold. HERE was a hush in the Relief Society room as Sister Morris finished reading the sonnet. 'Then Sister Morris spoke. "I don't believe anyone has ever explained more viv: idly the joy of having children, and seeing them progress, living in your children and grandchildren, even after death, as has Shakespeare, in this sonnet. I hope you'll all take a copy of this poem and learn it, and enjoy it as much as I have. "Now that we have the entire poem on the board, and we've talked about the accent and rhythm of the poem, let's talk a little about thyme. If you'll notice every other line rhymes until we get to the last RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957. Two, which rhyme. Now, an easy way to remember which lines should thyme when you write a Shakespearcan sonnet, is to number lines down to fourteen. 'Then, in front of cach line, down to the last, write: ABAB; CDCD; EFEF; GG. Now, with this done, all you will have to do is make the A_ lines thyme, the B lines rhyme, and so on down until you are finished. If you were writing some other kind of sonnet, you would use a different thyme scheme, but the number of lines would be the same, and the number of feet and the type of accent would be the same. "Now, I might say, also, that in Shakespeare's time, they used many contractions, such as the one in the last line, feel'st. But today contractions are frowned upon, so don't use them in your sonnet. Now, in the fourth line, which reads: Will be a tattered weed, of small worth held, today, we would not invert as Shakespeare has done. We would say, 'Will be a tattered weed, held of small worth.' So, in your verse writing, don't use inversions. Another thing to watch for is that the rhyme words used, should not, if at all possible, appear in the body of the poem. Again, I will use an example of this from our poem on the board. Praise is used as the rhyme word in the eighth line and repeated in the ninth line, but this is all mght in this case, because it is repeated more for emphasis than for lack of another good word. Now, are there any questions on your assignment of writing a sonnet for next month's lesson?" Sister Morris smiled sweetly at the class of sisters she was teaching. SOCIETY SONNETS "What if we can only write four lines, or maybe even two, and cav't go any further?" Sister Mecham asked. "There are lots of poems with only two lines. 'They are called couplets. 'here are poems with only four lines. They are called quatrains. 'There are poems with six lines, which are called sestets. If you have put over a complete thought in a shorter poem than a sonnet, that will be just fine. "But, please, all of you try!" Sister Morris urged. "If Shakespeare would take the time and thought to write all those wonderful plays and hundreds of poems for people to read and enjoy all through the years, surely we can write one tiny verse, to gain a better understanding of his fine accomplishments." ARAH Barnes listened as Sister Morris finished her lesson. She was gaining so much joy and knowledge from this course. She kept thinking, if only I could write a sonnet. As Sarah Barnes walked the few blocks from the chapel to her home, she kept repeating, "The mighty Shakespeare, king of all the bards." Upon entering the house, even before she took her suit jacket off, she hurried to her little white desk in the kitchen and wrote: If I could write a sonnet such as he The mighty Shakespeare, king of all the bards. She took her pencil and marked the lines for meter, as Sister Morris had had them do at the meeting. Sister Morris had said words are like people—they don't care to be tapped in tender places. If one were not sure of the accent it could be looked 501 up in the dictionary. Sarah studied the two lines carefully. Nota single word seemed to be lined up so the accent fell on the syllable which was not accented. 'The two lines were both perfect pentameter! Sarah Barnes felt a thrill, with just two lines written. Of course, it was only a start. She hadn't even worked into the rhyme of it yet, much less completed a thought. What would a good third line be? It would, of course, have to rhyme with he. Sarah Barnes toyed with the pencil as she thought, then scribbled: A sonnet equal to a symphony. She tested the line for meter and accent. It, too, seemed correct. Now, to think of one which would rhyme with bards, and still carry on the thought. With neither faulty notes nor monochords. Sarah read the four lines over altogether. Not bad she thought, but the words bards and monochords, did not seem to be perfect rhymes. She glanced at the clock. It was time she was preparing dinner. She tucked the scribbled lines out of sight in the desk, hurried to change into a prim little housedress, and started peeling potatoes. She was glad she had set the salad and prepared the dessert before she went to Relief Society. "With all these poetry notions buzzing in my head," she said aloud, and smiled. Anyway it had been fun, and it had made her think as nothing had for years and years. If I could write a sonnet such as he, she kept repeating, as if gaining courage to continue with the sonnet project which she had started. Now she was in the mood for it, she found it fun writing verse. As 502 she fried the steaks, she thought of a fifth line: Would that I could portray my soul with word. She scribbled the words down, as the steaks browned. The sixth line didn't have to rhyme with the one preceding. Sarah reached out for something fine and fresh: Words which would live on after life is past. Sarah Barnes tapped out the words with a sort of te-tum on her fingers as Sister Morris had done at meeting. Now the seventh line must thyme with word. Sarah thought of bird, but bird was certainly off the subject. How would this be: A perfect poem worthy to be heard? Sarah wrote it down quickly. GIEVE Barnes was late coming home for dinner. Sarah, who usually peered out of the window and worried about his lateness, now turned her thoughts to adding another line to her sonnet. Let me see, the eighth should rhyme with past. How about, And add a bit of joy to those downcast? Sarah leaned back in the chair and mused about the fun she was having. Eight lines already. Why she was more than half finished with a sonnet. Only six more lines to go, and she hadn't had the assignment more than three hours! There wasn't time that evening for more versification. Sarah didn't want Steve to know she had been trying her hand at poetry. It might bring on one of his teasing moods. The Barnes couple enjoyed the evening talking about their experiences of the day. Sarah told of the lovely literature lesson Sister Morris had given on Shakespeare's sonnets, and she read the one aloud which she had copied from the blackboard. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Steve chuckled at the first line: When forty winters shall besiege thy brow. "'Let's see I was forty when my brow was besieged, and I lost my hair." But when Sarah came to the last two lines: This is to be made new when thou art old, And see thy blood warm when thou feel'st it cold, Steve spoke of the joy of having children grow up and go out into the world and make successes of their lives. "A person certainly hasn't lived for naught, when a fine posterity is left to carry on," Steve Barnes said. Sarah was glad she had shared part of the literature lesson with him. It was just as Sister Morris had encouraged the sisters to do, to Share the lessons with their family. Sarah found herself wishing that she had shared her Relief Society lessons more when the children had been home. It would have been good for the children and for her. Sarah was bothered in the night with insomnia, but instead of wortying about little things when she couldn't sleep, she recited the first eight lines of her sonnet and thought of how she could finish it. The next morning, she saw Steve off to his work and then started washing the breakfast dishes. Sister Morris had said that lots of her poems came to her as she washed dishes. Sarah washed and dried and thought of her sonnet. The ninth and tenth lines came together, as one. If I could ponder, sift, and then refine my thoughts, then share them with the world of men. Sarah wrote them down, and reread them. It did sound a little like Kipling's "If" poem, but still it was SOCIETY SONNETS not at all the same, except for the word "if," and certainly Kipling had no corner on a word, when it was in the dictionary for everyone to use. Well she certainly had persisted with this sonnet! She wrote the eleventh and twelfth lines down. Write sonnet structure in perfect align, Play words as Shakespeare played each tragedienne. Align was thyming very nicely with refine, and tragedienne with world of men. Did that seem right? It didn't seem quite right. "Tt takes a little longer to do the dishes. But I've never enjoyed the task so much," Sarah said, as she hung the dish cloth neatly in its place. HE turned to her sonnet. 'Twelve lines were there. Lots of poems ended with twelve lines, but Sister Morris had said that a poem was not complete until the thought was complete. If she could only clinch her thought with two more lines, then she would have a poem of sonnet length and a _ complete thought. It was while she was dusting that the thirteenth line came: Then I could touch another's own heartstrings. ""That's good, but I would like to tell what writing a sonnet has done to me, deep inside," Sarah spoke softly. Quick as a flash the final line made itself known: Down deep within, my heart would also sing. Sarah Barnes had never been quite so excited, as she hurried to the little white desk to write the entire poem on a clean white sheet. She used the dictionary to check 503 spelling and accent of words. Could it really have happened that she had written a sonnet at the age of sixty? She shut her eyes. Even if no one ever sces this verse, she thought, I have accomplished something wonderful. It's done something for me, deep down inside. Did Shakespeare enjoy such a feeling of creation, when he finished a sonnet? "If only I could show it to Sister Morris," Sarah said: The timidity which shrouded Satah Barnes grew more dense, but she gave a shrug to sluff it off and spoke aloud: "I've been timid all my life, and what has it done for me?" 'Then, in a chiding voice, her better self spoke up: "Sarah Barnes, you get on the phone right this minute and call Sister Morris, and tell her you have completed your assignment. If she doesn't invite you over, ask her when it will be convenient to call." 'Then Sarah added, "After all, she did ask us all to stop in if we needed any help, and knowing Sister Morris, she meant every word of it." Sarah Barnes dialed the number, but she wasn't prepared for the genuine joy which Sister Morris had in her voice when she answered, "Well, good for you, Sister Barnes! I just knew you could do it if you tried! Come over this afternoon by all means!" She hesitated for a moment then continued: "I guess I'm overanxious to see your work, but I have to pass your house on my way to the store in less than a half hour. I could drop in on you, if you like." "Please do!'' Sarah said warmly. She was elated, as she hung up the receiver. She knew that it 504 would have been hard for her to wait until afternoon to see if the poem was good, if she had actually written a sonnet! Sarah finished her morning work quickly and then removed her little work apron just before the doorbell rang. Sister Morris read the poem silently. 'Then she tapped her fingers, and Sarah Barnes knew she was te-tum, te-tuming the poem for accent. What had she called it, scanning? She was putting a check here and there. Sarah's heart sank. Perhaps she had been foolish to even think she could write a sonnet at her age. At length Sister Morris spoke: "Sister Barnes, it's lovely. It's just wonderful! You've put over such a fine thought and expressed a worthwhile feeling. You've shared your innermost self with others in this sonnet." ARAH Barnes felt a joy within which had seldom been equaled. Sister Morris had actually called it a sonnet. What was she saying? "There are one or two _ little places, I would suggest you think about. Perhaps you will want to revise it. Let's look up the word monochord in your dictionary." Sarah Barnes couldn't feel hurt at Sister Morris, she was so kind, so helpful, the perfect teacher. 'Together they bent over the dictionary and read about monochords. "Why, a monochord was a single-string instrument used in medieval times," Sarah laughed. "I must have been thinking of monotone! Let's see, it should rhyme with bards. Could I use discords?" Sarah thought for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 a moment, and Sister Morris waited, and soon the revised line came: With neither faulty notes nor sound discords. Sarah Barnes could feel her lifelong introvert trouble sort of dissolving in front of this understanding teacher. "Now, in the eleventh line," Sister Morris pointed out, "the word perfect, is perfect." She laughed a little, then continued: "But the accent is wrong. So often in poetry writing one has to substitute a word, sometimes not quite so good, because of accent. Can you think of another word for perfect, which is two syllables, and the last syllable is accented, rather than the first?" Sister Morris was so kind, so helpful, she wasn't using her own words to perfect the poem, she was helping her, like a good teacher would, to complete it herself. "How about complete?" Sarah asked. "Complete is perfect!" Sister Morris chuckled, "even Shakespeare himself could have done no better!" "Now that your sonnet is finished and revised, let's read it for depth and meaning," Sister Morris said. It was with the same fine, rich voice which she had used to read Shakespeare's When forty winters shall besiege thy brow: If I could write a sonnet such as he, The mighty Shakespeare, king of all the bards, A sonnet equal to a symphony, With neither faulty notes nor sound discords; Would that I could portray my soul with word, Words which would live on after life is past. A perfect poem worthy to be heard, Which would add joy to those who seem downcast. SOCIETY SONNETS If I could ponder, sift, and then refine My thoughts, then share them with the world of men, Write sonnet structure in complete align, Play words, as Shakespeare played each tragedienne, Then I could touch another's taut heartstring, And deep within, my heart would also sing. There was a moment of complete silence between the two women. Then Sister Morris spoke, "Sister Barnes, I want to tell you what this means to me. All my life I have wanted to be a schoolteacher, but I was denied higher education. I've just studied by myself and learned alone. It was through the Relief Society and other organizations that I've been able to fulfill a desire to teach others. This sonnet you have written is proof that I can teach, that I can help others to learn. You see it's sort of proof that I have put over the lesson. You've made me so very happy. And now I want to ask a favor. I want to read your 505 sonnet at our next literature mecting. It's so good, such a gem! "If the other sisters have captured the joy of creating, as you have, if they, too, have written poems of worth, I'll run off mimeograph copies of all, and we'll bind them, so that each of us may have a booklet to cherish all our lives. And, Sister Barnes, I want yours as the frontispiece!" Sarah Barnes felt a change come over her. She knew that from now on she wouldn't be the timid little introvert she had always been. If Sister Morris could grow through study to become a fine teacher in the Church, why she would grow, too. She would answer questions when she knew them, and take part in the meetings. What had Sister Morris said: put their verses in a little booklet, so that each sister could have a copy of all the poems written. It was a good idea! Sarah Barnes smiled and_ said: "We could name the booklet Society Sonnets." —~<> Home Mabel Jones Gabbott This is the porch I played upon As a toddling child; the years are gone Swiftly, swiftly in time's whirl; Yet, this is the door as a little girl Through which how gladly I would go, Running to school, so long ago. The family home is not the same Under other people's name; Now in the room I laid my head Other children's prayers are said; And here where mother's raisin pies Won her praise from lips and eyes Others share good food and talk; Slowly down the curving walk My feet and heart in memory go, Past the peonies' crimson glow. Bricks may be scarred by wind and rain, But love and memories remain, Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1897 "For THE Ricuts OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN oF ALL Nations" TWO SILK FLAGS: The Utah silk commission accomplished the making of two silk flags for the Jubilee which were used in the parade on the memorable 24th of July. The flags were of genuine home-made silk, cocoons raised and silk reeled right here in the city [Salt Lake City|—the reeling was done by two young girls, Miss Florence Harrison and Miss Maria Horrocks, and the entire work was done, and the flags were made under the directions of Mrs. Margaret A. Caine, whose untiring efforts in the matter of silk culture deserve public recognition. One of the flags was displayed by the Governor's staff and the other just next to President Woodruft's carriage. —News Note RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS VISIT SANPETE: After enjoying the kindly hospitality of the people of Mayfield... The party drove to Fayette, holding meeting in the new Relief Society hall... With nearly all the members present, as well as the young ladies. 'The president, Sister Eliza Bartholomew... Is keenly alive to the duties of her... Office and has an efficient aid in her husband, the worthy Bishop. The next appointment was at Gunnison.... The weather was quite cold and disagreeable, and the cheery pitch-pine fire which greeted our entrance into Bishop Madsen's dining room was only equaled by the warm welcome extended by the Bishop and his wife, who is the president of the Relief Society and is very energetic in her field of labor. Our meeting in the evening was well attended and a good spirit prevailed. —From "Visits and Meetings" JUBILEE POEM (The Utah Pioneer Journey) Now! Let the Scroll of Time awhile unroll— That briefly we can scan on history's page— A pilgrimage of fifty years ago, Fraught with importance to this wondrous age.... List! The jubilant echoes o'er mountain heights ringing, List! The beautiful valleys resounding with praise, List! The streams and the fountains together are singing— A chorus of joy, on this day of all days.... —Emily H. Woodmansee OLD FOLKS DAY IN PAROWAN: Irrespective of creed, color or political faith, all who had passed three score or more milestones, adown the journey on this sphere, were entitled to a free seat, with all the comforts and attention that a bevy of good natured young people could bestow, and at one o'clock the large, new opera hall was filled with the honored guests, seated around tastily decorated tables laden so completely with the choicest dishes that it was a perfect surprise, and many queries were propounded as to where so many good things came from; right here our much loved President gave a feeling poctical address of welcome, the blessing was pronounced and the feast partaken of in a way that all were assured that the labors and generosity of the Relief Society members were truly appreciated.... —News Note Page 506 BELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President, represented Relief Society as a delegate at the meetings of the International Council of Women in Montreal, Canada, June 5th to June 15th, 1957. Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, as an alternate, representing the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, also attended the meetings. 'Thirty member nations were represented, with observers from additional countries. D»*- MARTHA ELIOT, former head of the Children's Bureau of the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, is now a professor in Harvard's School of Public Health. She says that the modern trend in some states to punish parents vicariously for children's delinquency, is "not only repugnant to American concepts of justice and fair play; it is contrary to sound social policy." 'The real need, she feels, is to provide the kinds of diagnostic counseling and guidance services that help parents who have serious personal or social problems. MABEL LAW ATKINSON, Dayton, Idaho, a long-time contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has placed first and second and has also won honorable mention in the national 1956 Davis Contest for Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon poetry contributing to everyday living. For the first time all the judges voted the prize-winning poem, "A Sixth Door Opens" first place. Mrs. Atkinson has used her Latter-day Saint teachings as the theme of the poem. Her poems also placed first in the Arnold Davidson's "Time" contest and second in the "Space" poem contest. HREE women graduates of the University of Utah are now engaged in important foreign service work for the United States Department of State. Mrs. Isabel G. Blackstock is in the division of research for U. S. S. R. And Eastern Europe; Mrs. Marie W. Cannon is consul in Berlin; and Mrs. Alice B. Correll is in the office of special consular services. R. LEONA C. BAUMGARTNER, New York City Commissioner of Health, points out from statistics that the mothers who get the best quality of medical care during and after pregnancy, are the ones who produce the healthiest infants. Perinatal deaths (those occurring within thirty days after birth) take the lives of 165,000 infants a year. 'This number of deaths is exceeded only by the mortality from heart disease, cancer, and cerebral hemorrhage, or stroke. Page 507 @Q—> EDITORIAL oe VOL. 44 AUGUST 1957 A Day of Doing Common Shings T has been said that summer is the swiftest season of the year. Although the time in actual hours is long between sunrise and sunset, and the blue twilight lingers in the valley, still the days for most women are filled with a multitude of duties. These tasks, some of them small and insignificant in themselves, require such a variety of activity, that many women say when day is done that nothing has been accomplished — the day has been wasted. Yet how strange it is that a day which we may have considered as wasted may remain in our minds as pethaps the most sunlit day of our lives — the day in which we have most fully claimed our heritage as women and as homemakers. Take the ordinary day of an ordinary woman, a day that seemed at its ending, and for years in memory, to hold in the limits of its swift hours a radiant circle of fulfillment. A group of women while making a quilt were discussing some problems of homemaking, the need for scheduling one's time, and the feeling of accomplishment that comes with order and planned routine. Some of the women mentioned the necessity of being flexible enough to accept emergencies and to alter one's daily plans. Then an elderly sister recounted the experiences of a day that she had remembered over the years. It was a summer day, in August, she said, Page 508 when all of her children except the two-year-old daughter had gone with their father to the ranch, and she had a day allowing some liberty for choosing what she wanted to do. Morning lay cool and beautiful upon her garden and the bordering orchard trees, inviting her to spend the early hours there. Her daughter, wandering at will through the flower garden, touched the blossoms lightly saying, "Pretty, pretty," as she walked along. 'Then, seeing a large red carnation blossom, she seized it quickly and broke the flower from the stem. 'The mother turned to say, "Oh, no, don't pick the flowers," and she saw the little girl trying eagerly to put the blossom back on the stem — an impossible task, as the child soon found out. But the mother saw the significance of that little garden incident on an ordinary day — there are in our lives those events which have happened and cannot be changed — those mistakes, large or small, which cannot be completely mended. Later, on that summer morning, the woman began to make bread. She had prepared her own yeast and it was covered with white foam. As she measured the brown flour and added milk, she thought of bread as a blessing, and the making of bread as an ancient and honored art — a brown loaf as the pride of homemakers since first the pioneer women had come to the sagebrush valley EDITORIAL and turned its wilderness to fields of grain. Breadmaking is not a task, she thought, but a privilege, the blessed symbol of life, the evidence of plenty — food for her family. And the breadmaking was in itself a gleaming segment of the circle of a summer day. In the afternoon, while the child slept, and there was a quiet time, the mother went to the bookcase and picked up a volume of poems which her grandfather, treasuring the rich legacy of his homeland, had brought from England — Selected Poems of Wailliam Wordsworth. She had not had time for much reading, but she turned again to her favorite lines from the poem "I Traveled Among Unknown Men": Among thy mountains did I feel The joy of my desire; And she I cherished turned her wheel Beside an English fire. It seemed to this woman that the poem not only expressed the love of her ancestors for their homeland, but it made the line of descent seem more precious to her and added significance to her records and_ her genealogical work, as if a shining light illumined the pathway of her forefathers and her own destiny as well. So much can happen on an ordinary day. In the afternoon she saw her elderly neighbor across the street being wheeled out to the porch, and she remembered that it had been several days since she had 509 visited this woman who was not able to walk about and enjoy the summer. She wrapped a loaf of the newly baked bread in a clean cloth, took two of the crimson roses from the vase on the table, and with the little girl at her side, she crossed the street and greeted her neighbor. The elderly woman smiled and expressed her appreciation. "I want to tell you about the things I can see from this porch," she said. She mentioned the panorama of the red foothills, the dark blue slopes of evergreens, and the crown of granite peaks. "The hills give me courage," she said, "remember the gospel hymn, 'For the strength of the hills we bless thee, our God, our fathers' God...." The younger woman then looked with newer vision upon her valley and the guardian mountains. Almost she said to herself, "Count your blessings...." And the feeling was part of the summer day — a day that turned to twilight as the woman returned to her own home and set the supper table for her family. It was only an ordinary day — and yet each event seemed to glow with importance and a_ shining grandeur that made this woman's day one long to be remembered. Remembered not because of each task or incident within itself, but remembered because each happening seemed an integral part of life and contributed richly to her fulfillment as a woman and as a homemaker. —V. P. C. And they that shall be of thee shall build the old waste places: thou shalt raise up the foundations of many generations; and thou shalt be called, 'The repairer of the breach, The restorer of paths to dwell in (Isaiah 58:12). She "2 and Short of Mlarriage The ee of Companionship 'Be Honest with Yourself ECENTLY a young woman was traveling with her parents toward a temple where she would meet her bridegroom, and their marriage would be performed in accordance with her faith and the covenants of her people. Over this road, she said to herself, my grandfather drove his wagon from his farm on the river, traveling to the temple to participate in eternal ordinances for his kindred dead who had passed away in lands beyond the sea, not knowing of the gospel and the Priesthood power for sealing husbands and wives in companionship forever. 'The white towers of the temple and its walls of native stone rose high on the rounded green hill, and to the young bride, all the surrounding mountains seemed to shout for joy. Here in this valley, she thought, my mother's people planned for a temple while they were still living in dugouts, while much of the valley was yet untilled, where no_ granaries were needed to hold the meager harvest, while there was not a meetinghouse or a Relief Society hall in all the valley. Her people had looked toward a spiritual light and had labored for a spiritual accomplishment. It seemed to her that the continuity of the gospel was a shelter about her and as a mansion of beauty in which she would be privileged to live during her earthly life and in the long tomorrows. 'This is my homeland, she thought, these are my mountains and my hills. 'These are my people and this is my valley, the privilege and the blessing of going to the temple are mine. She thought of the future years with her husband. She knew that trouble and problems come to all earth's people, but she knew, also, that the feeling of continuity and permanence bestowed by temple marriage would be as a tower of strength to her and her husband, and that the tower would be lighted forever, even as the morning sunlight shone upon the temple above the green hills of home. She knew that when the pathway is lighted, one can perceive direction, one can be guided, one can better avoid byways of dissension and conflict. For them, newly married, and even into the twilight years, their destination would be in view, they would know in full surety that no earthly mischance could separate them — that their union would be forever. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 510 Recipes trom the South Australian TTlission Submitted by Adelphia D. Bingham PINEAPPLE PUDDING 1 tin (2% c.) pineapple chunks 1 pt. Milk 1 pkg. Jelly crystals (jello) 1 tbsp. Corn flour (cornstarch) 2 eggs 1 tbsp. Sugar Cut the pineapple into small pieces and put into a dish. Pour off the juice. Make a boiled custard with yolks of eggs, milk, corn flour, and sugar, adding a little vanilla. When cool, pour custard over pineapple and stir well together. Pour hot pineapple juice over the jello and, if necessary, add enough water to make one pint of liquid. Beat egg whites stiff and when jello is partly set beat in the egg whites. Pour this carefully over the custard. Leave to set and then serve with whipped cream. (Fresh pineapple is not suitable, use only preserved or tinned pineapple.) RASPBERRY SHORTBREAD % lb. Butter % c. Sugar 1% c. Self-rising flour 1 egg Rub butter into flour, add sugar and egg, and work into a stiff dough. Line the tray with the dough and thinly spread raspberry jam over it. Filling for Shortbread 1 c. Coconut 1 egg 1 Cc. Sugar Mix together the coconut, sugar, and egg. Spread this over the jam. Bake in moderate oven for twenty-five minutes. Leave in tray until cold and then cut into small slices. Note: To make self-rising flour, add baking powder to ordinary flour in proportions suggested on the can. LAMINGTONS 3 eggs 1 tbsp. Butter 1 ¢c. Sugar % c. Boiling water 1% c. Self-rising flour Beat eggs and sugar for fifteen minutes, add flour, then add butter and boiling water. Bake twenty-five minutes. When cold, cut into squares, dip into chocolate icing, and roll in coconut. BrEEFSTEAK PuDDING 1% Ibs. Steak % c. Plain flour 2 sheeps' kidneys salt and pepper 1 onion water (small amount) % c. Water Cut steak into small pieces, add onion, pepper, salt, and flour. Put into steamer. Pudding 4 ozs. Beef suet 1% c. Self-rising flour Grate the beef suet into the self-rising flour, adding a pinch of salt. Rub the flour and suet together and mix with a little water. Place this on top of meat in steamer. Steam four hours, Page 511 512 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 SEASONED STEAK 1 Ib. Steak 2 small onions 2 potatoes 3 tomatoes salt and pepper grated cheese Put a little dripping or water in baking dish, having it very hot. Lay the steak, which should be about one inch thick, in the baking dish, baking rather slowly for fifteen minutes. Baste well and season with a little pepper and salt. Slice onions very thin and cover meat in an even layer. Bake this until the onions are tender. Then cover with a thin layer of potatoes and bake until tender. Cover with slices of tomatoes and bake until tender, with occasional basting. Then sprinkle with grated cheese, letting it melt before serving. Passion Frurr FLUMMERY 1 c. Milk 1 c. Hot water 1 egg 1 pkg. Lemon jelly (jello) % ¢. Sugar 4 passion fruit (use only juice and seeds) Beat egg and sugar to a froth. Add milk. Dissolve jelly (jello) in hot water. Add to mixture. Add passion fruit and beat well. Leave to set. Pium PuppINc 2 c. White bread crumbs 1 c. Seeded raisins 3 ripe bananas, cut up 1 tsp. Soda mixed in % c. Milk 1 c. Seedless raisins Mix all together and steam for two hours. Serve with any desired sauce. CHOCOLATE SAUCE PUDDING 2 tbsp. Butter 1 tbsp. Cocoa 1 Cc. Sugar; % c. Milk 1 egg ¥% tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Flour, or more pinch of salt 1 tsp. Baking powder 1% c. Hot water Cream butter and % c. Sugar, add egg and mix well. Fold in sifted dry ingredients alternately with milk. Pour into greased pan. Mix together % c. Sugar and 1 tbsp. Cocoa and sprinkle over mixture. Lastly, over all, pour 14 c. Hot water. Cover and steam 12-2 hours. Serve with cream. Lemon SNOWDRIFT CAKE % c. Butter 3 eggs 1 Cc. Sugar 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Flour 1 tsp. Grated lemon rind Cream butter and sugar, add well-beaten eggs gradually. Mix in lemon rind, then stir in sifted flour and baking powder. Blend until smooth. Bake in round cake pans, in moderate oven, 350° for 15-20 minutes. Put together with lemon filling, and sprinkle top with powdered sugar. Lemon Filling: Y% c. Water 1 tbsp. Butter % Cc. Sugar 1 egg juice of 1 lemon 2 tsp. Cornstarch RECIPES FROM THE SOUTH AUSTRALIAN MISSION 513 Beat egg in saucepan, add rest of ingredients, and stir over heat until thick. Cook about 1 minute. AFTERNOON CAKE 2 tbsp butter 1 c. Flour % c. Sugar 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 egg 1 tsp. Vanilla Y, ¢. Milk Cream butter and sugar, add egg, milk, vanilla, and flour containing baking powder. Pour into greased cake pan and bake twenty-five minutes. When cooked, spread with butter while still hot, then sprinkle on top, the following mixed together: 1 tsp. Cinnamon 2 tsp. Powdered sugar 2 tsp. Coconut, chopped fine Gu Gg. Kotter Finds Self-Expression Shrough Color Combinations and Designs of Quilts OR Sister Ella J. Kotter, eighty-five, of Brigham City, Utah, making hand-pieced quilts is not only a hobby but it is also an art through which she expresses her feelings for colors and designs. She has made over fifty of these beautiful quilts, some of which she has given as gifts to her seven children and sixteen grandchildren. She was born in Brigham City of pioneer parents, Andrew C. Jensen and Anna Marie Carlson Jensen. She married the late William F. Kotter. Sister Kotter served as a Relief Society counselor for eight years, and then as president in the Brigham City Fourth Ward for three years. She also devoted many years as a visiting teacher. Sister Kotter has found happiness and contentment in life, when she keeps her hands and her mind busy. Holly Part II (Conclusion) Margaret S. Hardy Synopsis: Holly and her husband Jesse live in a log cabin on a pioneer homestead, where drought has destroyed the crops. Holly, who is expecting her first child, is left alone in the cabin when Jesse is called to help the other farmers fight a flash flood. Fearful of being alone, Holly goes out into the darkness in an attempt to get help. She is rescued and taken to the midwife's home where her son is born. HE end of August found Jesse working in the sawmill and Holly moved into a dugout— damp, dark, but a roof no less. The day was cool and fine when Holly walked to town to meet the mail coach. The destroying rain had, also, brought new life to the sun-baked earth and Holly found pleasure in every step. She left the path and turned down Shoonsburg road and past Doe Ketting's house. Doe was left all alone since Cam went on his mission, 'The thought made Holly feel uneasy and her feet moved faster, as she held the baby close. Jesse could be called—oh, perish the thought — her without a house and a new baby to look after in this land of Indians and wild beasts. But the thought had filled her with fear. "Holly! Wait!" She stopped and turned to see Doe hurrying after her. "The mail coach is already come, Holly, and strangers on it. And a letter from Cam. Fourteen months and he'll be home." "Fourteen months, Doe! Fourteen years!" Holly cried out, then Page 514 clamped her lips shut tight and threw her hand up to her mouth lest she should say more. Then, with sympathy for Doe, and thinking of herself, too, she lowered her voice. "What's it like, Doe, with having to find your own food, and Indians coming to your door at night when you're alone? I could never stand it, Doe. Never." "Tt may be that one who lacks the courage was not made for pioneering." Holly felt a hot blush rise and words caught in her throat. "Tm not — it's not that.... She stopped to look into Doe's face. Then, "Things aren't always the way they seem," she said. "Jesse has never been called." Holly turned to leave and saw Doe's hand stretched out—heard words meant to pacify—but couldn't stop her moving feet to turn back. Back up Shoonsburg road_ she went; back up the path that led over the hill. The resting place not far ahead and the dugout below, where some day soon she would see a stone house, a story and a half; and she would walk home leaning on Jesse's arm, new shoes on her feet, and a parasol in her hand. "This is a right fine day for a lady to be out for a stroll without shoes, and carrying a baby besides," said a voice beside her. Holly jumped and_ stooped to cover her toes with her skirt. >? HOLLY "Why, Captain John, it's you, and on foot." "T came on the mail coach, Holly; came to muster up a team of men to take a wagon train back to the states; and Jesse to head it." THE path did a dance before Holly's eyes, and she laid her hand against the big arm beside her to steady herself until she found her voice. It came, sounding weak and faraway, '"To go after immigrants?" Holly's feet were rooted to the ground. "They need help to come West, Holly. Jesse's the man we need." He spoke with authority, a leader he. "You should know that, Holly. Your wagon train had a guard—you couldn't come without it." Something remembered, a flicker of hope, and Holly raised an eager face to Captain John's. "Oh, Captain John!" she explained, "you haven't heard about us—I mean the flood taking our house and _ Jesse having to build a new one with winter coming, and the baby and all...." "This call doesn't come from me, Holly. It comes from higher up." Words sprang to her lips unspoken, the ring of them terrifying in her mind lest she should blurt them out; thoughts that should never have come into her head. Her legs moved her feet slowly forward, and they climbed in silence up the winding path, Holly first, picking her way thoughtlessly, each step a_ habit. Captain John was following, the grinding of his boots on the stones the only sound. Holly looked around her at the red hills and the harsh, barren land of stone and sun waitnS ing still to be conquered. This was her home, bought and held with the faith and sacrifice of the women and the straining and toiling of the men. Grasshoppers — famine — floods; babies born in wagons — loved ones laid away in forgotten graves. That was the price they had paid. She, too, had paid, and the pride of it crept into her heart. Here her son would grow strong, where only the strong could live. She would be one with Doe, and with the others; so many young wives were alone, and more men would be going now. She lifted her face again to the Captain beside her. "Will Jesse be a captain like you, Captain John?" OK Ok KK HE summer sun was gone, and the winter sun came, filtering through the small dugout window. Holly awoke with a_ start. This would be the day. 'The Indian runner had said the wagon train was three sleeps away. This was the third sleep Holly had taken, so at this very minute Captain Jesse would be riding out his last day. Some five months before, Holly had started to mark the miles off on the dugout wall. 'Twenty miles a day she had counted — and sometimes maybe more, given good oxen and peaceable Indians. 'Twenty hundred miles had marched across her wall— and she had counted him home some twenty-three days before. And then Panimeto had come with news of the wagon train upstate and the bravery of Captain Jesse. Fancied pictures came to her mind—a picture of Jesse, at the company's head, with a decision to 516 make. Indians preparing for an attack, their wolf-calls carrying through the quiet of the dread night. A picture of Jesse crawling on his stomach beneath the Indian sentry's very nose — stampeding the horses while the warriors danced in a frenzy around the fire. And best of all, the picture of Jesse leaping from his horse and coming straight to her, their baby in her arms. And with a new pair of shoes for her. No doubt about it. She sprang from her bed. "Oh, happy day in the morning" burst from her lips as she hurried about her morning tasks. Work done, she wrapped the baby in his wooly and stepped from the dugout and up the frosty path. Excitement made her feet fleet, and no weariness was in her. Holly walked swiftly by Doe's house, but a slamming door and Doe's voice calling brought her to a stop. "No need to hurry so, Holly," she called. "No wagon train has arrived or we'd have heard." "T'm going to the store." "To buy, or warm your feet?" A blushing warmth started to spread over Holly's body and she looked to see if her toes were showing from under the ragged hem of her dress. It was then that she saw Doe's feet—as bare as her own and likely as cold. VENING, and the cold brisked up and a bright moon was promised for the night. Preparations for the welcome-home dance were completed, though no wagon train as yet had arrived. The social hall filled early with merry dancers young and old. Admission, two candles— RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 one for light and one to pay the fiddlers. Holly stepped inside and looked for a corner in which to put her box lunch, neatly packed in a pan. Alongside the hall, logs covered with bright quilts for better sitting were already well filled with widows and wallflowers. An empty spot, and Holly settled herself, tucked her feet under her skirt, and looked around her. The hall warmed with the dancers, and men's bright linsey shirts looked brighter still for dampness on the backs. Babies were wrapped in blankets laid on benches, pressed against the wall to keep from rolling. Children grew weary and hungry for the lunches waiting in the corner. Candles, held fast in turnip holders, flickered lower after every dance, dripped their tallow on whoever sat beneath them. And Holly's heart grew tired with its pounding. Supper — and enough for the travelers, but none to share it yet. Fancy fare, thought Holly, beans, baked in molasses, cold steamed mutton, biscuits. 'The memory of long, lean months past, with little to eat, crowded into her mind, and she felt hungrier than she had ever felt in her life. Merriment dimmed as the bishop raised his hand for silence and a blessing on the food. Stillness over the hall, and night sounds creeping in from out of doors. Holly listened to every grateful word and heard the people moving when the prayer was ended. Then came another sound, and this one from outside, faint and far away. A pause, and she heard it again. Her heart beat faster. Were only her ears tuned for the sound? She mustn't run. It would not be HOLLY proper. Walk like a lady across the floor. No one else had heard. She reached the doorway. 'The brightness of the moonlight night was lighter than the hall had been. Now she could shout, "They're coming — they're here." She heard feet shuffling behind her, but she was first. First to see Jesse leading the guard whose banners were flying in the moonlight, making their way down Shoonsburg toad, the whitetops lumbering behind, creaking, moaning, weary. "Captain Jesse!' She ran down the moon-splashed road toward the procession. She could see him more clearly now, sitting tall astride his horse — hero to these — but husband to her. He saw her. The captain of the guard was swinging down from his horse, a pair of shoes dangling from his belt. Then, inside the hall, it was fiddle and song, and the benches were emptied. So much running through Holly's mind, so much to be grate- 517 ful for, with Jesse at her side and her feet warm once more. Doe was sitting by the fiddler's table, and Cam still away on his mission. Holly felt a sudden surge of compassion for Doe, and she left the floor and went to her and kissed her cheek. "Cam will be home soon, Doe, and then maybe you'll have a baby...." The hand on her arm was Jesse's. "Shall we go home, Holly love?" Holly turned to look up into Jesse's face. Home! 'The dugout over the hill. Wagon, log cabin, stone house in the cedars. <A place wrung out of the barren wilderness. Home was where Jesse was, no matter what. He would be called to go away again without a doubt, and she would be ready to let him go— ready to welcome him home again. She leaned against Jesse and smiled at him, the baby in her arms, at last, her answer came. "T'm ready, Jesse. We're ready," she said. Glimpse of Heaven Ruth Lounsbury We hold within the circle of our home A portion of our Heavenly Father's grace, For him we guide each child to us endeared, We catch a glimpse of heaven in each face. On family night we pause to count our gifts, Each one, a precious jewel of priceless worth. Our kingdom, reaching far beyond this sphere, Is anchored in our home, its earthly berth. How sweet the ties of family love that bind Each soul on earth to those in heaven above! When kneeling in our daily family prayer How near we come to God's own perfect love! Fu Need for Patience Myrtle M. Dean OX evening I called to visit for a few moments with a young mother who had three small boys. Wer husband was away from home on an assignment for the government, leaving her with the full responsibility of the children. She invited me in, and as we sat to talk she dropped heavily on to her chair. Tears came to her eyes when she spoke. "At last the children are all in bed and asleep." 'Then she continued, "Oh, how I pray for patience, every night." I remembered the days when my own children were small, and were growing up; how difficult it was to meet patiently all the daily problems. "They look so sweet and innocent when they are asleep, all safe for the night in their beds. And I feel ashamed then that I have been so impatient with their little, mischievous ways," the young woman said. I, too, know the regret one feels for impatience. As a child kneels at your knee to repeat his prayer; as you tuck him in bed all rosy and clean, and after a good-night kiss he soon falls asleep, then a great thankfulness fills you for your children. I smiled at the mother as I told her, "You have found the secret to help you with your problems—a prayer for patience." As I left her, I thought of the great need each of us has for patience every day. Usually it is the mother who must keep the home atmosphere free from disturbance and emotional tensions. She must satisfy the family's needs for food and clothing; their surroundings must be kept clean and comfortable. Even more important, she must be an_ ever-ready spiritual adviser when a need arises. A mother, too, must undergo the ceaseless repetitions of daily tasks, and intelligently answer the numerous, persistent questions of a family. She must be a wise arbiter of their childish differences. To attain a truly peaceful and tranquil atmosphere in the home, one's serenity must be genuine. It is not enough to display an outward composure when there is an undercurrent of seething tension. Children readily discern deception or pretense. It is only by continued awareness that a habit of thoughtful patience may be established. Just as a flock of birds congregating in a green meadow will surely be put to flight by a sudden sound or some foreign object coming too close to them, so will the joy be banished from a happy heart, and the brightness of a peaceful day be darkened by a hasty word or unkind action. It takes courage and fortitude to curb impatient words and impetuous emotions. Through a sincere prayer, we may receive the help to attain to the patience we desire. Each morning at the beginning of a new day, a prayer will give strength and courage. A prayer every night will bring gratitude, comfort, and peace. <> &xp ression Gene Romolo Not alone man speaks; all nature voices, In varying moods, a language of its own, And every comprehending soul rejoices In myriad tongues of nature's magic tone. They who hearken unto nature's language Receive the largess of a boon sublime, For nature gives expressions of all time, And of all seasons, and far and near are flung Enchanting strains its lilting voice has sung. Page 518 Ward Linton WHITE AZALEAS End of Summer Catherine E. Berry How fast the days are running now, As if some ghostly winds Were prodding them to speed ahead, Before the earth rescinds The little time that summer has Before the cycle turns, And autumn brings her caravan, And every leaf pile burns. The August days are flying past The calendar of hours, With lavish beauty scattered now In carpets starred with flowers. And summer spends her last few coins Each blue-bright day and night To garner all the earth can give, Before her final flight. "Page 519 All Is Well Queenie Jenkins HE snow had stopped falling through the night and the brisk wind was busily tidying up the landscape outside the Sutherland's kitchen, where Matty was busy preparing breakfast; and in the bathroom, Kirk, her husband, was doing his best to warble "The Donkey Serenade" melodiously under the cold shower and not making a very great success of it. As she listened to him, Matty mentally stamped her foot. How could he be so cheerful, she wondered, when she felt so downhearted. 'This was their first 'Thanksgiving Day in America, and she had hoped they would spend it in their own quiet home. But Kirk had had it planned to the last detail before he told her. Yet, she might have expected it, she reminded herself, because back home in Australia, he had described 'Thanksgiving in America over and over to her. Dreamily she thought back to the time when she had first met him. She had been a governess on an lsolated sheep station where Kirk was the manager. She had thought Australians were the tallest men, but they had nothing on Kirk. He stood six feet six inches in his socks. 'Tall, dark, and handsome described him perfectly. She had fallen in love at once. On moonlight nights, when they went for walks, Kirk had told her all about the life back in the States. The only thing he hadn't told her, was the size of the families. She had imagined the ordinary Australian Page 520 family. But it wasn't that way at all. 'There were eight brothers and four sisters who were all married and had large families. Since she and Kirk were the only ones without a family, they were in constant demand to help out with this or that. Then, too, she had been interested in the way he described his Church. From what she could make out, the entire family spent most of their lives in Church meetings. She was entranced as she listened to the way Latter-day Saints loved their Church and all attended the meetings together. Hen Kirk had said, "Oh, darling, you'll love it, too. You couldn't help it." After a year of married life, Matty agreed with him wholeheartedly. Never, in all her life had she experienced the feeling of belonging as she had among the saints. Fach time she met them she experienced the same warm glow. But, to get back to Thanksgiving — it seemed like the Church; it was a whole family affair. Kirk had informed her that the boys, meaning his brothers and himself, would be fixing the corral fence, and Matty felt as though, for all she would see of her husband, they might have been separated with one at the North Pole and one at the South Pole. Now, as Kirk left the table and passed her chair, he kissed the back of her neck and murmured in her ear, "Know something, honey?" "What?" asked Matty. ALL IS WELL "Your husband loves you very much, Sister Sutherland," and Matty felt the same old thrill as she listened to him. "Kirk, couldn't we..." ed, then stopped. "Couldn't we what, sweetheart? Come on, tell me what you started to say." "All night, I will." Matty took a deep breath and then let it out in one long sentence. "Couldn't we just forget the family for once and go away on our own somewhere?" Kirk let her go as he gasped, "Forget the family? Not go to Thanksgiving dinner? — Darling, you're joking." "No, Kirk, ''m not. I've been wanting us to be alone and somehow we never get to be. Can't you understand, dear?" "Yes, perhaps, I can at that." "Then you will? Forget them, I mean, just this once?" "No, honey, we can't do that. Look, let's try to be sensible. Ev erything is prepared. Everybody.. "Oh, stop it!" cried Matty. "All right, we'll go. Put them all before me. See if I care." Matty burst into -tears. Kirk took her into his arms and said, "Darling, what's gone wrong with our wonderful day?" "That's just it," sobbed Matty. "It isn't our day." "Well, listen, we'll just go along and see how it goes, huh? Just to please Mother? You know, she loves you very much, and wants you every bit as much as she does me. She's planned on this reunion on Thanksgiving all those years while I was over in Australia. We can't let her down now, can we?" she start- 521 "No, I guess not," said Matty as she followed him out to the car. HEN they arrived at Kirk's home, his mother greeted her lovingly and said, "Oh, I'm so glad you're here. Will you help with the twins? You have such a wonderful way with them, dear." Somehow, those few words warmed Matty's heart, so that, after dinner when the children had left the table and the adult members of the family were sitting there quietly chatting, Matty said, "Mother, has anything been arranged about Christmas day? I mean, where we are to meet?" "Why, no, dear, we were going to discuss that over dinner, but we didn't get around to it." Matty found Kirk's hand in hers as she said, "Then why don't you all come over to our place and celebrate there?" She heard Kirk's gasp, "atta girl," and then remembered nothing more until she found herself in bed, with the doctor son, Ralph, standing beside the bed, looking at her with a wise smile. "Well, Matty, you gave us quite a scare. I'm going to talk to that lanky husband of yours in a minute, and — here comes Mother. I'll see you later, Matty" Suddenly, Matty found herself in tears and was drawn into the older woman's arms, while the latter spoke soothingly as she would to a child. "You are all right now." "But, what happened, Mother?" "Well, dear, first, I guess we Sutherlands have been getting too much for you. Is that right?" Matty drew away and asked wonderingly, "You knew?" 522 The older woman nodded, "Yes, dear, more than you think. I went through much the same experience. When I married, I had no idea what family life meant to the Latter-day Saints. Let me try to explain it to you, if you're not too tired?" Matty nodded and lay back on the pillows as Mother Sutherland continued. "To Latter-day Saints, family life is very important. Each member is a unit, and all units blend together to make a perfect whole. 'There is a oneness in Latter-day Saint families that is not often found outside the Church. All are bound together with divine love, the same love that bound the pioneers together and enabled them to make the trek to the Salt Lake Valley. "This love enabled them to fulfill the promise of the Prophet Isaiah when he wrote in the Bible, 'and the desert shall rejoice, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 blossom as the rose.' And it isn't only the families that are united in this way. Every family is a unit in the Church and all these units, closely bound together with one purpose, loving and serving one another, and our Heavenly Father, make the Church into one glorious whole. "And I think that someday soon, there's going to be a new unit in your family, binding you and Kirk together into a firmer oneness. But now," she paused, "listen." And | softly, wafting upstairs, could be heard the blending of voices singing the last part of the hymn beloved by all Latter-day Saints, "All is well." Matty, with shining eyes, whispered, "I'm a lucky girl, to have such a wonderful mother and husband. I am grateful to my Heavenly Father for leading me here to you. 'Truly, all is well." Shey Sell the Aacient &lms Joday Dorothy J. Roberts Watch, for they fell a bygone year, A song, the touch of a pioneer. See, little son, from the root's dim hold Is poured a mound of powdered gold, And a seed's long, skyward climb toward might Falls like a meteor's arch in the night. Pause with me and count the rings; The leaves are trembling; no bird sings. Nine pools of earth on the lawn lie bare; Come stand in the noon's unlidded glare. The shadow and veil of shade torn down, How naked the sky and the gabled town. The worm of age has found the wood, This bower where we dreamed and stood, These boughs—once winter lutes and spars— These twigs that caught for us the stars. Spring still lies green on every limb And wakens in the heart a hymn. These scars will heal, that mar the grass; Your sons will come; strange footsteps pass. New elms will lift their branches up, Feathered with leaves and the linnet's cup. The Bright Star CHAPTER 6 Dorothy S. Romney Synopsis: Kathy Tracy, an orphan who wishes to become an artist, lives with her Aunt Emerald Jewel Tracy in an old-fashioned house overlooking San Francisco Bay. Kathy plans to accept a position in an office building in San Francisco owned by Phineas Fenton, a neighbor and friend of the family, but her aunt suffers a partial stroke and Kathy remains at home to care for her. During her illness Aunt Em mentions something about a sea chest in the China house and a Bright Star, which Kathy feels may reveal something of her parentage and her past. Her romance with Jim Parker gradually becomes of less importance to her and finally Jim introduces Kathy to Lina Carlson, his neighbor, in whom he is interested. In the meantime Marc Hale, a stranger, has rented the China house, and one day while visiting with Aunt Em and Kathy, he tells Kathy that the picture which she is painting for an art contest is very good. At the China house during Marce's temporary absence Kathy finds the Bright Star, a tichly embossed locket. ATHY wandered into the livK ing room, the solitude of the old gray house closing all around her. At times she liked this feeling of aloofness, but not today. The finished picture was on the living-room table. 'There were wrappings in the table drawer, and just enough daylight left to walk into the village, mail the picture, then see Mr. Rickson about that job. But she was afraid she wouldn't accomplish this errand today. She was cutting the string on the last knot of the package when Marta came quietly out of Miss Em's bedroom. "She's asleep," she announced. "What was all the excitement about?" "T don't know," Kathy answered. "Mailing a package?" Marta asked. "IT wanted to — it's my picture," she explained, "but now...." "Go ahead," Marta offered generously. "Ed's pickup truck is outside. 'That will get you there and back in a hurry. Here's the key." She handed Kathy a key-ring. "I'll stay until you come back — fresh air' ll do you good." Kathy took the key with a grateful. Thanks, got her package, coin purse, and driver's license, and hurried out to the pickup. She had learned to drive before Miss Em's old car had fallen apart. She made her way slowly along Pine Road, taking the sharp turns carefully. 'Suddenly she drove out of the fog into sunshine. She had begun to feel dank and droopy herself. It was good to be suddenly thrust into a golden, glimmery, faintly dusty world. She stopped at the post office first, mailed her package, then walked to the souvenir shop. Her heart sank as she entered the shop. Mr. Rickson was nowhere in sight, and there was a young girl in charge. I'm too late, she thought, he's already hired someone. "Hi," the girl said, "remember me? I'm Roni Rickson. I met you at a music festival in the village last year." Kathy nodded, and the girl explained, "Dad thinks I'm too young to be left here alone, but he had Page 523 5a4 to go into the city on urgent business. He hasn't been able to find anyone willing to work part time yet, and that's all the help he can afford to hire,' Roni chattered on. This was good news. Kathy made a small purchase out of the coin purse in her pocket, and bade Roni goodbye, thinking, I'll be back first thing in the morning. HE remembered Aunt Em had wanted a certain book from the library. She turned her footsteps in that direction. Kathy found the book, and was returning to the street door, when the figure of Marc Hale caught her eye. She was close enough to him to see that he was looking over a file of yellowed newspapers, so absorbed he was apparently oblivious to all else. She wouldn't disturb him. She walked out to the pickup, and started along Pine Road. She tried to concentrate on other things, but her mind kept returning to Marc and his absorption in his task. Marta greeted her: "Jim Parker was here. Seemed to have something on his mind. Said he'd come back later." "Hmm," wonder.... She thanked Marta and bade her goodnight, then settled herself in the living room. She'd learned to respect her moments of solitude and to use them wisely. 'There were a dozen or more mending jobs to be gotten out of the way. Then her hand slipped into her sweater pocket. Aunt Em's Bright Star! She moved to a stool near the flickering flames of the fire Marta had built in the fireplace, and unwrapped the small package. She'd never have any Kathy murmured, "I >? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 peace of mind until she looked at it, she knew. It was a large, expensive looking locket, diamonds sparkling from its entire star-shaped surface. Kathy took a deep breath, and pressed open the back. Inside was a tinted picture of a man and a woman. 'The woman had the exact shade of ted hair as her own. "My father and mother," she whispered, unable to mistake the resemblance. "Marie and Phineas Fenton, Jr.," was engraved on the gold back of the locket. "Phineas Fenton, Jr.," she repeated again, so dazed to see her parents for the first time she didn't stop to analyze fully what the name meant. She examined their every feature, an ache in her heart to think that she had never known them. After a time, she walked to the corner of the room and opened the lid of the huge Chinese chest. For a moment she simply stood there, her eyes brooding on past memories. She could see herself sitting on Grandfather 'Tracy's knee, his arm held lovingly about her, as he slowly unfolded his fascinating tales of faraway places. Places with names that rang like bells, bronze bells in ancient temples, silver ones on cornices of pagodas standing tall above tice swamps — China. Memories of herself and Aunt Em sitting in the eight-sided cupola patiently watching for Grandfather's ship to round into the Golden Gate. Finally, the ship moving toward them out of the fog, phosphorescence round it making silvery fire, and each approaching swell gleaming soft and multicolored as opals. 'Then THE BRIGHT STAR the blast of the horn as the ship passed through the "Gate," signifying all was well. Yes, memories that she treasured as much as she treasured Aunt Em's love and devotion, she thought. In her heart she was a 'Tracy, and would be always, loving the old gray house, Aunt Em, and the things she had taught her — her values crystal clear, her loyalties true. Of these things she was sure. But how strange to realize that she was really a Fenton. Was it possible that she was actually old Phin's granddaughter? But why, she wondered, had he never acknowledged their relationship? Or was it because he had never known who she was? She remembered hearing, years ago, that Phineas had quarreled with his elder son over some trivial matter. Grandfather Tracy had declared that it was old Phin's stubbornness that had caused the nmft between the two. She remembered, too, allusions to a quarrel between Phineas and Grandfather Tracy because Grandfather had taken the son's part in this matter — the only quarrel in a lifelong friendship. There had never been any mention of her being a relative of old Phin's, however. She looked at the locket closely, and thought of the many things she could buy if she sold it. It was undoubtedly extremely valuable. It would probably pay for continued nursing care for Aunt im and that year in art school. For a moment she was tempted, but no, she'd bury the locket and her identity with it, deep down beneath the piles of silken kimonos and trinkets; these treasured gifts that she had long since 525 outgrown, but could never bear to part with. If she was really Phineas Fenton's granddaughter and he didn't want to acknowledge her, she would do nothing to call his attention to their relationship. "No one need ever know that I've found Aunt Em's Bright Star!" She had just closed the lid of the chest when the doorbell rang. Jim, she thought, as she went to answer it. Kathy and Jim talked earnestly for a long time. He had come to offer to release Kathy from their engagement. "T'd never give you up," he said seriously, "but I've finally realized that you don't really love me, and it's foolish to hold you to your promise." Jim was right, of course, Kathy concluded. She was glad he had the courage to admit what he knew to be true. He was too honest a person to hold her to a bargain she didn't want to keep. "Your new neighbor, Jim," she said, "'tell me about her." "She's a very fine girl," he told her. "A recent convert from Sweden, and terribly lonesome, over here all alone." "T think she's in love with you, Jim," she said. "I think she'd make you a splendid wife." "She does need someone... Jim said slowly, as though thinking it over. "Promise me one thing," Kathy said, "whether you marry Lina or someone else — that you will never marry outside the temple." Jim gave her his solemn promise. X *x % x RIGHT and early one morning a few days later Marc' Hale pre- 2? 526 sented himself at the kitchen door. Kathy and Aunt Em had just sat down to their breakfast of hot muffins, honey, and milk. "May I come in?" he asked. He looked so serious Kathy hoped he wouldn't go upsetting Aunt Em with anything unpleasant. Besides, she wanted to get into the village soon, and had no time to visit this morning. "Sit down and Iet Kathy bring you a hot muffin," Aunt Em invited. Kathy looked at her aunt sharply. She sensed somewhere behind the forced calm of her voice, a great anxiety, even a fear, carefully screened. The young man sat down, accepted the muffin Kathy brought, and spread it lavishly with honey. He laid a folded newspaper on the table. Aunt Em took the paper, started to read from the back page, then chuckled. "It's Jim," she said. "He's going to marry his new neighbor, the young lady who raises chickens." Kathy had said nothing to her aunt about her talk with Jim, and the broken engagement, for fear of exciting her. "Yes, I know," Kathy said quietly. Marc Hale looked first at Kathy and then at her aunt, utter astonishment written on his face. "I must say you're taking it calmly," he said. "Tt's all right," Kathy said, almost thankfully. "Jim and I had a long talk the other night." She was grateful that Jim had done the sensible thing, as usual., Kathy commenced clearing the breakfast dishes. "Like to drive me into the village?" she asked Marc. It would be a way of getting him RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 out of the house to make sure he didn't have any more surprises for Aunt Em. "Tl be glad to." "Fine. Now, would you mind putting some wood in the stove? Keep things nice and warm until we get back," said Kathy. She walked to the hall closet and selected a jacket. The morning was cool, with a hint of rain. She kissed her aunt's cheek, and assured her they wouldn't be gone too long. 'The sky was slate gray when they Icft the house, the ocean tumultous, whitecaps breaking not fifteen feet from the China house. ARC drove slowly along Pine Road. He gave Kathy a sidelong look. "That was clever of you to get me out of the house. However, I wasn't going to say anything to excite Miss Em. It's you I want to talk to." Kathy nodded her head in solemn agreement and waited for what Marc had to say. "You must know by now that you're not really Miss Em's niece," he stated bluntly. "Your father was Phineas Fenton, Jr., old Phin's elder son. For some reason they quarreled...." His voice trailed off. "Yes, I know who I am," said Kathy. "I found Aunt Em's Bright Star several days ago." "Aunt Em's Bright Star?" Marc repeated. "A star-shaped locket with my parents' pictures and names," Kathy explained. "I knew who they were the minute I looked at it." 'There was no joy or emotion in her voice. "Tl tell you about it later." 'They were entering the village, and Kathy directed Marc to -the THE BRIGHT STAR souvenir shop. "T''ll be just a little while," she promised. But she remained in the shop almost half an hour, and when she finally came out and climbed into the coupe, her face was aglow. "Mission accomplished," she said. It had begun to rain, and the huge spatters flattened themselves furiously on the highway. Marc leaned over the wheel in his effort to see clearly through the stuttering windshield wiper. Finally, they reached the wooded area just beyond the gray house. The ocean came into view for the first time, and both Kathy and Marc caught their breath at the beauty of it: the 527 rain—a fairy shower, with each huge separate droplet striking the water like a pearl. Marc slowed the car. Suddenly he put his hand over Kathy's warm fingers. "Your mother, Marie Fenton, was my mother's best friend. I found the record of your birth in the newspaper files. With Old Phin away on his ships all the time, and Frank, Grace's husband still a child, in care of a nurse, it's not surprising that they knew nothing of your existence. I suppose you'll want to claim your rightful place now." Marc looked at Kathy searchingly. (To be concluded) > Jo Any Parent Christie Lund Coles You will never forget, And your child will long remember, The home-baked loaf of bread Stories by the fire's ember; The spontaneous song you sang, The games you found for playing, Your assuring step at night, The moment bent in praying; Autumn hikes upon the hill, Picnics in golden weather. The dividing time comes soon, Laugh well these days together. Flowers and Children Celia Luce A flower must be carefully tended. The weeds must be pulled away from it, and the flower watered and fertilized. Then it must be left alone. A plant that is roughly handled becomes warped and dwarfed. A flower that is held too close is crushed and fades quickly. They must have proper care. They thrive in an environChildren are like flowers. Ment full of love and proper character training. Like flowers, children must not be held too close. They must learn to m ake their own decisions and live by them. They must be set free to live their own lives. Parents who_hold their children too close, who try to make all decisions for them and live their lives for them, find, to their sorrow, that they have stunted their children. Selected Data—Annual Report 1956 Te year 1956 has been another year of growth and progress in the program of Relief Society throughout the Church as reflected in the annual report. The blessings of this great organization, described by the First Presidency in 1942 as "a unique organization in the whole world," have been extended to increasing numbers of mothers and homemakers throughout the Church. 'The basic purposes of the organization have been perpetuated and through them testimonies have been strengthened, converts have been brought into the Church, inactive sisters have again realized the joy of service and activity, comfort has been brought to the bereaved, sick, and homebound, assistance has been rendered to the needy, and intellectual and cultural growth has been enjoyed by the sisters. Both the narrative and statistical reports received from the Relief Societies in the 235 stakes and forty-five missions of the Church reveal these facts. The year 1956 has brought to the Relief Society its largest rate of increase in membership since the Centennial year, 1942. This increase of 9,209 makes a total membership of 172,722, which includes 32,278 sisters in the missions and 140,444 in the stakes. Growth is also evidenced through the 202 additional local societies organized during the year, making a total of 3,938 ward and branch Relief Societies. These organizations are distributed throughout each of the forty-eight states in the United States, Alaska, Hawaii, the District of Columbia, and thirty-three foreign countries. The average attendance at regular meetings has shown an increase of 6.56 per cent, with the greatest percentage of increase being in the stakes. 'The theology meetings continue to lead in attendance, followed in order by the literature, work, and social science meetings. However, the greatest rate of increase during 1956 was in the social science meetings, which had an increase of 9.03 per cent. The lives of 34,621 sisters were enriched through participation in 2,299 Singing Mothers choruses, which was an increase of 294 choruses over 1955, with 3,638 more singers.; There has been a marked increase in visiting teaching activities, both in attendance at visiting teacher meetings and in the visits to the homes. The attendance at visiting teacher meetings has increased 8.23 per cent over 1955. 'The general growth in the organization has resulted in 2,123 additional visiting teacher districts with 2,941,430 visits being made to Latter-day Saint homes by 69,984 visiting teachers. 'This was an increase of 144,166 visits over 1955, made by 4,472 more teachers. 'This consistent trend of increased activity in visiting teaching is an indication of the continued emphasis being given to this vital part of the Relief Society program which is, no doubt, unparalleled throughout the world. This program of carrying a spiritual message into each Latter-day Saint home every month and of "searching after objects of charity," as counseled by the Prophet Joseph Smith, is one of the major activities of the society. During 1956, the members of Relief Society have manifested the true spirit of the organization through their unselfish service in administering to the sick and sorrowing and their uplifting visits to the homebound. This is evidenced through the 255,719 visits made to the sick and homebound and the 26,148 days care of the sick. These figures, however, do not include the innumerable services rendered by faithful sisters who go into the homes of those in distress and help care for the needs of the family, who bring in a warm meal or take back to their own homes household duties that could not be done in the homes of the sick. Thus, the promise made by the Prophet Joseph Smith at the fifth meeting of the society continues to be realized and continues as the great and fundamental work of the society: "This is the beginning of better days to the poor and the needy who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your General Secretary-Treasurer Page 328 TOTAL L. D. S. MEMBERSHIP 1955 1956 Increase L. D. S. Families 334,906 347,752 + 12,846 R. S. Members 163,513 172,722 + 9,209 In Stakes 1955 1956 Increase L. D. S. Families 276,077 286,199 + 10,122 R. S. Members 133,228 140,444 + 7,216 In Missions 1955 1956 Increase L. D. S. Families 58,829 61,553 + 2,724 R. S. Members 30,285 32,278 + 1,993 LEADERSHIP 109,815 Relief Society Members Participated in Leadership Activities — 1956 103,467 in 1955 1955 1956 General Officers -.......2.....1::0000-- 26 25 Stake Officers 2.00... Eeeeeeeee 2,579 2,725 Mission Officers —........-..--1---.---- 697 735 Local Executive Officers............ 13,882 14,547 Other Officers ~....022202220-2::22: c-e- 7,309 7,652 Class Leaders........---.-sesceeecseeeees 13,462 14,147 Visiting Teachers............: secees 65,512, 69,984 ANNUAL REPORT 529 530 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 if GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS AND MEMBERS—1956 Total 208 167 7,255 - 128 20,585 e144 97 S74 151 1,091 540 1,650 20,752 820 636 225 315 335 rl 147 257 Location Stakes Missions OrganiMembers OrganiMembers OrganiMembers zations zations zations United States and Territories Alabama 15 208 15 Alaska 6 167 6 Arizona 122 7,045 13 210 135 Arkansas 8 128 8 California 310 19,529 40 1,056 350 Colorado 37 1,864 19 280 56 Connecticut 4 97 4 Delaware 5 52. 3 District of Columbia 3 151 3 Florida 10 368 37 723 47 Georgia 3 93 20 447 23 Hawaii 17 833 42 817 59 Idaho 340 20,656 7 96 347 Illinois 8 346 28 474 36 Indiana 1 36 24 600 25 Iowa 11 225 11 Kansas 18 315 18 Kentucky y)\ 335 21 Louisiana 11 262 8 179. 19 Maine 10 147 10 Maryland 4 236 1 21 5 Massachusetts 14 232 14 Michigan 9 302 5 119 14 Minnesota 17 367 17 Mississippi 7 118 10 162. Wy Missouri 22 528 2 Montana 13 394 52 1,216 65 Nebraska 14 260 14 Nevada 45 2,503 45 New Hampshire A 42 4 New Jersey 2 100 5 137 7 New Mexico 17 648 35 632 52 New York 5 276 21 412 26 North Carolina 43 876 43 North Dakota 5 54 5 Ohio 1 36 25 554 26 Oklahoma 21 349 21 Oregon 60 3,007 23 531 83 Pennsylvania 1 43 28 479 29 Rhode Island oe ay 17 2 ANNUAL REPORT 531 Total OrganiMembers zations Location Stakes Missions OrganiMembers OrganiMembers South Carolina 12 459 10 140 South Dakota 9 126 Tennessee 14 208 Texas 44 1,217 38 636 Utah 956 70,959 Vermont 3 34 Virginia 5 279 24 489 Washington 66 3,144 8 166 West Virginia 8 198 Wisconsin 3 119 11 158 Wyoming 54 2,835 15 279 Total United States 2,166 137,858 821 15,975 Other Countries Argentina 22 539 Australia 28 656 Austria 6 126 Belgium 11 115 Brazil 19 235 Canada 58 2,443 67 1,379 Costa Rica 2 19 Denmark 17 385 El! Salvador 3 46 England 75 1,050 Finland 17 337, France 16 112 Germany, East (1955) 97 3,727 Germany, West 70 913 Guatemala 8 130 Honduras z 39 Ireland 4 65 Japan 36 262 Mexico 4 143 56 1,259 Netherlands 20 268 New Zealand (1955) 70 998 Nicaragua y 14 Norway 12 340 Panama Canal Zone 2 27 - Puerto Rico 2 24 Samoa 55 700 Scotland 6 84 Sweden 40 535 Switzerland 2G 402 Tahiti 10 189 Tonga 40 662 Union of South Africa 16 199 Uruguay 26 424 Wales 5 43 Total Other Countries 62 2,586 889 16,303 TOTAL 2,228 140,444 1,710 32,278 22 599 ) 126 14 208 82 1,853 956 70,959 3 31 29 768 74 3,310 8 198 14 277 69 3,114 2,987 153,833 22 539 28 656 6 126 11 115 19 235 125 3,822 2 1 17 385 3 46 75 1,050 17 337 16 112 ay 3,727 70 913 8 130 2 39 4 65 36 262 60 1,402 20 268 70 998 2 14 12 340 2 27 2 24 55 700 6 84 40 535 ey 402 10 189 40 662 16 { 26 424 5 43 951 18,889 3,938 172,722 zations GRAND — zations - VISITING TEACHER SERVICE 1955 1956 Increase _, ~Total Family Visits 2,797,264 2,941,430 -+144,166 ry, Visiting Teachers 65,512 69,984 + 4,472 Districts 35,045 37,168 + 2,123 Families Visited At Home 1,873,610 1,963,269 + 89,659 Not Home 923,654 978,161 + 54,507 9.46 Av. Visits were made to each L. DS. Family in 1956 8.35 In 1955 VISITING TEACHER MEETINGS 1955 1956 Increase Av. Attend. In Stakes 29,401 31,391 + 1,990 Av. Attend. In Missions 3,837 4,584 + 747 Total Av. Attend. 33,238 35,975 + 2,737 COMPASSIONATE SERVICE 1955 1956 Increase j Visits to Sick and ij Homebound 247,878 255,719 + 7,841 Days Care of Sick 25,510 26,148 + 638 4 Number of Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted 7,168 | 7,371 + 203 Dressing for Burial 656 726 + 70 532 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 ANNUAL REPORT 533 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Receipts and Disbursements — 1956 Cash Balance on Hand, January 1-00... Eee eeeeeeeeceeeee eee$ 1,163,953.92 Pees: Se ee ee 1,881,499.29 $ 3,045,453.21 Cash Balance on Hand, December 31 00. Eee 1,240,784.04 Assets and Liabilities — December 31, 1956 Assets Cash Balance on Hand, December 31 000.$ 1,240,784.04 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Ge. -c c$ 2,901,816.67 Liabilities Total Liabilities and Net Worth —.....0....0000000.2..2eeeee ee$ 2,901,816.67 COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL DATA 1955-1956 1956 1955 Changes 1955 to 1956 Number Number Number or or or Amount Amount Amount Per Cent Organizations Stakes and Missions, Total.......... 280 67 + Ce Aa Stakes 22. Eeeeeeeeee 235 223 4 2+ 52 Missions _...... A.. 45 — + 1 = 22 Local Organizations 3,938 S70 = 8 =§6e SO Wards and Branches in Stakes 2.228 2,108 + 124 = 5.39 Branches in Mission...............- 1,710 i + Reet 4.76 Membership, Total 172722, Wediedd + 9209-4 5.63 Stakes oe eee eee cee eteeeeeeeee 140.4% 133.208.4 72164 5-42 Missions _o......-...-.....-ee-sesenneeneeene 32,278 D275 + 1,993 + 658 General Officers and Board Members..................0 25 26 — 1— 3.85 Stake Officers and Board Members ~................. 2.725 2,579 + 146 + 5.66 Mission Presidents and Other Officers 0... 735 697 + 38 + 5.45 Ward and Branch Executive Officers............... 14,547 13,882 + 665+ 4.79 Disbursements _............22.2..2--000-2-22ee-eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeceeseceeeeeeeeeeececeeeeeeeeees Presiding Bishop's Office —-.....222.-22..-eeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeenees Other Invested Funds (Savings Bonds, etc.) _...02.22.2.-2022--2--.----+- Real Estate and Buildings 22.2.2..... Eee. Eeeeeeeneeeee cence ee ceee cet eceeeceeees Furniture and Fixtures _....2000.00.....22..2222scescceeeeeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeees Other Assets......0.......222.2222eseceseceeeeeeeeeec eee eeceeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeceeeeee Accounts Payable _20....... O... Eeee cence eee ceeececeeceeneeneencentecneenceneeeeeess$ Balance Net Worth...........2.......222......2-2-ssssseneeceeeeeesseeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeee 1.804,669.17 422,912.22 72,822.76 91,721.09 897,038.70 176.537.86 990.95 2,900,825.72 534 Other Officers. Class Leaders —.00...0..000..22ccee2e---- 'Visiting Teachers —................ All Other Members.................. L. D. S. Families—T otal In Stakes 22000.... Cceiceeccccceeceeeeeeeeeceeeee In Missions _....-..... 0 -. Eeee eeeeeee eee Meetings and Attendance. Meetings Held, Total -............. General Board Meetings.......... Relief Society General Conference.......20. Eeeeeeeeeee Group Stake Conventions.... In Stakes and Missions............ Stake and Mission District Board Meetings _............... Stake and Ward Officers (Union) Meetings -........... In Wards and Branches.......... Regular Meetings for Members.........--..----------+---+ March, November Sundays and Other Special Meetings -.........---.------------ Visiting Teacher Meetings Preparation Meetings.......... Relief Society Conferences.. R. S. Conf. Preliminary Meetings............----------------. Average Attendance at Regular Meetings for Members.... In Stakes 2.0002 eeceececececeeceeeneeeee In Missions __......-2....-2222------------. Percent of Members Represented by Average Attendance at Regular Meetings............ In Stakes 222.0002022eeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee In Missions _................22220-00-2-2---. Average Attendance at Visiting Teachers Meetings............. Per Cent of Visiting Teachers Represented by Average Attendance.........-..-. E-eeeeceeceeees RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 1956 1955 Changes 1955 to 1956 Number Number Number or or or Amount Amount, Amount Per Cent 7,652 7,309) + 343 +. 4.69 14,147 13,462 + 685 + 5.09 69,984 65,512 + 4,472 + 6.83 62,907 60,046 + 2,861 + 4.76 347,752 334,906 + 12,846 + 3.84 286,199 276,077 + 10,122 + 3.67 61,553 58,829 + 2,724 + 4.63 191,591 181,651 + 9,940 + 5.47 33 yl —L c= Geo 1 1 — AA 122 120 + 2 ~° 1.67 5,394 5141 -5 253. + 4.92 2,936 2,883 + 53 + 1.84 2,458 2258" <5 200 + 8.86 186,041 176,358 + 9,683 + 5.49 127,172 120,008 + 7,164 + 5.97 13,547 12,959 + 588 + 4.54 21,473 19,790 + 1,683 + 8.50 18,507 18496 + ll + 06 3,302 3,192 + 110 + 3.45 2,040 1913 + 127+ 664 62,477 58,633 + 3,844 + 6.56 50,023 46,599 + 3,424 + 7.34 12,454 12,034 + 420 + 3.49 36.17% 35.86% 35.62% 34.98% 38.58% 39.74% 35,975 33,238 + 2,737 +- 8.23 51.40% 50.74% ANNUAL REPORT 1. To Wards and Branches........ To Wards by Stake Officers. To Branches by Mission and District Officers -..............-.-- Activities 1. Visiting Teaching: Number of Visiting Teacher Districts 222.2... Eeeeeeeee ee | oy Coy 0, ee Not Home..........-.--..... EeeeeeeeePer Cent at Home................ Number of Communications in Lieu of Visits _...-..222....22222.--- 2. Educaticnal Meetings: Average Attendance at Relief Society Theology —......-...-------------------- Work 0. Eee cence eee Literature __o2o2--ooo.---ee eee eee Social Science __.......-..22.22-2-.-- 3. Sewing Service at Meetings: Average Number of Women Sewing Monthly _................. Total Articles Completed........ Kinds of Articles: Quilts 2 Children's Clothing —........ Women's Clothing __.......... Men's Clothing —............... Household Furnishings __. Other (Miscellaneous).... 4. Compassionate Service: Visits to Sick and Homebound Number Days Care of the Sick Number of Bodies Dressed for Beowial._............--. Coe. E-ececceceen ee Number of Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted _....... 5. Church Welfare Services: Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Sewing at Work Meeting -................. 1956 Number Number or 535 1955 Changes 1955 to 1956 Number or or, Amount Amount Visits by Stake and Mission Officers 26,760 20,887 5,873 37,168 2,941,430 1,963,269 978,161 66.75% 51,019 67,770 60,747 60,803 59,688 48,177 353,697 18,884 32,671 49,178 5,429 115,118 132,417 255,719 26,148 726 7,371 24,864 19,309 5,555 35,045 2,797,264 1,873,610 923,654 66.98%, 42,798 63,746 58,019 56,702 54,745 45,888 313,495 18,367 30,664 43,644 2,505 99,711 - 118,604 247,878 25,510 656 7,168 8,268 Amount Per Cent + + =- + 1,896 + 7.63 1,578 + 8.17 318 + 5.72 2,123 + 6.06 144,166 + 5.15 + + + ++++ + + ++ F4+4++++ +4 89,659 + 4.79 54,507 + 5.90 8,221 -- — \O to —_— 4,024 + 2,728 4101 4+ 7.23 4,943 2,289 4+ 4.99 40,202 + 12.82 517 2,007 -- 5,534 + 1 2.924 111 15,407 + 1 13,813 + 1 7,841 + 3.16 638 + 2.50 70 + 10.67 203 + 2.83 794+ 96 536 Activities (Continued) Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Sewing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 1956 1955 Changes 1955 to 1956 Number Number Number or or or Amount Amount Amount Per Cent at Sewing Center............... 2,822 2,374 + 448 + 18.87 Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Projects Other Than Sewing...... 23,839 18,077 + 5,762 + 31.87 6. Family Welfare Service: Number Initial Visits Under Direction of Bishop —............ 12,489 11,093 + 1,396. -+ 12.58 Number of Subsequent or Follow-Up Visits 0... 31,482 27,518 + 3,964 + 14.41 Number Visited Who Gave Service on Church Welfare Projects............ C-cescessecsesseeee 2,360 2,395 — 35 — 1.46 Number of Women Visited Who Sewed at Work Meet- 1 2,099 2,243 — 144 — 6.42 Number of Women Visited Who Sewed for Themselves and Families -......00022220000..02.... 2,675 2,13 — 38 — 1.40 Total Number of Wards and Branches With Lists of Nurses 2,288 2,190 + 98 -- 4:47 Wards and Branches in Stakes 1,743 len = 70 + 4.18 Mission Branches..................---- 545 517 + 28 + 5.42 Total Number of Wards and Branches Having Singing Mothers Choruses..................-- 2,299 2,005 + 294 + 14.66 Wards and Branches in Stakes 1,727 1600 + 127 + 7.94 Mission Branches...............------- 572 405 + 167 + 41.23 Total Approximate Number of SMGers Ao... 34,621 30,983 + 3,638 + 11.74 Wards and Branches in Stakes 29,131 26,683 + 2,448 + 9.17 Mission Branches.000.0..222222----- 5,490 4,300 + 1,190 + 27.67 Magazine Relief Society Magazine Finances Cash Receipts................$1,881,499.29 $1,668,621.55 +$212,877.74 4-12.76 Subscriptions Cash Disbursements.... 1,804,669.17 Net Assets 00.02.0222... 2,900,825.72 146,100 135,726 + 10,374 + 7.64 1,592,047.01 + 212,622.16 + 13.36 2,743,289.63 + 157,536.09 + 5.74 FROM THE FIEL em Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Mona H. Brown TWIN FALLS STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY HOLDS FASHION SHOW May 1957 Front row: Bonita Lammers, Joyce Thompson, Sonya Sharp; Marlyn Van Noy; Janet Moyes, Ann Watson; Pamela Muirhead; Vickie Van Leeuwen; Valarie Van Leeuwen; Jolene Grow; Mariel Stewart; Ilene Phillips. Second row: Belva Lammers; Marge Atwood; Thelma Quigley; Alta Jensen; Nora Ward; 'Tress Hurd; Lucille Nelson; Marion Edwards; Nadine Stanger; Donna Allred; Vivetta Merrill; Norma Van Leeuwen. Back row, left to right: Pat Hansen, narrator; Clara Jean Olsen; Betty Glenn; Arlene Thompson; Oles Bingham; Ruth Hansen; Ruth Briggs; Vida Harrison; Jean Staley; Sharon Birrell; LuAnn Armga; Joyce Johnson; Sherry Flynn; Ruth Christopherson; Bonnie Anderson. Mona H. Brown, President, Twin Falls Stake Relief Society, writes: "A fashion show was held... Following the May union meeting, under the direction of Alene Johnson, Counselor, and Mary Cheney, Work Director. Two or three models from each of the twelve wards in the stake participated. All of the clothing modeled was created by the model or a member of her family.... Following the fashion show, refreshments were served by the stake board members." Page 537 538 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Photograph submitted by Beth M. Stallman INGLEWOOD STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY COMMEMORATES ligth ANNIVERSARY OF THE ORGANIZATION OF RELIEF SOCIETY Beth M. Stallman, President, Inglewood Stake Relief Society, reports: "More than four hundred Relief Society sisters enjoyed an outstanding program and _ social, March 14, 1957, to commemorate the birthday of Relief Society. An inspirational dramatization of the 'Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon' was presented by members of the various wards. At the conclusion refreshments were served from a beautifully decorated table. The centerpiece was made and presented to us by Sister Amy Greenhalgh. One hundred fifteen candles adorned the cake." Shown in the picture are the Relief Society stake board and the Relief Society presidents of each ward in the stake. Photograph submitted by Elizabeth E. Kaiser CHICAGO STAKE (ILLINOIS) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, May 5, 1957 Front row, left to right: Chicago Stake Relief Society officers: Ilene B. Della-Piana, chorister; Jasmine R. Edmunds, First Counselor; Elizabeth E. Kaiser, President; Emma A. Johnson, Second Counselor; Dorothy B. Hart, Secretary-Treasurer; Naunie Gardner, organist. Sister Kaiser reports: "There were twelve wards and branches represented in the group. Sixty-two Singing Mothers participated. Although the members of this chorus are from northern Indiana, Illinois, and Southern Wisconsin, and their practicing was limited to one session with the combined group, their singing was most beautiful and well received." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 539 Picture submitted by Mary Barber LAYTON STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, April 21, 1957 Mary Barber, President, Layton Stake Relief Society, reports: "Layton Stake Singing Mothers furnished music for stake quarterly conference on Easter Sunday (April 21, 1957). Erma Boam is chorister; Marion Call, organist; and Mary Barber, pianist. 'There are 162 members in the chorus." Photograph submitted by Jane M. Larsen GRAND COULEE STAKE (WASHINGTON), MOSES LAKE SECOND WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE ONE HUNDRED PER CENT FOR TWO YEARS First row, left to right: Olga Hansen; Colleen Swallow; Wanda Crawford; Carol Larsen; Zona Wakefield; Helen Francom; Norma Fukriman; Margret Oman, Second Counselor; Amber Pierce, First Counselor; Erma Griffen, President, Moses Lake Second Ward; Maude Campbell; Barbara DeMille; Faye Thornton; Verna Duval; Annic Montague; Luceille Daniels, visiting teacher supervisor; Lucile Lyhbert; Amy Wright. Second row: Arvena DeMille; Lilly McKay; Charlene Hansen; Naola Brown; Betty Lee; Delcia Lyhbert; Sybill Carringer; Pauline Deval; Nellie Chapman; Delvia Lyhbert; Louise Hill; Lavera Bone; Beth Burnett; Helen Gaugh; 'Thelma Nielson; Velma Hunt; Adaline Hansen; Janice Sanders. Third row: Ranee Earl; Lavon Isaacson; Gladys Hiatt; Jean Hill; Flora Wright; Juaneta Harrison; Marian Hickman; Melba Jackson; Jessie Yasuda; Evelyn Norman; Pearl Hansen; Zola Smith; Alta Duval; Pat 'Thompson; Jewel Iverson; Grace Morris. Jane M. Larsen, President, Grand Coulee Stake Relief Society, writes: '""There are thirty-seven districts and seventy-four visiting teachers." One hundred per cent for the last two years was achieved. 540 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Photograph submitted by Marilla H. Sessions BOUNTIFUL STAKE (UTAH), BOUNTIFUL FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HOLDS ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL, March, 1957 Marilla H. Sessions, President, Bountiful Stake Relief Society, writes: "The Bountiful First Ward Relief Society of Bountiful Stake had a unique anniversary social. 'The bishopric was in attendance to participate in the program. 'The members of the society, dressed in pioneer costume, met at noon for a luncheon that might have been served in Nauvoo in 1842. 'The homemade bread, pickles, jellies, and relishes, print molded butter patties, slices of ham, and baked nce pudding might have dated back to those early days. 'The program consisted of musical numbers appropriate for the day and a play which reviewed the history of the organization of the Relief Society 115 years ago. Bishop Keith A. Hansen characterized the Prophet Joseph Smith, and his counselors represented John Taylor and Willard Richards. Pioneer relics, such as cream churns, butter and candle molds, spinning wheels, looms, and new braided rugs created the proper atmosphere for such an occasion." Photograph submitted by Pearl A. Heaton CACHE STAKE (UTAH), LOGAN THIRD WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE ONE HUNDRED PER CENT FOR TEN YEARS Front row, left to right: Nina Kowallis; Lilly Larsen; Irene Larsen; Sophia Woodall, visiting teacher leader; Gwenn Card, former president, 1947-51; Alice Gniffin, former president, 1951-53; Pearl Haddock, President, Logan Third Ward Relief Society; Bar- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 541 bara Watts, Second Counselor; LaVell Bradley, First Counselor; Bertha Gessel; Daphna Hancey; Aletha Funk; Miriam Perry. Second row: Virginia Kowallis; Ina Ballif; Mae Orison; Zella Ault; Cora Blanchard; Flora Petty; Alice Larson; Mabel Evans; Pearl Christensen; Annie Blanchard; Kate Mortimer; Katie Earl; Valeda Shaffer; Helen Bradford; Mabel Brown, Sccretary-Treasurer; Norma Wilson. Third row: Phyllis Jacobson; Marguerite Smith; Donell Hansen; Kate Carlson; Catherine Cowley; Gertrude Ault; Sarah Davidson; Afton Evans; Moziene Jensen; Erma Eliason; Fern Griffin; Lucile Partington; DuRell Austin; Marilda Andrews. Pearl A. Heaton, President, Cache Stake Relief Society, writes: ""The year 1957 marks the completion of ten years of one hundred per cent visiting teaching."' Photograph submitted by Effie K. Driggs NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION, PORT TOWNSEND (WASHINGTON) BRANCH HOLDS SOCIAL, March 17, 1957 Seated, left to right: Maud Shaw; Rachel Ellis; Florence Anderson; Annie Sandberg; Gail Bishop; Dorothy Roberts, organist. Standing, left to right: Daisy Shaw; Marion Robinson; Clara Lopthein; Marca Bills, music director: Violet Thompson, Education Counselor; Margaret Lieby, literature leader; Beatrice Presler; Pearl Calloway, Secretary-Treasurer; Ella Curdie; Jean Green, visitor; Cora Porter; Clare Moody; Blanche Lee, President. Effie K. Driggs, President, Northwestern States Mission, reports: "A combined social of the sisters from Scquiam and Port 'Townsend, Washington, was held in Port Townsend on March 17th. During the social they exchanged ideas and displayed their bazaar articles for each other's benefit. 'These sisters live in our smallest branch where there is a lack of Priesthood leadership. However, they have carried forward with great courage, endeavoring to carry out the program outlined for the branches in the missions. 'They report that great strength has come to them by living their religion and receiving of its blessings." 542 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Photograph submitted by Cora S. Jenkins BONNEVILLE STAKE (UTAH), YALE SECOND WARD SPONSORS SUCCESSFUL NURSERY Elsa T. Peterson, President, Yale Second Ward Relief Society, reports to Cora Jenkins, President, Bonneville Stake Relief Society: "Brother Willey Frank, (pictured behind the group of children), custodian of Yale Second Ward, assists his wife in the nursery during Relief Society meetings. The children dearly love him—they can't wait for Relief Society days. Our nursery has greatly increased the attendance of young mothers at Relief Society." Photograph submitted by Merna E. Marchant BURLEY STAKE (IDAHO), UNITY WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE ONE HUNDRED PER CENT FOR TEN YEARS Front row, left to right: Maude K. Brown; Sara Elquist; Mary Crane; Lois Baker, Counselor; Ann Gerratt, President; Donna Call, Counselor; Josephine Rigby, Secretary; Jane Robinson; Teresa Banner; Ethel Gooch. Back row: Evelyn Stout; Rachel Larsen; Gwenna Rasmussen; Elaine Page; Vera Richman; Ellen Poulton; Violet Baker; Chloey Banner, visiting teacher message leader; NOTES FROM THE FIELD 543 Beatrice Rittel; Anna Jolley; Dora Meline; Ione Church; Vyla Frost; Laura Harris. (Several teachers were absent when the picture was taken.) Merna E. Marchant, President, Burley Stake Relief Society, reports: "This fine record was started when Sister Afton Baker was president and has continued under three succeeding presidents. A stake visiting teacher convention was held in November (1956) for all visiting teachers of the Burley Stake, honoring three wards having one hundred per cent visiting teaching, with special tribute going to the Unity Ward for having achieved one hundred per cent visiting teaching for ten years. The program included a skit presented by the stake board. Refreshments were served to approximately 300. Lenna B. Fillmore, stake visiting teacher message leader, was in charge of arrangements." Photograph submitted by Ione J. Simpson SOUTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE, WARD SEWING LEADERS WHO CONDUCTED SEWING CLASSES In the picture are the ward sewing leaders who conducted the seventeen sewing classes. Seated, left to right: Violet Jaussi; Donna Andrews; Ruth Hogg; Lometa Johnson; Bonnie Dee Neuenswander; Ethel Sparks; Marjorie Homer. Standing, left to right: Twilla Suitter; Virginia Garner; Margaret Thomas; Bertha Purcell; Jonelle Homer; Burness Goates; Jeness Balmforth; Margaret Manwaring. Vera Lee was absent at the time the picture was taken. Ione J. Simpson, President, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, writes: "A spring concert and fashion show, 'Family Fashion in Rhythm,' were presented as a culmination of seventeen sewing classes under the direction of sixteen ward leaders. These classes were held from January through March. Each class was six weeks long and averaged two classes weekly. Instruction ranged from classes for beginners to advanced tailoring. In the fashion show approximately 133 models, including seventyseven children, displayed their lovely home-sewed clothing to an audience of 600 people. "The stake Singing Mothers, featured in special numbers, greatly enhanced the beauty and success of the event. Display tables were arranged by wards to show results of work meetings. Among the articles displayed, were quilts, rugs, copper and drapery pictures, baskets, pillows, crocheted pieces, and clothing. "After the show, refreshments were served from decorated tables." 544 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Photograph submitted by Marjorie M. Ward SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC AT STAKE CONFERENCE, March 24, 1957 Marjorie M. Ward, President, Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, writes: "The Singing Mothers chorus of Salt Lake Stake presented music for the morning and afternoon sessions of stake quarterly conference, March 24, 1957. Minnie A. Rossiter is stake chorister and Emma A. Hanks, organist." Photograph submitted by Bertrude S. Mitchell PAROWAN STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE, April 28, 1957 Annie P. Jones, pianist, is seated at the piano; Shirley R. Evans, chorister, is standing by the piano. Front row, first from left is Bertrude S. Mitchell, President, Parowan Stake Relief Society; second from right, Margaret H. Knight, Second Counselor; first on mght in center of back row is Edna W. Brown, Secretary-T'reasurer. Violet Hulet, First Counselor, was unable to be present when the picture was taken. Sister Mitchell reports: "Each year we furnish music for one or two sessions of the quarterly conference and, though we are a scattered stake, we don't mind traveling the required distance to our rehearsals. In fact, we deem it an honor and a privilege to render this service. All six of our wards are well represented in this group. "This year we sang an original number, 'Song of Praise,' composed by Sister Annie P, Jones, that was well received by our audience." Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 2—Origin of The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants: Explanatory Introduction) For Tuesday, November 5, 1957 Objective: To learn of the events which brought forth The Doctrine and Covenants. HE prophesied dispensation of the fulness of times opened in the spring of 1820 with the glorious revelation known as the first vision. Although this revelation is not included in the one hundred and thirty-six sections of 'The Doctrine and Covenants, reference to it is found in the first three paragraphs of the "Explanatory Introduction." The full account of the first vision is printed in the Pearl of Great Price. (See Writings of Joseph Smith, 2:5-26.) Value of the First Vision As we begin a study of the revelations given to Joseph Smith, it seems most appropriate to ask ourselves this question: of what importance is the first vision in the opening of the new dispensation? In answering this question, we should keep in mind that all revelations and commandments given to men are for their salvation, What then, does the first vision contribute to the salvation of men? Here are some ideas: First, it proved the actual existence of God our Father as a personal being. Joseph Smith saw God! "... I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air..." (P. Of G. P., Writings of Joseph Smith, 2:17). No longer could men say that God does not exist because he had not revealed himself to man. A correct knowledge of God was revealed. Without this knowledge, man could not receive life eternal. (See John 17:3.) Second, it proved that Jesus is a resurrected Personage, separate and distinct from the Father.... One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other—This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him! (P. Of G. P., Writings of Joseph Smith, 2:17). Page 545 546 Jesus Christ is declared to be divine—the Son of God. Doubt concerning his divinity and of his resurrection is removed. Men have a firm basis for faith in Jesus as the Savior of mankind. Third, it proved that there was an universal apostasy from the Church established by Jesus in the meridian of time; that no existing church was the true Church. My object in going to inquire of the Lord was to know which of all the sects was right, that I might know which to join. No sooner, therefore, did I get possession of myself, so as to be able to speak, than I asked the Personages who stood above me in the light, which of all the sects was right—and which I should join. I was answered that I must join none of them, for they were all wrong; and the Personage who addressed me said that all their creeds were an abomination in his sight; that those professors were all corrupt; that: "they draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me, they teach for doctrines the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof," He again forbade me to join with any of them; and many other things did he say unto me, which I cannot write at this time. When I came to myself again, I found myself lying on my back, looking up into heaven. When the light had departed, I had no strength; but soon recovering in some degree, I went home. And as I leaned up to the fireplace, mother inquired what the matter was. I replied, "Never mind, all is well—I am well enough off." I then said to my mother, "I have learned for myself that Presbyterianism is not true.' It seems as though the adversary was aware, at a very early period of my life, that I was destined to prove a disturber and an annoyer of his kingdom; else why should the powers of darkness combine against me? Why the opposition and persecutions that arose against me, almost in my infancy? (Ibid., 2:18-20). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Fourth, it proved that men may have the assurance that sincere prayer is answered. While I was laboring under the extreme difficulties caused by the contests of these parties of religionists, I was one day reading the Epistle of James, first chapter and fifth verse, which reads: If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. Never did any passage of scripture come with more power to the heart of man than this did at this time to mine. It seemed to enter with great force into every feeling of my heart. I reflected on it again and again, knowing that if any person needed wisdom from God, I did; for how to act I did not know, and unless I could get more wisdom than I then had, I would never know; for the teachers of religion of the different sects understood the same passages of scripture so differently as to destroy all confidence in settling the question by an appeal to the Bible. At length I came to the conclusion that I must either remain in darkness and confusion, or else I must do as James directs, that is, ask of God. I at length came to the determination to 'ask of God," concluding that if he gave wisdom to them that lacked wisdom, and would give liberally, and not upbraid, I might venture.... I had now got my mind satisfied so far as the sectarian world was concerned— that it was not my duty to join with any of them, but to continue as I was until further directed. I had found the testimony of James to be true—that a man who lacked wisdom might ask of God, and obtain, and not be upbraided (Ibid., 2:11-13, 26). In order to achieve salvation, men must "ask of God" for knowledge by which they may walk uprightly before him. (See Moroni 10:3-7.) Joseph Smith's testimony concerning prayer and the reality of the future life furnish further reasons for faith in the efficacy of prayer in leading one to salvation. 'There is LESSON DEPARTMENT no promise that all men will receive a visitation of God the Father or of his Son Jesus Christ. 'These holy Personages have been seen only on a few occasions and at those times to their chosen prophets. (See John 1:18; Acts 7:55-56.) Compiling of the Revelations The many visits of the angel Moroni with Joseph Smith, beginning in September 1823, brought forth revelations in connection with The Book of Mormon to be studied later. This coming of the resurrected Moroni was the next step in the events which led up to the compiling of the many revelations into a volume of scripture. As also pointed out in the "Explanatory Introduction," many other revelations were received by the summer of 1830, when, "acting under Divine commandment," the Prophet "was engaged in copying and arranging the revelations received up to that time...." In this work he was assisted by John Whitmer, who later became the Church _historian by divine appointment. (See D. H. C. 1:104; D. & C. 47:1.) The Book of Commandments The special Priesthood conference which convened on November 1, 1831, at Hiram, Ohio, authorized the printing of 10,000 copies of the compilation of revelations to be known as the Book of Commandments. However, on May 1, 1832, a general council of the Church decided that 3,000 copies should be printed, and "... That William W. Phelps, Oliver Cowdery, and John Whitmer, be appointed to review and prepare such revelations for the press as shall be deemed proper for 547 publication, and print them as soon as possible at Independence, Missouri; the announcement to be made that they are 'Published by W. W. Phelps & Co..." (D. H. C. I:270). Before this (November 1831), Oliver Cowdery was appointed to "... Carry the commandments to Independence, Missouri, for printing...." Inasmuch as he was also to take "moneys" with him, a traveling companion, John Whitmer, was to accompany him because of the protection which seemed necessary in traveling in an area where frontier conditions existed (See D. H. C. I:229; D. & C. 69). Destruction of the Printing Press On the 2oth of July, 1833, a mob consisting of from three to five hundred, "demanded the discontinuance of the Church printing establishment in Jackson county, the closing of the store, and the cessation of all mechanical labors. The brethren refused compliance, and the consequence was that the house of W. W. Phelps, which contained the printing establishment, was thrown down, the materials taken possession of by the mob, many papers destroyed, and the family and furniture thrown out of doors" (D. H. C. I:390). Fortunately, a few incomplete copies of the Book of Commandments survived the destruction. This book was reprinted at different times. It contains sixty-five chapters. Approval of Doctrine and Covenants The next date of significance in this brief history of the Doctrine 548 and Covenants is September 24, 1834, when a committee with Joseph Smith as its head was appointed to publish the revelations. Upon the completion of its work, a General Assembly of the Church convened on August 17, 1835, at Kirtland, Ohio, "... To see whether the book be approved or not by the authorities of the Church: that it may, if approved, become a law and a rule of faith and practice to the Church... 2" The two High Councils (Kirtland and Missouri) and the quorum of the Priesthood accepted and acknowledged the book as the doctrine and covenants of their faith, by a unanimous vote, and the written testimony of the Twelve Apostles was read. (See D. H. C. Il:243-246). Meaning of Doctrine and Covenants This volume of revelations was printed with the title Doctrine and Covenants. As early as November 1831, the Prophet referred to the revelations as the book of Doctrine and Covenants. (See D. H. C. I:229.) It seems appropriate that the new name was given it with an increase in the number of sections from sixty-five to 102. The comprehensiveness of the title is indicated in the "Introduction" to the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary (Revised Edition), where we learn that " 'Doctrine' means 'teaching, instruction!'.... The word 'covenant' is a term by which God indicates the settled arrangement between Him and His people.. This covenant concerning the salvation of the human race, entered into in eternity, was made known to Adam, Noah, Abraham, and others, and, finally, through the Prophet RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Joseph, to the people of God in our day. It is the 'everlasting' covenant, because it is from eternity to eternity. The new and everlasting covenant is the Gospel of Jesus Christ" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page xiv). Other Editions of The Doctrine and Covenants Before his death, the Prophet Joseph Smith worked on another edition of The Doctrine and Covenants. (See D. H. C. V:264, 273.) It was printed in 1844 with 111 sections one of which was the historical account of the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith. (It is numbered Section 135 in the current edition. ) The next important edition was the revision of 1876 when the number of sections was increased to 136. The 1921 edition is the one in current use. It contains double-column pages, with section headings, footnote references, and an index. The "Lectures on Faith" which were included in the 1835 edition are not printed in the currently used edition. In the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page XvII, one finds this statement in a footnote concerning these lectures: "These lectures were removed from the Doctrine and Covenants in the edition of 1921, not because they were called in question, for they are excellent lectures of great value on the principle of faith, but because they were not revelations. When they were received and ordered printed in the Doctrine and Covenants, it was with the understanding as expressed by Elder John Smith, '... That the lectures were judiciously arranged and compiled, and were LESSON DEPARTMENT profitable for doctrine...' (D. H. C. If:244). The Prophet Joseph Smith revised and prepared these Lectures himself, and they are still 'profitable for doctrine.' " Note: Copies of Lectures on Faith are available at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah, at the price of fifty cents. It should be kept in mind that not all of the revelations received by the Prophet are found in The Doctrine and Covenants. Witnesses to The Doctrine and Covenants Latter-day Saints are generally familiar with the testimony of the Three Witnesses and also the Fight Witnesses to The Book of Mormon. It is not so well known, however that witnesses have attested to the truth of The Doctrine and Covenants. 'Their testimony does not include the actual appearance of an angel, the seeing of ancient instruments and records, or having a voice declare that the record is true. But it is no less conclusive. "... The Lord has borne record to our souls, through the Holy Ghost, shed forth upon us, that these commandments were given by inspiration of God, and are profitable for all men, and are verily true..." (D. H. C.1:226) was the testimony given concerning the "Book of Commandments" by the elders present at the time it was approved during the conference of the Church in November 1831. These same words appear in the "Explanatory Introduction" to each copy of The Doctrine and Covenants as the Testimony of the Twelve Apostles of the truth of this book of modern scripture. 549 The Holy Ghost speaks to man's spirit, and, thereby, becomes the powerful influence of conversion which is even stronger than the visible manifestation so often thought to be the convincing sign of truth. Examples of the strength of this kind of testimony are found in the experiences of the apostles of the Lord in the meridian dispensation. While with the Savior they saw him heal the sick (Mt. 15:28), cast out devils (Luke 8:29), and even raise the dead (John 11:44), and _perform other mighty works (Mt. 15:30-31). Later, however, Peter denied being a disciple of Christ (John 18:17, 25). However, following Jesus' ascension and_ after the Holy Ghost rested upon the apostles (Acts 2), they labored in the gospel, and were imprisoned, and "many... Were slain" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 41). As long as the recipient of the Holy Ghost abides by the commandments, that power will continue with him as a lasting possession that will not require outward manifestations to keep him in the Church. Joseph Smith's Integrity The origin of The Doctrine and Covenants involves the honesty of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Prophet well understood the great responsibility devolving upon him in speaking for the Lord in the revelations he received. One time he wrote that "... It was an awful responsibility to write in the name of the Lord..." (D. H. C. 1:226). The assurance with which he "wrote for the Lord" is well illustrated by an incident in the early history of this dispensation. 550 Not long after the Church was organized, the Prophet received a letter from Oliver Cowdery in which Oliver Cowdery commanded the Prophet "to erase those words," meaning a part of verse thirty-seven of Section twenty. Joseph Smith immediately wrote to Oliver Cowdery and asked:.. » by what authority he took upon him to command me to alter or erase, to add to or diminish from, a revelation or commandment from Almighty God (D. H. C., I:105). In a Church which had just been organized and with so few members, if the leader had been an imposter, he could easily have compromised and changed this document to satisfy the one man and his friends who had done so much for him. For the Whitmer family had also been influenced by Oliver Cowdery to agree with him on this command to Joseph. This meant that three members of the original six who organized the Church were opposed to the Prophet Joseph Smith on this matter. But the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Prophet was not an imposter. He knew he had received the will of the Lord and, although a calamity of this magnitude might conceiyably have destroyed the work, it did not deter the Prophet from his course, and Oliver Cowdery and the Whitmer family soon repented of their error. (See D. H. C. I:104, 105.) Questions for Discussion 1. What are the contributions of the first vision to man's salvation? (a) How does it teach the correct knowledge of God? (b) Can there be only one true Church? Explain. (c) How does prayer lead one to salvation? 2. Briefly relate the origin of The Doctrine and Covenants. 3. What is the meaning of the title "Doctrine and Covenants'? 4. What are the "Lectures on Faith'? 5. "The witness of the Holy Ghost is a greater power for conversion than an outward manifestation." What does the above statement have to do with this lesson? 6. In what way was Joseph Smith's honesty affirmed as brought out by this lesson? Seasonal Reminders Enola Chamberlin On and on each season goes, Stepping on the next one's toes. And I see them quickly pass Not by looking in a glass, But by Mary's dress that goes Up and up as Mary grows. And by Tommy's jeans that climb From foot to shin each season time. On and on each season goes, While I lengthen children's clothes. Visiting Seacher Ilessages — Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 2—'And Inasmuch As They Were Humble They Might Be Made Strong, and Blessed From on High..." (D. & C. 1:28). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, November 5, 1957 Objective: To point out the meaning of true humility, the need for it in our lives, and to show that the Lord blesses and makes strong those who possess it. HE study of the scriptures impresses one with the fact that great emphasis is placed upon the virtue of humility. True humility lies at the base of most of life's desirable qualities. One cannot serve the Lord unless he humbles himself and conforms his individual will to the Lord's will. Our Father in heaven has. Said, "... No one can assist in this work except he shall be humble..." (D. & C. 12:8). Neither can one obtain spiritual strength unless he puts aside selfishness, self-dependence, pride, and arrogance. For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted (Luke 14:11). Many years ago a religious leader was asked, "What is the first article in the Christian religion?" He answered, "Humility." 'Then he was asked, "What is the second?" He answered "Humility." "And the third?" Again the leader answered, "Humility." The need for humility is prominent in all of Jesus' teachings. As in all other things, the Savior set the perfect example. Although he was the "light and life of the world," "the Alpha and Omega," the Architect and Builder of the universe, still he was born under the humblest of circumstances. His entire life was lived in a simple and modest way. He declared himself to be "... Meek and lowly in heart..." (Mt. 11:29). In all his teachings he emphasized the importance of this virtue. The following incident, found in John 13, is probably the most classic example in all history of true humility:... Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father....... Knowing that the Father had given all things unto his hands, and that he was come from God, and went to God; He riseth from supper, and Jaid aside his garments; and took a towel, and girded himself..... And began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded....... He said unto them.... Ye call me Master and Lord: and ye say well; for so I am. If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet; ye also ought to wash one another's feet. Page 551 552 For I have given you an example, that ye should do as I have done to you (John 13:1 ff.). Humility is a noble virtue. Although it reflects itself in meekness, gentleness, and submissiveness to the Lord's will, yet it in no way implies self-depreciation or weakness. Humility is actually the foundation of strength. In order to gain moral and spiritual strength, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 one must first recognize his shortcomings and failings and then acknowledge his dependence upon the Lord. He must seek to do the Lord's will and have faith and trust in his guidance. 'hus, with the Lord's help, he overcomes his weaknesses and replaces them with the virtues that bring strength. Truly, those who are humble "are blessed from on high." Work I leeting—Living More Abundantly (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 2—Increasing Our Standard of Living Elder William F. Edwards For Tuesday, November 12, 1957 Objective: To achieve a higher standard of living, to obtain more of the important things in life, without an increase in family income. The Purpose of Budgets Budgeting in its true sense is a method of estimating ahead how to spend one's income in order to receive the greatest values. 'The first requirement is to approach the problem with a mind as open and rational as that with which a good scientist undertakes his studies. Can I say, "My house is a house of order'? Can I say, if a housewife, that I give the same care and thought to determining how to spend our income as my husband gives to his work in order to earn the income? As it is true that the cost of money is determined by what it takes to earn it, so it is true that the value of money is determined by how we use it. Wise Counsel Benjamin Franklin caught the vision of wise budget planning when he observed: There are two ways of being happy: We may either diminish our wants or augment our means — either will do — the result is the same; and it is for each man to decide for himself, and do that which happens to be the easiest. If you are idle or sick or poor, however hard it may be to diminish your wants, it will be harder to augment your means. If you are active and prosperous or young or in good health, it may be easier for you to augment your means than to diminish your wants. But if you are wise, you will do both at the same time, young or old, rich or poor, sick or well; and if you are very wise, you will do both in such a way as to augment the general happiness of society. Brigham Young gave frequent advice about handling personal fnances: LESSON DEPARTMENT If you cannot obtain all you wish for today, learn to do without that which you cannot purchase and pay for;... Bring your minds into subjection that you must and will live within your means. How to Become Strong The truth of such counsel as that given by Brigham Young is readily apparent, but for many it is hard to live by. But what good thing is not hard to acquire? We become strong by overcoming obstacles. 'The story of building the Salt Lake Temple, for example, is a story of achieving the impossible, except for a determined people who were willing to pay the price of doing what was right. Items Every Latter-day Saint Budget Should Contain 1. TITHING AND OTHER CHURCH CONTRIBUTIONS: Church expenses is an item not entirely peculiar to Latter-day Saints. Every well-considered family budget book makes provision for this item. The difference is that Latter-day Saints are commanded to pay their tithes and offerings. For members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints these appropriately come first. 'hey bring eternal blessings and joys. It is expected that honest and faithful people will return to the Lord his ten per cent and in addition make the other contributions needed to carry out his purposes for their good (Edwards, William F.: The Relief Society Magazine, August 1953, page 501). I do not suppose for a moment, that there is a person in this Church, who is unacquainted with the duty of paying tithing, neither is it necessary to have revelation every year upon this subject. There is the Law—pay one-tenth (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 174). 553 2. TAxES AND OTHER Civic EXPENSES AND CONTRIBUTIONS: The services rendered by governments are indispensable to modern progressive living. We should be good members of society by supporting, financially and otherwise, praiseworthy activities. In this spirit, we should pay our taxes and other assessments and allocate some money for contributions to worthy programs. 3. HEALTH PROTECTION: The Lord has made it clear that our bodies are sacred: If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are (I Cor. 3:17). Thus, we are each charged with the responsibility of keeping our bodies as clean and healthy as possible. It is important that some funds be earmarked for periodic dental work, health examinations, medicine and medical attention for minor ailments. 'he best and cheapest care is preventive. When available at a reasonable cost, some people will find it advisable to carry a health insurance policy covering extraordinary expenses in connection with medical attention. 4. EMERGENCY SAVING: Into every life come emergencies, such as illness, unemployment, accidents, old age, and death, and they cost money. It is a family's responsibility to provide for these, even if it necessitates certain immediate sacrifices. In accordance with the Welfare Program, part of the emer- 554 gency savings could be held in the form of food and other necessities of life. Each individual or family should determine the appropriate amount to have on hand for this purpose. If a man does not provide for his children, if he does not provide for all those dependent upon him, and if he has not that vision of conditions to come, and that care for the days that have not yet dawned, which we sum up in the whole idea of thrift and saving, then he has not opened his eyes to any adequate conception of human life. We are in this world to provide not for ourselves, but for others, and that is the basis of economy (Woodrow Wilson). 5. Lire INsuRANCE: Likewise, no head of a family is doing his duty to his family unless he carries a reasonable amount of life insurance for their protection. Nothing is as certain as death, yet nothing is more uncertain than the time of death (Legal Proverb). 6. Foop 7. CLOTHING 8. SHELTER AND HoME 9. OrnerR ITems Possisty VaryINc Wits Eacu FAMILY Group discussion should develop important considerations regarding each of these items. A group of Relief Society sisters can sit as a group of experts — then they approach these subjects objectively and critically. 10. WorkKING Funp: After allowance for all of the areas of expenses previously discussed, there should remain a balance which might be called the Working Fund. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 The usage of this fund is an individual problem, each family doing what will give them the greatest satisfaction, It should certainly be the aim in one's financial program to make this fund as large as possible, since it plays such an important part in one's living more abundantly. Under Latter-day Saint philosophy, an adequate part of this fund should be used for investment purposes beyond that contemplated with "Emergency Savings." 'There is nothing that leads to independence of thought and action quite as much as economic independence. And by right living this independence is within the grasp of most members of our group. Use just enough of your earnings to make your bodies and your families happy and comfortable, and save the residue (Brigham Young). Of probably even greater importance than monetary savings under our teachings, however, is the part that should be used for selfimprovement and advancement, including education in all its proper forms. The first great principle that ought to occupy the attention of mankind, that should be understood by the children and the adults, and which is the mainspring of all action... Is the principle of improvement. We cannot trust to the certainty of mortal possessions; they are transitory and a dependence upon them will plunge into hopeless disappointment all those who trust in them (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 306). This fund will, also, in individual instances, have to help to provide LESSON DEPARTMENT for the support of fathers, mothers, brothers, and sisters who are living elsewhere. By placing this last, we do not mean to lessen its importance. To those who thus contribute to the support of others, it is an item second to none in importance—unless it be the item of tithing. This is a way of life accepted by the membership of the Church in general in accordance with the teachings of ancient and modern prophets. 555 The intent in this lesson is to outline some of the more important areas of expenditures in the hope of helping each one to examine his own position with the objective of learning how to put first things first so that the more important things will be accomplished and_ those neglected will be the least important. Wise budget planning will contribute to more abundant living; it will make possible a higher standard of living without an increase in family income. ~~ ol iterature — Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 10—Othello, The Moor of Venice Elder Briant S. Jacobs Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948 For Tuesday, November 19, 1957 Objective: To review and consider pride, jealousy, and passion as tools of selfdestruction, through re-experiencing this artistic record of life's truths. IKE Shakespeare's other best plays, Othello creates its own personality and power. Therefore, to compare it with other plays in terms of greatness or majesty is as mysterious a process as an attempted dissection of life itself. As a drama it is perfectly constructed, and of all Shakespeare's tragedies it is most often successfully acted. Words, images, symbols, and actions of the play complement each other. Herein are no poetic flights for their own sakes; every word carries its own weight, and all parts contribute to the irresistible cumulation of purpose and theme. Thus, this tragedy of jealousy and haste becomes for each of us here and now a lived experience as personal as our own inner hearts. Othello's self-knowledge is accurate when he says early in the play:... Rude am I in my speech, And little blest with the soft phrase of peace. I. 3. 81-82 The poetry in Othello is not as lofty and noble as that found in Hamlet and King Lear; instead it is restrained, oftentimes more _pertinent than inspiring. 'Therefore, fewer lines are commonly lifted from 556 its pages to be quoted apart from the play. Even so, such quotes as the following are too useful to be ignored:... O thou invisible spirit of wine, if thou hast no name to be known by, let us call thee devil! Il. 3..282-284... That men should put an enemy in their mouths to steal away their brains}. That we should, with joy, pleasance, revel, and applause, transform ourselves into beasts! II. 3. 291-294 The robbed that smiles steals something from the thief. I. 3. 208 Men's natures wrangle with inferior things, Though great ones are their object.... HI. 4. 144-145... Trifles light as air Are to the jealous confirmations strong As proofs of Holy Writ.... Til. 3. 322-324 How poor are they that have not patience! What wound did ever heal but by degrees? Il. 3. 376-377 Good name in man and woman, dear my lord, Is the immediate jewel of their souls. Who steals my purse steals trash—'tis something, nothing, "Twas mince, tis his, and has been slave to thousands— But he that filches from me my good name Robs me of that which not enriches him And makes me poor indeed. III. 3. 155-161 Although weilnigh matchless in beauty and pure trust and innocence, even Desdemona's final words speak with ample power only when contained within the play itself. Here, more than in many of Shakespeare's plays, we need all if we are to get any, so tight-knit is its construction, so many layered the overRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 tones radiating from one character or scene to diffuse influence to all others. Although Hamlet excells Othello in intellectual keenness and revelation of inner conflict, just as Macbeth and King Lear contain greater depth, this play might well be regarded as Shakespeare's most warmly human and most natural tragedy. It contains neither ghosts, witches, portents of death, nor a sense of fulfilling destiny, nor a resolving of epic issues. 'The scene is laid entirely within the human heart, where good and evil grapple together to win Othello's soul. At its core it is a play of intrigue and, since its purpose is merely to present the workings of love and evil, it never attempts to define or explain these universally dominant yet mysterious forces. While the ingredients of the play are as timeless as humanity itself— ambition, pride, importance, love, rashness, honor, innocence, integrity —predominantly the play is a tragedy of jealousy, that "... Green-eyed monster which doth mock the meat it feeds on..." (IIT. 3. 166). Also, in the incompleteness of the flawless love between Othello and Desdemona, it forces us to admit how isolated each of us is from fellows, lovers, indeed our own soul mates. How beautifully Desdemona and Otheilo blend into one; how purely they fulfill each in the other. And yet in this blissful unity how devastatingly yawns the green gap between them. Truly this is a play of destruction: jealousy is the destroyer; love, the destroyed. And these inner workings we witness in horror and sympa- LESSON DEPARTMENT thetic suffering, since beneath the set smile and the seen pose we know them only too well within ourselves. Plot The play's action is laid against a background of war, which serves to reduce life to its essential values, and to accentuate the prowess of Othello, a Christian Moor who is fighting as a hired general for the City of Venice. Invited to the home of Brabantio, a Venetian senator, he tells of his adventures with such power that Desdemona, the senator's daughter, falls in love with him and they are secretly married. Iago, ambitious of promotion and domination, has just sworn eternal revenge on Othello for promoting Cassio to the army position he had hoped for. Once he learns of his master's marriage, Iago rouses Brabantio out of his bed to warn him that his daughter is being stolen by the black-bosomed Moor, and Brabantio is furious, believing that his fair Desdemona has been led to love him only through sorcery. But when the case is heard before Venetian senators, the Duke of Venice approves the match and gives the two his blessing, even though Brabantio still feels he has been robbed, and bemoans the fact that he was ever a father. Ordered to Cyprus to fight the Turks, Othello leaves Desdemona behind, though their marriage is but a few hours past. 'The storm turns back the 'Turks, and a general celebration is ordered. Iago devises a scheme through which he gets Cassio drunk and induces Roderigo to quarrel with him, Iago then notifies Othello of the brawl, and Cassio is demoted, to Iago's great satisfac- 557 tion. Iago decides to further his revenge by making Othello believe his wife has been unfaithful with Cassio, who has already asked Desdemona to plead with Othello to restore him (Cassio) to rank. When Othello sees them talking, Cassio leaves and "honest" Iago points this out to Othello as evidence of Cassio's guilt. As a love gift, Othello had given Desdemona his mother's handkerchief. Iago had pleaded with Emilia, his wife and Desdemona's maid, to steal it, but Emilia refused. However, when Desdemona drops it, Emilia picks it up and gives it to Iago, who "plants" it in Cassio's quarters. Intrigued by its beauty, Cassio gives it to his mistress to copy its design, and Othello by chance witnesses the giving. Now certain that his fair wife has given the handkerchief to Cassio and that Cassio is her lover, Othello succumbs to Jago's suggestion that, in the name of justice, he smother his wife to keep her from ruining other men. [lis intention is accelerated when Desdemona's kinsman, Lodovico, arrives to recall Othello to Venice, appointing Cassio in his place. Before her husband, Desdemona rejoices at Cassio's good fortune "for the love I bear him." Enraged in his blind jealousy, Othello strikes her and accuses her of infidelity. He dismisses her maid and commands Desdemona to return to her bed. Despite her protestations of innocence and_ her unwavering love for him, Othello smothers Desdemona in her bed. Emilia, the maid, hears Othello's confession of murder, then, in the presence of all, begins telling of her 558 husband Iago's treachery. Iago kills her to seal her mouth, and only moments too late Othello realizes that he has loved "not wisely but too well." Recalling his lost military glory, he stabs himself; and Cassio, the new governor, plans at once to execute unrepentant Iago, who tefuses to give any reason for his archvillainy. Othello It takes the entire play to reveal Othello's full identity to us. In the first act keen Iago sees him truly as a man:... Of a free and open nature That thinks men honest that but seem to be so.... I. 3. 405-406 After Othello's death, Cassio recalls in justice that "he was great of heart" (V. 2. 361). Basically Othello is a simple man who possesses all the military virtues: emotional control, cool judgment, belief in action, ability to make decisions, courage, loyalty, entire honesty, an abiding sense of justice, and the ordered relation of authority to subordinates, and of man to man. Othello, a middle-aged man, tells Desdemona's father that he loves Desdemona and needs her, not to fulfill bodily appetites, but because he desires her near him "... To be free and bounteous to her mind" (I. 3. 266). His love for her seems a most spiritual one and entirely sincere. Yet throughout his life Othello has never before been in society, nor learned even the most preliminary awareness of woman's mystery. It is, therefore, not surprising to learn that he feels his winning of the lovely Desdemona to be too good to be true. Yet in his newRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 found love he is entirely happy, as is shown in one sunny scene within the play when Desdemona lands at Cyprus to rejoin her bridegroom, and Othello reveals his feeling for her. Note that, soldier true, his most endearing love for her is couched in military language: Oth. O my fair warrior! Des. My dear Othello! Oth. It gives we wonder great as my content To see you here before me. O my soul's joy! If after every tempest come such calms, May the winds blow till they have wakened death! And let the laboring bark climb hills of seas Olympus-high, and duck again as low... If it were now to die, 'Twere now to be most happy, for I fear My soul hath her content so absolute That not another comfort like to this Succeeds in unknown fate. II. 1. 183-194 Thus Othello's joy becomes even greater when contrasted with empty tents and the stern utility which comprise the realm of war and exclusive male company. But his joy is short-lived, for Iago senses that, inwardly, Othello may not be as sure of his newly won prize as he may appear. When explaining to Brabantio, Desdemona's father, how he had won her, Othello said: She loved me for the dangers I had passed, And I loved her that she did pity them. This only is the witchcraft I have used. I. 3. 167-169 Desdemona was hungry for vicarious adventure and gallantry; Othello needed an adoring audience, and mutual love filled both needs. Yet she was too beautiful, too nearly LESSON DEPARTMENT perfect for him to trust his own plain tongue and brusque manner to hold her. 'Therefore when Jago merely hints at her inconstancy, suspicion enters Othello's mind. Here is outward support of his own sheltered, yet shattering inner fears. From this point to his death, Othello's downfall is rapid and cataclysmic. 'Those of us who have inward peace find it easy to blame Othello for his gullibility and for his failure to examine evidence and motive before he killed his greatest treasure. Yet, in sympathy, we should recall that in times of personal failure we trust ourselves least of all, and lean most heavily on our trusted, honest friends. Othello, who earlier distrusted all passion, now becomes the slave of the greeneyed monster jealousy, and, as it consumes him, he thinks not only that his new-found love is endangered, but that his wife's duplicity will destroy his pride and position in his lifelong passion: war. It is not only that his wife is untrue, but that his men know he has been made a fool of by a treacherous minx. (Read III. 3. 347-357.) And Othello's passion of jealousy begins working within him. Fed by the evil Iago, he comes to believe Desdemona untrue. He uses gross, obscene language in addressing her, and, finally, strikes her. Yet, though his revenge is of ice, steeled and premeditated, he now seems to find his strongest release in dramatizing his revulsion for his Desdemona, elsewhere called "chaste, skin whiter than snow, smooth as monumental alabaster." Here, indeed, is passion at war with itself, all within a man who only feels passion but under- 559 stands nothing of its compelling force. Sincerely he asks: Whip me, ye devils, From the possession of this heavenly sight! Blow me about in winds! Roast me in sulphur! Wash me in steep-down gulfs of liquid fire! O Desdemona! Desdemona! Dead! Oh! Oh! Oh! V. 2. 277-282 When Desdemona is dead and Othello calls himself, "fool, fool, fool," he makes his final speech, in remembrance of their love, mentioning that he had done good in serving the state. Still, unable to explain what has happened within himself, his last act of defiance against his overwhelming dilemma is to stab himself, a most willing victim of Iago's manipulations and his own jealous blindness. Tago While at first glance, Othello might seem the victim of Iago, in many basic respects, the two are destroyed by similar weaknesses. As Iago revealed in the opening speech to Roderigo, he is consumed by jealousy; so, finally, is Othello. Both are proud and ambitious. Iago longs to forsake his own role as underdog and to command men, as Othello now commands them. Were I the Moor, I would not be Iago. In following him, I follow but myself.... I am not what I am. I. 1. 57-58, 65 Or, that disguise I appear in today is not my true destiny; when I am equivalent to Othello, I'll then have achieved my true identity. So jealous is Iago of promoted Cassio, as well as of Othello, who now has fairer wife than he'll ever know, and so deeply wounded is Iago's pride, that in his desire for 560 revenge he most beautifully exemplifies his own cynical definition of virtue: Virtue! A fig! *Tis in ourselves that we are thus or thus. Our bodies are gardens, to the which our wills are gardeners. So that if we will plant nettles or sow lettuce, set hyssop and weed up thyme, supply it with one gender of herbs or distract it with many, either to have it sterile with idleness or manured with industry—why, the power and _ corrigible authority of this lies in our wills.... But we have reason to cool our raging motions, our carnal stings, our unbitted lusts, whereof I take this that you call love to be a sect or scion [bud or slip]. I. 3. 322-329, 334-337 Constantly maintaining that he is "nothing if not cynical," Iago spurns emotion and love, trusts nothing and no one, but believes only in reason and cunning; by these he destroys and is destroyed. In similar vein, Othello claims reason and order for his guides, yet his destruction is brought about by the entirely opposite evils of passion and jealousy run rampant, just as similarly these evils destroy Iago. Both men deserve their separate yet similar ends, for they are incapable of assessing themselves truly, and both bring about their own selfdestruction, after first causing havoc and suffering among humankind. Further, though Iago claims only intellectual powers, he floods the first part of the play with intense obscenities. Yet it is Othello who finally surpasses him as he reviles Desdemona in the scenes preceding her murder. 'Thus barbaric, passionate emotions overpower both men at different times, but for similar reasons. Iago shapes Othello to his will because he knows him to be both RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 gullible and proud. For Iago, all people are mechanical objects to be manipulated. First, he inflames Othello's imagination by recounting Cassio's dream of Desdemona which occurred only in Iago's evil mind. When Othello reacts, Iago sneers at him, which wounds Othello's pride unbearably. Oth. Dost thou mock me? Iago. I mock you! No, by Heaven. Would you would bear your fortune like a man! IV. 1.61-63 What greater wound to a military hero than to compare him thus to a whimpering boob? Iago's cold revenge is diabolical, intellectual, complete. Blending jealousy and hatred, it destroys all it touches, save Desdemona's pure spirit. Only her body dies, but as surely as good triumphs over evil, so was she too unsullied even to dream that such incarnate evil as Iago could exist, and her sweet spirit cowed him as nothing else does in the play. Desdemona Entirely a great woman, ruled by goodness, love, loyalty, and beauty, Desdemona is probably the strongest heroine in all Shakespeare. By her following the course of love as she found it in Othello, she defied her father and the conventions of her time to follow her own convictions. Such an act demands vision and courage. Desdemona had these and more. Further, so great was the beauty of her spirit that, until he became poisoned by distrust, Othello was exalted by her love into becoming a larger, better person. This miracle only love can perform. LESSON DEPARTMENT From her opening scene, Desdemona's words achieve great heights. When Othello demands that she produce his handkerchief, truly she tells him that he is to blame for her having lost it; but he bolts away in temper. In dismayed selflessness, yet with constancy, she confides to Cassio: My lord is not my lord, nor should I know him Were he in favor as in humor altered.... What I can do I will, and more I will Than for myself I dare.... Hil. 4. 124-125, 130-131 And so Desdemona contains her own feelings within herself, and never blames nor reproaches Othello for his extravagant accusation, other than to reply, "I have not deserved this" after he strikes her in front of her relative Lodovico. Contrast their moods and controls: Oth. O devil, devil! If that the earth could teem with a woman's tears, Each drop she falls would prove a crocodile. Out of my sight! I will not stay to offend you. IV. 1. 255-258 Des. Othello's fury is intensified at their next meeting when, calling her strumpet, she protests "By Heaven, you do me wrong" (IV. 2.28). After he charges out, Desdemona lies half stunned at his bitterness and invective. Iago enters with Emilia and in tenderness asks: Iago. What is your pleasure, madam? How is't with you? I cannot tell. Those that do teach young babes Do it with gentle means and easy tasks. He might have chid me so, for, in good faith, Des. 561 I am a child to chiding. IV. 2. 110-114 Unable even to repeat the word with which Othello branded her, she still manages to recover sufficiently to ask wise Iago for tender advice: Des. O good Iago, What shall I do to win my lord again? Good friend, go to him, for, by this light of Heaven, I know not how I lost him. Here I kneel. If c'er my will did trespass 'gainst his love Either in discourse of thought or actual deed, Or that mine eyes, mine ears, or any sense Delighted them in any other form, Or that I do not yet, and ever did, And ever will, though he do shake me off To beggarly divorcement, love him dearly, Comfort forswear me! Unkindness may do much, And his unkindness may defeat my life, But never taint my love. IV. 2. 148-161 Thus Othello's abuse is answered. In her all-consuming constancy Desdemona feels secure from any word or act which might issue from him. Even after she has been suffocated, she revives for a moment. Emil. Out and alas! Voice. Help! Help, ho! Help! O lady, speak again! Sweet Desdemona! Tress, speak! That was my lady's O sweet misDes. A guiltless death I die. Emil. Oh, who hath done this deed? Des. Nobody, I myself. Farewell. V. 2. 119-125 Commend me to my kind lord, Oh, farewell! 562 Indeed, greater charity hath no man, nor even hath Shakespeare. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Do you agree or disagree that Othello is Shakespeare's "most warmly human and most natural tragedy?" Why so? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 2. What was the tragedy of Othello? 3. What human strengths and weaknesses are brought out in Othello? 4. How possibly could Desdemona still love the man who killed her, and hold him blameless? 5. What is Shakespeare's attitude toward drinking as brought out in the play? Social Science —Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 9—Families Have Problems Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, November 26, 1957 Objective: To illustrate the nature and extent of problems which face families of today. We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed; we are perplexed, but not in despair (II Cor. 4:8). HE family today faces obstacles which threaten the very foundation of our society. Forces that scar and warp people are strong and their victims are many. A new set of living patterns finds many families illprepared to meet resulting problems. The economy of our day creates stress in family relations. Without conscientious and prayerful effort, families can easily be divided and destroyed. 'Though we are mindful of our problems, we cannot despair. Existing knowledge, however, can and must be marshalled to "retool" our thinking so that we can face and solve our problems. We must rely upon the refining influences of the home, if we would have our children walk sturdily ahead and uprightly before our Heavenly Father. With the resources at our command, it is within our power to strengthen the individual and thereby contribute to happy and_harmonious family life. The gospel challenges Latter-day Saints to avoid family deterioration and destruction and enables them to fashion happiness and eternal progress from the opportunities presented by the family. "Some of the realities facing today's families are here set forth. An exhaustive treatment is not intended. I. The Family Time Two generations ago individuals were closely anchored to the home, where food was raised and prepared and where clothing and other items were manufactured. Parents and children worked side by side. Family chores were time-and-energy consuming. Recreation was _ largely self-made and involved initiative as well as group participation. 'The population of the United States was largely rural, LESSON DEPARTMENT Slowly all of this changed. The ingenuity of man brought an era of specialization which snatched from families many of the tasks they had previously performed. Labor-saving devices in the home and mechanization of the farm, with other influences, had a tendency to increase leisure time. 'The leisure did not stay. Today outside influences have pulled family members away from the hearth. Much of our recreation is specialized, time-consuming, and, too often, requires only passive participation with limited creative thinking. Family recreation is limited. Most families now live in urban areas. 'Travel is taking family members away from home for short and extended stays. Employment, education, and cultural activities have each taken their toll of family time. Fathers, and in some instances, mothers, work outside the home. Fortunately the effectiveness of family influence is not measured entirely by the amount of time family members spend together. 'The quality and nature of the association have the greatest bearing on its end result. In view of the above trends, will the home remain the cradle of conscience and virtue? What can we do to see that families spend time together? 2. Communication Media One of the distinguishing characteristics of our time is the tremendous development of mass communication media. Fortunately none of us lives in a social vacuum but we are barraged with many and varied influences which affect how 563 we think and act. Radio, television, movies, and comic books, to name a few, are of recent origin, and are a part of this new influence. 'The growing child of today and his parents are constantly exposed to sights and sounds undreamed of a generation ago. Much of our enjoyment and progress is a result of this development. While these sights and sounds can do good, we cannot avoid the fact that they can also be carriers of evil and sinister influences. 'This places the added responsibility upon parents to evaluate and regulate the use of these new influences in the home. 'The impact of comic books of the horror and crime type were recently the subject of an investigation by the U. S. Senate Judiciary Committee's Subcommittee to Investigate Juvenile Delinquency. The subcommittee found legions of these magazines (they were neither books nor comic) depicting, explaining, and il lustrating, in detail, virtually every form of crime and horror. In the spring of 1954, over thirty million copies of "funny books" of the crime and horror type were being printed and distributed monthly in the United States. The subcommittee observed:... This country cannot afford the calculated risk involved in feeding its children through comic books, a concentrated diet of crime, horror, and violence. There was substantial... Agreement among the experts that there may be detrimental and delinquency-producing effects upon both the emotionally disturbed child and the emotionally normal delinquent. (1) Many wholesome "funny books" 1. Interim Report of the Subcommittee to Investigate Juvenile Delinquency to the Committee on The Judiciary, U. S. Senate, 84th Congress, 1956, on Comic Books. 564 are published and available, and parents would do well to discourage children from reading the other type. Television, radio, movies, and newspapers were also found to be producing material which overemphasized crime and violence. The subcommittee reported: These media have a tremendous influence on the young child in his early development and that while reflecting the major attitudes of the society, they are in turn influencing, to a great degree, the attitudinal development of children. 'That given an emotionally stable child who has had what may be interpreted as the proper emotional relationship with his parents, this type of presentation in the mass media may have little or no effect in terms of influencing his behavior. However, given achild with a more or less undeveloped attitudinal framework, the mass media may go a long way toward providing ideas both in the development of attitudes and in predisposing the child for a certain type of behavior. (2) Parents who are mindful of our cherished principles of freedom of the press and free agency, and of the obligation to teach their children properly, will diligently thwart the degrading, stimulate the wholesome, and be very sure that their children see virtues and values without distortion. 3. An Aging Population In 1900 there were only three million persons in the United States who were 65 years of age or over. Today there are approximately 14 million. It is estimated that by 1970 there will be 18.5 million and by the year 2000 almost 27 million persons aged 65 and over.... The aged population is increasing by 1,000 every day. (3) 2. Ibid., on Motion Pictures. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 In most parts of the world, people are living longer. If you are now twenty-five years of age you can expect to live to seventy-two; if you are now forty you can expect to live past seventy-three; if you are now sixty you can expect to live past seventy-seven; and if you are sixtynine you will likely live to the age of eighty. We are forever grateful for the contributions made by the more mature among us and we can show that gratitude by recognizing them, as God intended, as individuals who have varying needs, desires, circumstances, and capacities. 'They continue to have aspirations to grow and develop. As more elderly people remain with the family, the job of planning for them and with them becomes a necessity. Can we help them as they once helped us? How and where the aged shall spend their time and whether they are happy and contented is largely the result of family decisions. 'The decisions we make may well become the patterns by which our own situation is determined when we become old. 4. Family Breakdown The increasing evidence of family breakdown is distressing. Far too many parents are failing to solve and avoid personal difficulties and are turning to divorce as the answer. Too many children find themselves in a half-parentless world and in homes where parents provide an example of quarrelling, bitterness, and distrust for children to absorb. 3. Social Security Bulletin, U. S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, August, 1956, Volume 19, No. 8. LESSON DEPARTMENT In recent years the divorce rate has increased in the United States-as well as other countries. Fortunately about sixty per cent of the divorces granted were to couples who had no children. Divorces involving children usually occur in the early years of marriage. Two-thirds of the children affected are under ten. (4) Divorce and parental desertion are increasing at an alarming rate and are now the major causes of child dependency. There are likely some justifiable divorces. Basically, however, marriages fail because of the failure of the individuals who marry. What can be done to stem the tide of family breakdowns? 5. Mental IIness A congressional committee, appointed to investigate the toll of major diseases, after making an exhaustive study of all health problems, concluded: There is probably no more serious problem in the health field today than that of mental illness. (5) Hospitalization for mental illness has increased sixty per cent in twenty years. This tells only part of the story. 'The wasted lives, the misery, and the unhappiness of the mentally ill and their families cannot be estimated. Fortunately, tremendous gains are currently being made by which mental illness is prevented and treated. What can we do to avoid mental illness? 6. Delinquency and Crime Crime remains one of the all-time 565 problems affecting people. 'The percentage rise in crime in the United States, 1950 through 1955, was three times that of the population. Crime was up twenty-six per cent while population was up nine per cent. (6) Other countries have had_ similar disturbing increases in juvenile delinquency and adult crime. No pat solution to crime and delinquency has been found. However, certain things are known about the problems. Human behavior is the end result of many influences, environmental and inheritable. Action not in conformity with the accepted code of conduct is the result of multiple causes. An exami nation of these hard-to-find causes often suggests treatment measures helpful in solving the problem. Until we are able to avoid the development of criminal tendencies in people, or until we are able to solve personality problems of those who commit crime, we shall not make effective inroads upon the elimination of this social ill. Crime and delinquency bring unhappiness to the individual and his family. What can we do as mothers to meet this alarming problem? 7. Economic Factors in Family Living Many problems of an economic nature strain family life today. We shall mention briefly only a few. Desertion of wives and children has resulted in the public assuming re- 4. A Chart Book, Children and Youth at the Midcentury, Midcentury White House Conference on Children and Youth, 1950. 5. Committee on Interstate & Foreign Commerce, Rep. Charles A. Wolverton, N. J., Chairman. Commonly called the Wolverton Committee. 6. Uniform Crime Reports, Volume XXVI, No. 2, Annual Bulletin, 1955. 566 Sacred Music for Ladies Three Part Choruses 7% GLORY TO GOD—Bach-Wilson.....25 ae GRANT ME, DEAR LORD, DEEP PEACE OF MIND—Stickles...........20 = IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen...............-.20 ss IN THY FORM—Madsen................20 _— INVOCATION—Moore...................20 — KING OF GLORY—Parks...............20 — LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen........... -20 — SPIRIT OF GOD—Neidlinger.........18 ae TEACH ME, O LORD—Hamblen.....20 ae THY BLESSING ON THIS HOUSE, DEAR LORD—Madsen...................20 a VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— I) |.22 — WHEN CHILDREN PRAY—Fenner...20 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY | 15 E. Ist South | Salt Lake City 11, Utah i | Please send the music indicated above. |: C) On Approval (1 Charge ' ( Money Enclosed | I \ 1 1! | '!! { Name | City & State | |, ' 15 E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVOe! Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 sponsibility. Employment often separates families. 'The cost of living, desire for material things as well as low income, often result, separately and collectively, in stress. Young couples often assume they should start out with facilities and things which their parents had only after a life of hard work. Keeping up with the Joneses is dangerous to family living. 'The desire to supplement the income of the husband, either to raise or maintain a standard of living, has resulted in many mothers leaving the home for employment. Although some mothers, of necessity, are the family breadwinners, the well-being of children should be the determining factor. Of the more than twenty-one million mothers with children under the age of eighteen years in 1949, over four million worked outside the home. One and one-half million of these had children of preschool age. (7) Families Can Meet the Challenge It takes little imagination to realize that the home is vulnerable to attack. Latter-day Saint families face problems similar to those faced by other families. It is not intended in this lesson to suggest solutions to the problems above discussed. We must be constantly alert to the development of problems which affect the family and, once a problem is detected, our efforts should be towards solving it. Future lessons will dwell on how families can meet problems that arise. 4. A Chart Book, Children and Youth at the Midcentury, Midcentury White House Conference on Children and Youth, 1950. LESSON DEPARTMENT The task which is ours is stated in the following words: We cannot insulate our children from the uncertainties of the world in which we live or from the impact of the problems which confront us all. What we can do is to equip them to meet these problems, to do their part in the total effort, and to build up those inner resources of character which are the main strength of the American people. (8) Within the gospel is found the power to defeat and destroy unwholesome family influences. It requires more than acceptance and belief, however. We must make application of the gospel in our lives. Conscientious, prayerful effort to know and understand the gospel, and the living of it, will reduce the threat of defeat and will bring happiness and the realization of pleasant ambitions. Children will be prepared to meet squarely the temptations and problems which are theirs, and all family members will be grateful for the fruits of the gospel. Supplementary Reference 1. "Valiant Womanhood"'—Vesta P. Crawford, The Relief Society Magazine, October 1955, page 660. Questions for Discussion 1. Suggest ways in which families of today could better utilize their time to spend more hours together. How can family time be used wastefully? How can the Family Hour be used to increase family solidarity? 2. Discuss wholesome 'TV and _ radio programs for children and _ adolescents. Why is it desirable for parents to hear 8. President Harry S. Truman, Proceedings Midcentury White House Conference on Children and Youth, 1950. 567 and view programs preferred by their children and evaluate them together? 3. What tangible steps can be taken in our homes to offset the comic book craze? 4. Point out the recent advancements made in the treatment of mental illness. Why is greater understanding of this problem necessary for all of us? 5. Why should every parent be concerned with the problem of delinquency and crime? With the causes? <-> Echo Leslie S. Clark Through the fragrant dusk a veery's call Like silver rain is cast, As once we heard it, hand in hand, In an hour too dear to last.... Yet, still, a single song—a heart— Can hold the past. E BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles |... Eee eee 35 150 to 300 miles..........22......39 300 to 600 miles 0000.45 So} 600 to 1000 miles............. Eee54 1000 to 1400 miles..... Ww. 164 1400 to 1800 miles -.............0......76 Over 1800 miles...............-.----sceeeeeee.87 Leave them at our conyeniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah 568 HAWAITI Vida Fox Clawson is operating another of her lovely tours to HAWAII. This tour will sail on the New Matsonia on November 4, 1957. EARLY RESERVATIONS ARE ADVISABLE EUROPE Make your plans for Europe for the DEDICATION OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINT TEMPLE in England. For complete details write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EMpire 4-2017 For Relief Society and Genealogy Workers TYPEWRITING CLASSES CLASSWORK BEGINS SEPT. 9 Classes to run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction for adults who wish to use typewriting in genealogy and other Church work. Call for reservations. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1957 Birthday Congra t ulations One Hundred Mrs. Mary EvizaBetH ForEMAN CALKINS Sheridan, Wyoming Ninety-nine Mrs. ANNtis Hutpau Cuiurr Barry Pima, Arizona Ninety-eight Mrs. IH]Arrter RaNcK OLson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary ANN Brown CLARK Provo, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. VicroriA EsrettA Dixon Harper Payson, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. ANGELINE DrEEM HANSEN 'Tremonton, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Atice Norris SEARS Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. EvizaBerH ANNIE Munns GOATES Lehi, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. ANNIE KATHERINE ERICKSON BENSON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary E. Jones Ogden, Utah Mrs. ANGELINE Kinc Brooks Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Loutsa A. BATEMAN Shelley, Idaho Mrs. HELENA CurisTINE JOHNSON NEELEY Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Mary LeBaron Bay EMPEY Junction, Utah Mrs. CurisTINA SINCLAIR BOWERS Nephi, Utah Mrs. ELten FRANCINE ROBBINS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary E. Jones DaLton Roy, Utah 70 NORTH MAIN SALT LAKE CITY . Doctrine and Covenants Study Questions ROY W. DOXEY This study guide, designed to assist individual or group, makes a section-bysection study of the Doctrine and Covenants. It consists of a series of questions to be considered in the reading of the text. Scores of spiritual truths are pointed up and, where possible, their application is made to everyday life. $1.50 ROY W. Perry Pettichea ty BESCEET 20R8 teeraar 2. Doctrine and Covenants and Pearl of Great Price Large Print Edition Every LDS family will want this large print edition in the family library. It makes for easier reading—has durable cloth binding. $3.00 44 East South Temple'. —_——— — —. OS: | DESERET BOOK COMPANY — 2 44 East South Temple 3. Discourses of the | Salt Lake City, Utah h. H | Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ) money | Compiled by ALMA P. BURTON ee _=, 2 3 | seph Smith's utterances have been = | plea cocoon | and presented in unique fOrMm. J Address. Cccscsssvsssssssssseensesssseessesevnssseeve Here, in one brief volume, you | will gain a more perfect underKL Zone —_— revelations he received. $3.00 VE te ee Prophet Josep Smit The "best" from the Prophet Jo- — | culled from a wealth of material — | standing of the Prophet and the | order ( ) charge to my account for the encircled (num | | | | Happy Families Do Things TOGETHER *Round-and-'round and up-and-down... Makes you dizzy just watching, doesn't it? This feeling can be fun during an occasional visit to the amusement park, but... Do you sometimes feel the same way around bill-paying time every month... When the dollars come in and go right out again, and you just never seem to be getting ahead? Beneficial's "Planned Futures' gives you that important feeling of "getting ahead." Those financial circles can be straightened out to chart a beautifully straight course to a Planned Future... Providing the money you'll want for your children's education, for travel and fun, for your own retirement. Your Beneficial Life agent can help you plan to save money regularly as you can best afford, and gain that allSend today for in- & formative folder on "Planned Futures." BENEFICIAL LIFE | | | I | 2S es Susuanee Lfefisurane | ' Salt Lake City, Utah | | | -----—-—-—-—-—--------------} BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Beneficial Building Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me a copy of your free folder, 'Planned Futures." Street or RED occ ect ete eect ett eeeteeeeee SS David O. McKay, Pres.\_ 6 City... Zone. State important feeling of "getting ahead." Call him soon,; Country Neighbors Elsie McKinnon Strachan Two women walked through autumn dusk, Their children following. Where corn had stood in tasseled husk, Where quail had taken wing; Past hayfields where their men had talked And marked warm days with laughter, Past stubble gold, two women walked, Their children romping after. While jellies cooled upon the sill— Their kitchens warm and sweet, Two women talked of spice and dill, Of pickled pear and beet. A far goose etched the amber sky And honked his parting call, Two women, lingering, said goodbye, At the fence of golden fall. The Cover: Tiger Pagoda in Hong Kong, China Photograph submitted by Luana C. Heaton Frontispiece: Aspen in Autumn, near McClure's Pass, Colorado Photograph by Bob Bishop Cover Design by Evan Jensen From Tear and Sar T want you to know that my two married daughters enjoy your wonderful Magazine as much as I do. One daughter, Mrs. Joan Kershaw, lives in Ogden, Utah.... She presides over her home and family of five from her wheel chair, and gets many happy hours from our Magazine. My other daughter, Dorothy Cunningham, is now in far-off Okinawa with her airforce husband and _ little daughter. 'They enjoy the Magazine and Relief Society over there. She says she feels most at home in Okinawa when she is in Relief Society. —Edith Weenig President Riverside Ward Relief Society Salt Lake City, Utah I sent a copy of the July issue of the Magazine (containing my article, "Let's Visit a Desert Botanical Garden") to Mr. Marshall of the Tempe (Arizona) Botanical Garden, and he said, quote: "Let me say that this is the first article written by an author outside of our staff which was factual and unobjectional in every way. Congratulations." 'That's meat and drink, isn't it, to a struggling author? —Marijane Morris Corrine, Utah It was with great interest that I read Preston Nibley's account of the South African Mission (July 1957). Asa child: ae those Ye with my mothEdith M. Spanton, and learned the ae hymns. She was converted to the Church by Elders Lyon and Simpkins and came to Utah in 1906. Strangely enough, in her later years, she sometimes served as baby-sitter for Brother Nibley's small twin granddaughters. As this is her birthday month, I am sending this letter in loving tribute to her memory and with everlasting gratitude to her and to those elders who made our coming to Utah possible. —Edith S. Anderson Berkeley, California Page 570 I did enjoy Edna Day's article "A Nursery Will Be Maintained," in the June issue of the Magazine. I am proud to be her friend. Relief Society has introduced me to so many friends—Frances C. Yost, Mabel Law Atkinson, Agnes Just Reid. Years ago, before I ever dreamed that someday I would be a_ Latter-day Saint, I sold romantic verse to national magazines—and I could usually count on appearing alongside Catherine Berry, whom I hope to see some day. —Elaine Walters Blackfoot, Idaho I cannot refrain from expressing my appreciation for the editorial "Pen in Hand" (by Vesta P, Crawford) in the May Magzine. I read it for the first time this morning, then immediately reread it, and now, this afternoon, I read it again and find it even more beautiful and vital, especially for Latter-day Saint writers. —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho I wish to express my pleasure in the article "A Nursery Will Be Maintained" (June 1957). It recalled to memory some of my own teaching experiences and the joy I find when some fine young man or woman comes up to me and asks "Do you remember me? You taught me in second grade," and I grope back through the years for the small edition I once knew. It is a wonderful privilege to be a teacher and have some small part in instructing and shaping these young lives. I always enjoy Frances Yost's stories and articles. Her versatility amazes me. It shows what determination and faith can do. —KEdith Johannesen Idaho Falls, Idaho I watch the Magazine with interest from month to month, and enjoy it very much. When I get back in Zion, I plan to try many of those wonderful recipes (from the missions) that have been published. —Bernice O. Dyer President West German Mission Relief Society THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - ~ Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Elna P. Haymond Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Gladys S. Boyer Annie M. Ellsworth Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay; Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Afton W. Hunt Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring Wealtha §. Mendenhall RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - = - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Edito - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 44 SEPTEMBER 1957 No. 9 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES My Father—A True Leader.. U...... Cececceccececceececeesesceteeesecseseceeseeeeeeesees Emma Rae McKay Ashton 573 Free Agency a Henry D. Moyle 575 The Southern Far East Mission 2.0.2... Cessecee-ecesececeeccecesevesevecsnanecsneveneceveeeeseseenenseesePreston R. Nibley 580 A Temple Rises in New Zeclamd ooo... Tse ececcccececssseuesesesesesecececeeetesessseeceseeeeWealtha S. Mendenhall 582 Nothing Worth Having Is Free a. 601 FICTION The Heavenly Bonus Rosa Lee Lloyd 589 For This I Have Yearned 0000 - -Mabel Law Atkinson 605 The Bright Star—Chapter 7 (Conclusion) 22.... C... Cccee-ceccesccececescceeeeescsnaneceseceecereeDorothy S. Romney 608 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far = 970 Sixty Years Ago; 596 Woman's Sphere occceccceccescececcceccececececsessceneavesecesenecsuseuscseaseaccsseeeececoeeessseseecaseesaceeseareneRamona W. Cannon 597 Editorial: Her Choice oo... CcecececccceeceeccececeeeeeesceeeeeceeceevecccoeeceecesesacecececeseseeeseceseaeenscaseeeeMarianne C. Sharp 598 Notes to the Field: Relief Society Magazine Subscription Price Raised to $2 -......... Esccececeeeceeeeee 600 Annual General Relief Society Conference...... A eee. 600 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 2.0... St essssseeescececseeceseeeecceecsceeeeereeeHulda Parker 612 Birthday Congratulations 2... Eee ceeeecescceeecectenenescoecsecececesseeneccecesnecceneneess 640 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Southern Far East Mission Luana C. Heaton 602 Dora Jolley Pursues a Hobby of Handwork oo... Cececcceccsecsssssescesesecececeseasecseenessessnecaceneeesseassosscaeesenceceees611 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: What to Expect From a Study of the Doctrine and Covenants........ Roy W. Doxey 619 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''O Ye That Embark in the Service of God...."' Christine H. Robinson 625 Work Meeting: Living Economically....... Der ceeets sacceeoenoeoseWilliam F. Edwards 626 Literature: 'Twelfth Night, or What You Will".. = = Briant S. Jacobs 629 Suggested Music for Lessons on Shakespeare................ 636 Social Science: References for 'Families Have Problems') ooo.. Ee.. Iessssssssscsssceeseeececeseeceseseeteceeenaness 638 POETRY Country Neighbors—Frontispiece, Elsie McKinnon Strachan, 569; Cool Grove of Language, Dorothy J. Roberts, 574; Summers Past, Gertrude T. Koven, 578; The Golden Net, Ethel Jacobson, 579; Tour of Pennsylvania, Margery S. Stewart, 588; Drowsing in the Sun, Ida Isaacson, 595; To Aunt Cetty's Old Blue Bowl, Matia McClelland Burk, 599; Only These, Mabel Jones Gabbott, 604; Seed of Lace, Maryhale Woolsey, 607; My Husband's Hands, Marie Ricks, 618; To Children Asleep, Florence Marie Gates Bennett, 624; Worship, Wanda Greene Nielson, 640. PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 571 | Courtesy Z. C. M. I. Photo Reflex Studio PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY Page 572 My SFather—A Srue Leader Birthday Greetings to President David O. McKay On His Eighty-Fourth Birthday, September 8, 1957 Emma Rae McKay Ashton ARENTS of the Church are admonished by their leaders to teach the gospel in their homes and to direct their children wisely at the critical periods of their lives. Father, I appreciate your guidance throughout my life. It seems only yesterday that I pleaded to stay home from the kindergarten class in Sunday School. You smiled and explained gently, "Oh, everyone in our family attends Sunday School on Sunday morning. Out of the seven days in the week, this first one belongs to the Lord. It is different. It is his day—the day when, fresh and clean, your hair neatly curled, and wearing your best shiny shoes and crisp frock, you honor and worship our Heavenly Father in his house. Your spirit, as well as your body, must be fed to become the lovely thing you want it to be." Needless to say, after that, with you and Mother we filed happily to Church. After Sunday School, permission to play on the slide and swings in the park we knew would be denied, so we read quietly, or visited relatives. How secure a small child feels under the influence of parents who live with a purpose and point the way of truth unwaveringly. Not long after you returned from your mission around the world, one day you seated me beside you and announced that jt was time that I was baptized. "Do you know what that means, Emma Rae? When you are immersed in the water, all of your sins are washed away. You emerge a new person with a determination, I hope, to keep your life clean and sweet. After you are baptized, you will be confirmed a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and receive the gift of the Holy Ghost to guide you in choosing the right when temptation confronts you." With deep appreciation, I recall a lesson in politeness that you taught me. Upon request, I arose from the dinner table to cut more bread. Returning, and before placing the bread on the table, I helped myself to a slice. All you said was, "Always serve yourself last. Be mindful of others first." That was enough. Although you said no more than that, from then on, this lesson in courtesy was reinforced and indelibly stamped upon my mind by your daily practice of it. Often you counseled, "It is the little things in life that count—the habitual use of 'please,' 'thank you, and 'pardon me,' that are important." Sometimes, when our play was tense and our voices became shrill, you quoted King Lear's eulogy to Cordelia to quiet us: "Her voice was ever soft, gentle, and low, an excellent thing in woman." Page 573 574 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 Problems confront teenagers whose professors attempt in various ways to encourage disbelief in Christ's teachings. One day I was perturbed over the explanation in a university class that a separate spirit leaving the body and ascending to heaven is inconceivable. 'The professor illustrated his point with an analogy—comparing the body with the mechanism of a watch. When the mainspring of the watch breaks or important parts fail to function, the ticking stops. When the human heart ceases beating, the body dies. Your decisive answer strengthened my testimony. "Your professor forgets that the intelligence behind that watch still lives, and will go on living. Life is eternal." You explained that intelligence never was created nor can be; that heavenly parents created spiritual bodies in which the organized intelligences could dwell; and that the spirit bodies are permitted to be born into earthly bodies. By obeying the Word of Wisdom and exercising self-control, we keep unsullied the earthly tabernacles of our eternal spirits. "A true leader," a noted educator defined, "possesses two outstanding qualities: first, consideration for the welfare of others; and second, the ability to help people understand their assignments." These qualities in you are evident in your piloting of this great Church. Your love, sympathetic understanding, and deep concern for the happiness of members of the Church, and your wisdom in counseling and interpreting life's purposes to your people have endeared you forever in their hearts. > Cool Grove of Language Dorothy J. Roberts I walked the cool grove of language For healing; through untoned reams Of silence, for a faith. I moved down the long corridors Of men's thinking and was assuaged, For through all the groves stirred The whisper of God's voice, Root and bud... Common to all. I walked the cool grove of language And in the green forest of words Found my heart made whole. Free Agency Henry D. Moyle Of the Council of the Twelve Choose you this day whom ye will serve (Joshua 24:15). HIS was the call of a great prophet of God to his people, to exercise their free agency. So has it been in all generations of time. Indeed, our free agency reaches into the eternities. Heaven wills our happiness, allows our doom (Young, Night Thoughts). We often have occasion to repeat with approval the poetic words of William C. Gregg: Know this, that every soul is free To choose his life and what he'll be, For this eternal truth is given That God will force no man to heaven. He'll call, persuade, direct aright, And bless with wisdom, love, and light, In nameless ways be good and kind, But never force the human mind. These poetic words portray the author's deep insight into the inherent power of man. By and through the inspiration of the Al mighty, it is written: Now there was no law against a man's belief; for it was strictly contrary to the commands of God that there should be a law which should bring men on to unequal ground (Alma 30:7). Free agency is a godly attribute in which we share as his children. It is our most priceless heritage. Like all other endowments from on high, to benefit by it, we must exert ourselves. Stamped indelibly on the minds of Latter-day Saints, is this truth; "The glory of God is intelligence." We are limited in the exercise of our free agency by the extent or degree of our intelligence. Joshua's choice of whom he would serve was an intelligent choice. He knew the alternatives when he chose the God of Israel. He realized that man could not be saved in ignorance. Throughout the history of the world, it is the ignorant who have been oppressed and deprived to the greatest extent of their liberty. It stands to reason that such a great gift from God entails equally great responsibilities upon the part of the recipient. We do not merit possession of this great gift unless we use it intelligently and beneficially. For this power of free agency to be functional, there must needs be a choice. And men are instructed sufficiently that they know good from evil... (2 Nephi 2:5). For it must needs be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not so... Righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad... And if ye shall say there is no law, ye shall also say there is no sin. If ye shall say there is no sin, ye shall also say there is no righteousness. And if there be no righteousness there be no happiness. And if there be no righteousness nor happiness there be no punishment nor misery. And if these things are not there is no God... (2 Nephi, 2:11, 13). Page 575 Without the inherent power to decide, man's ability to progress eternally would be destroyed. Our voluntary efforts toward our improvement carry us along a very interesting road. 'The farther we travel, the greater becomes the scope of our opportunity. The more we learn the greater becomes the field of the unknown. Through it all we gain at least a vague conception of the infinite. It makes it easier to comprehend in some small measure the possibility of our endless, unlimited development. The finite mind has its limitations, but of this we can be assured, we are all able to grasp so far as we will the possibilities of progress within our own teach. Whether we stretch out our hand to secure for ourselves our opportunities, or let them pass by, is the office of our free agency. As we will, so can we succeed. In fact, our free agency is the foundation of life. It is controlled in large measure by our faith. Paul commented beautifully when he said: Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen (Hebrews 11:1). Then he goes on in verse 6 to say: But without faith it is impossible to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. We see, therefore, without faith it is impossible to progress. Faith in very deed motivates action. Without action there is no such thing as success. We sometimes err in limiting the scope of our free agency to man's religious needs. Like all other principles of the gospel, there is no circumscription. It is the controlling factor in all our human activities and considerations. Man was also in the beginning with God. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be. All truth is independent in that sphere in which God has placed it, to act for itself, as all intelligence also; otherwise there is no existence (D. & C. 93:29, 30). LF? Us for a moment reflect upon what has been accomplished by the exercising of the free agency of man. It is natural that we should immediately turn to the establishment of our own great nation. The authors of the Declaration of Independence and the framers of our Constitution recognized the heavenly endowment of free agency in man in the great work which they accomplished. We read in the Declaration of Independence: We hold these truths to be selfevident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable mghts, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness. That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed. The Constitution declares above all else that it was adopted to secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity. I quote from Article I of the Bill of Rights of the Constitution: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances, 576 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 FREE AGENCY And in Article IX of the same Bill of Rights is written: The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people. This is an absolute recognition by the government of the inherent right of free agency of man. He should be deprived of as little of his freedom as possible. None, as a matter of fact, without his consent— that is, the consent of the majority. Even then, the limitations placed upon man's free agency should be confined to those essentials of government by which our security is insured, and the individuals permitted to live lives of liberty and to pursue happiness as they would. The difficulty with all governments, and one to which our own has fallen heir, is that the majority, by virtue of its right to place limitations on man's free agency, has undertaken to infringe upon the rights reserved to the individual, for the direct and immediate benefit of the majority individually rather than for the establishment of law and order. For example: the Constitution expressly prohibits taking of personal property for public purposes without just compensation. Under the guise of taxation, the Constitution is violated and property is taken from one and given to another. 'This demonstrates clearly the power to tax is the power to destroy. 'That is the course which we now pursue. Even here it is a question of the proper use of our free agency. The Constitution defines our rights. Our difficulties today come as a result of the use we make of our own free agency in 577 preserving and protecting these rights, which should be unalienable, as declared. Freedom of worship, as well as political and spiritual freedom, has been lost to those who could not make relatively intelligent decisions pertaining to their own well-being. There has never been a dearth of men—cunning, crafty, unscrupulous —who were ever ready to oppress the poor, the weak, the ignorant. In so doing, they have, and do even now, operate in the sphere of almost every human activity. Their influence is felt economically, socially, politically, and religiously. 'The only difference in the various ages of man is the ability on the one hand, the opportunity on the other, for the few to oppress the masses and seek to control their destinies for their own selfish purposes. [' is the influence of the true gospel of Jesus Christ which has helped to uplift men in their own estimation, brush aside the mists of darkness from the minds of men, and restore to them the ability to think and act in keeping with the laws of God, to grow in knowledge and understanding, each to become his own savior by willing to be what his nghteous ambitions direct. All this spells progress. On the other hand, where people live in ignorance under the domination of others, little of their free agency tremains. 'They have almost lost this gift and likewise almost ceased to exist as the children of our Heavenly Father. As the light of knowledge, the expansion of their powers of reason and perception dawns, their powers of decision increase and greater and greater freedom of ac- 578 tion is theirs. It is then, and then only, that the redeeming power of the gospel of Jesus Christ can lift them into the light and knowledge of God and his ways. It is not alone governments that seek to enjoin us in the exercise of our own free agency. 'This has sometimes been done in the name of religion. Such an injunction at once seeks to destroy under the guise of divine prerogative our free agency in determining for ourselves what is true or false. I for myself have long since determined that a safe criterion by which movements political, social, or religious can be judged meritoriously is by their impact upon our Godly attribute of free agency. God would not seek to destroy with the left hand that which he bequeathed to us with his nght hand. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning (James 1:17). Neither would he leave to one man RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 the prerogative, divine or otherwise, to choose for another what is right or wrong. As noted, our Constitution recognizes that all men are created equal. Even God did not reserve this right to himself to control the mind of man, See, I have set before thee this day life and good, and death and evil.... I call heaven and earth to record this day against you, that I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing: therefore choose life, that both thou and thy seed may live (Deuteronomy 30:15, 19). Let us, therefore, be so grateful for our rich heritage that we evidence our gratitude by the use we make of this eternal power to render our own decisions and to determine for ourselves what is truth on the one hand and error on the other. 'To do this, we are all equally endowed with our free agency. May we never find ourselves under the necessity of permitting others to make that decision for us. Let us all decide with Joshua of old:... But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord (Joshua 24:15). <-> Guaiinars Past Gertrude T. Koven How many seasons pass before the heart Can realize the wealth of summertime— Can know this transient beauty set apart, To hold the sequence of each flowing rhyme, Rich with assured abundance—summertime. Summer once more retreating on the hills And fading slowly in the cool of night.... I pray that I may keep a summer hour When leaves have faded and the winter's blight Has settled on the years I count tonight. Josef Muench MALIGNE LAKE, JASPER NATIONAL PARK, CANADA She Golden Tet Ethel Jacobson Summer was green, so green it would never end, Alders painted the sky over mirroring streams, Emerald, jade—each leaflet dappled to blend In a verdant canopy. Green was the color of dreams, The green of willow, aspen, and mountain larch, Of blackberry runners fagoting each lane, Of foxgrapes in the wood, and the lacy arch Of birches weaving summer's counterpane. There time dozed in a peppermint-hued cocoon, Time and I[—but one night it grew still And trees stood silent, snared by the yellow moon In a golden net, stood shivering and chill, Their color drained where meshes, magic-stitched, Had stained and left them yellow, moon-bewitched. Page 579 She Southern Sar Gast Mission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian ARLY in May 1955, the First Presidency announced the division of the Japanese Mission into two missions, to be known as the Northern Far East and the Southern Far East. The Southern Far East Mission was to include Formosa, the British colony of Hong Kong, the Philippines, and the island of Guam. Herald Grant Heaton of Salt Lake City was appointed to preside over this mission. The division of the Japanese Mission was ratified at a missionary conference held in Karuizawa, Japan, on July 27, 1955, under the direction of President Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve. President Smith, accompanied by his wife, Mrs. Jessie Evans Smith, had made the journey to Japan for the purpose of supervising the division of the mission and installing President Heaton as president of the Southern Far East Mission. At a meeting of the saints and missionaries held in Hong Kong on as - — C. Heaton CHINESE JUNK WITH PART OF HONG KONG ISLAND IN THE BACKGROUND Page 580 THE SOUTHERN FAR EAST MISSION 581 Ewing Galloway WINNOWING RICE, LUZON, PHILIPPINE ISLANDS August 17, 1955, under the direction of President Smith, the action of creating the Southern Far East Mission was again ratified. A temporary headquarters for the mission was established at 149 Argyle Street, Kowloon, Hong Kong. The first missionaries assigned to labor in the Southern Far East Mission were Elders Garnet E.. Birch, Robert M. Jackson, Alexander K. Madsen, Gary L. Bradshaw, Kenneth Kui Sing Fong, Ronald Ollis, Duane W. Degn, and Jerry D. Wheat. In June 1956, four missionaries were assigned to Formosa; the first to be assigned to that country. The first baptisms in the Southern Far East Mission were performed on April 26, 1956, when Mr. And Mrs. Leslie Dickman, natives of England, were baptized at Hong Kong by Elder Leslie W. Degn. Five days later eleven Chinese converts were baptized in the mission home in Kowloon. At the end of May 1957, it was reported that there were 284 members of the Church in the Southern Far East Mission, located in four branches. Luana C. Heaton presides over the Southern Far East Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, "Pagoda in Kowloon, Hong Kong," was submitted by Luana C. Heaton, President, Southern Far Fast Mission Relief Socicty. Sec also "Recipes From the Southern Far East Mission," page 602. A Temple Rises in New Zealand Wealtha S. Mendenhall Member, General Board of Relief Society 6¢ PF any of you lack wisdom, [| let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." How grateful we are this day that our great Prophet Joseph Smith, when just a boy, was impressed by the above message; that it entered with great force into his heart, and he did seek in faith, nothing wavering, for needed wisdom from God many times. We are grateful that on the morning of a very beautiful, clear day in the early spring of 1820, Joseph knelt in prayer, and that he was visited by the Father and his Son Jesus Christ. At that time the Father introduced the Savior of mankind by saying, "This is My Beloved Son, Hear Him!" We are grateful that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints was organized in its fulness under the guidance and inspiration of the Savior through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and that it is for all people wherever they are. Missionaries were sent out into the world, and the truths of our gospel have been proclaimed to hundreds of thousands of our Father's children. The beautiful land of New Zealand was first visited by the Latterday Saint missionaries in 1854, but it was not until 1881 that the mussionaries from the "rising sun," traveling in pairs, prepared to live in the homes of the people, and to learn the Maori language and teach the Maori the gospel in their own tonguc. 'The membership of the Page 582 Church has grown since that time in New Zealand until we now have 14,630 members. It was easy for this people to accept much of the doctrine of the Church, especially was it easy to accept The Book of Mormon. Brother Matthew Cowley, in his book Matthew Cowley Speaks, states that he had never met a Polynesian who had read 'The Book of Mormon who did not say: "That book came from God. 'That is our record." It was easy for them to believe in the words of the Lord, "Tf any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God." They do this constantly. It was easy for them to accept the genealogical program of the Church, because their dearest interests in life are entwined about their posterity; their children are their prize possessions; they love them dearly. They recite their genealogy from memory for many generations. 'They continually speak of the fact that they are born of goodly parents. Yes, they are eager to go to the house of the Lord and there be sealed as husband and wife and have their children sealed to them for time and all eternity. They are eager and willing to go into a temple of God and be baptized by proxy for their ancestors and do their work, that they, too, may be sealed for all eternity. These wonderful people of New Zealand and those of Australia, Samoa, Tonga, Tahiti, and other island people, have been and are A TEMPLE RISES IN NEW ZEALAND 583 Candid Camera Studies Hamilton, New Zealand THE BEAUTIFUL NEW ZEALAND COUNTRYSIDE, WITH THE TEMPLE AT THE UPPER LEFT OF THE PICTURE faithful, humble, devoted members of the Church. They love the Lord, and the truth is embedded deep in their hearts. They enjoy their Church work and live according to its teachings. Many of these people have saved money for years to take them to the house of the Lord, but the amount needed is almost prohibitive, as they have large families and money is not easy for them to obtain. The majority of those faithful souls who have traveled to Hawaii to the temple have traveled steerage on a ship, with little or no spending money in their pockets, and all that they owned has been sold in order to make the trip. Yet they were happy in the thought that they were saving themselves and their ancestors. These good people have been told, in recent years, to stay home and save their money, to be faithful to the teachings of the gospel, and it might be possible to bring a temple to them. 'They have been waiting faithfully. ONE day in December 1954, President David O. McKay called Brother Wendell B. Mendenhall into his office and assigned him to a special mission of investigating possible temple sites in the beautiful faraway land of New Zealand. This assignment was of a confidential nature, and it made it impossible for Brother Mendenhall, upon Candid Camera Studies Hamilton, New Zealand AT THE CORNERSTONE OF THE NEW ZEALAND TEMPLE December 22, 1956 Left to right: Elder Wendell B. Mendenhall, Chairman of the Church Building Committee; Elder R. Elwin Clark, a labor missionary; Elder Hugh B. Brown, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve; Elder Ariel S. Ballif, President, New Zealand Mission. His arrival in that land, to let the people he loved so much know that their dreams were finally going to come true. However, it was quite enough at that time to tell them that the Prophet of God and Sister McKay were going to pay them a visit in approximately three weeks. Imagine the thrill and excitement of those humble saints in knowing that President McKay was coming to their land! Many of them had never seen a prophet, now they would both see and hear one, maybe even shake his hand. No king had a greater welcome to any land than did the President of the Church have in the South Seas. He retired early the night of his arrival and was up bright and early the next morning ready and anxious to look at the temple site that had been selected, although it had not been discussed since his arrival. He was met by Brother Mendenhall, Brother Biesinger, Supervisor of Church Construction in New Zealand, and others, and they drove through Church-owned property to a beautiful green rolling hill on the connecting farm. All stepped from the car and looked over the grounds and the new college that is being constructed there. President McKay's eyes were bright with what he saw, and a smile came upon his face. 584 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 A TEMPLE RISES IN NEW ZEALAND He was happy as he looked over the hill and could see the small cities around; he could see the little lake a short distance away, also beautiful grazing land for livestock. He called to Brother Mendenhall to come to his side and said, "What do you think?" In reply to his question, Brother Mendenhall said, "What do you think?" Then, in an almost prophetic tone, President McKay said, "This is the place to build the temple." HE ground was purchased and the temple ground-breaking ceremony was held December 21, 1955 at 2 p. M. President Ariel S. Ballif of the New Zealand Mission was in charge of the program, and approximately 1500 people attended. After singing "We Thank Thee O God for a Prophet," and hearing those words full of meaning ring out Q Candid Camera Studies Hamilton, New Zealand THE NEW ZEALAND TEMPLE 585 to all the inhabitants nearby, I thought of the words of the prophet Brigham Young when the Salt Lake Temple was being built. He said: "T want to see the temple built in a manner that it will endure through the Millennium. 'This is not the only Temple we shall build; there will be hundreds of them built and dedicated to the Lord. This Temple will be known as the first Temple built in the mountains by the Latter-day Saints." I kept thinking, and this temple will be the first temple built in the South Pacific by our Latter-day Saints; they will build so it will endure through the Millennium as their hearts, and all their strength will be in their work. Thirty-six labor missionaries had been called from the mainland as supervisors for this work, and other Church buildings on the island. Brother E. Albert Rosenvall was IN COURSE OF CONSTRUCTION 586 called to be supervisor for the construction of the temple under the direction of Brother George Biesinger. 'Two hundred fifteen labor missionaries were there from the Church membership of Australia, Tonga, Samoa, Tahiti, and New Zealand, living in small homes and dormitories they had helped to build while working on the New Zealand College and chapels in that area. These missionaries are supported by the membership of their missions, inasmuch as the New Zealand Temple will serve approximately 40,000 of the faithful people of those islands. Work on the temple started immediately after the groundbreaking and hasn't stopped since. While serving the Lord, men and_ boys have learned their trades. One Moari boy said, "I didn't want to come here to work, but now I want to die here." They love their work, they love the association with other good-living boys and girls, they enjoy the Church work in the College Branch, and the spirit they feel in giving service. Work progressed rapidly under the missionary labor program, and, on December 22, 1956, the cornerstone was laid by Elder Hugh B. Brown. Hundreds of saints had gathered from far and near for this impressive ceremony, and many of them were able to crowd into the temple for the program, after which all gathered around the building on the outside under the beautiful sky of blue and the fluffy white clouds for the cornerstone laying. Again, all missionaries renewed their determination to put their hearts and souls into the work in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 order to dedicate their temple unto the Lord around the beginning of 1958. From my apartment, I could hear singing from the early morning hours until long after the stars and the moon were shining brightly at night. How these people love to sing as they work! Yes, they are a chosen people. THE temple is located on the North Island of New Zealand. It is about three miles west of the town of Frankton Junction, which is near the city of Hamilton. It is on the most prominent site of the Church property, and the main axis of the building extends east and west and is parallel with the main highway running on the west side of the temple, which is the Pirongia Highway. According to Edward O. Anderson, architect, entrance to the temple grounds is by way of 'Temple Drive, which extends off Pirongia Highway at a ninety-degree angle. The drive has a rise of twenty feet from the highway, and the ground level of the temple is thirty-eight feet above the Drive, on a beautiful green rolling knoll, with native woodland nearby. 'This gives the temple a very imposing setting and makes it the most important and impressive building in the area. The temple is of reinforced concrete and concrete block construction with cast stone trim, most of which was manufactured on the site by the native missionaries. It is built in three main floor levels, which floors are expressed in the elevation design. The annex of the temple extends around the temple proper, and is eighty-four feet wide A TEMPLE RISES IN NEW ZEALAND Photograph by E. Albert Rosenvall THE NEW ZEALAND TEMPLE NEARING COMPLETION June 1957 and 159 feet long, which gives a floor area of 13,358 square feet. 'This annex portion is one story high, the roof of which is sixteen feet above the ground line. The temple proper is fifty feet four inches wide and 114 feet long, and extends from the second floor line to a height of fiftysix feet above the ground, which is the roof line. The lower floor contains twentysix rooms, the principal of which are: baptismal room, baptismal office, dressing rooms, matron's office, children's room, women _ workers' lounge, men workers' lounge, laundry, sewing room, kitchen, and dining room. The oxen for the baptismal font were modeled by M. F. Malin and were cast and the font assembled in Switzerland. The main floor consists of twentyfour rooms, which are: entry, 587 lounge, foyer, cloak rooms, inner foyer, chapel, president's office, counselors' office, recorder's office, general offices, dressing rooms, bride's room, consultation room, and linen room. The second floor contains eight rooms, including ordinance rooms and two sealing rooms. The second mezzanine floor contains two sealing rooms. Ventilating equipment is located both in the attic and in the basement. All finished woodwork in the temple is rimu wood, a native wood, which was milled on the site out of lumber which was sawed and taken from the Church timber tract at Kai Kohe, New Zealand, 250 miles away. 'lhe main ordinance room is finished in both rimu wood and marble. 'The sealing rooms are finished in marble. All floor cover- ings, both hard floor and carpets, furnishings, wall coverings, furniture, draperies, and other appointments were incorporated in the design of the building, and all harmonize and are in keeping with the general conservative-modern design. A tower is located on the east side of the temple and extends ninetynine feet above the roof line. It is built of concrete block and reinforced concrete. On top of this tower, pointing towards the heavens, is a bronze spire which was manufactured in England. Yes, the beautiful bronze spire reaches heavenward, just as the prayers of the choice people of the South Seas have done. They have prayed to our Father in heaven for needed wisdom. 'They have done so in faith, nothing wavering. God has given to them liberally, and their prayers, their dreams, their very hearts' desires will soon come true. A temple of God is to be dedicated April 20, 1958. This will be a great occasion for those choice people of Israel who dwell in the islands of the sea. May God ever be with them. Sour of Pennsylvania Margery S. Stewart This is Christ Church, the driver said, Underneath you are the stones That house their folded, ancient bones. They who builded, all lie dead. This is her house, the driver said, This red brick floor, this hearth, the loom. She made the banner in this room. But she who cut out stars is dead. This is Valley Forge, he said.... The dogwood blossoms, loosed from heaven, Made, in the day, a lovely leaven... But all the valiant ones lie dead. How then in Christ Church, heard I prayer?... Let this place, Lord, become thy root, For tree of holy, greater fruit.... Nothing lives as long as prayer. From Ross house still, there flies today, A starrier banner than before, And one beloved by millions more. How new, alive, her flag today. On sweeping hills of Valley Forge A ghostly sentry stands apart And challenges the inmost heart... Nor death... Nor death at Valley Forge. 588 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 The Heavenly Bonus Rosa Lee Lloyd ALLIE'S dark brows puckered thoughtfully as she sat at her desk looking through the files of the Bay View Club Heart Drive. Cliff would be home any minute now, and what would he say when she told him she was the newly appointed captain of the Drive beginning tomorrow? He would be proud of her, no doubt, because it was an honor to be captain, but he would be amused, too. Cliff always saw the funny side of everything, and he would think it was very funny for Kallie to expect people to have moncy put away for a heart drive when she and Cliff were always on the slippery side of their budget. An ironic smile pouted her lips as her fingers went through the cards from the Maple Street district where she and Marge Johnson, her first lieutenant, would canvass tomorrow. The Richard Starks had given ten dollars last year, and even dear old Mrs. Heaslip who lived next door to the Starks had given five dollars. How did they manage? Kallie wondered as she closed the fie. How did they do it? She and Cliff never had a cent left over, not even enough for a little nest egg in the bank, and that had always been her dream—a nest egg. She heard Cliff's key in the lock, and she stood up and hurried to meet him. Her heart bounced high the minute she looked at him. His blue eyes were shining, his red hair was ruffled, and he danced her around the living room while he whistled the catchy new polka they had learned at the dance at Mutual last night. Cliff was a cut-up at home, and Kallie often wondered what he used for dignity in the stuffy law offices of Allen, Burk, and Edwards where he was the junior partner. He swung her onto the sofa and flopped down beside her, his bright head in her lap. "Oh, Mr. Edwards," she laughed, out of breath. "My heart—it's offbeat!" "Well, now, Mrs. Edwards, I think you'll live till morning—at least stay around until you hear the good news!" He stood up, buttoned his coat, smoothed his riotous hair, and looked down at her with elaborate solemnity. "Madame, you are now looking at a gentleman who has just received a bonus of one hundred dollars from Mrs. Jasmine Clipper." "The estate you took care of!" Kallie exclaimed. "The same, my love. Now this little bonus" Cliff tapped his pocket, "was given to me because the family thinks I did a good job." He did a rapid tap dance, rubbed his hands together, and beamed down at her. "So, as your legal adviser, let me recommend a vacation. First, we'll celebrate our wedding anniversary 'which begins Thursday night...." Suddenly his eyes were wistful, and he sat down beside her again, cuddling her close in his arms. "Remember, darling, a year ago Page 589 at the reception. 'There you were standing beside me so little and yet so queenly. That lovely little thing, I kept telling myself, is now my wife." His kiss was warm and_ very tender, and Kallie thought how kind and considerate he was. But he was impulsive, too, and headstrong and a little bit careless when it came to money. 'They still owed some on their furniture and the refrigerator, and yet he was planning to spend this extra hundred dollars on a vacation! She couldn't let him do it. She just wouldn't! HEY should put this money away for a nest egg, Kallie decided, hoping she could think of some way to convince him without a quarrel. 'They had only quarreled twice since their marriage, and both times it had been over money; once when Cliff brought home the expensive plant she had admired in the window while they were out for a stroll. Her eyes went to it now in its gorgeous copper container. The purchase of it had meant economizing for a month. And the other time, oh, it was so silly Kallie didn't even want to remember how cross she had been when Cliff paid thirty-five dollars for a fishing rod and reel. And then they hadn't been able to afford the trip! She could feel Cliff's arms tighten around her now. She pressed her head against his tweedy shoulder. She loved him so. There was nothing she wouldn't do for Cliff, no sacrifice she wouldn't make for him. But she had to make him realize how important it was to put this money in the bank. "Cliff—listen..."" she began. "Oh, no, you listen to me, sweetheart. Hear that musical ripple? That's mountain water bubbling over pretty rocks. Now look closely. See those shiny trout darting around down there? Um-m. Smell those big pine trees, and feel that good earth under your fect. We'll have one week of rest, melting in the bright Wyoming sunshine, fishing all day and eating at the Wagon Wheel Inn in the cool, cool evening. For seven long beautiful days we'll forget the budget and the stuffy office. Seven days of sun and stars and fishing. Boy, how we need it. No office routine, no dishes for you, no pinching pennies...." "IT don't mind pinching pennies, Cliff," Kallie interrupted. Cliff patted her head. "You're sweet, Kal. Heard women complain." Kallie sat up. Her dark eyes were very bright. "Look here, Cliff Edwards. If you're planning a fishing trip because you think I'm tired of keeping house you're very wrong. Very wrong." He pulled her back into the circle of his arm. "T'm not through dreaming. Now look, pretend this is the menu at the Wagon Wheel Inn. Suppose we order trout for breakfast, and the lobster thermidor for luncheon and a big steak for dinner. Or would you like a salad with special sauce?" Kallie's mouth folded in. "If you don't mind," she said significantly, "I'd like the hundred dollar bill on the half-shell, just served plain as a nest egg, without sauce!" But I've 590 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 THE HEAVENLY BONUS The silence was awful. Cliff drew his breath in and held it tightly. Then he leaned back against the lounge as though he was suddenly tired. Even his bright hair seemed to wilt down over his ears, and the gay, expectant twinkle went out of his eyes. "Say that again," he said. His voice was shocked and unbelieving like a little boy who has just been told that the circus isn't coming to town. "Maybe I didn't hear you right, honey — the part about wanting it for a nest egg. Do you really mean it? Because if you do—it's all yours —you know that. Anything I have is yours—anytime." Kallie felt a stinging behind her eyes. But she was determined. One of them had to be sensible. "Oh, Cliff—it's just that I worry sometimes — because we're not saying anything." "We're keeping up insurance," he reminded her. "We're paying our tithing regularly. We're buying a bond—we're paying taxes. But if it's a nest egg you want—okay." Some of the blue sparkle came back to his eyes as he opened his wallet, took out the hundred dollar bill, and handed it to her. Kallie stared at the picture of Benjamin Franklin in the center of it. It's a brand new bill, she thought. No doubt this was only small change to Jasmine Clipper. She couldn't have known that it would be a small fortune to Kallie and Cliff—that it was the difference between living on a budget and being a young couple with money in the bank. "Well —it was fun, while it lasted," Cliff said as he stood up. He squared his shoulders and Kalle 591 noticed again how tired and shaggy he looked. "Brother!" he went on, "what a flop I'd be without my imagination! Now, tell me, what's for dinner? No...." He put his hand up. "Don't tell me—let me guess...." He sniffed the air. "Sauerkraut and franks," he added, dismally. Kallie ignored the downbeat in his voice. She stood up, too, smoothing her hair. "And now let me tell you some big news,"'she said spiritedly. "You are looking at the new captain of the Bay View Heart Drive, Mrs. Clifford B. Edwards—twice lieutenant, twice high score, and now captain. Beginning tomorrow Marge Johnson and I canvass our district." Cliff began to laugh. He put his hands on her shoulders and rocked with laughter. "Someone is going to dig deep," he guffawed. "Scotchy Edwards on the job. Please, Mrs. Hoozit," he mimicked in a high falsetto, "can you let us have ten dollars for the Drive? Oh, I know money is as tight as pinfeathers, but think how noble you'll feel, Mrs. Hoozit, if you give us ten dollars...." Kallie wanted to cry. Cliff could be so exasperating! "Oh, you!" she burst out. "Don't be so funny. You should be proud of me." She pushed her way past him to the kitchen. "Let's eat," he said, heading toward the dinette, picking up the evening paper on his way. She turned around. "You don't need to bite my head off," she said. Cliff looked down at her. His eyes had a_ peculiar, speculative twinkle. "No—I don't need to bite your head off—but it might taste better than sauerkraut." Something was wrong, Kallie thought. Some magic had gone from the evening, some lovely warm feeling had disappeared—where or how —she didn't know. Now there was just a hungry husband who wasn't too pleased with sauerkraut and frankfurters, and who ate in a moody silence, his eyes glued to the sport page of the evening paper. T ten-thirty the next morning, Kallie waited on the drugstore corner for Marge Johnson. Marge was a swell companion for a job like this, sturdy, rosy-cheeked, dependable Marge. She wasn't easily discouraged, Kallie thought gratefully, remembering last year when some of the girls were ready to give up when the Drive was half over. She sighed now, thinking how every day of life took a little more courage and grit. If she had given in to the way she felt this morning, she would still be in bed with the pillow over her head so nobody could see she had been crying. Because she had cried in the middle of the night. Lying there beside Cliff as he tossed and turned and mumbled in his sleep, she had felt disturbed and restless, too. So she had pulled the pillow over her head and cried silently because Cliff needed a vacation and because, she added, feeling almost sick, she wouldn't break that hundred dollar bill. 'That was going in the bank. They had to have a nest egg. Marge turned the corner, looking as fresh and eager as a girl scout, "Whew! Did I have to hurry," she laughed as they fell in step and hurried down Maple Street. Kallie drew a long breath. She had to put her heart into this campaign. The Bay View Club expected her to make an outstanding record in this district. "If I do say so, Kallie," Marge was saying, "I'm proud to be your first lieutenant. You were really tops last year." "Here's our first prospect," Kallie said, "1080 Maple Street. Let's see what the book says." She looked at her notes. "Mr. And Mrs. Richard Stark. He's a bank clerk. 'They gave ten dollars last year—they live on the east side of this duplex." Marge rang the bell but there was no answer. 'The house seemed dead inside. They were walking back down the porch steps when they noticed a note stuck in the mailbox. "Guess this is for anybody," Kallie said, reaching for it. "Dear Postman," she read, "we don't live here anymore. Mr. Stark's address is the Bekins Hotel and mine is Carol Ridgeway Stark, Denver, Colorado." Kallie's throat tightened. 'The Starks had broken up. But why? What had they quarreled about? Could it have been over money? She wondered with a sick feeling. "Sounds like trouble," Marge said. "Makes me feel—sort of sad." "Me, too," Kallie agreed. "And besides—that's ten dollars we won't collect." Marge sighed. "You get to know so many people doing this, all kinds, and_ their troubles — but you can't let it bother you," 592 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 THE HEAVENLY BONUS "No—not too much. But it's hard not to." They stopped in front of the next house. "Mrs. Heaslip lives here," Kallie told Marge. "She's seventy-five — lost her husband a few years ago— she lives on a pension. She's such a sweet little thing I love to call on her. She'll have a cookie or something ready for us. And she gave five dollars last year." "Does she live here all alone?" Marge wanted to know as they walked down the narrow path between the rosebushes leading to a small house. A lilac bush was a splash of purple at the side of the porch, and a little hose, spouting water, twitled gaily on the apronsized lawn. "All alone," Kallie answered. The front door was open, and as they stepped onto the porch, a flutey little voice called: "Who is it, please?" "Hello, Mrs. Heaslip,"' Kallie called back. "It's Mrs. Edwards of the Heart Drive—it's our annual call, remember?" "Bless you, I do remember, Mrs. Edwards. Come right in." RS. Heaslip came to the door, and Kallie thought how dainty she looked this morning. Her white hair was neatly curled and a little lace collar matched her apron. "This is Mrs. Johnson," Kallie said. "My! You do look pretty, both of you." Mrs. Heaslip motioned for them to sit down. "Now, do stay long enough for a glass of milk. I always have one about this time every morning." 593 "We'd love to, Mrs. Heaslip," Kallie said. "I told Marge about your cookies, that special kind with brown sugar." Mrs. Heaslip beamed. "Well, that's nice. Now first we'll take care of our business." She walked to the bookcase, lifted an old volume of poetry, opened it and took out a five-dollar bill. "T had it put away for you," she said, handing it to Kallie. Her eyes had mischievous little sparks in them. "You both make yourselves at home while I get the cookies." Marge leaned back in the old rocker, picked up a magazine, and began to read. But Kallie couldn't relax. She sat very straight on the edge of her chair, folded the bill thoughtfully, and put it in her purse. Then she wrote a receipt for the five dollars, asked Marge to excuse her, and hurried out to the kitchen with it. She wanted to talk to Mrs. Heaslip about so many things because she was so wise and understanding. She hestitated in the doorway, watching Mrs. Heaslip take the golden brown cookies from an old china jar and put them on a small silver tray. "Mrs. Heaslip," she began. "I was just wondering—what happened to the Starks, next door?" Mrs. Heaslip edged another cookie on the tray and dusted her hands on her apron. "Well, now, honey," she said very gently. "I really don't know. Maybe they didn't take the time to get along together." Kallie swallowed hard. "Was it—over money?" she asked, trying to keep her voice steady.? Mirs. Heaslip puckered her lips and shook her head. "T really don't know...." She looked at Kallie with eves as clear and blue as the nomting sky. Kallie bit her lip. "I just wondered," she said. "I thought—maybe—other people had troubles—like mine. Mrs. Hondlip's eves narrowed as she motioned her toward a chair near the table. "Sit down, pet." she said, and her voice caressed her like a soft wind. "You've got a worry. You look real sad this morning, Mrs. Edwards. Would vou like to tell me about i?" "Yes—ves—I would, Mrs. Heaslip. Really—it seems so silly when you say it out loud—but it's so serious to me. It's about my husband — and some money." Kallie knew she could trust Mrs. Heaslip, and almost breathlessly she was unloading her heart; she told her about the bonus and Cliff wanting to spend it all for a fishing trip, and how she had asked him to give her the money, instead, because she knew Cliff would spend it all. Mrs. Heaslip listened without interrupting. Her hands were busy pouring tall glasses of fresh milk. But there was a faraway look in her eyes and a perky little smile made her mouth young again around the edges. "Tl be right back," she said and disappeared into her bedroom. She returned in a second with a rare old figurine in her hands. "My Charlie bought me this," she said significantly, her eyes holding Kallie's steadily. "I didn't think he could afford it at the time. He bought it fifty years ago when we were on one of our holidays." Kallie couldn't answer. She sat there quietly looking at the figurine as Mrs. Heaslip put it on the table between them. She dusted it carefully with a napkin. "Tl tell you about Charlie," she said, "because it might help you to make allowances for your own husband. That's one way to learn things—from each other." She stopped talking and Kallie touched her hand, eagerly. "Do tell me," she coaxed. "We lived in Park City," Mrs. Heaslip went on. "Charlie was a miner. Worked long hours down there in a dark mine. But vou never saw a man love light and beauty more than Charlie did. And fun! He could work right along with the steadiest of them for a spell, then he just had to have a holiday in the sun. Smile gentled her mouth and she sat thoughtfully a moment. "Funny thing how Charlie always got a little extra money for his holiday. He always said the Lord gave it to him, and it did look that way. He used to call it his heavenly bonus. We'd be scrimping and saving to live within our income and then out of nowhere some extra money would come to Charlie!" Mrs. Heaslip's smile was very Wise. "It never occurred to him to put some of it away, but I always held out for tithing and fast offering and twenty per cent in the bank. But I agreed on the holiday. Most men who work as hard as Charlie have to have a vacation every so often. 594 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 THE HEAVENLY BONUS He liked to ride and hike in the sun. It seemed to give him a fresh start." Kallie's throat pinched in as she thought how Cliff loved the sun, too. "Charlie had his faults," Mrs. Heaslip went on dreamily. "He spent money too freely, and_ his temper got edgy after he'd worked too hard, but he always took me on the vacations with him," She touched the figurine, turning it so the morning sun shone on it. Her fingers caressed it. "Marriage is a give and take," she said softly. "But it's worth it. My husband was a fine man. We couldn't save a lot of money, just our insurance and the twenty per cent I set by, but our vacations kept us well and strong. 'When we're old,' Charlie used to say, 'we'll look back and remember them.' And we did just that." Mrs. Heaslip quit talking and Kallie touched her hand gratefully. They sat there quietly without speaking for a moment. The oldfashioned clock in the hallway chimed eleven o'clock. Cliff would be working hard now on a new case, 595 she thought with a sigh. He had worked steadily ever since they had been married without a change of any kind. He had spent long hours at night searching through stuffy old law books. The senior members had given him most of the tedious work because he was the new member. He did need a vacation, she conceded achingly. Heavenly Father must have known that he needed one when he gave him the hundred dollar bill. And she would be contented if they saved twenty per cent. "Mrs. Heaslip," she said, getting to her feet, "may I use your phone? I want to call Cliff." "Of course, dear," she answered. "Tt's in the hall." Kallie turned at the doorway, smiling over her shoulder at Mrs. Heaslip. "IT want you to meet my husband when we come back from our fishing trip,' she said. "He's a very wonderful man." Mrs. Heaslip smiled and her blue eyes were twinkling. "Husbands are very wonderful people," she murmured. "Don't you ever forget that, young lady!" Drowsing in the Sun Ida Isaacson I smell the smoke from Mt. Vernon And view Monticello way. A chat with Patrick Henry To pass the time of day. Recollect about the doings At Pennsylvania's Carpenters' Hall; Talk about the Declaration What it will mean for all. See the farmer-warriors Who saved the country, set it free, Now building a Constitution, Making precedent for humanity. Ho-hum, drowsing in the sun.... I must wake up And get my own work done. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL Nations" HAWAII: Hawaii is a group, or rather a string of sunny islands of a gentle tropical chmate... Embosomed midst the placid waters of the Pacific, 2,100 miles southwest from San Francisco and nearly the same distance north from 'Tahiti. An offspring of the sea, the result of volcanic unheavals, their origin verified by extinct craters fastened here and there amidst the hills and on the mountain heights of the group, and by the still blazing fires of that molten lake — the fiery Kilauea. Of the ten islands two are little more than barren rocks, two are used exclusively as cattle ranges, and the six principal ones are luxurious in bloom and beauty.... —M. A. J. Lambert THE QUERY Shadow and sun are alike to the Giver! His hand in wisdom appointeth the way, The glory He willeth beyond the dark river, Will solve all the mystery shrouding today.... —H. W. Naisbitt THE WOMEN OF AMERICA: I think it is not strange that we pause for a moment in this enlightened day to pay a tender tribute of praise to the silent suffering hearts that have labored, yearned and died for the cause of Liberty and the prosperity of our nation. Labored in silence and devotion, caring for no other honor than to be worthy wives and mothers of our heroes and noble men. Since the day when the Queen of Castile offered her jewels to the dreamer of Genoa to carry him out into the sea of darkness, into the unknown world, the patient, loving sacrifices of women have not only followed but lead in every movement for the cause of humanity, and the glory of the New World.... —Emily Ray RELIEF SOCIETY IN SAN FRANCISCO: Feeling sure the sisters in Zion would be pleased to hear something of the mission work here in California, I shall... Tell of the Relief Society organized by President E. H. Nye, June 3, 1897.... Sister W. A. Rattenbery was oppointed President; Isabella Y. Sewell First Counselor; Harriet Simpkins Second Counselor; Chircazade Woodward, treasurer; Ida M. Sarll, secretary and teacher. There are about twenty-eight members in all, and a more earnest, loving band of sisters could not be found on this beautiful earth.... Much good is being done, several quilts have been made, besides the mending being done each week for the Elders..... —lIda M. Sarll ADVERTISEMENT: Mrs. Kate Bridewell Anderson, formerly of New Orleans, and recently of Ogden, has opened a vocal studio in Unity Hall.... Operatic repertoire a specialty. Page 596 MES. GRACE GOODHUE COOLIDGE, widow of former President Calvin Coolidge, died July 8, i Northampton, Massachusetts. In her youth she taught the deaf and dumb, and as a widow she devoted much time to civic, social, and religious work, particularly Red Cross. Intelligent, unassuming, and housewifely, she was also a very gracious first lady. Mrs. Woodrow Wilson, Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, and Mrs. Harry S. Truman are now the only living wives of former United States Presidents. N Iran, where women do not have suffrage and their fathers select their husbands, there are, nevertheless, fourteen magazines edited by women. 'The oldest, Shokoofeh (The Blossom) was first published forty-three years ago. It has been suppressed from time to time—for its too radical stand—about fourteen years altogether. Its motto is: "A newspaper of literary, ethical, hygienic, household, and children subjects; its purpose, the upbringing of girls, the purification of feminine ethics." THE Oakland Women's Rowing Club is an organization of oldet women who row crew boats weekly on a beautiful salt water lake of 160 acres in the heart of Oakland, California. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon R. VIRGINIA CUTLER, Latter-day Saint, headed the Home Economics Department of the University of Utah for eight years. Many of her dreams and ideas went into the building of the handsome Sill Home Living Center. Dr. Cutler recently fulfilled a two-year assignment for the United States Government in Thailand, and is now working similarly in Jakarta, Indonesia. MBs. FRANK BOYD, "Mother Mame," worked in the print shop of Kansas University at ten cents an hour to put herself through college. For fifty-two years since graduation, she has been a journalist. Elderly, but very active, she still works full time and has recently addressed two Rotary clubs and a Business and Professional Women's club, and the National Press Women's convention in Texas. She has been active on the State Board for Tuberculosis for thirty years and has worked for many years on the Crippled Children's Commission. For seven and a half years she has been active—and is the only woman on a nine-member board which has greatly improved the mental hospitals of her State. RANCES McMILLAN, — an American doctor, past eighty years of age, is still vigorously practicing medicine in Mexico, where she began her career in 1901. Page 597 C—D EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 44 SEPTEMBER 1957 Fler Choice ARY sat puzzled and uncertain after the two older children had left for the first day of school. She had not mentioned her dilemma to Jim the might before, but had decided to reserve time this morning to think her problem through so she would make the right choice. She had been flattered when Mrs. Juke had called her the day before. Motioning to the children to be quieter so she could hear, Mary had been thilled to be asked to join a group of women who met twice a month as a study group. They were recognized as leaders in the community, and there was flashing in Mary's mind, all the time she was talking, plans as to how she might manage to join this desirable club. Much as Mary wanted to become a member, by the time Mrs. Juke finished her invitation and outlined the plan of the club for the coming season, Mary had not been able to see her way clear, so she had asked if she might think it over for a day. Mrs. Juke still sounded cordial and assured her she could let her know in a day or two. Now Mary sat trying to make her plans for the fall and winter which would allow her time to join the club which met on Wednesday afternoon. Over and over Mary considered her schedule and finally admitted to herself that she couldn't attend Relief Society every 'Tuesday and the club on Wednesday twice Page 598 a month. She would have to choose between them. X * * A similar situation confronts many Latter-day Saint women; but when a choice is to be made, there are always guideposts to point the way. These consist of the influence one's choice will have on loved ones, and the words of the prophets. In 1942, on the hundredth anniversary of Relief Society, the First Presidency wrote a greeting to Relief Society in which they stated: We ask our Sisters of the Relief Society never to forget that they are a unique organization in the whole world, for they were organized under the inspiration of the Lord bestowed upon that great Prophet who was divinely called, by a visitation of the Father and Son in person, to open up this Last Dispensation, the dispensation of the Fullness of Times. No other woman's organization in all the earth has had such a bith. This divinely inspired origin brings with it a corresponding responsibility, in consecration to service, and in the loftiest loyalty to the Priesthood of God and to one another. The members should permit neither hostile nor competitive interests of any kind to detract from the duties and obligations, the privileges and honors, the opportunities and achievements of membership in this great Society. The prime, almost the exclusive allegiance of every member of this great group, runs in this field to their fellow members and to the organization. Members should permit no other affiliation either to interrupt or to interfere with the work of this Society. They should give to Relief Society service precedence over all social and other clubs and societies of similar kinds. EDITORIAL We urge this because in the work of the Relief Society are intellectual, cultural, and spiritual values found in no other organization and sufficient for all general needs of its members (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 7). Relief Society extends a warm invitation and welcome to every Latter-day Saint woman, whether she, of necessity, works and may not attend regularly, or whether she can join in all the activities of the society. Eternal blessings, earthly joys 599 and satisfaction await each member, as she brings comfort and understanding to others. % OK OK OK OK Mary remained very still for a time as she weighed the advantages and disadvantages of her situation. Suddenly her mind resolved the question and, with a glad countenance, she dialed Mrs. Juke's num- —M. C. S. Jo Aunt Cetty s Old Blue Bowl Matia McClelland Burk I like to sit at evening And watch its soft blue glow. It crossed the harsh and dreary plains In a handcart long ago. It once companioned weariness And tragic loss and pain; It held the frugal sustenance Of those who crossed the plain. Then, when they reached the valley, Its lupine-colored grace Still comforted Aunt Cetty's heart In that far, lonely place. And when her heart was lifted In plea or thankful prayer, As blue as any April sky The bowl was standing there. Now still the bowl can touch my heart, And like an azure wraith, It brings back dear Aunt Cetty, With her courage and her faith. Ber.. Yotes TO THE FIELD Mlagazine Subscription Price Raised to $2 Effective November 1957 Issue HE general board has consistently maintained The Relief Society Magazine subscription price at the lowest possible figure, as it feels that every Relief Society member should be a subscriber. However, increased costs of publishing the Magazine over the past ten years, now make it imperative that the subscription price be raised from $1.50 to $2 a year. The general board, therefore, announces that all Relief Society Magazine subscriptions which begin with the November 1957 issue and thereafter, will cost $2 a year. It will not be possible to allow subscribers whose subscriptions begin in November, or later, to subscribe ahead of time at the current price of $1.50. Foreign subscriptions remain at $2.00. The general board regrets that today's high cost of living must also be reflected in the cost of The Relief Society Magazine, and asks the continued loyal support of Relief Society officers in the stakes, wards, branches, and missions of the Church. 'The work of Magazine representatives in placing the Magazine in Latter-day Saint homes has been one of devotion and faithfulness. 'The response of Relief Society members and their expressions of appreciation for the contents of the Magazine have been gratifying, and the general board enlists their continued support and loyalty to the Magazine, She Annual General Relief Society Conference HE Annual General Relief Society conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, October 2 and 3, 1957. The general session will be held on Wednesday, October 2, from 2 to 4 P. M. In the Tabernacle. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards the general session of the conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, October 2, from 10 to 12 in the Tabernacle, and the departmental meetings held Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, October 3, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, October 2, from 7 to 10 in the Relief Society Building. Page 600 'Nothing worth = is FRE Be Honest with Yourself llothing Vorth Having Js Free HE food we eat, the clothes we wear, the homes we live in, the cars we drive — even the leisure time to enjoy them in — and all the inner satisfactions of life — all these must be bought with effort and sacrifice. Let's look at some examples. Take friendship. You may win friends easily, but it will cost you something to keep them: time spent on daily Page 601 602 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 kindly deeds; the thoughtful letter or card of remembrance; the timely word of encouragement; the constant consideration. The price of education is study. Business success can be bought only through hard work; savings for the future through present self-denial. So with the development of our talents; the ability to play the piano, to paint a picture, to bake a cake, to excel in any art or skill comes only with effort. Personal health and physical and mental strength must be earned by the exercise we take, the kind and amount of food and drink we put into our bodies — or abstain from. The trust of friends is built on the keeping of promises. Financial credit belongs to those who pay their bills. Even Church membership with its present and future blessings i is not yours for the mere asking. To belong you must add obedience; to receiving you must add sharing. These are the works you must add to faith if you would earn the good things of earth and the blessings of heaven. They are the price we must pay for happiness here or hereafter. So strive, share, serve, save. In other words, pay up, because it pays. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF — Recipes Grom the Southern Gar Gast ITission Submitted by Luana C. Heaton CaNTONESE Dicep CHICKEN WiTH WALNUTS % chicken 1 tbsp. Cornstarch for coating chicken 6 mushrooms (a small can) ¥% tbsp. Cornstarch (mixed with a little 1 c. Walnuts water for sauce) 2 tbsp. Soy sauce 1 tsp. Salt 1 c. Cooking oil % tsp. Sugar Shell and dice the walnuts. Remove 4 tbsp. Of oil from the 1 cup and set aside. Heat the remaining oil and fry the nuts until they are a golden brown. Remove from the fire and blot on heavy Manila paper. Clean and dice the chicken. To tenderize, sprinkle with 1 tsp. Cornstarch. Pour the 4 tbsp. Of oil in a hot frying pan, add the diced chicken when the oil is smoking hot. Stir for one minute. Have the cornstarch, sugar, salt, and soy sauce thoroughly mixed together and pour the mixture over the frying chicken. Dice the mushrooms and add them to the mixture in the frying pan and stir for five minutes until the mushrooms are tender. Remove from fire. Mix in the deep-fried walnuts before serving. Serves 4. CHINESE BEEF AND ONIONS 3 large onions, chopped fine 2 tbsp. Soy sauce % Ib. Beef, cut in thin strips % tsp. Sugar 4 tbsp. Oil % tsp. Salt 2 tsp. Cornstarch Mix in the cornstarch, 1 tbsp. Soy sauce, %4 tsp. Salt and dredge the meat in the mixture. Saute the meat in 2 tbsp. Oil. Fry the onions in the remainder of the oil, % tsp. Salt, 1 tbsp. Soy sauce, and % tsp. Sugar for a few seconds. Add the sauteed beef and thoroughly heat. Serves 6. RECIPES FROM THE SOUTHERN FAR EAST MISSION 603 SHANGHAI SPRING ROLLS 8 large mushrooms, fresh, dried, or 1 tbsp. Ginger, chopped fine canned ¥% Jb. Lean ground pork, dredged with: 1 onion, chopped fine 3 tbsp. Soy sauce % can bamboo shoots 1 tbsp. Salt % Ib. Bean sprouts 1 tbsp. Cornstarch Cut bamboo shoots and mushrooms and saute them. Then add the soy sauce. Saute onions. Saute the pork with the vegetables and add the ginger. Spread 1% tbsp. Of the pork and vegetable mixture on a pancake. Fold sides and roll, moistening the edges with water to hold them together. Fry the rolls in deep fat until brown. PANCAKE BATTER 6 eggs (beaten) 2 ¢. Flour 2 ¢. Water 1 tsp. Salt Beat the eggs, add the water, flour, and 1 tsp. Salt. Heat a small frying pan with % tbsp. Oil; pour a very small amount of batter in the bottom of the pan. The pancake should be very, very thin, it should cook less than a minute, only long enough to set. Continue until the desired number of pancakes is reached. Serves 6. FoRMOSAN PorK ¥%, Ib. Pork, cut in small pieces 1 tbsp. Ginger, chopped fine onions, chopped fine 1 tsp. Sugar ¥% head cabbage, finely shredded pinch of salt 3 green peppers, cut in small pieces 3 tbsp. Oil 3 tbsp. Soy sauce Heat oil in pan; add meat and onions. Fry until well done. Add soy sauce and cabbage; cook until cabbage is done. Add ginger, peppers, salt, and sugar. Serve over hot rice. Serves 6. Fish A La MINDANAO 2 Ibs. Fish (white) 2 medium tomatoes ¥% c. Salad oil 1 tsp. Spanish pepper 1 clove garlic 1 egg 1 medium onion, cut in small pieces salt and pepper to taste Cut fish in individual pieces and deep fry until golden brown. Make sauce: mince garlic, add onions and cubed tomatoes, boil the vegetables in 1 c. Water until soft. Press through a sieve. Add 1 beaten egg to liquid. Simmer until the liquid thickens. Pour over fried fish. Serve 8. SWEET-Sour F isu 3 Ibs. Fish (white) 2 tbsp. Cornstarch 3 c. Oil 4 tbsp. Soy sauce 3 tbsp. Oil 2 c. Mild vinegar 1 c. Sugar 1 large onion, chopped fine cornstarch paste 3 tbsp. Chopped ginger Clean fish; make diagonal slashes on each side, leaving the flesh adhering to the bones. Dredge well with the cornstarch paste. Heat pan, add 3 tbsp. Oil, hold the fish over the pan of deep fat, and baste the slashes with the hot oil until brown, then fry in deep fat until crisp. Prepare sweet-sour sauce by mixing oil, sugar, cornstarch, soy sauce, and vinegar. Add onions and ginger and boil for a few minutes. Pour over fish. Serves 6. 604 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 RECIPES FROM GUAM Submitted by Helen Bateman GUAMANIAN FRIED CHICKEN 1 chicken 1-2 C. Vinegar; 1 large onion salt and pepper to taste 1 clove garlic Lay the pieces of the cut-up chicken in a bowl. Cover each layer with thin slices of onion, salt, pepper, and minced garlic. Pour vinegar over all. Occasionally, tumble the chicken through the vinegar. Marinate overnight (about 18 hours). Drain chicken and fry in deep fat until crisp and brown. Serve hot or cold. Guyoria (Coconut Doughnuts) 2 c. Coconut milk flour 1 Cc. Sugar coconut oil % c. Water powdered sugar Add sugar to coconut milk. Then add enough flour to make a stiff dough. Roll into balls the size of marbles. They are also nice elongated. Fry in coconut oil until brown or deep-fat fry in other oil or fat. Make syrup of sugar and water by combining % c. Water and lc. Sugar. Drop the balls into the syrup and remove immediately and then dust with powdered sugar. In making coconut milk, grate the meat of a medium-ripe coconut. Add about 2 c. Water. Mix water with coconut and then pick up a handful and squeeze milk into another bowl. Continue until the coconut is dry. The coconut may then be dried or toasted and used in other cooking. RosQuETTE ¥% c. Shortening 1 tsp. Salt 1% c. Sugar 3 tbsp. Baking powder 3% c. Cornstarch 1 tbsp. Lemon 2 eggs 1 tbsp. Vanilla or 1 tbsp anise 1 c. Flour Cream shortening and add sugar and continue creaming. Add eggs and beat until creamy. Add flavoring. Sift cornstarch, flour, baking powder and salt together and add the sifted dry ingredients to creamed mixture, a little at a time. Roll into balls about 1% inches in diameter and until about 5 inches in length. 'Take each end and bring around toward you into a pretzel shape. Bake in a 300° oven until golden brown about 20 to 25 minutes. Cool until crisp in pan. Remove and store in tight can. (In a cold climate milk may be added to make the dough soft enough to roll.) — On ly Shese Mabel Jones Gabbott There was the day we found the coral rock, The day we ran barefoot the sea-walled walk, Then came the night and stars were doublecast In sea and velvet arc; those days are past. Where you walk now, I no longer know; And I mislaid the coral long ago..... Only these remain for me: The velvet stars, the sea, and memory. | F or This I Have Yearned Mabel Law Atkinson HERE now, Michael John Terrance, Junior, I think you look handsome enough to please Michael John, Senior, when he comes home, don't you? You know I believe you and I together will make a rather pleasing picture to greet your father on this very special occasion." Margaret Terrance, who ten minutes before had been hoping and even praying that the children would stay asleep until after Michael came, so she could be looking her very prettiest to greet him, held her small son at arm's length as she continued, "Yes, you will do nicely with your hair combed and your face shining. In fact you are adorable, Michael John, Junior." "T'm Mickey, Mother. Don't you know?" "Yes, darling, you are Mickey; but you are also Michael John Tertance, Junior." She gave him an impulsive hug and continued, "And at three-going-on-four, you are a small replica of your father." "What does plica mean, Mother?" "It means that you and Daddy are alike as two peas, though one is small and one is large." Before another question was forthcoming, Margaret held little Michael close and said, "Grow up to be just like Daddy, won't you darling? Just like him in every little way." "IT will. I love Daddy, too, Mother." "Now let's finish our preparations. Everything must be perfect for Daddy tonight. If only Tommy and the twins will stay asleep. You see I must get fixed up pretty, too." "You are always pretty, Mother." "Thank you, Mickey; but even you must admit I'm prettier sometimes than others. And this must be one of the times when I'm prettiest. Ncw you sit in the big rocker and look at your picture book while I make myself beautiful. Daddy mustn't miss too much not getting a gift this year." At that moment a cry from the bedroom told her that the baby had awakened sooner than usual from his afternoon sleep. "Oh, dear, just when I needed time more than anything else! Mickey, can you be Mother's big man and rock the cradle? Perhaps Tommy will go back to sleep and not waken the twins." "Sure, Mother. I know how to rock the cradle." Soon Margaret heard the gentle thythmic creak of the loved old cradle that had soothed all her mother's babies, and the cries ceased. She took one last inspection of the table, set in the dining room for the occasion, and decided it was perfect. She smiled, knowing Michael would exclaim, "My, my, the prettiest cake ever!" when he saw the white-frosted creation with "Happy Anniversary" done in tiny pink flowers, with five pink candles in the center. Then she slipped quickly into her prettiest afternoon frock, patted her curls in place, and she was ready with about ten minutes to spare before Michael would arrive. She was congratulating herself on Page 605 606 the luxury of these moments when Mickey called from the bedroom, "Mother, Tommy won't go to sleep, but he's good as can be, and the twins are awake, too, so may I quit rocking the cradle?" There goes my luck! Thought Margaret. Oh, well, every cloud has a sparkling lining, if we but look for it. Who knows, perhaps a diamond one this time? Her thoughts were racing ahead as she called cheerfully, "Yes, dear, you may stop now." She went into the crib-filled room, kissed Mickey as she thanked him, then lifted Mary and Katherine, plump little cherubs of two, from their cribs, took up wee 'Tommy, and smiling at the dew-sweet wonder in three pair of eyes, said happily, "Pll tell you what! Let's all be waiting at the gate for Daddy tonight. All his family. That can be his gift, his smiling family to welcome him home. Come, only a few minutes to brush curls and put on fresh dresses. Daddy will be starting home by now." ICHAEL, walking home, was taking great strides that spoke his eagerness. Under his arm was a long slim parcel. "Not much of a gift," he mused rather ruefully "but even pennies have to be counted these days." Then a smile illuminated his features as his thoughts raced on, "Four little Terrances and only five years married! I just hope Margaret never regrets taking me instead of Robert Barker. Now he would be bringing her five dozen instead of just one red rose." He sobered at the thought. He was half a block away when RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 he saw them: Margaret holding up two-months-old little 'Tommy for him to see, and Mickey holding the hands of the twin girls. His face broke into smiles again and he held out his arms. 'The three children ran to meet him squealing their delight. With a twin in each arm, his parcel still under one, and Mickey hugging one of his legs, he came to Margaret, and in a way known only to fathers whose love is all-embracing, he included her and_ baby Tommy in his already overflowing arms. "Tiss me! Tiss me!" chorused the twins as he kissed his wife. "You little imps! I've already kissed you, but here's another, and now Mother must have one more, too." "Better kiss Mickey again, too, darling," whispered Margaret as lips pressed her cheek. "Now you three girls can walk to the house. I want to carry my two sons." He put down the twins, picked up a laughing and dancing little Mickey, kissing him as he did so, set him on one shoulder, gave him the parcel to hold, and held out his free arm, saying, "Mother, put my wee son in this arm, will you? There, that's fine." Margaret took a hand of each of the little girls, and with laughing voices, tripping feet, and singing hearts, the happy group entered the house. "My, my, the prettiest cake ever!" Machael caught the implication in Margaret's twinkling eyes and defended himself by saying, "It really is the prettiest. You see it's the only one that has had five candles to light. Imagine, Mrs. Terrance! FOR THIS | HAVE YEARNED Five long years! Think you can manage another five?" "With flying colors, my dear. I long to be ten years married to a certain Michael Terrance. No fifty years married! Sounds so matronly and serene and secure." In almost no time baby Tommy was in his buggy near the table, the twins were in their highchairs, and Mickey on his special chair his father had made just the right height for him. Married! Where's Oh, here, Margaret,' Michael handed the long, slim parcel to her as he spoke. "Open your fifth anniversary gift." "But Michael, you shouldn't have! You know we decided together." But her fingers flew and her face glowed her pleasure. "T know, dearest, but I couldn't resist just one." "One perfect rose! Oh, Michael, you couldn't have given a_ nicer gift." "It should have been five at least, if not five dozen." "No, Michael, one is even more beautiful. One perfect rose... In my crystal vase! I love perfection, and you have given it to me." As she placed the rose in water in the SSTIVE years ier box? 607 sparkling vase, she repeated softly, ""If eyes were meant for seeing, then beauty is its own excuse for being, thank you, darling." And she drew him down to her to place a kiss on his forehead. The anniversary dinner was a joyous affair, with Daddy helping to feed Mary and Katherine. Before he lit the candles, Michael had little Tommy in his arms. And how four pairs of wee bright eyes danced, and two mature pairs glowed as the candles burned! "Sure there are no regrets, Mrs. Terrance?" Michael's voice was music so low Margaret could barely hear. Regrets?... Thought Margaret. Then time spun backward. Again Robert Barker was saying, "And Margaret, there won't be any children for at least five years. Just you and I loving each other. Why life will be one long, delightful holiday for us, with one or two children perhaps." "Regrets?" Margaret said it aloud this time and looked into four perfect little faces, thinking, for these and more I have yearned all my life. For this was I born. 'Then, lifting her eyes, clear and shining, to her husband's, she answered, "No regrets. Happy anniversary, darling!" eed of Lace Maryhale Woolsey Summerlong, the country lanes Were delicately bordered With frothy "Queen's Lace," airing as "Her Majesty" had ordered. But summering is over now, And all the fragile laces Repose in tiny satchels, packed For travel to far places. The Bright Star Chapter 7 (Conclusion ) Dorothy S. Romney Synopsis: Kathy Tracy, an orphan who wishes to become an artist, lives with her Aunt Emerald Jewel Tracy in an old-fashioned house overlooking San _ Francisco Bay. She had planned to accept an office position offered her by a neighbor and friend of the family, Phineas Fenton, but her Aunt Em suffers a partial stroke, and Kathy remains at home to care for her.. During her illness Aunt Em mentions something about a sea chest in the China house and a Bright Star, which Kathy believes may hold the secret of her parentage. Her romance with Jim Parker finally comes to an end when Jim becomes interested in Lina Carlson, a neighbor, and decides to marry her. In the meantime, Marc Hale, a stranger, rents the China house and gives Kathy encouragement in the painting of a picture which she intends to enter in an art scholarship contest. One day, during Marc's absence from the China house, Kathy finds the Bright Star, an intricately embossed locket which contains the pictures of Marie and Phineas Fenton, Jr., whom Kathy decides are her parents. ATHY found Aunt Em sitK ting exactly where she had left her. She hung her slightly damp jacket over the back of a chair to dry. "Well," she said, "I go back to work at twelve o'clock tomorrow morning." Aunt Em made no reply to this, but instead she looked at Kathy closely, then said, "Sit down, my dear, I must tell you something. Something I should have told you years ago." She took a deep breath and went on. "I had dreamed such wonderful dreams for my girl —college, a career, a good marriage. I've failed you dreadfully." She paused, then Page 608 began again, "But you'll have your chance," she said with apparent tremendous effort, "Phineas is rich.... When I tell him...." The girl was on her knees in front of her aunt, her arms about her. "I know, Aunt Em," she said quietly, "IT know I'm Phineas Fenton's granddaughter. Imagine... All that money, just sitting there... And the way you've struggled to support me! But why? Doesn't he like me?" Aunt Em squeezed Kathy's shoulders, and then withdrew her hand to search in her pocket for a handkerchief. "He doesn't know," she said, almost inaudibly. "He doesn't even know he had a grandchild. Oh, darling, I'm so sorry I've deprived you of all the privileges you should have had!" Kathy drew back and looked up at her aunt, wide-eyed. "Deprived me!" she repeated. "Why, Aunt Em, I wouldn't exchange one minute of the love you've given me for all the money in the world. But it just doesn't seem right for you to have worked so hard for me when I don't even belong to you... Really." "You do belong, dear, you've been my whole life! I don't know how much of the story you've heard, but your parents made Grandfather Tracy... My father, promise to take care of you in case anything should ever happen to them. They wanted to be sure you were brought up in the Church. You see, Grand- THE BRIGHT STAR father 'Tracy converted your father, and your mother was already a member. Phineas would never talk religion with father," she added reeretfully. "But now... You're grown up, and I know nothing could shake your faith, and it's time you had some of the material advantages you're entitled to. Besides, maybe time has softened Phineas a_little...." ATHY got up and walked around for a minute to restore the circulation to her cramped legs. "You don't mean you want me to go to live with the Fentons?" she asked. Aunt Em wiped her eyes. "I'm afraid Phineas will insist, when he knows who you are, and it wouldn't be right not to tell him, now. But it was right, in the beginning!" "Yes, of course," agreed Kathy. "Better that one man perish....' Not that you could exactly say Phineas has perished for not knowing I was his granddaughter, but it's sort of the same idea. It seems incredible—here I've lived all my life within shouting distance of him, and neither of us knew we were related! From the picture, I'd say I resemble my mother." "The very sae Aunt Em said. "Except the chin... You do have the Fenton chin." There was so much to assimilate... 80 many new ideas to consider, that Kathy felt that her brain was reeling. She shuddered to think how different, how empty her life would have been without the gospel, and how much mote alone she would have felt, if she hadn't known her parents had been married in the temple, and that some day they 609 would all be together again. 'The Fentons were fine people, but they had no religion at all. "As long as our chins match... Mine and Grandpa Fenton's," Kathy said, smiling, "I guess I can insist just as hard that I won't go. I'll never leave you, darling. Now you really should get some rest." "T am a little tired," Miss Km agreed, trying to cover a yawn. "But there's one more thing I must tell you... Did you know Marc is a member of the Church? That's how he happened to learn about the China house... When he first came here he asked Bishop Henderson if he knew of an inexpensive cabin he could get for a few months. I had a long talk with the bishop the other night by telephone. He told me Marc had filled a very outstanding mission in New Zealand," she ended on a note of satisfaction. Kathy's breath caught inher throat. "I guess I'm not really surprised, though," she said, "I always thought he looked and acted like a Latter-day Saint, in spite of the fact that he was a bit difficult at first." Her heart was pounding delightfully. "We'll talk about him later... You must lie down right this minute!" UNT Em had scarcely gone to sleep when Marc arrived with the late afternoon edition of the paper. He was jubilant. "Congratulations, Kathy, you've won the art contest!" he exclaimed. He indicated a column at the bottom of the page. "Third prize." She read the item slowly. By the time she finished, the tears were rolling down her cheeks unashamedly. 610 Marc looked at her, amazement written on his face. "I thought you'd be overjoyed, but these can't be tears of joy, they' re too real looking. See here," he said, "dry those tears. You're a big girl now, you must be all of eighteen." "Nineteen," corrected Kathy, through her tears, "yesterday." She suddenly realized that for the first time both she and Eunt Em had completely forgotten her birthday. "Why didn't someone tell me?" cried Mare. "Birthdays are my specialty. Anyway, there's no use mourning. We'll go into town tonight and have dinner and see a show. Take Aunt Em with us. How does that strike you?" "Fine," agreed Kathy, her eyes sparkling again. "Aunt Em will love it. She hasn't been out for months. But it's the prize I'm disappointed in—it's a year's schooling instead of cash, and now I won't be able to take Aunt Em on that trip I'd planned." Marc looked down at her. "But you won't need the contest money. You're Phineas Fenton's granddaughter, and he has plenty of money. Surely you' ve made your decision by now." His voice was tense. Kathy took stock of this fact soberly. She had never before stopped to analyze her feelings clearly. Her heart seemed to be opening, more and more surely each moment, toward a new meaning in life. And that transformation in her heart wasn't taking place by itself, she was sure. It had been brought on by Marc Hale. She knew now where her place in life was intended to be. Besides, she thought, I'm not good enough to become an artist, not RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 dedicated enough. I'll never be good enough. Aloud she said, "My place right now is with Aunt Em—right now, and always. It's what I want." Marc smiled at her, satisfaction in his eyes. "What will you do?" suddenly. She asked E flushed, apparently caught off guard. "I... Why... I've just been choking over a large piece of humble pie. Your earnest little soul will be delighted to know that I'm going into Dad's business in San Francisco, now that I'm fully recovered. He's going to let me start at the bottom and work up, which is far better than I deserve since he offered me the chance once before, and I turned it down. Now aren't you satisfied?" Satisfied? She asked herself, and suddenly knew that her heart had been longing to know what his dreams or plans might hold in the way of including her. "Aren't you satisfied?" he repeated. "No, I'm not," she said. She turned away to hide the trembling of her chin. "I'm not at all satisfied." "Kathy, darling," he said, as he gently turned her around and lifted her face so he could look into her eyes. "Kathy, do you love me?" "Of course I do," she whispered. She felt his arms around her. "I was stupid enough to think you'd choose to live in the house on the hill, darling, where you could have anything you wanted, and then you wouldn't have been my girl at all. The Kathy I love is right here in the old gray house, and will re- THE BRIGHT STAR main here, if she can make room in her heart and home for a husband." "Marc, Marc," she murmured. They wandered hand in hand from the shelter of the house down toward the beach. There was a lifetime of each other's thoughts and feelings to learn about. 611 It seemed hours later that Kathy said, "We're being selfish. Let's hurry and tell Aunt Em about us." The stars had come out, and the night was fresh-washed and beautiful. 'They walked up the path to the old gray house, where the lights were already challenging the lowering night. Dora GYolley Pursues a Hobby of Handwork [ truly can be said that Dora Jolley, eighty, of Blacktoot, Idaho, has spent many hours during her life to make others happy. She is still making beautiful gifts for her friends and relatives. She has made at least one hundred beautiful quilts and has given them away and has crocheted eight bedspreads and six tablecloths of the finest thread, besides having made hundreds of doilies and potholders, afghans, pillows, and pillow cases. She has been active in Church work, especially Relief Society. During the last years her health hasn't permitted her to take an active part, but she contributes of her fancy work. Sister Jolley is the mother of six living children, twenty-two grandchildren, and twenty-five great-grandchildren. \\_ FROM THE FIELD | General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES a iz Photograph submitted by Luana C. Heaton SOUTHERN FAR EAST MISSION, FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY HELD IN CHINA First row, left to right: Sister Wan; Miss Wan; Mrs. Tze; Mrs. Wise; Sister Loh; Leta Jane Clegg, President. Second row: Luana C. Heaton, President, Southern Far East Mission Relief Society; Sister Liang; Mrs. Fook; Mrs. Chaw; Mrs. Cheung; Myra Pollock, Second Counselor. Third row: Doris Robinson, First Counselor; Mrs. Lum; Sister Wong; Sister Tong; Sister Fung; Betty Johnson. Fourth row: Sister Yicn; Mrs, Young; Mrs. Loke; Mrs. Chiw; Mrs. Wong Ching Yee; Mrs. Mak Mie Tin. Sister Heaton writes that it is the Chinese custom for women to use their maiden names which, she says, "would be too long to print." Therefore, she has written their husbands' last names. 'Those women who are investigating the Church have Mrs. Or Miss prefixing their names. Page 612 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 613 as aie, % Hi a s "a, <s ) Oe Photograph submitted by Melba H. Tullis ASHLEY STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC AT TWO SESSIONS OF FIRST STAKE CONFERENCE, March 31, 1957 Twila Abbott, director, and Mary Schaefermeyer, organist, are seated on the front row at the right. Melba H. Tullis, President, Ashley Stake Relief Society, reports that the Ashley Stake Relief Society began to function on January 1, 1957. Photograph submitted by Myrtle George LAS VEGAS STAKE (NEVADA), LAS VEGAS NINTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY TAKES PRIDE IN ITS YOUNG MOTHER MEMBERS Myrtle George, President, Las Vegas Stake Relief Society, writes: "This Ninth Ward of the Las Vegas Stake is the youngest ward. They feel very proud of their young mothers shown in the front row. These mothers attend regularly. Three new babies have been added since the picture was taken. La Fond Solomon is president; Meriam Belmont, first counselor; Aleline Hatch, second counselor; Lottie Wollengien, secretary-treasurer. 'The ward has an attendance of from twenty-five to thirty preschool children who are cared for by a baby sitter." 614 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 Photograph submitted by Florence Christiansen BLACKFOOT STAKE (IDAHO), SEVENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS PAGEANT "CHARACTERS AND TEACHINGS OF THE BOOK OF MORMON" Front row, seated, left to right: Elizabeth Thorton, theology class leader and director of the pageant; Winifred Young, President, Seventh Ward Relief Society; Luella Thompson, organist. (Verda Bale, chorister, not present.) Standing at the left, next to Sister Thorton: Lorain Turner, as a Japanese sister. Back row, standing, left to right: Bishop DeVon Woodland as Moroni; John Olsen as Nephi; John Yancy as King Benjamin; Florence Woodland, as a Jewish woman; Lavina Eggleston, as a Lamanite sister; Archie Bale, as Mormon. Photograph submitted by Rachael L. Lee FRENCH MISSION, SWISS DISTRICT, GENEVA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY SUNDAY EVENING PROGRAM, March 3, 1957 Front row, seated, left to right: Sister Curtenaz, District President; Sister Stouder, Geneva Branch Secretary; Sister Jaque, President, Geneva Branch Relief Society. Back row, standing, left to right: Sister Bonny; Sister Charney; Sister Wright, mis- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 615 sionary; Sister Dupanloup; Sister Marlyse Bonny; Sister Olmo; Sister Brown, Second Counselor, Geneva Branch Relief Society; Sister Scheren, First Counselor; Sister Lamborn, missionary; Sister France Rimli; Sister Hope Reeder; Sister Rimli; Sister Schmit; Sister Walz; Sister Moine; Sister Nicolet; Sister Chambaz; Miss Cortisy, visitor. Rachael 'L. Lee, President, French Mission Relief Society, reports: '"The Swiss District of the French Mission is supervised by a president who loves Relief Society and is devoted to her work. This picture was taken after the Sunday evening program, in which all of the Relief Society members took part." a: & 3 "See Kes. Photograph submitted by Ida M. Swensen YELLOWSTONE STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS "CHARACTERS AND TEACHINGS OF THE BOOK OF MORMON" PAGEANT, May 26, 1957 Seated at the table, left to right: Chee Fujimoto; Millie B. Farrimond, stake theology leader; Mary Powless; Sylvia Linford. Seated at their right, Stake Relief Society Presidency: Vera B. Young, Second Counselor; Ida M. Swensen, President; Elsie R. Lewis, First Counselor. Front row, standing: Rulon Powell; E. O. Rich; Robert Archibald; Richard Tyler; Floyd Law; Orien Lamoreoux as Mormon; Darrell Lords as King Benjamin; Vincent Birch as Alma; Milo Price as Nephi; William J. Lewis, President of Yellowstone Stake; Edgar O. Westerberg, First Counselor, Stake Presidency; 'Therel Ricks, stake Relief Society organist; Beth T. Orme, Stake Relief Society chorister; Alta Murdoch; Blanche Edington; Denice Parker; Salome Mathie; Brother and Sister Robert Foster. Lowell Dayton who represented the voice of the Savior, and Leo Packer who represented Moroni, are not shown. Sister Swensen reports that about eighty-five Singing Mothers participated in the event. 616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 Photograph submitted by Lola Green EAST PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS MUSICAL PAGEANT Lola Green, President, East Phoenix Stake Relief Society, writes: 'A musical pageant, 'I Now Turn the Key' was presented by the East Phoenix Stake Relief Society, May 11, 1957. The Singing Mothers also furnished the music for conference May 25, 1957." Second row, center to right: Lola Green; Avon Price, stake chorister; Junius Driggs, President of East Phoenix Stake. Photograph submitted by Adelphia D. Bingham SOUTH AUSTRALIAN MISSION, VICTORIA DISTRICT, MELBOURNE AND COBURG BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETIES PRESENT PAGEANT "PORTRAIT OF A DREAM" Front row, seated, left to right: Ina Ware, First Counselor; Flora Carthew, Secretary; Deborah Tormey, Second Counselor; Mary Thatcher, chorister—all from the Coburg Branch. Marjorie Davis, President; Jean Findlay, Secretary; Joyce Scarfe; Valerie Croucher, First Counselor; Phyll Roche, chorister; Grace Bartlett, Magazine representative—all from the Melbourne Branch Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 617 Back row, standing, left to right: Arlette Anderson; Lottie Laird; Raie Headen; Hazel Gilchrist, work meeting leader; Clarice Williams, President of Coburg Branch Relief Society, and: First Assistant in Victoria District; Adelphia D. Bingham, President, South Australian Mission Relief Society, holding the American flag; Edna Ord, Mission Relief Society Secretary and District Supervisor; Laurel Marsh; Evelyn Hugett; Linda Lucknovitch. Not present when the picture was taken: Alvie Pemberton, representing General President Belle S. Spafford; and Eric Croucher, narrator. Sister Bingham reports that the painting in the center of the picture is a replica of the cover of the December 1956 Relief Society Magazine, which was painted by Clarice Williams. ""The painting is most remarkable, although, unfortunately, it does not show to advantage in the photograph." Sister Bingham further comments: "This program was well presented, as were many others throughout the Mission. We are proud of those who worked so faithfully to make them successful." Photograph submitted by Alice L. Wilkinson BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY STAKE, (PROVO, UTAH), SEVENTEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MAKES ORIGINAL QUILT Left to right: Bonnie Berrett, President; Mary Utschig, Secretary-Treasurer; JoAnn Larsen and Sharon Jensen, Counselors; Beverly Liebhart, work director. Alice L. Wilkinson, President, Brigham Young University Stake Relief Society, reports: "Young Relief Society sisters from the B. Y. U. Seventeenth Ward display quilt of original design which was quilted at recent work meeting. "The Seventeenth Ward Relief Society, one of the unique groups of young student members on the Brigham Young University campus, have tried to follow the pattern set for them by experienced women in Relief Society work. 'The animal quilt was made at work meetings. For most of the girls it was their first quilting experience.... The quilt will be given to a former homemaking teacher, Mrs, Deanna Thomas of Rome, Colorado," Photograph submitted by Agnes D. Hurst SAN JUAN STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE FOR TWO CONSECUTIVE YEARS ON MOTHER'S DAY Agnes D. Hurst, President, San Juan Stake Relief Society, reports: "The San Juan Stake Singing Mothers group has presented the music for the past two years at the quarterly stake conference which has been on Mother's Day both years. Sisters Vera Lee Redd and Guen L. Smith are directors. Sisters Mary L. Adams and Margaret P. Redd, accompanists." My Husband s Hands Marie Ricks Hands, large, grown used To wielding a hammer, Dry our little one's tears In the tenderest manner. Strong, capable hands Pounding nails, lifting lumber, In the gentlest way Soothe our infant to slumber. Steady hands, that remove With such careful ease, Slivers that lodge in Small, skinned-up knees. Loving hands of my husband Work-rough, yet so fine, Have blessed our lives, The children's, and mine, 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 3—What to Expect From a Study of The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants: Section 1) For Tuesday, December 3, 1957 Objective: To show that a principal idea throughout the revelations is to warn the world of judgments to come and that the means of escape is by the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. Some Ideas From The Doctrine and Covenants HE title of this lesson might be changed to form a question to be answered by every student of this series of lessons—"What do I expect to gain from my study of The Doctrine and Covenants?" A reply to this question from members of the Relief Society would undoubtedly bring many ideas. If one is thinking of subject matter or knowledge of contents alone, she would learn from her study that a great number of ideas are found in these revelations. 'The whole experience of man's earth-life is largely covered. Instruction is found, as one might expect, in how to attain spiritual salvation (sometimes called by us "entering the celestial kingdom or exaltation"). But one also discovers that these revelations are concerned with what man might consider the "temporal" things of life. From this volume of scripture, it is learned that the Lord looks upon all phases of man's earth existence as a necessary part of his journey to eternal life, or exaltation. (See D. & C. 29:34-35.) This is very well expressed by President Joseph F. Smith in these words: It has always been a cardinal teaching with the Latter-day Saints that a religion that has not the power to save people temporally and make them prosperous and happy here cannot be depended upon to save them spiritually and to exalt them in the life to come (Quoted by Albert E. Bowen, The Church Welfare Plan, page 36). One will, therefore, find emphasis given to one's health (what one should or should not eat, as well as to the amount of sleep one should have). We discover that knowlPage 619 edge saves, and the value one should place upon different types of knowledge. 'The need to incorporate the gospel truths into our lives, in addition to the acquisition of knowledge, is emphasized so well that we are never in doubt as to the necessity of doing so. Counsel is given on what the Latter-day Saint is to do to prevent being deceived by the adversary; he learns that Satan is a personal being and also of his purposes. Above all, the student of The Doctrine and Covenants learns of the true nature of Jesus as the Savior of mankind, of his justice and mercy, and of his relationship to the inhabitants of the earth. The Spirit of The Doctrine and Covenants The ideas suggested thus far are only a very few of the truths to be learned as one examines the revelations section-by-section. 'There is almost no narration in this book—a fact which makes it different from the other Standard Works, such as The Book of Mormon. Great truths are found on every page. To become acquainted with this volume of scripture can be one of the richest experiences of a Latter-day Saint's life. There is a spirit about a book of scripture which is readily discernible. It is the spirit of truth; the spirit that brings assurance of things divine. It comes from the Holy Ghost to bear witness of the truth. It is this spirit that the author hopes will be received by the students of this series. The promise is given that all may receive this blessing by their dilpenee. (See D. & C. 11:22827; 6:5-7; Alma 12:9-11.) An Unique Book As we study this book of scripture, we should remember that we are studying the message of the Lord Jesus Christ. This message is addressed to the people who make up the last and greatest dispensation of the gospel—the fulness of times. There are many things which make The Doctrine and Covenants an unique book, but, primarily,. Its uniqueness arises out of the facts that it is (1) the word of Jesus Christ the Lord, and (2) it isa modern book. A study of what the Lord himself has said concerning his message is found in Section 1. From there we shall find the Lord's answer to "What do I expect to gain from a study of 'he Doctrine and Covenants?" The Superscription As in all revelations, a knowledge of the historical background and context provides the student with essential information to understand what is intended to be obtained from the message or messages of the revelation. For purposes of this course, the reader should become familiar with the introductory material (called the '"'superscription" in this course) at the head of each section. Sometimes a reference to the History of the Church by Joseph Smith, known and cited in this course as the Documentary History of the Church (D. H. C.) is given for further study about the context of the section. The Lord's Preface The superscription of Section 1 informs us that this revelation is 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT known as "the Lord's Preface." (See also verse 6 in Section 1.) This revelation was given at the conference of the Church convened November 1, 1831, when the "Book of Commandments" was adopted by the Priesthood assembled on that occasion. A "preface" is intended to prepare the reader with an explanation of the purpose the author had in writing the volume. It should concern itself with matters contained in the book or connected with it. To Whom the Message Is Directed Appropriately, the Lord introduces Section 1 with the announcement that it is he who is addressing "... Ye people of my church..." (D. & C. 1:1). But his message is not only for the Church but also "'., unto all men, and there is none to escape..." (D. & C. 1:2). Immediately one is made aware that the message of this dispensation is for everyone. In fact:... The voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days (D. & C. 1:4). And the revelations are to be published:... Unto you, O inhabitants of the earth (D. & C. 1:6). A Voice of Warning What has already been given as a principal purpose of the Lord's establishing his Church upon the earth? What should we expect to gain from a study of 'The Doctrine and Covenants? It is a "voice of warning" unto all people. This fact 621 was indelibly impressed upon the mind of the Prophet Joseph Smith by the angel Moroni, who quoted several Bible prophecies indicating that certain judgments were to come in the last days and that these predictions were not yet fulfilled, but were soon to be. (See Pearl of Great Price, Writings of Joseph Smith 2:40-41). Following this, he informed Joseph Smith "... Of great judgments which were coming upon the earth, with great desolations by famine, sword, and _pestilence; and that these grievous judgments would come on the earth in this generation..." (Ibid., 2:45). Later on, as the Prophet received additional revelations, the Lord made it known that the faithful of his people would be aware of the signs of the times and look forward in righteousness to Jesus' second coming. (See D. & C. 39:21-23; 45:39°44-) Power of Sealing the Wicked In the performance of their duties, the Lord's servants are to possess the power to seal both on earth and in heaven. Notice that those who are sealed by this power are those who reject the gospel, and also those who rebel against the servants of the Lord after having accepted his message (D. & C. 1:8-9). When the Lord comes he shall "... Recompense unto every man according to his work, and measure to every man according to the measure which he has measured to his fellow man" (D. & C. 1:10). Why This Message? Why is the Lord's message of warning directed to the people of 622 this generation or dispensation? The answer to this question is found in Section 1, verses 11 to 16, inclusive: Wherefore the voice of the Lord is unto the ends of the earth, that all that will hear may hear: Prepate ye, prepare ye for that which is to come, for the Lord is nigh; And the anger of the Lord is kindled, and his sword is bathed in heaven, and it shall fall upon the inhabitants of the earth. And the arm of the Lord shall be revealed; and the day cometh that they who will not hear the voice of the Lord, neither the voice of his servants, neither give heed to the words of the prophets and apostles, shall be cut off from among the people; For they have strayed from mine ordinances, and have broken mine everlasting covenant; They seek not the Lord to establish his righteousness, but every man walketh in his own way, and after the image of his own God, whose image is in the likeness of the world, and whose substance is that of an idol, which waxeth old and shall perish in Babylon, even Babylon the great, which shall fall. Three reasons why this message is directed to the people of this dispensation may be found in these verses; namely, (1) to prepare the way of the Lord (D. & C. 1:11), (2) because of the apostate condition of the world (D. & C. 1:15), and, (3) because men have set up their own gods (D. & C. 1:16). The Gods of Today What are these gods after which men walk? Do we not know of men today who seek unrighteous dominion over their fellow men; men directed by false theories that lead people away from God's truth; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 the gods of vanity, greed, lust, and the whole list of vices that keep men in bondage? The word "Babylon" has come to symbolize the wickedness of the world. (See Section 133:14.) Out of the world the people have been charged to come that they may not be partakers of her plagues. Eventually, the wicked world will fall, but, in preparation for that day of the Lord, there was to be a restoration of the gospel. Results of the Lord's Message What follows in verses 17 through 23 tells through whom the gospel was to be restored, and what could result from this great event. As you read these verses, keep in mind what the Lord promised would result from the call of Joseph Smith as the head of this dispensation. Two questions emerge from this thought: (1) does the history of the Church verify these promises of the Lord; and (2) in what part of this program have I participated? Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments; And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets— The weak things of the world shall come forth and break down the mighty and strong ones, that man should not counsel his fellow man, neither trust in the arm of flesh— But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world; That faith also might increase in the earth; LESSON DEPARTMENT That mine everlasting covenant might be established; That the fulness of my gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers (D. & C. 1:17-23). (It is worthy of observation at this point to indicate that the "others" in verse 18, unto whom the Lord "gave commandments" are those persons who were to assist the Prophet Joseph Smith in this dispensation. Many of these had already been called and received commandments by revelation. Such men as Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon, Hyrum Smith, Parley P. Pratt, Orson Pratt, and many others make up the number.) Blessings to Those Called We discover in verses 24 through 28 what had already been accomplished and what would yet be realized in the lives of individuals who receive a call into the Lord's service. Some of these blessings are: they come to understanding; their errors are corrected; wisdom sought for is obtained; as they sin they may be chastened and repent; and strength and knowledge come through their humility. Might we today who have embarked upon a study of The Doctrine and Covenants also expect that similar blessings will accrue to us by our diligence? Only One True Church In continuation of the message that Joseph Smith was divinely called and others were appointed to assist him, the Lord sets forth the important fact that his Prophet has received power to translate 'The Book of Mormon and to bring forth 623 ",.. The only true and living church upon the face of the whole earth..." (D. & C. 1:30). There was to be no question in the minds of the members of the Church or of the inhabitants of the world as to the position 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints holds in the world. This proclamation by the Lord gives added confirmation to the first vision and also to the many revelations which had already specified that there is only one way to eternal life. Sin Is Condemned It is further indicated that the Lord was pleased with his Church collectively, but the individual members of his Church had much to do in perfecting their lives. (See Matthew 5:48.) It is evident that the Lord wanted the members of the Church to understand that membership in his kingdom does not give license to sin for he "... Cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance" (D. & C. 1:31), but he will forgive the repentant (verse 32). On the other hand, that person who does not repent, having received the light, is under the penalty of losing the Spirit of the Lord "... For my Spirit shall not always strive with man..." (D. & C. 1:33). The Concluding Message Toward the end of this great revelation which opened with the principal message of the Lord to the Church and to the inhabitants of the carth, there is a return to this fundamental purpose—the Lord desires that all men shall know of his "voice of warning" of judgments to 624 come and that eternal life may be won by living the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. Notice how this message is reiterated in Section 1, verses 34 to 36:. I the Lord am willing to make these things known unto all flesh; For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion. And also the Lord shall have power over his saints, and shall reign in their midst, and shall come down in judgment upon Idumea, or the world (Ibid., 1:34-36). (Notice the term "Idumea'"' is defined in the revelation as "the world." It is synonymous with "Babylon" in verse 16 which symbolizes the wicked world. Idumea was known as the country of Edom whose inhabitants held an inveterate enmity toward Israel.) As one studies The Doctrine and Covenants, he knows that the gospel message brings joy into the lives of those who live its principles, while wickedness brings unhappiness. One also discovers that judgments do await the world and that one of these judgments—war—with its present-day potential for great destruction is prophesied for this dispensation. 'The question of whether or not the prediction that "peace shall be taken from the earth," as stated in 1831, should RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 now be phrased "peace has been taken from the earth" is one which every Latter-day Saint should consider in the light of present conditions in the world. Section 1, the Lord's preface to his revelations, is concluded with the definite assurance that what has been given will all be fulfilled and that the Spirit of God bears witness that "... The record is true, and the truth abideth forever and_ ever. Amen" (D. & C. 1:39). (See also verses 37 to 39.) The Doctrine and Covenants confirms ancient truths and gives more enlightenment about the events of the immediate future and man's destiny than do other books of scripture. It contains some of the most glorious principles ever revealed to the world. Questions for Discussion 1. Why is The Doctrine and Covenants an unique book? 2. Discuss: To become acquainted with The Doctrine and Covenants can be one of the richest experiences of a Latter-day Saint's life. 3. Define these terms: ""Superscription," "context," "Babylon," "D. H. C.," and "preface." 4. Why is Section 1 in The Doctrine and Covenants out of chronological sequence? About where would it be placed if it were in its chronological order? 5. How does Section 1 fit into the message of warning to the world? > So Children Asleep Florence Marie Gates Bennett As subtle and gentle as breath, Day changes to evening; I listen for sounds of naps' end— Still eyelids are dreaming. Oh, could I envelop them now With love all protecting, I would open their hearts and minds To God's own directing. Visiting Seacher I lessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 3—"... O Ye That Embark in the Service of God, See That Ye Serve Him With All Your Heart, Might, Mind and Strength, That Ye May Stand Blameless Before God at the Last Day" (D. & C. 4:2). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, December 3, 1957 Objective: To emphasize the importance of wholehearted, conscientious service and to show that to serve God means to serve our fellow men. ERVICE is the foundation of a happy and abundant life. It is the cornerstone of all Relief Society activity. This message gives new emphasis and significance to the meaning of service. In it we are admonished to serve the Lord willingly and wholeheartedly. Service given stintingly, grudgingly, or in a boastful or prideful way is not acceptable. The Lord knows our motives, our capabilities, our weaknesses and shortcomings. He has given us the revelation from which this message is taken to help us overcome our shortcomings and in so doing to become more nearly perfect. We can serve the Lord in many ways. We can serve him through working in the various organizations of the Church. If asked to work in this capacity, we should consider the call an opportunity, accept willingly, perform our duties conscientiously. Another form of service is missionary activity. This calling, too, is a challenge and opportunity and one in which, if we are chosen, we should embark in all diligence. The true essence of service to God, in these and in all activities, consists of service to our fellow men. King Benjamin, as related in The Book of Mormon, said, "... When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God" (Mosiah 2:17). At this time of the year our thoughts naturally turn to that great area of service connected with the life of our Savior. Most of us are familiar with the story of "The Other Wise Man," by Henry Van Dyke. This is the story of the Persian nobleman, Artaban, who, having learned of the birth of the Messiah, sells all his worldly possessions and buys three precious jewels. 'These he plans to take as gifts to the Messiah as tokens of his love and affection. Stopping to help someone in need, Artaban arrives late in Bethlehem and learns that Joseph and Mary, with the baby Jesus, have fled to safety. Artaban spends his life in search of the Messiah. In the process he ministers to the distress and suffering of his fellow men. 'Three times he comes near to seeing the Savior; but each time he finds someone in need of his urgent help. One by one, Artaban gives away his precious jewels in order to help others. He never is blessed with the opportunity Page 625 626 of seeing Jesus and feels that he has failed in his mission. Yet, as he is dying, he hears a voice saying: For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me mM.. Oe... Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me (Mt. 25:35, 40). Few of us may be called upon to give heroic service such as was given RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 by Artaban. Yet, everyday we encounter many opportunities to serve. 'To forget oneself in an effort to hghten another's burdens, to perform a thoughtful act or to show an unexpected kindness, is to serve the Lord by serving others. 'This type of human service does not require any special calling but can go far to help earn for us the promise of Jesus when he said:... Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world (Mt. 25:34). Work Tlecting—Living More Abundantly (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Living Economically Elder William F, Edwards For Tuesday, December 10, 1957 Objective: To understand that wise people, whether their income is relatively large or small, learn that it is good to live economically, because it is a good way of life. HE previous lesson discussed the importance of budget planning. 'We have all observed in others, or have been tempted sufficiently to learn by experience, that: One sure way to make life miserable is to live in a manner that you can't afford (Richard L. Evans). On the other hand, we have also come to realize that: If there is any one thing that will bring peace and contentment into the human heart, and into the family, it is to live within our means (Heber J. Grant). The Importance of Economy Living economically is a_ basic fundamental for happiness and success that is logically related to budgets, and it is equally important for all, rich and poor alike. The writer will always remember his first trip with members of his family to Victoria, Canada. In the government building in this beautiful city these words are on display: Without economy none can be rich; With it none can be poor. Two ancient proverbs re-emphasize this important principle of successful living: Eat and drink, but waste not by excess, for God loveth not the wasters (Abrabian Proverb). No gain is more certain than that which proceeds from the economical use of what we have (Latin Proverb). LESSON DEPARTMENT Life of the Master In this day, when so many people are stressing the physical standards of living above the real joy of living, it is good to reflect upon the circumstances surrounding the life of the Master. The birth of Jesus was one of the greatest events in history. In keeping with its importance, his birth was preceded by heavenly directed preparations, and it was heralded by angels. He could have been born in a castle, with parents of worldly fame, and showered with wealth. "For with God nothing shall be impossible" (Luke 1:37). His mother knew that he was the Christ Child, and she was concerned over his safety and comfort. But "she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger' (Luke 2:7). Joseph was apparently a humble carpenter. Mary cared for her baby and provided for his needs in modest circumstances. Apparently, this was the best environment for the growth and development of Jesus for his great mission. "And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom: and the grace of God was upon him" (Luke 2:40). Later, when Jesus undertook his mission, he traveled "without purse or scrip." Surely, in this experience we find a lesson for all families. Lessons From Book of Mormon The Book of Mormon includes many incidents where people became strong because of experience that forced them to live with extreme economy and to be humble, and then in a few years, with prosperity, they began to live extrava- 627 gantly and lost their faith. In Alma, chapter 4, we find this whole cycle recorded in ten brief verses. In the sixth year after the appointment of the judges, the people were suffering because of "the loss of their flocks and herds, and also for the loss of their fields of grain..." from economic poverty. But this humble environment was a blessing for the people, as "they were awakened to a remembrance of their duty. And they began to establish the church more fully...." 'The Lord blessed them because of their repentant attitude. But within two years:... The people of the church began to wax proud, because of their exceeding riches, and their fine silks, and their finetwined linen, and because of their many flocks and herds, and their gold and their silver, and all manner of precious things, which they had obtained by their industry; and in all these things they were lifted up in the pride of their eyes, for they began to wear very costly apparel (Alma 4:6). The Lord blessed the people, and they became prosperous. 'This was good. The unfortunate mistake was that the people ceased to live economically and to remain humble, but rather became proud of their wealth and became worldly. Observations of the working of the same cycle in more modern times has given validity to the statement, "from shirt sleeves to shirt sleeves in three generations." History has revealed the wisdom, and_ the Church in its conduct constantly sets the example, of the importance of living economically. Thoughts for Discussion The following are suggested challenging observations for discussion: that are eternal. 'The real values things that are eternal? Are you able to resist the frequent tendency when people become rich in the things of this world of becoming less rich or even poor in the real values that are eternal?. It may be wise to look upon prosperity as an opportunity fraught with danger. 'The danger is that we may become worldly, overstress the physical, and rear our children in an environment that is not conducive to maximum spiritual, moral, and educational growth.. Are you depriving your children of those experiences that helped to mold your character and taught you the valuable lessons of work, thrift, and appreciation? If you say to your children that you can't afford something that they wish, and your children know that this is not true, this will only stimulate their efforts to find a way of persuading you to give in. On the other hand, if the children are taught by precept and example that it is good to live economically, not because you have to, but because it is good, they will understand that many things that others have are not desirable, and they will support you in your family leadership.. To have above average means is a blessing if one remembers that the blessing lies in the increased power to be of service. It may be easier to be meek when poor, but it may be more noble to be meek when rich! 2. To those who have below average means: ness, honesty, love and good will toward fellow men, and a desire to serve.. Inspire your children with a desire for knowledge, to excell in their studies, and to be strong in their faith and loyal to the Church. From children thus taught will come the great men and women of tomorrow. C. Always say, with true sincerity, "T will share what I have, and if I had more I would give more." The outstanding examples in the teachings of the Master of people giving were not the rich sharing their abundance, but the people of limited means sharing because of the goodness of their hearts. The gift of the equivalent of the widow's mite is always received with complete appreciation if given "not grudgingly, or of necessity; for God loveth a cheerful giver" (II Corinthians 9:7).. It would be unwise to look upon being poor as a failure to receive the blessings of the Lord, unless this condition is due to one's own failure and unwillingness to do those things that bring the blessings of the Lord. The Lord always blesses the poor who become strong in spirit. 3. To all—the rich and the poor: a. One is poor if "keeping up with the Joneses' becomes of greater concern than doing what is right.. One is poor if he covets the things owned by others and cannot rejoice in seeing others enjoy worldly possessions (that he may be unable to buy or chooses not to acquire). 628 1. To those who have above averagé means: a. Have you kept your sights on the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 a. One can be very limited in worldly possessions and rich in values include good work habits, cleanli- Literature — Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 11—"Twelfth Night, or What You Will" Elder Briant S. Jacobs Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948 For Tuesday, December 17, 1957 Objective: To show that even though exaggerated through comedy situations, Shakespeare's characters reveal to us traits common to all humanity. ARTICULARLY for the rapidly growing Puritan strain among middle-class Englishmen, the Christmas season in Shakespeare's day was not a time for celebration, but rather a devotional period, filled with somberness and dedication. Because the twelve-day period which followed the birth of the Christ Child was held to be symbolical of motherhood, it was distinguished by an air of solemnity. At the end of this period the jollification began—on the twelfth day, while the renewing celebration reached full tempo only during the evening of the twelfth night. 'There is evidence that Twelfth Night, or What You Will, was written to be presented at this time which might explain why it is the happiest play that Shakespeare ever wrote, even while a somber strain runs just beneath the surface of the play from beginning to end. One of the great goals of artists and thinkers and thoughtful readers of every age has been to recast accumulative truth in their own images. Each period, each place has its own idiom and personality, and therefore in its seeing and saying differs from the past which it has inherited and absorbed, minute as that difference may be. A small placard reading, "Teenage talked here" could hang in the window of a haberdashers or dress shop in no age but our own. Conversely,... She never told her love, But let concealment like a worm 7' the bud, Feed on her damask cheek. She pined in thought, And with a green and yellow melancholy She sat like Patience on a monument, Smiling at grief.... IT. 4. 113-118 may seem equally a foreign tongue to our very own teenage children, and possibly to us as well. Yet differences of whatever magnitude must not be allowed to obscure basic similarities. Man has been man in all ages, woman has been woman, and Shakespeare, Shakespeare. Yet from age to age, there is a difference. Twelfth Night may be considered a bridge between the younger and the more mature Shakespeare. This is important in understanding why today this play is still one of Shakespeare's best-loved comedies, just as it has been from the date of its composition in 1600 or 1601, when he was thirty-six or thirty-seven years of age. From the date of his first play ten years earlier up to Twelfth Night, the rising and successful playwright had written either twentyPage 629 630 one or twenty-two plays—nine of them were comedies, three of them tragedies, and the rest histories. The Merry Wives of Windsor, Much Ado About Nothing, and As You Like It had all appeared within two years preceding Twelfth Night. Their very titles reveal them as gay, rollicking comedies, filled with pranks and puns, brilliant word-play, bravado, and young love finally united in happiness. One explanation of Twelfth Night's enduring popularity may be that it appeals to both young and old, to those who are merry, sad, or, more commonly, to those who are both at once. And that is exactly what the play does.. 'The earlier comedies are brimming with roistering talk, impish tricks, disguises and mistaken identities, earthly humor and pun. Appeals to the Young-in-Spirit From Shakespeare's Globe Theater to our own drive-ins, the youngin-spirit have provided the bulk of theater audiences. For them, the most famous line in this play makes it seem their own voice as Sir Toby, reminding pompous, stern Malvolio that he is out of tune, says, "... Dost thou think because thou art virtuous, there shall be no more cakes and ale...?" (II. 3. 124-125). Or, to paraphrase, do you think that just because you are older, without flaw, and settled down, no one else shall celebrate? Next, the very names of Sir 'Toby Belch and Sir Andrew Aguecheek contain the same quality of caricature so often prominent in teenage nicknames, while Feste, the name of a play's clown or fool, is almost festivity itself. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 Another perennial favorite of all ages is the pun, the play on words having the same sound but different meanings. It is still popular among us in the latest "Happy Little Moron" jokes. Note the overtones of meaning evoked from almost the first lines in the play resulting from the similarity between hart (or male deer) and heart, the source of love and passion. Curio, the Duke's attendant, asks him if he will go hunting. Duke. What, Curio? Cur. The hart. Duke. Why, so I do, the noblest that I have. Oh, when mine eyes did see Olivia first, Methought she purged the air of pestilence! That instant was I turned into a hart, And my desires, like fell [fierce] and cruel hounds, E'er since pursue me. I. 1. 16-23 Or note a similar device as employed with brilliant effectiveness in the repartee between the heroine and Feste, the clown: Vio. Save thee, friend, and thy music. Dost thou live by thy tabor? No, sir, I live by the church. Art thou a churchman? No such matter, sir, I do live by the church, for I do live at my house, and my house doth stand by the church. So thou mayst say the King lies by a beggar, if a beggar dwell near him, or the church stands by thy tabor, if thy tabor stand by the church. You have said, sir. To see this age! A sentence is but a cheveril glove to a good wit. How quickly the wrong side may be turned outward! IIT. 1. 1-15 Clo. Vio. Clo. Vio. Clo. LESSON DEPARTMENT Such sharp word-use is often too condensed and subtle for the modern audience, although the HopeBenny-Gobel-Linkletter clan perpetuate it in milder form. However, enjoyment is quickened considerably if such zest-in-words is first read on the cold page; then when it is recognized in the mouths of players on the stage, it sparkles with the cryptic power of youth's jargon in all ages, and imparts warming, breathing illusion of reality which is one of Shakespeare's highest attainments. Various dialogue scenes between Sir Toby and Sir Andrew, Feste and Maria, and Feste and Viola offer much more such brilliant word-play, from which excerpts might be mimeographed and read carefully and aloud with your group. Major Theme—Love Twelfth Night is a story of great beauty, both because it is expertly put together by an expert craftsman, and because it tells a delightful love story, one as pure and simple as that of Midsummer Night's Dream. When the usual Shakespearean grand assembly occurs in the fifth act, all misunderstandings are explained and three couples—Viola and the Duke Orsino, Olivia and Sebastian, Maria and Sir 'Toby—are suddenly revealed to each other as pledged lovers, "... And they all live happily ever after." Young lovers love most to read about young love, and the play is loaded with the imagery and vocabulary of love, all in the Italian vogue which was as dominant and popular a force in France and the Elizabethan stage as Italian movies and exotic movie stars are in the United States today. And many of the conventions of 631 Reproduced by Permission of the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre Stratford-Upon-Avon, England Photograph by Angus McBean LAURENCE OLIVIER AS MALVOLIO IN "TWELFTH NIGHT" contemporary love-lore are embodied within the play, particularly in the speeches of the lovesick Orsino: that love torments the lovers (I. 1. 9-23; I. 4. 26; IT. 4. 15), that the woman should be younger than her lover (II. 4. 29-32), that man loves more deeply than woman (II. 4. 94-106), that concealed love is never consummated (II. 4. 113-118), that scorn breeds love (III. 1. 156-160), that true love is jealous (IV. 3. 27). Plot Few of Shakespeare's plays contain a better integration of balanced scenes, with each scene completely justifying itself within the structure of the whole, and at the same time by its own merits holding the unbroken attention of the audience than does Twelfth Night. Similarly, there are just barely a leading man and lady, since so many critics still debate whether the play is dominated by Viola or Olivia, by Orsino, Malvolio, or Feste. Rather, all blend together marvelously well, which gives the play its tight-knit structure and pleasing pattern. The speeches are short, very few running the length of a sonnet, thus shifting the center of attention constantly from one to another in a fine blending and counterpoint motion. The plot is sheer fantasy — improbable, exotic, romantic, yet, by its sustained popularity over the centuries, it stands to refute those realists and modernists who would insist that only the immediate, the squalid, and the low endure. In faraway Illyria the overly sentimental Duke, Orsino, pines away for his ladylove, the rich Countess Olivia, who is mourning with undue fervor the death of her brother. Orsino sends an attractive page, Cesario, to present his suit to Olivia but instead of falling in love with Orsino, Olivia becomes infatuated with Cesario. Cesario is actually Viola, a shipwrecked maiden traveling in disguise, distraught at the supposed death of Sebastian, her twin, in the storm which she survived. Malvolio, steward to the countess, shares her melancholy, but actually he would like to share her favors and wealth as well, for foolishly he aspires for her hand. Olivia's Uncle Toby Belch enjoys sponging off her household for the comforts of life, and keeps himself in spending money by encouraging Sir Andrew Aguecheek to believe that his bid for the widow Olivia's hand will be successful—if he continues to hire the right cupid to arrange it, namely Sit Toby. When the pompous chief steward Malvolio offends Sir Toby, Sir Toby and the keen, shrewd servingwoman, Maria, plot revenge. 'hey plant a letter, supposed to have been written by Olivia, in which Olivia tells of her love for Malvolio and instructs Malvolio, if he returns her love to wear yellow stockings (which Olivia actually abhors) and smile whenever she approaches. Olivia makes violent love to Cesario, the boy-girl page, and Sir Toby motivates a duel between Sir Andrew and Cesario. Horrorstricken at the thought of duelling, Cesario-Viola is trapped until Antonio, the captain of the ship on which her brother was traveling comes to her rescue. He thinks she is her twin brother Sebastian, who is actually very much alive, and calls her by that name. Officers appear and arrest Antonio. CesarioViola leaves the scene pursued by Sir Andrew who meets her brother. Thinking Sebastian is Cesario-Viola, he draws his sword and begins to duel. Just then Olivia appears, and, determined not to lose her beloved Cesario-Viola again, she hustles him off to a church and marries him, but she really marries Sebastian, who falls in love with her on the spot. Malvolio had previously appeared before Olivia, doing as the letter ditected so well that she has him thrown into a dark cell, believing him mad. There Feste, the fool, taunts him. Malvolio bitterly resents his mistreatment, Toby and 632 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT Sir Andrew repent, but at the play's end Malvolio alone still suffers. Orsino enters with Cesario-Viola whom Olivia addresses as her husband, which Orsino resents. 'Then Sir Andrew accuses Cesario-Viola of wounding him in the duel and, for a moment, all is confusion, until Sebastian enters, realizes his sister is alive, admits marrying Olivia and duelling Sir Andrew. Viola reveals her love for Orsino who has. Already been attracted to her as a page, Sir Toby agrees to marry Maria, who has long dreamed of lifting herself out of the servant class by marrying royalty. It is at that moment that the clown gives the famous lines, "Some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon 'em' (V. I. 376). While Malvolio fumes his disappointment and abuse, the happy couples leave the stage, and Feste sings a final ditty. Shakespeare's Living Characterizations In Twelfth Night the players once more arise from the printed page or walk past the footlights to become lost in the crowd, and be one of us. Here, again, is living proof that Shakespeare Knows us best, since he is of our time almost more than his own, and, hence, not confined within time's boundaries. Particularly in this play are we amused at his knowledge of humanity's weaknesses and exaggerated devices of foolish self-defense and grandiose rationalizations, even as we readily recognize these echoing traits in ourselves and in our fellows. For example, Sir Andrew's self- 633 love does not permit him to recognize that he is not so "well endowed by nature as by fortune," and so he becomes a ready, gullible rabbit for Sir Toby's snares. Olivia is "resolved to mourn" her brother's loss in fitting fashion, but instead so exaggerates her self-denials that she hides behind them as an acceptable escape from all reality, including her own inner desires as a woman. But Duke Orsino cannot face reality full-on either. Yes, he falls in love —but he woos the idea of being in love, rather than any woman. He poses and preens as he sighs over the atmosphere of love in which he bathes himself, yet courage and action are not in him, as they must be in any true lover. No sharper contrast to Orsino could emerge than that which we find in Viola, also in love, but the love within her elevates her into achieving true love's high virtues: constancy, selfdenial, honest passion, courage, and integrity. But, again, in contrast to her, Maria's sharp wit and desire for world security must substitute for what love's weapons should be. She ensnares Sir Toby, outsharps the sharper, and gains worldly station— goals far distant from those of a lover, but supremely satisfactory to her. While many of the above characters are exaggerated and the plot situations impossible, no one really objects, so well are we aware that these realms of artistic recreation of life create within us more of reality than does life itself. We see them and we see through them. And, therefore, even more sharply we see ourselves and our own similar traits, perhaps a little shamefacedly, yet with amusement, 634 Twelfth Night a Symphony Twelfth Night may be compared to a symphony with love as the major theme and several minor themes beautifully intertwined to make a perfect composition. From its opening lines to its final words, this gentle, pleasant play often is set ringing with musical tones and echoes. If music be the food of love, play on. Give me excess of it, that, surfeiting, The appetite may sicken, and so die. That strain again! It had a dying fall. Oh, it came o'er my ear like the sweet sound That breathes upon a bank of violets, Stealing and giving odor! Enough, no more.... O spirit of love, how quick and fresh art thou! I. 1. 1-7, 9 The songs of the fool Feste are some of the purest lyrics in the language, and reveal the musicianpoet Shakespeare at his best. Perhaps most popular because of its moving, simple beauty is his first song: O mistress mine, where are you roaming? Oh, stay and hear, your truelove's coming, That can sing both high and low. Trip no further, pretty sweeting, Journeys end in lovers meeting, Every wise man's son doth know... What is love? "Tis not hereafter, Present mirth hath present laughter, What's to come is still unsure. In delay there lies no plenty, Then come kiss me, sweet and twenty, Youth's a stuff will not endure. II. 3. 40-45, 48-54 But not all the songs are as happy as this one; indeed many create and prolong the dominant bass-note of sadness and wistful melancholy which pervades the entire play. 'This is evidenced most strongly in the utRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 terances of Orsino, Viola, and particularly Feste, the jester who is "... Wise enough to play the fool, And to do that well craves a kind of wit..." (IIL. I. 67-68). It is songs such as the following one sung by Feste which help make Twelfth Night ".. A settled gravity—a silvery undertone of sadness, which makes it perhaps the loveliest of all Shakespeare's high comedies" (John Middleton Murry, Shakespeare, page 225). Duke. Oh, fellow, come, the song we had last night. Mark it, Cesario, it is old and plain. The spinsters and the knitters in the sun And the free maids that weave their thread with bones Do use to chant it. It is silly sooth, And dallies with the innocence of love, Like the old age. Clo. Are you ready, sir? Duke. Aye, prithee sing. Clo. [Sings] Come away, come away, death, And in sad cypress let me be laid. Fly away, fly away, breath, I am slain by a fair cruel maid. My shroud of white, stuck all with yew, Oh, prepare it! My part of death, no one so true Did share it! Il. 4. 43-59 The words sadness and madness appear constantly in dulcet tones, almost like a chant, as also does drowned. Yes, there is love in the play, but it is languorous, overly rich, surfeited, sad with too much gaiety and glitter. A key line is Maria's when, speaking of the raving Malvolio, she says:... | am as mad as he, If sad and merry madness equal be. II. 4. 15-16 Sacred Music for Ladies Three Part Choruses aot GLORY TO GOD—Bach-Wilson.....25 i GRANT ME, DEAR LORD, DEEP PEACE OF MIND-—Stickles —..........20 ao IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS—Madsen..............-- -20 - IN THY FORM—Madsen...............20 a INVOCATION—Moore................-..20 / KING OF GLORY—Parks...............20 —— LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen.............20 _— SPIRIT OF GOD—Neidlinger.........18 _ TEACH ME, O LORD—Hamblen.....20 — THY BLESSING ON THIS HOUSE, DEAR LORD—Madsen.................. -20 — VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— To) | 22 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. (1 On Approval O Charge ) 1 1 1 1 1 | '! (J Money Enclosed; 1 Name Address City & State \ 15 E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVOe! Salt Lake City 11, Utah % For Relief Society and Genealogy Workers TYPEWRITING CLASSES CLASSWORK BEGINS SEPT. 9 Classes to run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction for adults who wish to use typewriting in genealogy and other Church work. Call for reservations. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 NORTH MAIN SALT LAKE CITY e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles.... 35 150 to 300 miles 300 to 600 miles 6 600 to 1000 miles.... 1000 to 1400 miles.... D 1400 to 1800 miles _.. W..0.0...0000. C Over 1800 miles 4 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 635 636 Everything in the final act builds up to satisfaction and happiness, but surely it is significant that the play ends with Feste on an otherwise empty stage, singing to our inner ear his ditty, apparently simple and of no consequence, but actually the final repetition of the play's dominant tone. Perhaps Shakespeare is reminding us that the overly merry, overly playful, overly sentimental characters within this play, have been too much concerned with getting and spending, with loving, wiving, and drinking, while with subRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 dued, inexorable irregularity the wind and the rain follow out their indifferent patterns, thus reminding superficial man of nature's balance and force, even harshness, which endure beneath surface trivialities. Thoughts for Discussion 1. In what way is Twelfth Night a bridge? 2. To whom does this play appeal? 3. For Shakespeare, why is music so important a tool? 4. What common character traits do you recognize in this play? ~>- Suggested Mlusic for Lessons on Shakespeare A™ of Shakespeare's words that are set to music could be used for any lesson, but the following are appropriate for the coming year: From Twelfth Night Number 30721 "O Mistress Mine," Reginald de Koven, (solo), John Church Co. 4301 "Come Away, Death," Johannes Brahms, (trio), G. Schirmer & Co. 60c 20C 7888 "She Never Told Her Love," Joseph Hayden, (solo), G. Schirmer & Co. 50¢ "Sweet and Twenty," (solo), Chappell & Co. From Othello gi) From The Tempest 520 "The Willow Song," Arthur Sullivan, (solo), Novello & Co. "Where the Bee Sucks,"' Arthur Sullivan, (trio), Novello & Co. 60c 22C $1.00 11194 "Where the Bee Sucks," Arthur Sullivan, (solo), Novello & Co. $1.00 8028 & Co. Goc "Honor, Riches, Marriage, Blessing,' Arthur Sullivan, (duet), Novello MIscELLANEOUS From Love's Labor Lost 1058 mons Co. 20c "Under the Greenwood Tree," Arthur Bergh, (quartet), H. J. Fitzsim- 131-40758 "Under the Greenwood Tree," A. Buzzi-Peccia, (solo), Theodore Presser Co.. 60¢ 131-40883 "When Daisies Pied and Violets Blue," Thomas Arne, (solo), Oliver Ditson Co. 50¢ ee. All advantages of a large University, All the attention of the small College Consider these advantages at the Largest Intermountain University... Adequate faculty for the large student body. @ Relatively small classes. A complete stake of the LDS Church, entirely with student membership in 17 wards. Frequent visits from General Authorities and other Church leaders. Counseling service available to every student. ® Scores of cultural, geographical, departmental, and social groups, open to all students. Expanded schedule to include all who wish to take any class. Efficient placement service to aid in finding employment. Close association with family-sized groups of roommates in beautiful campus residences. Autumn Quarter Registration—September 30 and October 1, 1957 BricHAM Younc UNIvERsITY PROVO UTAH Page 637 638 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 From Cymbeline 312-20444 "Hark, Hark, the Lark," Franz Schubert, (duet or trio), Theodore Presser Co. 12¢ From Two Gentlemen of Verona 12307 "Who Is Sylvia?" Franz Schubert, (duet or trio), Oliver Ditson Co. 15¢. From As You Like It 332-40092 "It Was a Lover and His Lass," Francis Collin, (duet), Oliver Ditson Co. 22¢ Sonnet—"'Shall I Compare Thee?'" Wheeler Becket, G. Schirmer & Co. 50¢ Four Shakespearean Songs, Bruce Montgomery, Novello & Co. $1.60. "Full Fathom Five," from The Tempest "Come Away, Death," from Twelfth Night "O Mistress Mine," from Twelfth Night "Tell Me Where Is Fancy Bred," from The Merchant of Venice. Four Shakespearean Songs, E. J. Moeran, Novello & Co. $1.60 "The Lover and His Lass," from As You Like It "Where the Bee Sucks," from The Tempest "When Daisies Pied," from Love's Labor Lost "When Icicles Hang on the Wall," from Love's Labor Lost. Note: The prices are subject to change at any time. If your local dealer is unable to supply these numbers, they may be ordered from the following stores: Beesley Music Company, 70 South Main, Salt Lake City, Utah Daynes Music Company, 15 East—First South, Salt Lake City, Utah. Glen Brothers Music Company, 74 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Social Science —Latter-day Saint Family Life No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. The following references are for Lesson g, "'Families Have Problems," for November 26, 1957, which appeared on page 562 in the August issue of The Relief Society Magazine: 1. "Youth and Morality," Delbert L. Stapley, The Improvement Era, December 1956, page 937. 2. Report on the National Conference on Juvenile Delinquency, 1954, Children's Bureau, U. S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Washington, D. C. 3. Characteristics of the Low-Income Population, 1955, Joint Committee on the Economic Report, 84th Congress, Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C. 4. "Leisure Time — A Blessing or a Blight?" Jessie R. Smith, The Improvement Era, May 1957, page 334. 5. "How Shall We Define Progress?" Bonaro W. Overstreet, National ParentTeacher, May 1957, page 29. 6. "Why Parents Annoy Us," Florence A. Gritzner, National Parent-Teacher, May 1957, page 29. 7. "Can Poets Unseat the Comics?" Hal Conkey, National Parent-Teacher, February 1957, page 29. HAWAII Vida Fox Clawson is operating another of her lovely tours to HAWAII. This tour will sail on the New Matsonia on November 4, 1957. EARLY RESERVATIONS ARE ADVISABLE EUROPE Make your plans for Europe for the DEDICATION OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINT TEMPLE in England. For complete details write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EMpire 4-2017 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music (0. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH COLLEGE TRAINING. «and home environment It used to be that students had to leave their home environment to get a suitable college education. That is no longer true. The University of Utah ranks as one of America's outstanding colleges. The faculty is the strongest in history. The facilities are outstanding. Opportunities and advantages are offered that can be matched at no other school. In addition, the Institute of Religion provides excellent religious training. BE SURE AND SEE WHAT THE 'U' HAS TO OFFER YOU. Freshmen Register—Sept. 26 Other Students Register—Sept. 27-28 Class Work Starts—Sept. 30 For full information write: Office of the President UNIVERSITY OF UTAH Salt Lake City, Utah Page 639 Birthday Congra tula tions Ninety-four Mrs. Laura READ STEPHENS RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ORDER SELECTIONS Ninety-three Monticello, Utah Mrs. Cuiore D. SPENCER Special Attention Given Ni A M GLEN -BROS. Are MUSIC CO. = ee Mrs. Jonanna Marta Hansen Rarpus Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Rosa THompson Rosins Draper, Utah Mrs. Sarauw HENDRICKSON ELECTRIC eon, Hshe COOKING = costs the (Dorshe e Ors tp average family I look into the sky of stars For dewy Venus, fiery Mars, The Dippers, or the Pleiades— The ones I know, I look for these; And then at every point of light, Opal-hued or diamond-white, Countless, nameless—unto me— The showcase of eternity. And I am stunned each time I view This vast display in vaulted blue, And numbly seek to comprehend: "Without beginning, without end," And the integrity and power Of One who sets the course and hour For each cool globe or orb of flame, And knows his handwork, each by name, Be Modern Live Electrically UTAH POWER & LIGHT -CO. 640 YOUR MUSIC NOW FOR THE ENTIRE YEAR to orders for SHAKESPEAREAN MUSIC Suggested for the Literature Lessons AND ALL MUSIC FOR THE SINGING MOTHERS Immediate Service 74 So. Main, Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone EMpire 3-4434 only about mC RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1957 Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lucinpa Atvira Pace Repp Aurora, Utah Mrs. CunlernainC as, ERICSON Salt Tele City Ui, Mrs. Nora Hoxtapay Brirron Burbank, California Ninety-one Mrs. Auice Stevens HANSEN ~ Salt Lake City, Utah Ferron, Utah Mrs. JANET JONES Hazen Wanda Greene Nielson Sectely READING SUGGESTIONS | THEOLOGY | Text: The Doctrine and Covenants 1. Doctrine and Covenants (Cloth-bound library edition) $1.75 2. Doctrine and Covenants and Pearl of Great Price (Plastic binding) $.55 (add 12c postage for mail orders) References: Documentary History of the Church 3. 7-Volume Set $14.00 (add 65c postage for mail orders) 4. Volume | $3.00 (postage on individual volumes 15c each) 5. Volume Il $1.00 8. Volume V $1.25 6. Volume III $1.25 9. Volume VI $1.25 7. Volume IV $3.50 10. Volume VII $3.00 11. Kit of 7 Pictures $.50 (add 5c postage for mail orders) Contains following pictures: Prophet Joseph Smith Angel Moroni appearing to Joseph Smith Three Witnesses (3 different pictures) Restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood Susquehanna River "Deseret 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City == Book Co. $. F. CITY.... E cece ceteceeeeeeeeeeee Zone........ State... | Utah 12. Joseph Smith, the Prophet Preston Nibley $3.50 13. Doctrine and Covenants Commentary 14. $4.00 Text: Shakespeare: Major Plays and the Sonnets G. B. Harrison $6.00 (add 20c postage for mail orders) References: 15. Gospel Ideals Discourses of President David O. McKay $4.00 16. Gospel Doctrine Discourses of President Joseph F. Smith $3.50 17. Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. I, Il, and Ill Sermons and Writings of Joseph Fielding Smith Compiled by Bruce R. McConkie $3.25 Ea. 18. Articles of Faith James E. Talmage $1.50 DESERET BOOK COMPANY { 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah | Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( )| check ( ) money order ( ) charge to ue? Account for the encircled (numbered) books or items: or Canned for Toppings... Utah peaches sweetened with U and I Sugar are delicious. U and I Sugar not only acts as a sweetening agent but helps to preserve the natural flavor, shape and texture of fruit. You'll find U and I also helps to bring out the full rich flavor of fresh fruits. Order your U and IJ canning sugar today —you can't buy a finer, purer, whiter sugar anywhere. Get the big 10-, 25-, 50-, or 100-Ib. Bags for canning time Mi iU bs, 100 BEY ie SUGAR i PURE React Seem L\\ MAGAZINE Ol. 44 NO. 10 Lessons for January OCTOBER 1957, THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Seciety of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - = oO c - Marianne C. Sharp - - - = o 5 - Helen W. Anderson - - - = o - Hulda Parker - - o o O - o Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Charlotte A. Larsen Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Edith P. Backman Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Evon W. Peterson Louise W. Madsen - President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 44 OCTOBER 1957 No. 10 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES The Southwest Indian Mission. O... Cc. Cece cee Shirley B. Let's Visit a Desert Sea and Monroe J. Paxman 644 aesPreston R. Nibley 650 Purchasing Soul Growth... Ee Marijane Morris 657 664 Compiling a Census of Post-Polio Patients Pine Nutting Foundation for Infantile Paralysis 668 Alice R. Rich 674 FICTION Frances C. Yost 652 Miss Pennywell Goes Into Action Frances P. Reid 669 Bleak House Florence B. Dunford 676 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 661 Editorial: Eternal Bonuses 002... Ceuseccsseeeeccctteneseeee In Memoriam—Priscilla Livingston Evans aMarianne C. Sharp 662 Notes From the Field: Relief Soi Activities Birthday Congratulations Hulda Parker 680 From Near and Far. FEATURES FOR THE HOME Lavena L. Rohner 665 Recipes From the Southwest Indian Mission....... Louise McMurtrey Pieces Quilts and Finds Joy in "Giving LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology. The Prophecy Concerning Elijah the Prophet y W. Doxey 687 Visiting Teacher Messages: Work Meeting: Making Money More Valuable Literature: The ''Hamlet'' Frame Social Science: Eternal Marriage 20... Ccc. Cece cece cecseeeeececeeeeessssesceeeeeeeeesseenneeeeee In Autumn—FrontispieCe -..... E eee cceeseeecceceeeeeceeeeceeeeeeeee 'Remember That Without Faith You Can Do ficikay" Christine H. Robinson 692.. William F. Edwards 694 ee... Briant S. Jacobs 697 eeJohn Farr Larson 703 Pe. Enola Chamberlin 643 Aftermath Gene Romolo 656 Now the Glory and the Wane Dorothy J. Roberts 659 Mountain Country 0.2... Cece ceeeeesconee: Leslie S. Clark 667 Then Comes Sleep eeOlive W. Burt 672 Nocturne Pansye H. Powell 673 Scent of Autumn..... Hazel M. Thomson 686 Living Proof.......2.----:--: c-0000- Iris W. Schow 693 Autumn Leaf on the Beach a. First Bath Eva W. Wangsgaard 709 Christie Lund Coles 709 Sunday Evening -...0..0sceceMargery S. Stewart 710 Autumn... Vesta N. Lukei 710 Pyromania.. Alice Morrey Bailey 711 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8,.1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Blanche B. Stoddard Sparkling Family Hour Trespassing Trio Mildred B. Eyring Gladys S. Boyer Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Ecdetegnesenen ett tpt tracaesseeat ta: ae) everything ee SR.; \ Tou ee aa aeer aa afer2e vr ot | ig ' id AS 5 wen sa '. SS S el ae \ 3% \; 4 ' 4 =~ - I; a "ICMI guides the bride' A new Wedding Workbook—contains complete wedding timetable, Intermountain wedding guide, wedding guest list, honeymoon and entertaining guide. Get your free copy. ZCMI Bride's Shop, 2nd floor For all the wedding-party gowns, your trousseau, and for complete wedding planning with the help of experts. ZCMI Wedding Gift Registry, 3rd floor For listing wedding gift preferences; household trousseau planning; and your complete shower service, Gown shown, 69.95; Bridal Veil, 10.95 Jn Au tumn Enola Chamberlin Let us speak softly in this autumn air, Lest we disturb the orchard's loose-held leaves, Or send to ground the last late-hanging pear, Or fright the swallow clinging to the eaves. Lest we disturb the robin now at rest Before his flight to reach the summer south; Disturb the chipmunk on his acorn quest, The squirrel, a pilfered nut within his mouth. Let us speak softly, corn is in the shock; The yellow pumpkins piled across the field, The frost has drawn back his hand to knock, To hammer loudly on the summer's shield. Let us speak softly, nature waits to know If all the earth is ready for her snow. The Cover: Pueblo at Taos, New Mexico Photograph by Willard Luce Frontispiece Photograph: Autumn Morning, Near Salt Lake City, Utah Photograph by Harry Harpster, Jr. Cover Design by Evan Jensen Sparkling Family Hour Shirley B. And Monroe J. Paxman AS your family life been all that you wanted it to be? Has it been fun, romantic, genuinely interesting? Especially has it been free from tension and bickering? Does each member stay relaxed and completely at ease? If you are like a great many of us, your answer is probably "No." Too often home life is something to be endured, rather than enjoyed. Family routine becomes just that— routine. If yours is that way, then we have good news for you. "Family Hour' is the answer! This plan for happiness is neither costly, complicated, nor coyprighted. And, best of all, it can be adapted for use by any family anywhere. Many parents overlook the tremendous possibilities of happiness within their own family circle. They plan things to get away from their children instead of planning to include them all. We believe the Family Hour is the finest way to create and strengthen family unity, to build tradition in the home. 'Traditions, in their simplest sense, mean something people invent in order to hold fast to home and one another. Little things, often repeated, if they are pleasant things, become woven into the commonplaceness of existence like bright threads — giving character, lending enchantment. And the memories of family tradition that children accumulate go with them through their lives. Page 644 The traditions holding families together are often so small and simple that the outside world hardly recognizes them. The father and mother who devote one regular time to social life with their children will escape that left-out feeling when their children have grown up. Those with a tradition of love and companionship, dignity, and peace, will give their children a heritage they will fight to preserve. The Family Hour provides the most ideal situation to teach religion in the home, to discuss the principles of the gospel and instill in our children the desire to apply the gospel teachings to their daily lives. It provides an opportunity for teaching and practicing self-expression by active participation of each family member; for developing and encouraging talents of family members; for teaching consideration and respect for others; for encouraging co-operation among all members of the family, the Church, the schools and the community; and, above all, it encourages fun and laughter and wholesome recreation within the family circle. RITING from our own experience in conducting the Family Hour in our home, there are several suggestions we might make that help build toward a more enriched Family Hour. 1. Adapt your Family Hour program to the needs and ages of your own family. We suggest great flexibility and a willingness to change the program on the spur SPARKLING FAMILY HOUR of the moment, if it doesn't suit the family's desires. This doesn't lead to a haphazard "'make-do-occasion," if wellsupplied preparations are kept on hand. Being prepared with a great variety of activities or themes for family hour is a great help in keeping the interest and enthusiasm of the family in high favor. 2. Set aside a definite time when the family can gather together free from any interruptions or absences. 'This isn't easy to do but is of primary importance to a continued, persistent Family Hour. Once the time is decided upon, all family. Members plan their schedules to allow for the Family Hour. By advance mutual agreement it can be held earlier if something of intense importance requires part or all of the members of the family to be elsewhere. Many wards and stakes have adopted the practice of setting aside certain evenings as "home evenings" to encourage families in the observance of the Family Hour, free from conflicting meetings. It is helpful to gain the support of the Priesthood by asking leaders to encourage active participation by men in the Family Hour. 3. The Family Hour should begin with prayer or be closed with family prayers. Prayers seem especially heartwarming and earnest after time spent with the family. The prayer should be short and appropriate and should contribute to the spirit, purpose, and theme of the evening. 4. All members of the family should have opportunity for various responsibilities in the Family Hour. Some families choose themesweeks or months ahead according to the vote of the family, and make assignments to family members. Others use a weekly assignment sheet posted on the bulletin board, rotating assignments as follows: chairman, — storyteller, refreshment chairman, game leader, scripture reader, family council chairman, cleanup. Assignments can be combined or expanded to fit the number of children in the family. Each person rotates to the next position each week. 5. Developing children's leadership abilities is an important aim of the Family 645 Hour. It's easier for the parents just to "take charge' and order that this and that be done. But the wise parents will delegate the responsibilities, set up an organization, and let the children run the program, with only occasional guidance from Mom and Dad. 6. A scripture reading each time will assist family members in respect for and familiarity with the standard works. Let each family member select his favorite passages. 'The older children or the parents can give helpful guidance to those who need help with their selections. 7. Family council should be an integral part of each family hour. It encourages communication and the expression of feelings for a good practice of the democratic process. 'This period need not be long. It's actually best to avoid long, drawnout "grievance-type-sessions."' Five minutes spent in airing family problems will go a long way toward orderliness. Try to keep it constructive and don't get carried away with doing everything by vote. The aim is to solve problems, not just to legislate. Help prepare your older children to make constructive statements about the necessity and value of co-operative family work. 8. Choose a project for each occasion toward which each person expends his best efforts. You'll think of dozens, but here are some samples: "I am part of my home." (Each is to improve the home.) "IT like my family." (Encourage recognition of blessings and expression of appreciation.) "Waste not-—want not." (Turn off lights, water, range. Compare utility bills with previous periods, etc.) "A place for everything—everything in its place." "I know something good about you." 9. Refreshments. Help them, give advice if needed, but let the children do it. A budget, say 25c¢ or so, will help this chairman use his ingenuity and imagination. Keep them simple—popcorn, a marshmallow roast, fruit, a special dessert. 10. Inviting guests. Here's a world of opportunity to encourage understanding and tolerance for others and the sharing of joys. Much can be learned, more can be shared. THEMES for Family Hour can be as varied as you wish. The possibilities of Family Hour centered around different activities are unlimited and can provide many hours of fun, education, and progress in all those things that make for more abundant living.. Following are some suggested subjects that are adaptable for family fun. A. Holidays. These provide almost every month with at least one excellent subject for Family Hour. 'Too numerous to be listed are the events that could be used in observing our national and _ religious holidays. A few examples suffice: Flag Day. <A history of our flag — illustrated steps in the development of today's flag done by David. A talk and demonstration by John on how to show respect for the flag and how to display and care for it. Poems, stories, and songs about our flag by other members of the family. May Day. Revive the beautiful custom of winding the May pole with the neighborhood children invited to participate. The tether ball pole is used for this event, with crepe paper streamers as ribbons. Christmas. At Christmas time Annette presents her traditional shadow puppet play of the story of the nativity and all members of the family present Christmas customs of other lands, e. G., the pinata from Mexico (made from a paper sack decorated with white crepe paper to resemble a goose stuffed with candies and _ trinkets); the wooden shoes from Holland, filled with carrots and straw for St. Nicholas' reindeer. B. Special Events. Baptism, confirmation, Priesthood ordinations, Primary graduation, calls to positions of leadership in any organization, not to mention birthdays— all provide opportunities for the family to pay honor to a loved one with special activities at Family Hour. C. "Home Protection Exercises." Specifically as outlined in the pamphlet "Home Protection Exercises," a family action program of Civil Defense, is a wonderful chance to prepare in advance for all types of emergencies in the home. Fire and safety measures are planned and practiced so each member of the family understands his own part. John gives a demonstration in First Aid, David talks about fire prevention and rules of firemanship, Carol and Nancy plan home safety measures, and all members participate in a fire drill. An evening such as this gives children a sense of security and ability to assume responsibility in an emergency, even if the parents are absent when the emergency strikes. D. Evenings spent in practicing the rules of common courtesy and good manners can be most profitable. Small children can be taught the proper way to answer the telephone, greet callers, answer the door, observe table manners; all benefit by practicing manners in speech, introductions, behavior in church, public places, dining out, asking for a date, etc. These lessons take on added significance and thoughtfulness and go a long way in instilling the social graces in our children, all done in a spirit of good fun and comradeship. E. Family scrapbooks, diaries, genealogy records, and family histories all provide ideal activities for family members. At the age of twelve, each child is given his own Book of Remembrance and encouraged to complete the charts and histories. F. Many pleasant family hours can be spent in enjoying nature's beautiful facets —profitable hours can be spent in nature rambles, visits to exhibits, working on scrapbooks, collections, conservation projects, etc. G. Current magazine articles have been the inspiration for many Family Hours. For example, articles on physical fitness, accident prevention, world affairs and problems in understanding and living with our neighbors, all contribute themes for Family Hour. 'Teenagers especially might appreciate a Family Hour spent in discussing responsibilities of driving a car, traffic tules and regulations as outlined in the 646 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 SPARKLING FAMILY HOUR sas Photograph by Bob Stum Courtesy The Instructor 647 THE MONROE J. PAXMAN FAMILY At the left: Shirley B. Paxman. Standing at the left: Monroe J. Paxman, holding Mary Beth (three). Seated at the table, left to ight: Nancy (nine); David (Ten); John (thirteen); Carolyn (eleven); Annette (five). Not in the picture: Susan (one). Drivers' Handbook (State Department of Public Safety). Even small children could participate by building a highway system on the living room floor and with model cars illustrate the various rules of traffic and what the road signs mean. H. Group studies for older children might include world cultures (an excellent monthly program is published by American Geographical Society, Dept. T. 1-4 Garden City, N. Y.); a nature program (Audubon Nature Program, Dept. 1 M-3, Garden City, N. Y.); Great Men and Great Issues in an American Heritage (Ford Foundation Publication); famous artists and their works; famous musicians and their works; biographies; the Bible and Book of Mormon studies; standard works of the Church; and Church writings by outstanding men and women in the Church. I. The Children's Friend and _ other Church publications provide wonderful Family Hour programs, especially suitable for Latter-day Saint families striving to rear their children in keeping with gospel standards. J. Hobby night can be one of the most rewarding Family Hours of all. Delightful time can be spent together working on the hobbies of individual members or the entire family. Collections of all kinds add knowledge and rich rewards to those who enjoy this field. Notable among these are coin, stamps, rocks and mineral, shells, china, rare books, records, insects, dolls, souvenirs, autographs, fos- sils, buttons. Arts and crafts also lend enrichment to the family in painting, writing, storytelling, music, photography, gardening, radio, miniature trains, as do physical hobbies the entire family can enjoy such as swimming, hiking, skiing, boating, baseball, dancing, skating, and horseback riding. K. Family game night is a fun and lively affair with the assistance of a homemade game chest. Ours is made from an old discarded suitcase lined with bright plastic and containing the equipment for hundreds of games for two to fifty players. All the equipment is home gathered —a bottle of beans, ball of twine, whistle, box of matches (with tips removed), scrap paper, pencil, tennis ball, ping-pong balls, balloons, alphabet cards, number cards, pins, crayons, marbles, Rook cards, rubber jar rings, two empty pop bottles, small paper plates, dowel sticks, two bean bags, cardboard separators from egg cases, two metal jar rings, a collection of quizzes cut from magazines mounted on cards with answers on the back, and a good game book (one of the best is Recreation Leaders Handbook, published by Utah State University, Logan, Utah, 10c). L. Having fun with puppets is in great demand at our home for our Family Hour. Here is the ideal activity for all members of the family to work on together. Our favorites are simple shadow puppets with a cardboard box stage. Figures of nursery rhymes, nursery songs, short stories and legends, cut out of heavy paper and mounted on thin sticks, are manipulated by the three to five-year-olds with ease. The entire family join in singing the simple songs, while the action takes place. Stick puppets are next, also performed in a grocery carton. Cardboard figures of the Bible stories, Book of Mormon characters, fairy tales, make wonderful actors when mounted on sticks or pencils. Simple sock puppets and hand puppets attract the entire family as children of all ages put on the little plays they have written themselves or adapted from well-known stories. A simple puppet theatre made by Dad and the boys from four orange crates is made attractive with scenery and draperies made by the gitls with Mother's assistance. A_ truly rewarding program includes all members of the family in this wonderful world of "make believe" and play acting! M. Adventuring with books is the key that opens the door to a magic childhood. Reading aloud together is for all ages, the youngest and the oldest, the whole family or a portion of it, and the really great books should be shared with all members of the family. Family Hour can be the magic hour of storytelling. Of course, the Bible is the greatest book of all, and rich indeed is the family who knows it intimately. Where else can we find a story teller to match Jesus, the incomparable? And storytelling from the Bible takes on vividness when used in the home as the basis for simple acting out of Bible narratives, or by using various visual aids such as the flannel board and groove board. Bible and Book of Mormon characters often found in the Instructor and Children's Friend are ideal for this type of storytelling. Old religious calendars provide an inexpensive way to collect Old and New Testament pictures to illustrate Bible stories. Many excellent books have been written for children about the Bible, Book of Mormon, pioneers, Church history, all of which contain material for Latter-day Saint family reading. An introduction to the classics in literature will greatly enrich any child's life, if presented in the warmth and understanding of the family circle. Family experiences and biographies of family members, missionary experiences, Indian stories, and emigration stories also provide storytelling material. N. Music in the home is of vital importance and the Family Hour can be the culmination of talents and interest in this delightful medium—who doesn't like to sing? Just a good family song-fest from "Here's a Ball for Baby" to part singing of loved and familiar songs is a wonderful way to spend an hour at home. Children should be encouraged to lead the singing and also to teach new songs to the group. Many special Primary, Sunday School, M. I. A., and Relief Society songs can be taught to the entire family for all to enjoy. Folk songs and ballads, as well as songs of other nations, all have universal appeal. Dramatic songs and 648 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 SPARKLING FAMILY HOUR action songs add lively interest to the family "'sing." Listening to recordings of great symphonies and artists can be a rich experience, and the benefits to be enjoyed are numerous, For example, plan a Family Hour centered around an opera, and aim to tread the story beforehand and acquaint - all members of the family with it. Study the life of the composer and then listen and seek to capture the emotional character of the music. Listening to a symphony orchestra becomes a fruitful delight, if you observe the music played, learn the background of the composer and the composition, note how the orchestra is divided into groups of instruments, and learn to identify the solo parts. O. Drama in the home, expressed in simple charades, or dressing up and acting out favorite nursery tales can provide many pleasant "family hours." Play acting ls natural to young children, but play reading is a form of entertainment often neglected in families. Borrow the M. I. A. Book of Plays or get-a good book of oneact plays from the library, One member of the family might read aloud or let each read his own part. Skits and stunts will create a feeling of fun and good will when all family members join in the performance. P. The simplest of all dance action is portrayed in the little singing games common to children. Most homes can push the chairs back and make room for this type of delightful activity. One Family Hour evening could be spent in which the children might enjoy folk dances and singing games. It may be spent in teaching family members to foxtrot, waltz, tango, etc., and nothing is more spirited and heartwarming than the revival of square and round dancing. 'The older members could profitably teach the younger some of the old-fashioned dances, and the younger generation could take pride in reciprocating by teaching Mom and Dad some of the modern dances. 'The fine dance music now recorded makes the phonograph serviceable for social dancing in the home where there are older children. 649 HE Family Hour spent away from home can add much interest and diversion to the regular home program. The choices are unlimited. Visits to art exhibits, the library, radio station, newspaper plant, poultry farm, sugar factory, soft drink bottling plant, potato chip factory, observatory, museum, or a picnic in the park take on a new interest when all the family join in. Attendance at a symphony concert, ballet, stage play or recital rate high on our preference list. Every community has places of special interest, if we but utilize them. A short ride on a train, airplane, or a sightseeing tour on a bus could be most enlightening. Use all the facilities at hand. The local universities abound in interesting exhibits in entomology, biology, and archaeology. Encourage your family to take advantage of these opportunities to spend a delightful Family Hour away from home. For many years the Latter-day Saints Church has advocated the Family Hour or home evening. As early as 1915, President Joseph F. Smith made this wonderful promise to those who follow the practice of getting the family members together for an evening: If the Saints obey this counsel, we promise that great blessings will result. Love at home and obedience to parents will increase. Faith will be developed in the hearts of the youth of Israel, and they will gain power to combat the evil influences and temptations that beset them. What more wonderful reward could be gained from such a joyful program as the Family Hour! She Southwest Indian Mission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE Southwest Indian Mission is an outgrowth of the Navajo-Zuni Indian Mission. 'The Navajo-Zuni Indian Mission was formed in February 1943, with Elder Ralph W. Evans of Shiprock, New Mexico, as the first president. A few missionaries were sent to assist President Evans, and for four years the work of proselyting was carried on in a rather limited manner, with the Evans home in Shiprock serving as the mission headquarters. In July 1947, President Evans was released and Elder S. Eugene Flake was appointed in his place. At the same time the mission headquarters was moved to Gallup, New Mexico. In December 1948, the name of the mission was changed to the Southwest Indian Mission, and the work was extended to include all of the Indian tribes in Arizona and New Mexico, together with the Duckwater Indians of Nevada and those inhabiting the southern part of San Juan County, Utah. President Flake was released in March 1951, and Elder Golden R. Mullarky Photo Studios Photograph submitted by Lavena L. Rohner PUEBLO INDIAN WOMAN DECORATING POTTERY Page 650 THE SOUTHWEST INDIAN MISSION 651 Mullarky Photo Studios Photograph submitted by Lavena L. Rohner NAVAJO FAMILY IN FRONT OF HOGAN Buchanan was appointed to succeed him. President Buchanan served until April 1955, when he was succeeded by Elder Alfred E. Rohner, who presides at the present time. The work of proselyting among the Indians of the Southwest grew slowly in the beginning. In April 1944, the entire membership of the mission was reported as numbering forty-three, located in two organized branches. On February 20, 1944, the first mission Relief Society was organized at Toadlena, New Mexico, and on February 27th of the same year, the mission record relates that "a Sunday School and a Primary have been organized and the children seem to be very interested in these two auxiliary organizations of the Church." Today there are 6,091 members of the Church in the Southwest Indian Mission, located in ten branches. On June 30, 1957, there were 105 missionaries in the mission and converts baptized since the first of the year numbered 104. Sixteen Relief Society organizations, with a total of 190 members, were reported in December 1956. Lavena L. Rouner presides over the Southwest Indian Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, "Pueblo at Taos, New Mexico," represents architecture typical of that region. See also "Recipes From the Southwest Indian Mission," by Lavena L. Rohner, page 665. Trespassing Trio Frances C. Yost ARVA Owens peered apprehensively out of her kitchen window. ""The children are gone!" She chided, "Why can't they play in their own backyard?" Marva experienced a chill, thinking of troubles she had had in other neighborhoods, when the little boys had wandered off their premises. She and Garth had put every penny they had on a down payment on this home. She didn't want to start out first thing having troubles with neighbors. "Less than a week in a new neighborhood, and this has to happen to me," Marva murmured, taking off her apron, and running her hand over her hair to smooth it. As she slammed the door, almost childishly behind her, she muttered: "If mothers could only put growing boys on a leash!" Outside, Marva hesitated. Where does one look for children in a new neighborhood? Well, she might as well try first neighbors first. 'The Reynolds lived next door. Garth had called him Judge Reynolds. If the boys were pestering a judge, no telling what might happen. Should she go to the front door as a caller, or walk uninvited into the garden gate at the rear, and snoop like a bird dog for her children? "If I were making a call, I would dress for the occasion." She bit her lip. "This is an emergency, I'll use the rear entrance." She hurried, thinking of the supper preparation time she was consuming. Page 652 Marva Owens swung open the Reynolds' garden gate, and_ her heart stopped at the enchantment which lay before her. 'The yard swept green and trim as a carpet, flanked with evergreens, flower beds, and climbing roses on the high fence. Marva thought of their own barren yard encircling their newly built home. "Can we ever hope to have a yard like this?" she sighed. "Of course you can," a masculine voice answered. "It just takes a few callouses on the knees and time to grow." He chuckled softly, then added hospitably, "Come in and I'll show you around." The man stood up from the flower bed he was weeding and brushed his knees off. He was an old man; time and trouble had etched his face. "But I don't want to disturb you from your work, I was just wondering...." Marva started to ask if he had seen three little boys, but was stopped short. "T'm always glad to leave a weed to grow awhile and show someone around. No trouble at all. No trouble at all." Then he added, "I suppose you're Mrs. Owens, the new neighbor next door. I'm glad to make your acquaintance." He extended his hand, then apologetically drew it back laughingly. "I'll take a rain check on the handshake when my hands are more presentable." Marva eyed the old man. Was he a gardener, or was this the Judge Reynolds? His gnarled hands and TRESPASSING TRIO soiled clothing had the touch of the gardener, but his speech, his fine manners? Marva wondered, but not for long. It didn't matter whether he was a judge or a chimney sweep, the problem at hand now was to find her boys, and get them home. "Tl show you around the garden, Mrs. Owens." The man with the hoe extended his arm hospitably. ARVA felt a degree of desperation. If the boys were not here she should be looking elsewhere. "I'm looking for my three little boys. They've strayed from the yard, and...." "No need to worry about those three,' the man with the hoe chuckled. "If one boy tumbles into a pond of water, the other two will fish him out." He laughed heartily and pounded the hoe he was leaning on. "Now this," he explained, waving the hoe over a large expanse of grass flanked by shrubs and sprinkled lavishly with diamond-shaped flower beds, "is the center field." To Marva, hungry for landscaping which their new home needed so much, this seemed like paradise. Her eyes followed the smooth, lush lawn which sloped down to the lily pond, and below it to the long terrace covered with blooming roses. Marva noted several sorts of bridle paths taking off, as if leading to secret nooks and enchanted places. The man with the hoe, be he gardener or judge, was motioning her to follow him, and with the other hand, had given a silence sign over his lips. Marva followed silently, and looked over the hedge into another, but smaller garden. "See," said the man with the hoe, "there are your three little urchins, 653 sitting quiet as cherubs. They haven't batted an eyelid for five minuees." Marva followed the gaze of the children: 'There, centered im the little garden, was a fountain, and a bluebird, unaware of five bird watchers, was taking a bath. The man with the hoe motioned for Marva to accompany him to a nearby bench carved from a _ log, and they sat down together. The hoe was used as an arm rest, or as a pointer, or just flourished for emphasis, as he pointed out places of interest in the garden. "IT told the boys to enjoy the garden, and after the sun starts to sink, we'll watch the evening primroses open. You must stay for that also," the man with the hoe said. ARVA realized that she had relaxed, knowing now where the boys were. In her mind she treplanned the supper. 'The whole family loved soup. She could cook the roast with potatoes tomorrow evening. And there was the cake she had made and the ice cream in the deep freeze. The beauty of the place, the cool of the late afternoon, and the entire enchantment seemed to engulf her. She replied, "I would love to see an evening primrose open. I don't recall ever seeing a primrose." Marva felt a tinge of guilt at her ignorance of flowers in general. "Few people have seen an evening primrose. It's a miracle before your eyes as it opens," the man with the hoe explained. Just then three boys scampered through the hedge gate, and, passing Marva sitting on the log bench, shouted simultaneously, "Mother!" "We saw a bird take a bath!" Tommy chirped. "We've been playing in the bowery!" Charley explained. "And we haven't hurt a thing!" Marty, the elder, reported. "Oh, hello, Judge Reynolds!" Marty said, as the man with the hoe came up and sat down again by his mother on the log bench. Well, sighed Marva secretly, at least I know that he is the Judge, not a gardener. "You boys are just in time for the blooming," the Judge stated kindly, looking at his watch and then at the sun sinking behind the western mountains. "Let's go into the primrose garden." "Yes," cried the three boys, with childish excitement, "'let's go into the primrose garden." "After Judge Reynolds," Marva said. The boys stepped back to let the two grownups lead the way. "During the day,' Judge Reynolds explained, "the buds of the primrose are rolled tightly. They look sort of like light, orange-colored tissue paper pinched in little screw knobs. But when the sun _ goes down, the buds start slowly unrolling. Here's the bush!' Judge Reynolds said, stopping before a gray drab plant which stood slightly higher than his knees. "Looks as if we hit it just right!" HERE was complete _ silence among the children and the two adults, as they watched the miracle take place before them. 'The primrose bush, with its tiny, pinched buds, as Judge Reynolds had said, was a rather drab shrub. 'Then, as they watched, the buds started to unroll slowly. Each bud gave a sort of trembling in an effort to unfold at the proper time, and in its own miraculous way. Everyone sensed a slight pop, and before their eyes each bloom burst forth larger than a silver dollar, like golden showers. 'The once drab shrub now stood in golden glory. "T've never seen anything § so beautiful!" Marva Owens exclaimed. She bent to look at the beautiful waxy leaves of blossoms which were full of pollen. No sooner had the blossoms opened than moths the size of humming birds started sucking pollen from the flowers. At the sight of the moths, the boys were more excited than ever. "See, Mother, why we like to come to Judge Reynolds' garden!" the boys explained. "Judge Reynolds likes us to come and enjoy the garden. Don't you, Judge Reynolds?" "T surely do, boys," the Judge replied, in all sincerity. Marva looked at him and wondered about this man and his generosity. 'Then, turning to the boys, she said, "But not too often. We don't want to wear out our welcome, and wear out Judge Reynolds, or his garden." She smiled toward the Judge. "You boys scamper down and watch the monkey do his tricks," the Judge said. "I think you'll find some peanuts in the cupboard. Each boy can have five to eat himself and five to feed the monkey." They watched the boys until they were out of sight, then Marva Owens spoke, "I've lived in other neighborhoods and children are, well... People put up the notrespassing sign, and enforce it. But 654 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 TRESPASSING TRIO you, you seem to welcome children! It's most unusual, Judge Reynolds." "It is unusual. I haven't always been this way," Judge Reynolds confided. "Years ago, Mrs. Owens, I used to yell at the children to stay out. We didn't have any children of our own, and |... And we sort of wanted to keep the place looking its best. But the yard held a fascination for children in the neighborhood, just as it did for us. They couldn't leave it alone. Every time we opened the back door, we would see children jumping over the hedge to get away before they were caught. The hedge was always bent down, and broken, because the children were afraid to come through the gate. "The worst little fellow to run all over the place was Joey. Seemed this little tyke was braver than all the others. He would take chances. I can see him so vividly...." ee KOK 66TRHERE'S that little demon of a Joey in the yard again." Judge Reynolds picked up the rake he was using, and shook it in Joey's direction. Joey was wearing patches. Maybe they were the best he had, maybe he was extra hard on clothes. Judge Reynolds had never tried to find out. All he had ever felt for Joey was a desire to be rid of him. "Off the place!" Judge Reynolds shouted, swinging the rake high above his head. Joey gave a sort of appealing, yet pathetic smile, as if trying to be friends. He didn't seem afraid of the swinging rake; it was as if being in this paradise of a garden, with 655 growing flowers and shrubs, was worth the battle. In front of the Judge's eyes, with the rake swinging overhead, Joey stopped and picked a red and a white tulip. Then he said, "Judge, you should raise blue ones to go with these." kK Ok ok The Judge's voice, a bit shaky with remorse, continued: "Joey didn't come back much after that. Guess he knew he wasn't wanted." Judge Reynolds took a clean handkerchief from his pocket and blew his nose, then continued. "World War II came along, and before it was over, Joey and most of the other young ones who had romped around the neighborhood were called to serve. "One day, on the front page of our town newspaper, there was a picture of Joey, and a story telling how he had died on the battlefield. It was a story of fight and_ bravery. I've never felt quite so little as I did that day. Joey looked at me from the newspaper, with those same appealing, pathetic eyes. He hadn't really done me any harm. Believe me, I felt more than a twinge of guilt. I would have given my very life to have had that little boy in my yard again, a chance to treat him like a human being, and not a scapegoat." The Judge lowered his eyes for a moment, but when he looked up, it was a smile he was wearing. It somehow reminded Marva of the sun coming out after a shower. "Well, Mrs. Owens, that's the day I quit pushing children around and started acting like a human being. There's never been a child since Joey who wasn't welcome here. 656 And you know, since I quit chasing them out, they haven't broken the hedge or worn the grass out in streaks in an effort to get away without being caught. And they know, now, which flowers are to pick and which are for show. I've proved to myself that flowers and children do mix." HE Judge arose from the log bench and, taking Marva's arm, said, "Come, I want to show you my favorite flower bed." Judge Reynolds led Marva through the hedge gate into a garden on the east. As they walked along, the Judge explained, "You remember I told you about Joey picking a red and a white tulip and saying I should raise blue tulips, too. It's taken years to perfect a blue tulip. Burbank and I have worked hard in our greenhouses to grow a true blue one. | keep growing bulbs in the greenhouse all summer so that I can have tulips of the bravest red, the most loyal blue, and the purest white, for this special flower bed. I want you RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 to read the inscription here in front of the flower bed before you look at it." Judge Reynolds pointed to a plaque flush with the green grass, and Marva read the inscription aloud: "In memory of Joey, who loved flowers, especially tulips, who loved America, and loved to come here." Marva looked up from the inscription, and her gaze fell on the large rectangle flower bed sloping on the hillside. 'The red and white tulips stood straight and brave in their ribbon rows, like streamers in the sun. Forty-eight white tulips, like stars in the blue field, stood out, all to form the most glorious American flag Marva had ever scen. "It's too beautiful for words," she murmured. The judge nodded agreement, then said, "And that's why boys, all boys, are welcome in my garden. That's why it isn't strange that your little fellows will never be considered a trespassing trio on my premises." Aftermath Gene Romolo Although no longer heard is summer's tread, And each, once lovely briered bush has shed Its petaled beauty, there still lingers on A perfumed presence from the roses gone: Like breath from incense that no longer burns, Its transient loveliness, gathered into urns, Exudes a fragrant scent, the winter through, As subtle as when on the branch it grew. Naught of beauty is that on its path Does not leave for us an aftermath. Let's Visit a Desert Sea Marijane Morris swim where there isn't anything to fear in the way of tides, undercurrents, or sea life, where a swimmer can touch bottom in many places one-fourth mile out, or splash along the shore without worry of hidden holes, and where the only surface disturbance is caused by the wind? It does exist, although visitors coming upon the Salton Sea suddenly in California's Colorado Desert, suspect a mirage. Resembling a huge footprint with the toes turned slightly westward, it lies 233 feet below sea level, stretches some thirty-five miles between Indio on the north and Brawley on the south. Indirectly man-made, ten to sixteen miles wide, shallow for several hundred yards from the shore, with its greatest depth around forty feet, it is cradled in two of southeastern California's counties, Riverside and the fertile Imperial., The limits of the sea are beyond your sight. Rising majestically to the northwest are the San Jacinto Mountains, then southwest and south are the Vallecintos and the Santa Rosa Range. 'These mountains, part of the Peninsular Range, like huge dams shelter the Salton Sea, Coachella and Imperial Valleys from the blistering heat of the desert and the storms off the Pacific. Shangri-la! Other mountains, although not as spectacular in size, ridge the sea and provide color and atmosphere and boost the high perCo you imagine a place to centage of sunshine. Eastward, looking like melted chocolate ice cream, are the Chocolate Mountains. North are the Orocopias, and to the west and south the Superstition Mountain, where hasty travel is not advised. Barren of water, it is rich in tales from the Indian and white alike of men who ventured into its long, low formations in search of gold and never returned. 'Today, the Superstition still presents, to the hardy ones, a place to search for adventure and interesting minerals. You could say, and be accurate, that all roads in California's Colotado Desert lead to the Salton Sea. From Yuma, Arizona, it is U. S. 80, from San Diego, highways 80 and 78, and from Palm Springs, State 111. If you are approaching this inland sea from Blythe on U. S. 60-70, then junction at California State highway 195 and _ travel through Box Canyon. The odd, almost weird, vertical rock formations rising on either side will put you in the mood for your first glimpse of the Salton Sea. This highway leads to Mecca and then branches to 111 on the east and 99 on the west of the sea. Either route, or a loop trip, if you have time, will delight your tourist heart and senses. Standing on the shores, picnicking in one of several excellent locations on the beaches, swimming, boating, fishing, or loafing give the average visitor little awareness of the birth of this gentle body of Page 657 Marijane Morris THE SALTON SEA water. There is nothing to suggest the sea's accidental birth amid confusion and desperation. RIEFLY, around the last of August 1905, the salt-encrusted depression known as the Salton Sink was becoming the Salton Sea. The overflowing Colorado River, through an irrigation break below Yuma, began moving westward instead of south. 'The distance from Yuma to the Gulf of California along the general course of the Colorado River is about seventy-five miles. 'The distance to the Salton Sea is not very much greater, but the difference in elevation between the gulf and the sea is something like 280 feet. You can readily understand the crush of water as it took the steep, easy course down the valley. Farmers were unable to stem the river even with dynamite. 'They watched helplessly as their rich farm land became cuts and chasms. One channel widened to 800 feet. 'Three times the main line of the Southern Pacific Railway was moved. Desperate measures were used to turn the advancing water. In February 1907, the mighty Colorado was controlled and again flowed into the Gulf of California, leaving behind in shimmering sands the beautiful Salton Sea. It has become a delightful allyear playground. Water from the irrigating ditches of the Imperial Valley, seepage, rainfall, and water supplied from Mexico through the New River and Alamo River assure the sea's future despite its heavy loss from evaporation. The mountains surrounding the Salton Sea are an amazing treasure trove. There are shells, chalcedony, quartz, calcite, tourmaline, garnet, serpentine, obsidian, mica, petrified oysters, and for those who wouldn't recognize any of these stones were he to stumble on them, there are Indian pottery and other relics. Terraces slightly above the sea level on the sides of the basin indicate that there was formerly present in the region a lake, called Lake Cahuilla which was more than 120 658 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 LET'S VISIT A DESERT SEA miles long and thirty miles wide. It's a happy hunting ground for collectors, especially along the old shore lines where it is known Indians once lived. OR the bird watchers some 200 varieties in the Salton Sea area have been recorded. It isn't unusual from September on to see killdeer, sandpipers, egrets, willets, grebes, snipe, teal, pelicans, and seagulls. What you can do and see here is limitless. It is a region of enchantment, wonderment, color, and _history. There are Fig Tree John Springs and Agua Dulce on the southwest rim of the Salton Basin. It doesn't take long to discover Fig Tree John was a desert character. He was proud of the fact that he had been made "captain" of the Agua Dulce tribe. At Coral Reef, even an amateur hunter, if he is sincere, can find 659 pottery and small shells, and at the Obsidian Buttes, there are floating rocks (ancient lava foam) and black glasslike stones. As the saguaro is to Arizona, the magnolia to Mississippi, the orchid to Hawaii, the Washingtonia Palm is at home in the Salton Basin. Some will be sixty to seventy feet high. Often they will be clustered around water seeps in little canyons, however, the water may not be sweet, as the palms are tolerant of alkali. They produce a fruit, small, black, and edible. Fluctuating, evenly, gently in the Colorado Desert, the Salton Sea is a charming place to visit and a restful place to stay. According to Helen Burns, who wrote the delightful Salton Sea Story, the visitor will be pleased, and satisfied. He will return to the sea's enchantment and with each visit to the place, a stronger attachment will be formed. Now the Glory and the Wane Dorothy J. Roberts Now is the maternal brown world of weeds Patient along the margin of the stream; Crowding under cover of the sheds; Putting to creation's use, the unplowed nm Of the field, green life, to frost and young seed given, Rust and umber, the fading mothers lean Upon the breeze, stiffened into haven, Until each cherished infant pentagon Of wonder, oval son or silken daughter, Each minute progeny on gossamer wing, Has left, on wind or wool, to find a future, Or feed some flame-tipped blackbird and his song. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMekEN oF ALL Nations" A WORKER FOR TEMPERANCE: Miss Belle Kearney, a celebrated teacher and lecturer and a great favorite with the public wherever she has spoken both in America and across the ocean, recently visited Salt Lake City and spoke in the Tabernacle... And here as elsewhere she was received with great favor. Miss Kearney is traveling under the auspices of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union.... She is a young Southerner from Mississippi with a pleasing Southern accent and an easy, graceful manner, —News Note WOMAN DOCTOR: Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will commence her next class in Obstetrics and Nursing on Monday, October 11, 1897. Reduction in tuition to ladies from any branch of the Relief Society.... 437 East, Second So. Salt Lake City. —Advertisement UTAH PIONEERS In Memory of the Jubilee... The all-tuling Ancient of Days, Who, guiding above, gave the pioneers rest, Whose banner is love, will bless and hath blest— Still sing to Him anthems of praise! God wrought wondrous things for them and for thee— Tell the proud story o'er mountain and sea, How the jubilant throng moved to music along. With triumphant song. —Hallelujah! Jubilee! —Orielle Curtis WOMEN OF AMERICA: The time has come when idle women... Shall be looked upon with scorn. She must henceforth be a self-sustaining helpmate to her husband, and his elevated, worthy, respectable companion. Let us pledge ourselves as mothers, sisters and wives in this most promising nation of the world that we will unite in the cause of progress and liberty, that we may not only emulate the examples of our foremothers but that we may do our little to immortalize the closing years of this great century as the golden age of womanhood. —Emily Ray RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE AT CANESVILLE: President Jane S. Coleman said it afforded her much pleasure to meet with the brethren and sisters.... She had lately visited the local branches of the Relief Society in the western part of the Stake, all were feeling and doing well and were energetic in their labors. Encouraged the sisters to attend their meetings... And advised the young sisters to attend also, that a bond of friendship and good feeling should exist... Good advice can be given, virtue taught and much good accomplished. Spoke of looking after the poor and the necessity of the members to give temporal aid.... Wished the sisters to be more interested in the Exponent by subscribing to it. Sister Eliza Ruse, president of the Canesville Relief Society, gave a good report. Said all the young sisters had joined and were members of Relief Society.... —Anna Coleman, Sec. Page 660 ARGARET WEBSTER, daughter of Dame May Whitty and Ben Webster, famous English actors, has had extraordinary success in America directing Shakespeare's plays. She popularized the dramatist among the young with her productions in which young students participated. In 1942 McGraw-Hill published her book Shakespeare Without Tears. CXNTH IA BOWLES, daughter of a former United States ambassador, has written a warm, understanding book, At Home in India (Harcourt-Brace & Co.). KATHERINE BROWNELL OETTINGER is the new chief of the Children's Bureau, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. She was formerly Dean of the School of Social Work, Boston University. ERTRUDE HORTON, an eighteen-year-old Salt Lake City girl, last May won second place in a Nation-wide homemaking contest — the Betty Crocker Search for the American Homemaker of the Year. Priscilla Jones, Blakely, Georgia, won first place, receiving a $5,000 scholarship. Miss Horton Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon won a $4,000 scholarship, with an extensive trip.. HARLOTTE SHEFFIELD, of Salt Lake City, won the Miss United States of America title in the 1957 Miss Universe contest. An active Latter-day Saint, Miss Sheffield was a Junior Sunday School chorister at the time of her victory and has participated in many plays and musical productions in the Church and at the University of Utah. A graduate of the University last June, she majored in secondary education. She has run the hazardous Green and Colorado rivers. AlMost twice as many children were born in 1956 as in 1936 in the United States. 'This fact places new emphasis on the effort to make schoolteaching an attractive profession for women. Mss FRANCES WILLIS is the new American Ambassador to Norway. She was formerly Ambassador to Switzerland. RS. ANN WHEATON, who has recently been appointed Assistant Press Secretary at the White House, is the first woman to hold this position. Page 66] EDITORIAL m9 VOL. 44 OCTOBER 1957 NO. 10 Glemnal Bon uses ARY had made her choice and she was giving her allegiance to Relief Society. Ever since she had decided not to join the club to which she had been invited, but to attend Relief Society, instead, certain words kept running through her head, "In this society (Relief Society) are intellectual, cultural, and spiritual values found in no other organization." Mary knew that the sentence, written by the First Presidency in 1942, had influenced her in her decision to join Relief Society. This beautiful late September morning while the baby slept and the other children were in school Mary wondered what intellectual, cultural, and spiritual values were awaiting her in the months ahead. She hunted for her Relief Society Magazine — she knew the lessons were printed in the back, for Sister Heath had pointed them out to her when she subscribed. 'The latest issue Mary found contained lessons to be studied in December, so she hunted until she found the June issue which told of the plans of the lessons for the whole season's work. The Relief Society Magazine opened to the literature heading. She would be studying Shakespeare. For a minute Mary felt scared. Goodness, she hardly knew anything about him. He would be hard to understand. Then the words of the title began to have meaning to her "Shakespeare in Our Lives." As she scanned the titles of individual lessons and their objecPage 662 tives, Mary felt that she would get intellectual, cultural, and_ spiritual values, all three just from the literature course in Relief Society. But in addition there were three, no, four other outlines. One seemed to be about real values for which money should be spent. 'That held great interest for Mary who was trying so hard to stretch their income to cover essential needs. Mary became so interested that she read the first three subjects of the course before she turned back to see what else would be studied. Her heart rejoiced as she realized that she would be joining Relief Society just as they began a study of The Doctrine and Covenants. How many years would they study it? Mary turned back to see. It just said "several years.' She did hope the study would be detailed enough so she would really know the contents of 'The Doctrine and Covenants when she finished. The first year's study covered only a few sections, and as Mary hunted her Doctrine and Covenants and saw that it really covered only a few pages, she gave a sigh of relief. She ought to be able to learn those sections this first year. The visiting teachers were going to speak about some great truths from The Doctrine and Covenants when they called, and Mary saw that visiting teachers were urged to memorize these verses. If she memorized them herself—then she would be learning scriptures. She remembered reading that Relief EDITORIAL Society mothers were supposed to share what they learned with their families. She would do that, and Jim would help her, she knew. They could use a lot of what she learned in Relief Society in their Family Hour. Finally, Mary turned to the plan of the forthcoming social science lessons—"Latter-day Saint Family Life.' The words, "intellectual, cultural, and spiritual values" repeated themselves over and over in Mary's mind. The Latter-day Saint family was fundamental to the gospel plan! What if she had accepted the invitation to the literary club and confined her learning just to the one subject? Mary was grateful for the example of her mother who had faithfully served in Relief Society. All the unselfish service she had giv- 663 en — sewing for the needy, nursing the sick, calling at homes—all that part, Mary realized, was in addition to the lesson work and was a part of the "intellectual, cultural, and spiritual values found in no other organization." 'There were eternal bonuses in service, Mary decided, for while she would be helping others, her own soul would become enlarged and that would result in blessings to her own family! Joy flooded Mary's heart as she contemplated the Relief Society activities which lay ahead. She had not "'paid too much for her whistle," as the Benjamin Franklin story had taught her as a young child, and as the result of her choosing Relief Society, she would be earning eternal bonuses all along the way! —M. C. S. >> Gn Memoriam—Priscilla Livingston &vans October 18, 1881 - August 12, 1957 PRISCILLA Livingston Evans, a former member of the general board of Relief Society, died August 12, 1957, in Salt Lake City. A woman of outstanding spiritual and intellectual gifts, her life was filled with service and devotion to her community and to the Church. Sister Evans was one of the first women attorneys to be admitted to the Utah State Bar Association. Elder Evans was appointed President of the Eastern States Mission in 1937, and Sister Evans served with devotion as "Mission Mother" and president of the women's auxiliaries, until they were released in 1941. She was a true homemaker and a hospitable hostess. She was appointed to the general board of Relief Society, June 18, 1941, and served until 1948. Her contributions to the work of the board were of great value, and her speaking ability was much appreciated throughout the Church. Her former associates of the general board of Relief Society and the sisters throughout the stakes and missions of the Church will long remember Priscilla Evans as a richly gifted woman who shared her blessings and inspired many in the love of the gospel. Purchasing Soul Growth ~ Nothing worth having is FREE | Be Honest with Yourself | NOTHING worth having is free— free from struggle, striving, serving, sacrifice, yet, we are prone to look at our neighbor and think that he lives an easy life. We look at a marriage and decide husband and wife never have had any troubles, their married life has been one long honeymoon. We look at a young mother with many small children who manages well, and may decide that keeping house and tending children come naturally to her, that it is easy for her to be efficient. It is true that each person is given different talents which come rather naturally, but an all-wise Father, while expecting us to improve our talents and devote them to his work, still refines each of his children by having us undergo and overcome situations which will test us indiPage 664 vidually. Nothing is free that is of worth. Susan enjoyed convivial company and liked to entertain and see new places; her sister Rebecca was very contented to remain in her home, do her housework and find her pleasure in the home and ward. As the years passed, Susan, who enjoyed change and free time, became limited in her activities, and her family situation required her to give up much of her free time. Rebecca, on the other hand, had become interested in work which frequently took her far from her closest interests. Susan would enjoy the opportunities of Rebecca, and Rebecca would be content to remain near home. Each looking at the other might feel the other's work to be easy and desirable, but to each sister came that training and those experiences which were hard for her to accept. 'The soul growth of both was earned with great effort and in spite of many frustrations, for soul growth is not free. We are told that mother love is nearest to God's love. Perhaps that is because mother love costs the most in devotion, ceaseless care, anxieties, heartaches, sacrifices, and selflessness. But, after it has been fully paid for, deep joys and satisfactions are eternal profits. NOTHING WORTH HAVING IS FREE. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF! Recipes From the Southwest Indian Mission Submitted by Lavena L. Rohner Zunl BREAD Zuni Sour Dough Yeast: 4 tbsp. Salt 1 pkg. Dry yeast or one cake 2 c. Flour compressed yeast 1 pt. Water 1 c. Warm water to dissolve yeast Other Ingredients for Bread: ¥, Wb. Lard or other cooking fat 4 qts. Water 12 lbs. Enriched flour Mix the ingredients for the sour dough yeast together and let stand overnight. Mix and knead until firm the flour, fat, and water. Let rise until double in bulk. Knead down, then set aside to rise again until double in bulk. Knead and mold into flat loaves. Let rise to double again and bake in hot clay oven for one hour or place in stove oven preheated to 350° F. And bake fifteen minutes, then reduce the heat to 300° F. And bake thirty-five minutes longer, or until golden brown. Navajo KneEt-Down Breap 4 ¢. Green corm sweeten to taste pinch of salt Stone grind the green corn, fresh cut from cob, to make a paste. Add the salt and sugar. If corn paste is runny, add enough corn meal to make a very soft dough. Place one scant cup of mixture in corn husk and wrap husk around corn dough, turning ends over towards center of roll. Repeat this procedure until well wrapped then tie with husk strings made by tearing the husks of corn into strips. Bake in a pit which has been made very hot with fire. Line pit with green corn husks and heap hot coals, removed from pit, on top of bread and bake for one hour, or bake in hot outdoor stone oven until husks are lightly browned, or place in pan lined with husks covered over well with husks, and bake in moderate oven until husks are lightly browned. Hort Pex 3 ¢. Blue corn meal dash of salt moist, watery sage ashes* boiling water Add enough sage ashes to the corn meal to make the mixture a light greenish color. Add the salt and enough boiling water to make a thin batter, similar to hot cake batter. Spread the batter thinly over a hot peki stone which has been oiled by leaving ground watermelon seeds on the stone all night. An iron skillet may be substituted for the peki stone in baking the Hopi Peki, and vegetable oil or animal fat may be used instead of the watermelon seeds. *To make sage ashes, pick the green sage leaves, let them stand for two days, and then burn them. Sift the cooled ashes and add enough water to hold the ashes in solution. Strain the liquid into the batter. If some color, other than green, is desired, commercial food coloring may be substituted for the sage ashes. Page 665 666 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 Hor: Biurt MARBLE 2 ¢. Blue corn meal % c¢. Sugar or 1 c. Sugar for sweet 1 c. Boiling water _ Blue Marble 1 c. Ashes (sage) Put one-half of the corn meal flour in bowl, pour boiling water into it, stir, and add ashes, which have been made into a watery paste, and sugar; stir and let cool. When cool, add remaining one-half of the corn meal by kneading slowly. Roll dough like a snake, then break into small marbles. Drop into hot water and cook until water reaches consistency of thin gravy, or use as you would dumplings. Blue Marble may be served with fresh or canned fruits. Fresu Fieitp Corn Breap (Horr) Cut fresh field corn off the cob and grind through food grinder, using fine knife. Add salt to taste. Put 2 or 3 tbsp. Of the ground corn on a husk and fold, place in a baking dish a layer of corn rolls and a layer of husks. Bake until done. Serve while hot with any stew dinner or roasts. If the corn is very tender, thicken slightly with flour to make it easy to handle. SAPAIPILLAS (HaAuLapl) 2 ¢c. Flour pinch of salt "* c. Water Mix flour, salt, and water. Knead with hands until dough is almost the consistency of light bread dough, form into balls, then roll out smooth. Drop into very hot, deep fat. The dough will puff as it cooks. Cook until golden brown. These are delicious served with sweet syrup or honey. SWEET SAPAIPILLAS (HaAvuLapPl) 2 c. Flour % tsp. Cinnamon % c. Milk % tsp. Cloves % c. Sugar 2 eggs, beaten pinch of salt 2 tbsp. Shortening Mix all ingredients thoroughly. Knead as in regular Sapaipillas. It may take a half hour or more, depending on how fast you can knead. Form into balls, roll flat, and drop into deep, hot fat. Sprinkle or roll in powdered sugar when cooked. Inp1an Mutton STEw 4 or 5 carrots 1 tsp. Salt 2 large green peppers % tsp. Pepper 3 or 4 potatoes 1 small leg of mutton 1 large onion (optional) Put all ingredients into large kettle, bring to boil, lower heat, and cook slowly until meat is tender. Navajo Hor Sauce large onions - 2 tbsp. Margarine or butter 10 small hot yellow peppers 4 cans tomato sauce or 2 cans water 2 cans tomato paste RECIPES FROM THE SOUTHWEST INDIAN MISSION 667 Slice onions and cut peppers into small pieces. Fry all together in margarine or butter. Add tomato sauce or paste and two cans water. INDIAN FRIED BREAD 2 c. Flour 2 tbsp. Shortening % tsp. Salt % c. Warm water 2% tsp. Baking powder Sift together the dry ingredients. Mix with shortening and water. Knead, and add more flour if necessary, let stand one-half hour, roll out to about one-half inch thick, cut into three-inch squares. Fry in deep fat or ordinary fry pan. This tortillalike bread is good with chile beans and is delicious served with hot jelly. Navajo TortTILiLas 5 c. Flour 1% tsp. Salt 3 tsp. Baking powder — 2 tsp. Margarine or other cooking fat 2 c. Warm water Mix into stiff dough. Cut into two-inch squares and roll very thin. Stretch, throwing from hand to hand, until paper thin. Cook on slightly oiled fry pan, stove top, or grill. Hor: Bive Corn Basies 1 qt. Boiling water 1 tsp. Baking powder blue corn meal to make thick mush % c. Sugar in water pinch of salt 1 c. Blue corn meal Grind blue Indian corn on stone grinder or modern food grinder into fine meal. To one qt. Boiling water add enough of the blue corn meal to make a thick mush. Then add to another cup of blue corn meal the baking powder, pinch of salt, and the sugar. Then add to this mixture the mush with enough more meal to make a soft dough. Have husks ready and wrap the dough turning ends over towards the center of roll making sure each is well wrapped. Use one-fourth cup of dough for each roll. Tie with husk strings which are torn into strips from the husks of corn, and drop one by one into a kettle of boiling water. Do not add them too fast, as it is important that the water be kept boiling. Boil ten minutes and remove from kettle. Then drain and serve. > Tlouniain Country Leslie Savage Clark The heart has need of silences And a setting sun to trace This majesty of range on range Against the heaven's space. The heart has need of timeless things As its flying years are spent— For the peace of midnight sky, for stars, And wonderment. Compiling a Consus of Post-Polio Patients HE National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis reports that it is launching a massive program aimed at helping thousands of persons disabled by polio to achieve greater degrees of self-sufficiency. "Step one in the dynamic new phase of the war on polio is the compilation of a roster of post-polios across the nation by some 3,100 National Foundation chapters," according to Basil O'Connor, president of the National Foundation.... "In the light of new knowledge in the treatment of polio and modern rehabilitation techniques, a great many polio victims now may benefit from additional treatment and training, much of it recently developed at respiratory and rehabilitation centers. We want to find out who these people are and what can we done for them over a period of time." The general board of Relief Society is co-operating in this worthwhile endeavor and calls to the attention of its readers the following questionnaire, a copy of which should be filled out for post-polio patients whom the reader knows, and mailed to the county chapter of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis in which the patient lives. POLIO PATIENT REPORT National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis anCOUNTY CHAPTER (LAST) (FIRST) (MIDDLE) ae Sw a ee (No. And Street) (City or Town) (State) 3. Date of Birth 2... Eee eee eee 4. Date of Onset...... 2... Eeeeeeeeeeeeeeees (Mo. ) (Day) Yr.) (Mo.) (Day) Yr.) 5. Can patient climb stairs? ( )Yes ( )No 6. Dress self? ( )Yes ( )No 7. Is patient gainfully employed: at home ( )Yes ( )No; outside home (° )Yes ( )No 8. Does patient attend school? ( )Yes ( )No g. Is patient now receiving regular treatment for polio? (_ )Yes (_ )No 10. If "yes,'' where (check below-)? (7) "Hietpial inspatient sence'...-cS race. SERre eee ne eee eee ore Hospital City (»)) Outégatient cliniepk.......... C3ie. 2) ss ae ee Agency City ( ) — Phiysician's office —..._....------senevseecscssnensosenenenenensenenseresennnsnenensenrcenensesteresserene Name; City ( ) Athome Se Check if attendant is used (_ ) _ (Address if different from above) 12. Date physician last savviiggeeit@tecgeer... Stretton. Omen ctecensenmene anos ei Eee canon anna 12. Is patient using respiratory aids (iron lung, chest respirator, rocking bed)? (_ ) Yes (_ ) No. (Indicate which) 13. Is patient receiving outside financial assistance for polio treatment? (Other than family)? (Jee CS... Cremate nares a cece ececcon ( ) No (Indicate source). 14. State briefly any special problems patient now has as result of polio (problems of travel, finance, medical care, job, etc.) 2...-.-..----2------------cesesesseeeeeeesesenes (Mo.) (Day) Yr.) (Signature) Relationship to Patient NFIP Form #661 — USE REVERSE SIDE FOR ADDITIONAL COMMENTS Page 668 Miss Pennywell Goes Into Action Frances P. Reid ISS Penneywell put down the piece of toast that she was spreading with marmalade. Something was wrong. She pushed the bacon and eggs around on her plate and then peered out the window of the breakfast nook. Across the tidy green fields where bluebells and buttercups bloomed, across the arborvitae hedge and the cobblestone stile where the wild roses climbed, her eyes journeyed to the narrow track that wound in, around, and through the fields on its meandering way from Middleton to Central City. Peremptorily she rang for 'Titus, her combination chauffeur and gardener. "Titus," she rapped her hand sharply on the table, "Titus, what has happened to the Bluebell and Buttercup? It's late. Never in my fifty years has the Bluebell and Buttercup been late before. I don't like it, and I won't have it." "Well, you see, Ma'am.... "Speak up, man. Don't mouth your words." Miss Pennywell had little time or patience with indecision. Titus cleared his throat and directed his words toward a point some two inches from the toe of his sturdy boot, "Ma'am, the Bluebell and Buttercup won't run any more. They've ordered...." "They? Who is they? Say what you mean, Titus." "The company, Ma'am, decided to do away with the B. And B., because... Well, because there weren't enough people riding the train, and...." "Upstarts! 2? New-fangled nonsense! Of course, we need the B. And B. I need it!" "But, Ma'am, the station wagon...." 'Titus looked toward the two-car garage where the 1947 station wagon and the 1953 black sedan were parked. "Ma'am, if you are wishing to go to Central City, Pll bring the car around." Titus moved toward the door, anxious to be away from his mistress' displeasure. "No, 'Titus,' Miss Pennywell stayed him, "not just yet. But stand by." She walked regally from the room and into her neat study, where the rows of dark-covered books with the heavy gold lettering were as impeccably arranged as her prim topknot of graying hair. Putting on her bifocals, Miss Pennywell rolled the stacking ladder to the shelves and climbed up. She ran her fingers carefully along the mellow bindings and pulled down an imposing, legalappearing volume. As she read, she sat straighter and straighter. Her mouth settled into a thin, fine line, and her foot tapped steadily. "Hmm-mm-mm. Uh-hmmm-mm.," She shut the book smartly, climbed back up, and replaced the volume. Then she marched straightway to her bedroom, put on her best black dress and hat, and rang for Titus. Titus, bring the car around. I'm going to Central City—now!" "Yes, Ma'am." old Titus wiped his fingers on his coveralls to rid them of the dirt from weeding the petunias and hydrangeas. Page 669 670 "And, Titus, you put on your chauffeur's livery. We're going to be busy today. Yes, indeed, we are going to be very busy." There was a glint in Miss Pennywell's eyes that meant she had something hatching. 'Titus knew that look: it was just the way she looked when she had decided to have the old carriage house wired for electricity and had pulled out all the old harness rigs that lined the walls. Something was really going to happen today. He couldn't help feeling just a little excited. Life had been so quiet and easy lately. LL the way into the city Miss Pennywell sat erect in the back seat. Peeking at her through the rear-view mirror, Titus could see that she kept drawing herself up straighter and straighter, the nearer they came to town. Every now and then she'd say, "Uh-hmmm-mm. Uh-hum!" On the outskirts of the city Miss Pennywell tapped Titus on the shoulder and announced, "You'll drive straight to the offices of the Great Western Trunk Lines." Miss Pennywell didn't have much use for these new self-operating elevators, but she was in too much of a hurry to take the stairs, so, with a few backward looks, she swept into the little square and pushed the button for floor thirteen. As the car moved up, she caught her breath a little, and then settled back. People rode in these every day—she could, too. When the door slid quietly ajar, she stepped out quickly—maybe more quickly than necessary. Miss Pennywell had read once about someone's being caught in one of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 those doors and she certainly didn't have any time to bother with getting herself out of a stuck elevator. When the efficient receptionist in the smart anteroom asked her name, Miss Pennywell snapped, "Miss Constance Pennywell of Middleton. Though why that matters, I don't know." | "And your business, Ma'am?" "Young woman," Miss Pennywell's brows rose higher, "Ill tell that to Mr. Hargrove." The plump, red-faced man at the huge mahogany desk looked as if he had had a poor breakfast and an even poorer lunch. In a word, he was out of sorts. He noisily grated his chair against the desk and rapped hard with his knuckles on a paperweight made of petrified wood. "Now, Miss Pennywell, I'm pretty busy today, so if you'll just state your business quickly, and I can get oustom:.." Miss Pennywell stopped him short. "What I have to say won't take long, but it will take some doing, busy or not as you may be. I'm here to know why you so unlawfully, unkindly, unfairly, and unpatriotically discontinued the Bluebell and Buttercup?" "The Bluebell and Buttercup? I don't seem to place that name just now. You may have the wrong office. I'll ring for someone to show? Cc o, you won't, I will be heard. The Bluebell and Buttercup is one of your trains, as you very well do know, and for all the years of my life it has run regularly on the line from Middleton to Central City. Today, it didn't run. I want it re-established and permanently, Mr. Hargrove. At once!" MISS PENNYWELL GOES INTO ACTION 66()H, you mean that little jerkwater train that wanders through a bunch of little villages. Why, we can't afford to run a train for just two or three people. We've got to make a living. We've got to show a profit. We've got to be progressive." Mr. Hargrove's already ample chest swelled and strained at the restraining buttons. "Have you quite finished?" Miss Pennywell asked. 'Then she took from her large black carryall a leather volume with gold printed letters on the outside. "Section four, paragraph seven, line twenty-two, "Ihe aforesaid company shall be required by act of law to run a daily schedule on the branch line known as the North Spur—in other words, the Bluebell and Buttercup.' Hah! Now, what do you say to that, Mr. Hargrove?" Mr. Hargrove spluttered; he turned beet-red in the face; he cleared his throat fearsomely; then he just sank a little lower in his big overstuffed chair. "Why, I'm sure there must be.... Well, I never. Come in here and tell me how to run my railroad. I'll not have jie.. TU. 3 "Mr. Hargrove, you'll just obey the law like everyone else has to do. I want the Bluebell and Buttercup running tomorrow, and I'm going to be on it." With that, Miss Pennywell swept out. 'This time she forgot all about the stairway and, without even thinking of falling elevators, she pushed the ground floor button. The parking meter still showed half of the hour limit as she marched away from the modernistic facade. "Titus," Miss Pennywell announced, "we're going calling on 671 everyone who ever has and does ride the B. And B." "Well, let's see,. There is Mrs. Griggs, the cabbage woman; Mr. Dunker, the butcher; the Grmes children; the Piggots; then there are all the farmers around Lewes, and the housewives in most of the towns in between who ride the train when they go to the city for shopping trips." "Fine, fine. Just drive to each one, Titus. We've a message for them. Won't take me long to say it, but I'm sure they'll want to hear what I have to say." HEN Mrs. Griggs stuck her head up from the rows of cabbage she was thinning and lifted the big head of leafy vegetable to her apron, Miss Pennywell unbent a little, "Nice vegetables, Mrs. Griggs. You'll want to market them, I suppose?" "Yes, Ma'am, but I don't know as I can, now with the B. And B. Stopped." "Yes, you can, Mrs. Griggs. You be at the station tomorrow. Mind what I say! Eight o'clock sharp." Mrs. Griggs was still standing there with her mouth open, when Miss Pennywell pulled her head back into the car and ordered Titus to drive on. At the butcher shop she was even more direct. "Mr. Dunker, you need to do any business in town? "Well, now, as a matter of fact, I do, but with the B. And B. Not running, I'll just have to write a letter, I suppose." "Oh, now, Mr. Dunker. You just march yourself down to that station tomorrow. Eight sharp!" And so it went, until Titus began to feel as if he had callouses on his hands from opening the car door and rapping on house doors. Miss Pennywell sure was acting strange; she must be getting a little too old to be running around. At a few minutes before eight o'clock the next morning Miss Pennywell closed her front door, stood for a minute on the top step, and then tilted her head. Far off came a faint whistle, and then louder, louder. And a clacking noise that ran faster and faster. Through the meadows and farms on either side of the tracks the little, half-centuryold, coal-burning engine and the two wooden coaches puffed into sight. From every window heads protruded and most of the passengers were laughing and calling to one another. As the train stopped at the crossing for Miss Pennywell, old Mr. Lancers, the conductor, wagged his head and grinned broadly. "TI just don't understand it, Miss Pennywell, Ma'am. Used to be the passengers just sat, never speaking to each other; just frowning or reading their Morning Express." Miss Pennywell mounted the steps and swept into the car. Over her shoulders she called to Conductor Lancers, "We oughtn't to look at the B. And B. As a small line. It's the principle of the thing. We've got a train and we're going to keep it. Mr. Lancers, if we want something, we have to show how we feel." Seating herself with the nearest approach to a flourish, Miss Pennywell folded her hands in the snowwhite gloves and, with the bare suggestion of nod, she ordered, "You can start the train now, Mr. Lancers. We're ready." Shen Comes Sleep Olive W. Burt Only parents can know, Lying sleepless and calculating, The dreadful sounds of disaster Night saves to bedevil the waiting: The crescendo of rushing cars, A distant siren's wail, The laughter of speeding youngsters Spattering out like hail. The crunch of skidding tires, A blowout's shot-like bark, Grinding gears and the heart-stopping Scream of brakes through the dark. And only they know the sweetness Of familiar steps on the walk, Of light, young feet on the porch And the click of a key in the lock. 672 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 Kl, 0 Louise MN Murtrey Pieces Quilts and Sinds Joy im Giving Nor only does Louise McMurtrey, Seventy-eight, of Ririe, Idaho, piece quilts as a hobby, but she tries to follow her motto: "Life is to give." In 1955, she pieced and gave away twenty quilt tops. She always gives generously of her time at work meetings, and a quilt has been a regular donation at the ward bazaars, along with a case of jam or jelly as an additional gift for the dinner table. She has sent five finished quilts to the Primary Children's Hospital for crippled children, and many babies have received one of her beautiful two-color rayon taffeta crib quilts, of which she has made nearly one hundred. She lives alone and keeps her own house. Her seven children, twenty-seven grandchildren, and fifty-four great-grandchildren love her, write poetry to commemorate her birthday anniversaries, and honor her. She loves flowers and has a beautiful rose garden, ——0 io — Nocturne Pansye H. Powell The brook At set of sun Plays a quiet nocturne For aspens that nod their heads and fall Asleep. Page 673 Pine Nutting Alice R. Rich HE little cellophane packages of pine nuts on display in the grocery store today did more than advertise a product for sale, they opened the floodgates of nostalgic and tender memories for me. Like a talisman, these little brown-shelled goodies spread a magic carpet that carried me back, back through the long years to the crisp October days and pine nut gathering in New Harmony. In our upland valley at 5,000 feet elevation, we were protected by high mountains that held the winter snows to feed the springs and streams for irrigation in the thirsty valleys. Here we knew security and love that today might seem most primitive. October, with its gold and crimson tints splashed generously over the foliage on valley and _ hillside, stood out as a beauty pivot of the year. It was the busy harvest season, the gathering and storing of garden, field, and orchard yields, the wise and careful preparation for the cold and snowy months ahead. Every member of our large family worked and helped, old and young alike. The potatoes were gathered and stored in a long, covered pit near the corner rock wall; the squash were in the barn ready to be covered; garden vegetables were safely stored in pits and trenches. Apples —pearmains, winesaps, Spitzenburgs, and limber twigs—had all been gathered from the tall, shaggy trees. Some had been covered in pits, and Page 674 some were stored in bins and shelves in the cellar under the south part of the big brick farmhouse. In the stackyard were the shocks of corn, ready to be husked; the corn would be fed to the fattening hogs, and the fodder would be carried to the shed for the calves. The barn was full to overflowing with hay, the Conestoga wagon was backed into the shed. The bins in both the new and old granaries were brimfull of golden wheat to be hauled to the mill for grist through the year. Now, it was time for our one-day vacation—pine nutting. We younger children looked forward to this with delight. 'There was no need to call us to get up a second time on the morning of our trip. With lunch basket and demijohn of water and buckets for gathering the cones, we were ready for our adventure. The double bed wagonbox, with its two high spring seats and an assorted group of youngsters, held fully as much happiness as any modern conveyance taking a group to the circus. Behind the sturdy rock wall, after we crossed the big ditch, we disturbed a flock of chickadees noisily fluttering and feeding among the dried sunflowers and milkweed plants. At the upper gate, we climbed over the wagonbox and high wheels to open and close the swinging gate, then back again to our places, with our eyes open to PINE NUTTING see new and interesting sights and experiences. Around the corner, as we crossed Comanche Creek, we watched a number of striped chipmunks scurtying around for food to store for their winter hibernation. On the brown cedar posts at the west boundary of the upper section, we saw a noisy bevy of blackbirds sunning themselves after they had breakfasted in the nearby wheat stubble. On we traveled past the north springs to the mountain road deep rutted and steep, but kept in usable condition by townspeople who hauled their winter wood from the nearby hills and mountainsides. Occasionally, a lizard or a garter snake slithered from the roadside to the shelter of a sagebrush or a sheltering rock. T long last we left the town and farms far to the east, and the horses came to a stop under a pine tree hanging heavy with cones. These cones were about the size of an apple and were made up of segments tightly encircling a woody core. Deep down in each segment nestled a little oval-shaped nut, even more cozy than the downy pussies in their willow catkins. These cones were hard to handle, they had a sticky, oozy coating that stuck to our hands like glue. The sun was high overhead; it was noon, so we spread our lunch on the ground in the shade of the wagon. Afterward, came the knocking with heavy sticks of these green treasure-laden, heavy cones. Unlucky was the one who failed to dodge them and felt their weight 675 on his head or bare feet. We all worked with a will. Not until the double-bed wagonbox was almost filled to the top were we ready to quit. Our hands were sticky and black. We were tired from our long hours of picking, climbing and lifting, but the fun of it overshadowed our fatigue. We finished the last crust from our noon lunch. Our horses, Abe and Frank, refreshed by their rest and a nosesack of oats, were harnessed, and we began our journey home. At the first turn in the road, we saw the eastern vermillion cliffs across the valley with the evening sun casting shadows of deep and lovely hues of purple, rose, and bronze over their craggy peaks. When we arrived home, mother had a heavy bed of live coals from a long-burning wood fire in the back yard pit. Lie this we dumped our load of sticky green cones, covered it with turf, | built another fire on top to last part of the might. Next day our treasure-trove was opened, and the browned and toasted cones were lifted out. Some of them were already bursting open and others were ready to open with a touch. Each little brown pine nut, at first just a morsel of milk tucked in its individual cradle, had been nourished by the parent cone all through the summer. By October they were developed and ripe, ready to pop out of their shelter, ready for the toasting, which we gave them. For true delicacy of flavor, these delectable bits of goodness, so mch and sweet, are sure to please the discriminating gourmet. Bleak House Florence B. Dunford 66 9M all right, everything's fine," | Rose Bennett said. "You're sure?" 'That was Walt, wanting the impossible, wanting to be assured of the impossible. Rose's gray eyes met his. Everything's wrong, it's terrible, you know it's terrible! She could not help the silent accusation. Still, it was not all Walt's fault. Perhaps he had done the best he could with the small amount of money, the time he had. But couldn't you, her heart cried out, have found a better house than this? Something at least respectable? Something that wouldn't degrade the children, stamp them all, before they had a chance to prove themselves? Walt was looking at her anxiously. "You've been doing too much. I should have stayed home this week and helped you get settled. Why don't you make the kids help you?" Rose shook her dark head. "I'm not tired. Jimmy and Cathy have worked their heads off, too." She smiled a little at the slang. It was like a man, she told herself, not to get at the real reason. And Walt especially. Because he'd done the best he could in finding a house, he felt it must be good enough. Besides he was gone all day at the vast dry farm up in the hills where he had his new job as foreman. And Walt and she, well, they were different. Looks, appearance, had always meant a good deal to her. If there weren't. Meat or something nice to fix in the house for Page 676 company, Rose just said they couldn't have company. If Walt, in his rather carefree manner, asked them to dinner anyway, Rose suffered. 'They were just different, that was all, made so by their early environment, the way they were reared. Or, maybe, just because one was a man and the other a woman. Yet, it was not of herself Rose had been thinking this past week. Today was the first day of school. Jinny, who was seventeen, with her auburn hair and pale complexion and green eyes, should make friends. But children, like grownups, were critical. Once they discovered, and in this small college town everyone would know it already, that the new girls lived in that terrible, ugly, bleak old house by the railroad tracks, Cathy, who was fifteen, even the two small boys, would suffer. It's just that we've never lived like this, Rose almost told Walt now. In Fremont, where they'd lived since their marriage, they'd had a nice respectable looking house. Almost a pretty place. Rose had promised herself one day to have the yellow and brown frame painted a clear white edged with green. She had never gotten the clapboard windows she wanted. Still she had not minded, set back as the house was on the wide green lawn, shaded on the east by the apple orchard, on the west by the fragrant berry bushes and vines. She lifted her face now for her husband's kiss. "You go along,' she said. '"Everything's fine." She steadied herself to keep back the BLEAK HOUSE tears that kept demanding to gush forth. She lifted her chin. "We can't have everything. And it was my idea we move to Gilmore for the schools." 'Walt nodded, kissed her, and was gone. Jinny and Cathy and the two boys had already left for school. I've done as much as I can with the dreadful inside, Rose told herself. Faint worried cry from one of the bedrooms on the east caught her attention. She hurried into the kitchen, took the bottle from the pan of water where it had been warming on the coal range. 'The baby was only three months old. She could not have left him for days, even with Jinny and Cathy. He had not been doing well. Until this past week when the doctor in Fremont had given her a new formula, nothing had agreed with him. After the baby had taken his bottle, she came out of the bedroom and crossed the carpeted floor of the living room. Parting the creamy voile curtains, she looked out front, in a vain hope that things were not as bad as she remembered. The ugly, treeless, baked dooryard was like a blow in her face. Poor children, to come to a home like this! Poor Jinny and Cathy! She continued to stand by the window, forcing herself to accept reality. Across the street in the other direction, toward the west, was a fine brick house. Set back on its wide tree-lined yard, it belonged to the Sheltons, well-to-do dry farmers. The tall curly-haired son was Jinny's age. Directly across the street on the 677 west, Rose could see it from her kitchen door, lived the Linley twins. Blonde, petite, gay and happy in their two-story colonial house, Rose had already heard of the colorful, gay parties the girls gave in the big garden, with its weeping willows and flower-bordered walks. Walt's words came back to her. "Tt was all I could find," he had said. 'That was all. Six words that made of them outcasts. Under the stress of her emotion she could think of no work she could do inside. So she went toward the bedroom, the baby in her arms for solace. "There, there, my _ pet," she crooned, rocking him against her. "Don't you cry. Don't you cry." The baby, wakened from his sound nap, opened his blue eyes and smiled. By five o'clock Rose had roused herself, determined to face her despair. Walt, whose folks, though English-born, were pioneers in Idaho and Fremont, liked hearty meals, fragrant soups with potatoes and carrots, celery and onions and rice, and lots of meat edged with fat. Rose cooked to please him. HE had expected the girls to rush home the moment their last class was over. Jinny's sensitive face would be red and tear-streaked and swollen. Jinny cried easily. It would be more like Cathy to go straight to her room, quiet but heartbroken. Even the two boys, six and eight, had not come home. The first hour had seemed like a reprieve from the gallows. Now, as the clock in the front room struck five-thirty, Rose became anxious. She opened the oven door, set the 678 fragrant golden-brown bread pudding on the back of the range. The table in the large kitchen-dining room was already laid. She closed the rear side door now, mindful of curious eyes from across the street. No one would believe, seeing the outside of the house, the surround- _ings, that well-bred people lived here. Suddenly the family all burgeoned in on her at once. Even Walt, whom she had not expected until darkness struck. Expecting a havoc, a storm, their voices were light as spring. "Don't take time to change your clothes," Rose told them. "Dinner's on the table. What made everyone so late?" Walt, tall in his levis and soft wool shirt, was the only one besides herself who was not dressed in his best. As the bright chatter of the children subsided, he bowed his dark head. "Our Father in heaven," he prayed, in the sudden silence, "we thank thee for thy bounty." The moment he finished, Rose knew the children would begin their woes. Whatever had made them brave for the moment would be forgotten. 'Their bitter experiences of the day would come tumbling out. "Well, what happened today, kids?" 'That was Walt, good-natured, careless of his grammar. He turned to Jinny. "Have a nice time your first day of school?" The two boys began to chatter at once. "We're in a ball team. We stayed after school to practice. Joey is catcher. We need shoes and a mate" Rose nodded, holding her breath. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 The boys were like their father, callous to what went on. 'Tomorrow, next week. It would take them a little longer to realize, to have thrown in their young faces, to admit they would be looked down on, because of the house in which they lived. Cathy was speaking now, her warm olive skin flushed, her long hazel eyes eager and excited. "The nicest thing happened," she was saying, and Rose blinked her eyes and felt that she was dreaming. "The nicest thing happened," Cathy said again. "At our first class —it was English—Miss Mortensen, that's the teacher's name, had all the new students stand and _ tell their names, where they were from and where they lived." Rose held her breath. The children sensed her abstraction. Cathy turned to her and said, "Mother, Mother, are you listening?" Rose nodded. "And what did you say? What did you tell your... Your teacher, where you lived?" "I told her," Cathy said, her eyes clear and sweet and steady, "in the old ay house down by the depot.. "Yes..." Rose breathed. All the feelings of the children, what she thought they would be feeling, poured down on her like an avalanche. ATHY'S eyes were serious, but sparkling still. "And — she said...." Cathy looked round the oval table, with its white cloth, triumphantly, for effect, "Miss Mortensen said that it was good to see some really nice people had moved here. Because now it would be fixed up!" BLEAK HOUSE "Fixed... Up?" The words faltered from Rose's lips, sounding stupid, yet lightning-sharp, even to her. "Fixed up?" It was true that she had done the best she could with the inside. But it was the outside that seemed impossible. Besides that, some men were handy at painting and planting. Walt was not. When work of that sort was done, they had to hire it done. "Fixed up?" That was Walt. And his eyes, too, were shining. Yet even he could not match the happiness, the exuberance of all the children. "Know what?" Jinny said, breaking in on her father. Quick tears came into her green eyes. "At noon today I got acquainted with the Linley twins across the street. 'They're having a big lawn party this Saturday night, the last of the season, they said." No one broke in upon Jinny. There was a happy, I-told-you-so silence from Walt and the other children. "And that's not all," Jinny said, lifting her piquant face proudly. "The dark, curly-haired boy across the street, Dick Shelton, walked home with me from school. He asked me to go to the party with him." There was more, of course. Rose found the heart then, and the voice, to tell them about the real improvement in the baby. How he had really, yes, really, laughed up at her that afternoon! Yet it was not until they were all abed, Walt lying beside her in the quiet of the autumn night, the cur- 679 tains blowing softly at the open windows, that he told her his news. "T told Thomas about the house," he said. Mr. Thomas was owner of the immense dry farm. "Today, he said I might have Henry and a couple of the other hands for a few days, as soon as there's a lull at the ranch. Henry does all the painting on the main house and the outbuildings. He says we might even round up enough white paint to do our house. "And that's not all," Walt went on. "One of the men is a first-rate carpenter. He's coming tomorrow to measure for those clapboard things you want at the windows." He chuckled as though it was all to be expected. Rose stretched out a_ hand, touched his shoulder lightly. Walt had not been so callous to their needs after all. Like Miss Mortensen said, he was a nice person. Else how could the children be so nice? It had been Rose herself who had been hopeless and therefore helpless. Feeling that what was, was, and could not be helped or changed. "And the yard?" For the first time she could even mention the despicable, disreputable yard. "Oh, the yard," Walt was yawning. "I'm bringing a small tractor down this Saturday. Henry will help me with that, too. And you know what? Not far from the ranch there's a whole grove of trees, pines and quaking aspen. Henry says they'll transplant." It was Rose's turn to yawn now, from sheer happiness. ""The children will all help. And I can, too. The baby's better. It'll do us both good to be outside in this lovely autumn weather." FROM THE FIEL -_, General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Nina Beth G. Cunningham GOODING STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, May 11, 1957 Seated at the left in the front row is the chorister Rachel Howard; Myrtle Woodland, organist, is seated third from the left in the second row; Helen Giles, Counselor, is fifth from the right in the second row: Nina Beth G. Cunningham, President, Gooding Stake Relief Society, is seated third from the right in the second row; former president Jenna Vee Hall, is seated at the left in the third row. Counselor Idella Walker and Secretary Bessie Standlee are not in the picture. Sister Cunningham reports: "At this convention, Elder Leland H. Monson, author of the theology lessons, held spellbound more than 200 sisters and some members of the Priesthood with his discourse on The Book of Mormon. His strong testimony that The Book of Mormon is divine engraved a deeper conviction in the hearts of many, some of whom expressed their feelings in the testimonial which followed. The extensive efforts of the Singing Mothers and their leaders became a fruitful experience in providing a beautiful setting for the convention sessions. Members of the stake Relief Society board served as ushers and also served a hot dinner to the congregation.... Our members are scattered over a wide area. The spirit of the Lord reigned supreme, and the convention was a rich spiritual experience." Page 680 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 681 Photographs submitted by Frances P. Andrus NORTHERN FAR EAST MISSION, HIROSHIMA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY MAKES FIRST WESTERN QUILT At the right, the quilt is displayed by Sister Esther Sato, missionary. At left, left to right: Tami Kagoshima; Miyoko Kamotani; Yoshiko Naito; Reiko Otomori; Nikuno Nishihara; Joyce C. Worthen. Frances P. Andrus, President, Northern Far East Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Hiroshima Branch Relief Society has finished the first western quilt to be made in the Northern Far East Mission. Oriental design was used on the appliqued pattern of gray, black, and turquoise on yellow, with a deep wine-colored background. Joyce Worthen of Salt Lake City, Utah, and Esther Sato of Hawaii directed the project. Sister Worthen designed the quilt. The Japanese sisters, undoubtedly, enjoyed this new experience, and plans are now underway for making more quilts." Photograph submitted by Mal B. Oveson UNION STAKE (OREGON) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR MORNING SESSION OF STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE April 1957 Mal B. Oveson, President, Union Stake Relief Society, reports that six wards and three branches were represented in this chorus. The stake chorister is Marie Wakefield and the organist is Evelyn Jones. 682 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 Photograph submitted by Gwen H. Lyman GARFIELD STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE SERVED FOR FORTY YEARS AND OVER May 4, 1957 Front row, left to right: Nellie Smith; Alice Bailey; Amanda Mitchell; Emma Gates; Elizabeth Frost; Francis Shakespear; Polly Spencer; Mary Mooseman. Second row: Minnie Smith; Zella Willis; Mary Lyman; Jane Roundy; Emily Pollock; Annie Alvey; Eliza MclInelly. Back row: Ethel Clark; Rachel Thompson; Alta Henderson; Elizabeth Miller; Susan Heaps. Members not present when the picture was taken: Allie Spencer; Fern Henderson; Johanna Barker; Matilda Shakespear; Sarah T. Osborn; Rosie G. Roundy; Ella Roundy; Lovisa Johnson. The social was held at Escalante and the sisters were presented with potted plants. Gwen H. Lyman is president of Garfield Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Irene P. Kerr BRITISH MISSION, DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY SUPERVISORS CONVENTION, NOTTINGHAM, July 6, 1957 Front row, seated, left to right: Cecilia Edwards, Supervisor, Wales District; Margaret Anderson, Assistant Supervisor, Manchester District; Mary Price, Assistant Supervisor, London District; Maud A. Hawkes, Counselor in Mission Relief Society NOTES FROM THE FIELD 683 Presidency; Irene P. Kerr, President, British Mission Relief Society; Mary Laycock, Counselor in Mission Relief Society Presidency; Gladys Fullwood, Supervisor, Liverpool District; Rhona Cunningham, Supervisor, London District; Mary Porch, Supervisor, Scotland District. Back row, standing, left to mght: Olive Guest, Supervisor, Hull District; Clare Clegg, Supervisor, Leeds District; Ivy Holder, Supervisor, Bristol District; Lorna Murden, Supervisor, Sheffield District; Mildred Jennis, Supervisor, Norwich District; Rhoda Tinson, Supervisor, Nottingham District; E. R. Elgers, Supervisor, Birmingham District; Vera Hewitt, Supervisor, Newcastle District. Joan Davison, Supervisor, Ireland District, was not present when the picture was taken. Sister Kerr reports: ''Sister Rhoda Tinson acted as hostess. Thirteen of our fourteen districts were represented. District President Oliver Storer and his counselor George Winfield attended our meetings, thus showing the interest and support given the Relief Society organization by the Priesthood. The spirit of love and oneness of purpose was manifest. During the morning meetings, instructions, suggestions, and helps were given by the Mission Relief Society President and her two counselors on administrative problems, visiting teaching, welfare, work projects, and lessons for the coming season. During the afternoon, suggestive articles for bazaars were shown and explained, a question and answer period was held, and time was given for testimony bearing. Each one present expressed gratitude for the Church, for the Relief Society organization, and for opportunities to serve in the Lord's work. The noon hour was spent enjoying a delicious meal prepared and served by the sisters of Nottingham. All the sisters returned to their districts with renewed enthusiasm and a desire to improve the functions of Relief Society." Photograph submitted by Vella V. Tilton FLORIDA STAKE SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION April 29, 1957 Seated at the piano: Rosalind Crosby, chorister; Betty Jo Boos, organist. Back row, standing, left to right: Marian H. Madsen, First Counselor, Florida Stake Relief Society; Evon W. Peterson, member, General Board of Relief Society; Alvin C. Chace, President, Florida Stake; Blanche B. Stoddard, member, General Board of Relief Society; Hazel T. Reed, Second Counselor, Florida Stake Relief Society; Edith Roberson, Secretary-Treasurer, Florida Stake Relief Society. Vella V. Tilton, President, Florida Stake Relief Society, was unable to attend the convention because of illness. She reports, however, that the sisters received much inspiration at the meetings. 684 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 Photograph submitted by Fern Horton SANTAQUIN-TINTIC STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, June 1957 Fern Horton is president of Santaquin-Tintic Stake Relief Society; Jennie Bylund is stake chorister; the singing was conducted by Vera P. Patten; and Bonnie Milner was organist. Sister Horton reports that this group has sung in many conferences and the members are very faithful. Photograph submitted by Eugenia N. Logan OAHU STAKE (HAWAII) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION AT LAIE, March 30, 1957 Seated, left center of the picture, beginning with Stake President Edward L. Clissold, and reading towards the right: Irene Clissold, member, Oahu Stake Relief Society Board; Lily Colburn, missionary; Evelyn Miyamoto, stake board member; Emily Enos, First Counselor, Oahu Stake Relief Society; Isabelle Kin Kee, Second Counselor, Eugenia Logan, President; Sylvia Boe, chorister; Victoria Kamakaokalani, Magazine representative; Elizabeth K. Forsythe, Secretary. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 685 Sister Forsythe reports: "The meeting was conducted by Emily Enos and presided over by Eugenia Logan, President, under the direction of President Edward L. Clissold of Oahu Stake. Total attendance was 158 sisters, three bishops, one high councilman, and President Clissold. Lunch was prepared and served by Isabelle Lin Kee, with the assistance of the work director counselors of the wards and branches. After lunch, a presentation of Church books was made to all the wards and branches for their efforts in enlisting members for the Relief Society. Relief Society pins were presented to the following sisters for their years of service in the visiting teacher program: Simuta Veali (Hauula Branch); Joyce Sears (Halawa Ward); Rachel Price (Kalihi Ward); Maggie Broad (Laie First Ward); Leialoha Jenson (Laie Second Ward); Abigail Kaleiheana (Lanakila Ward); Lily Ing (Moanalua Ward); Katherine Holt (Nanakuli Branch); Mary Bertleman (Pearl City Branch); Susie Kim (Wahiawa Ward)." Distt awk = ee R Ballit NEW ZEALAND MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY DISPLAYS AT HUI TAU (ANNUAL CONFERENCE), April 18-22, 1957 At the right: Arta R. Ballif, in charge of the women's auxiliaries, wife of President Ariel S. Ballif of the New Zealand Mission. At the left Gertrude Grant, President, New Zealand Mission Relief Society, acting under direction of Sister Arta R. Ballif, New Zealand Mission. Sister Ballif reports: "On display were quilts, crocheting, embroidering, floral pieces, effective visual aids to promote daily reading of The Book of Mormon reading course. The Color Wheel depicted the warmth and color brought into our lives by the use of The Relief Society Magazine. Of interest to all visitors was the Mother Goose party table, seeming to bring to life all the favorite characters of the toddlers.... The centerpiece was the shoe in which the little old lady and her children lived. Secretaries were instructed through charts and graphs. Visiting teachers were given helpful suggestions. Visual aids for teaching and 'take-away' hints were distributed to all visitors. The "'Haere Mai ki te Hui Atawhai,' slogan for Relief Society was adopted for 1957, and displayed on banners. It means: 'Come to Relief Society, welcome and love to all." Five hours on Friday morning were devoted to inspirational talks, demonstration teaching, and executive instructions in Relief Society." 686 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957; aie PT ROE oan oe se " a Ou "ee Photograph submitted by Edith E. Baddley SOUTH BOX ELDER STAKE (UTAH), FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY CLOSING SOCIAL, June 4, 1957 Left to right, retiring officers: Karen Wilde; Lucille Olsen; Leona Reese. New officers: Dora Richards, President; Phyllis Owens; Emma Prisbrey; Hazel Packer. This social, planned around the theme "Memories," honored the retiring ward officers and their daughters, and the members of the stake Relief Society board. Sister Lillian Felt sang "Memories," and all of the program numbers were cleverly introduced in rhyme by Sister Nelda Parson, as she took keepsakes from a small chest. A tribute to the visiting teachers was given by Alice R. Rich, from her recently published book of poetry, followed by a piano solo by Linda Jeppson. 'The Singing Mothers furnished numbers, and Rita Classen sang a solo. 'The accompanists for the afternoon were Jean Packer, Barbara Rasmussen, Paulette Lichtenstein, and Ethel Poulter. Hazel Packer presented a lovely tribute to the memory of the late Sarah Carruthers. All of the honored guests were presented with corsages and special gifts. From the globe in the center of the table nbbons extend to "graduates" representing subjects taught in Relief Society. Refreshments were served. Edith E. Baddley is president of South Box Elder Stake Relief Society. —_- Scent of Aivumn Hazel M. Thomson Bright, turning leaves, And a chill in the air, Give a sense of summer's loss, And yet, It wasn't quite definite, Until I smelled chilisauce. —_—_—_—_—_—_—_C Se LESSON DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 4—The Prophecy Concerning Elijah the Prophet Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants: Section 2) For Tuesday, January 7, 1958 Objective: To show the value of the prophet Elijah's predicted visit to the earth in our dispensation. The Place of Section Two in The Doctrine and Covenants ECTION 2 is the first in chronological sequence of the revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants. It is appropriate that one of the messages of this volume of scripture should be brought to the attention of the student early in this study—the message that The Doctrine and Covenants attests to the reality of the future life by the revelations which tell of the return to the earth of resurrected beings. Section 2 was placed in The Doctrine and Covenants for the first time in the 1876 edition. It is also found in the Prophet Joseph Smith's history (D. H. C. 1:12), and in The Pearl of Great Price, Writings of Joseph Smith 2:38-39. In addition to attesting to the fact of the resurrection, there are two more points to be remembered from the historical background or context, of this section. First, that the coming of the ancient American prophet Moroni to Joseph Smith on September 21, 1823, was the beginning of the ministry of angels in this dispensation. Second, that the misconceptions of men relative to angels were made known early to Joseph Smith. The great importance of the reality of the resurrection will be discussed later during this course. Ministry of Angels The second fact—the ministry of angels—opens up a number of ideas which are important also. Although men claimed that revelation from God had ceased, there was no scriptural justification for such belief. (See Lesson One.) When people of faith have lived upon the earth, the Lord has revealed his will to them in various ways, such as by Page 687 the ministry of angels. When people believe that revelation is no longer received nor necessary, such communication from the heavens is withheld. (See Moroni 7:22-20, 37.) The coming of the angel Moroni was prophesied for this dispensation. (See Revelation 14:6-7.) Although the scriptures teach that angels are fellow-beings and fellowservants of us mortals and should be thought of as those who have lived on earth and have passed on to serve as heavenly messengers, men have conceived them to be vastly different from us, for one thing, having wings as a means of locomotion. In describing the heavenly being Moroni, Joseph Smith made known the following truths in answer to prayer for further enlightenment from God. While I was thus in the act of calling upon God, I discovered a light appearing in my room, which continued to increase until the room was lighter than at noonday, when immediately a personage appeared at my bedside, standing in the air, for his feet did not touch the floor. He had on a loose robe of most exquisite whiteness. It was a whiteness beyond anything earthly I had ever seen nor do I believe that any earthly thing could be made to appear so exceedingly white and brilliant. His hands were naked and his arms also, a little above the wrist, so, also were his feet naked, as were his legs, a little above the ankles. His head and neck were also bare.... Not only was his robe exceedingly white, but his whole person was glorious beyond description, and his countenance truly like lightning. The room was exceedingly light, but not so very bright as immediately around his person. I When first I looked upon him, I was afraid but the fear soon left me (D. H. C. T:11). Joseph Smith was instructed many times by Moroni, who had lived upon the American Continent over fourteen hundred years before, but, as a resurrected being, he came as a "fellow-servant" of those who were seeking to assist in the salvation of mankind. For this purpose was Joseph Smith commissioned by God through the reopening of the heavens in fulfillment of Bible prophecies. 'he modern Prophet, Joseph Smith, could testify not only that the Father and the Son, Jesus Christ, truly existed, but also that the testimony of the Bible prophets concerning the ministration of angels was true. Elijah and Moroni An era of faith had begun; a new dispensation of the gospel with its miracles, had been committed to man upon the earth and angels ministered once more to the Lord's appointed. Section 2 is about another angel from God who also had an important place in the dispensation of the fulness of times. His coming to the earth followed that of Moroni, who spoke of Elijah in his visit to Joseph Smith. Elijah the prophet was a resurrected heavenly being as was Moroni. (See D. & C. 133:55.) His coming was also prophesied in the Bible. (See Malachi 4:5-6.) Section 2 and Malachi 4:5-6 Compared When Moroni visited Joseph Smith he quoted, among other prophecies, the one which closes the Old Testament, as follows: Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. 688 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming (D. & C. Section 2). A comparison of Malachi 4:5-6 shows that there are some changes in the above quoted version given by Moroni. The most significant of these is the additional fact that Elijah was to bring the Priesthood to the earth. Next, the phraseology of the second sentence differs but the meaning is still preserved. And last, the penalty expressed in the last phrase of Malachi is clarified by section 2. The one point which is preserved by the same language is the expression "... Before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord" (D. & C. 2:1). This statement is highly significant because it indicates the time when Elijah would come to the earth. What does this expression mean? It means the day when the Lord Jesus Christ comes in power and glory to take vengeance upon the wicked. It shall be a dreadful day to the unrepentant, but to the righteous it shall be a day of salvation. Before that day, however, Elijah was to come to confer the Priesthood upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery as the capstone of the restoration of divine authority in the last days. (Many of the ideas which follow come from the writings of President Joseph Fielding Smith. A collection of material on this subject is found in Doctrines of Salvation, vol. II, chapters 6-7. Class leaders 689 will benefit materially by consulting this reference. ) Why Elijah Restored Priesthood Elijah was to bring Priesthood to the earth. But some may ask, "Why does Elijah restore Priesthood when Peter, James, and John had already brought the Melchizedek Priesthood to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery?" If these three apostles had been commissioned to do so, they could have performed this function, but there is something more in the mission of Elijah than what was included in the mission of Peter, James, and John. 'This is what the Prophet wrote concerning Elijah: Elijah was the last Prophet that held the keys of the Priesthood, and who will, before the last dispensation, restore the authority and deliver the keys of the Priesthood, in order that all the ordinances may be attended to in righteousness. It is true that the Savior had authority and power to bestow this blessing; but the sons of Levi were too prejudiced. "And I will send Elijah the Prophet before the great and terrible day of the Lord," etc., etc. Why send. Elijah? Because he holds the keys of the authority to administer in all the ordinances of the Priesthood; and without the authority is given, the ordinances could not be administered in righteousness (D. H. C., [V:211). (Underlining by author.) Although Elijah, Moses, and Jesus conferred keys of authority on Peter, James, and John on the Mount of Transfiguration, the Lord had reserved Elijah for the restoration of certain keys for the salvation of man in the last dispensation. (See D. H. C. TIT:387.) Elijah's mission was one of restoring the sealing power. This power was not for the dead ex- 690 clusively, but for the living also. Some have thought it was the keys of baptism for the dead, but it was not that. 'There were no baptisms for the dead in the days of Elijah, or before Jesus taught the gospel in the spirit world between his own death and resurrection. (See I Peter 3:18-20; 4:6. ) Jesus bridged the gulf which separated the righteous in paradise from the wicked in prison. In other words, Elijah restored the fulness of the power of Priesthood. This power, or the keys of the Priesthood, make valid all of the ordinances of the gospel, but without this sealing power, as the Prophet Joseph Smith said, "the ordinances [of the Priesthood...] could not be administered in righteousness." Men who hold the Priesthood may officiate by the authority they possess, but only when directed to do so by those who possess the keys of the Priesthood. It is this power by which all things are bound in heaven as well as on earth that _ Elijah restored. Elijah had a special mission and was called to perform it. Notwithstanding Elijah's mission pertained to the living, it was more especially for the work in the temples, for the living and the dead. It is by this means that husbands and wives and children are sealed to one another. The Wasting of the Earth Wher. One understands that validity is given to all ordinances of the gospel through the sealing powers of the Priesthood, an understanding of the fact stated in section 2 concerning the earth being utterly wasted at the Lord's second coming, is available. In addition, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 the sealing powers make possible a welding link between the fathers and the children, a work for the dead, which is essential for the salvation of the living. The "curse" spoken of by Malachi is that "the whole earth would be utterly wasted" at the Lord's coming, if the sealing power were not restored. This judgment, however, will not befall the earth because Elijah has come with this power, and the necessary keys for both the salvation of the dead and the living are in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Salvation of the Dead When Malachi said Elijah's mission was to "... Turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers..." (Mal. 4:6), we have a thought which suggests the great work for the dead. The turning of the hearts of the fathers in the spirit world to the children on the earth, is as consistent as the fact that the living on earth seek earnestly to gather genealogical data of their deceased fathers in order that the ordinances may be performed for them in the temples of the Lord. This thought is agreeable with the angel Moroni's rendition of Malachi's prophecy where he said that "... He [Elijah] shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers..." (Pearl of Great Price, Writings of Joseph Smith 2:39). The thought was suggested by Elder John A. Widtsoe that in the preearth life, we, who would be assigned to the earth during a time when we could accomplish a service LESSON DEPARTMENT for our kindred dead, were under a commitment to do this work because of the premortal contract to do this. Here are his words: In our preexistent state, in the day of the great council, we made a _ certain agreement with the Almighty. 'The Lord proposed a plan, conceived by him. We accepted it. Since the plan is intended for all men, we became parties to the salvation of every person under that plan. We agreed, nght then and there, to be not only saviors for ourselves but measurably, saviors for the whole human family. We went into a partnership with the Lord. The working out of the plan became then not merely the Father's work, and the Savior's work, but also our work. The least of us, the humblest, is in partnership with the Almighty in achieving the purposes of the eternal plan of salvation. That places us in a very responsible attitude towards the human race. By that doctrine, with the Lord at the head, we become saviors on Mount Zion, all committed to the great plan of offering salvation to the untold numbers of spirits. To do this is the Lord's self-imposed duty, this great labor his highest glory. Likewise, it is man's duty, self-imposed, his pleasure and joy, his labor, and ultimately his glory ('"The Worth of Souls," The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine, October 1934, page 189). Importance of the Dead to the Living We learn in the scriptures that the work for the dead is of such importance to the living that they without their dead cannot be made perfect. In the language of section 128 we read: And now, my dearly beloved brethren and sisters, let me assure you that these are principles in relation to the dead and the living that cannot be lightly passed over, as pertaining to our salvation. For their salvation is necessary and essential to our salvation, as Paul says concerning the fathers—that they without us can- 691 not be made perfect—neither can we without our dead be made perfect.... For we without them cannot be made perfect; neither can they without us be made perfect. Neither can they nor we be made perfect without those who have died in the gospel also... (D. & C. 148: 15) alba) Evidence of Prophecy Fulfilled If a nonmember friend were to ask for evidence to support the claim of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery that Elijah actually came to them and restored the keys of the Priesthood, as prophesied, on April 3, 1836, in the Kirtland Temple, what would you say? President Joseph Fielding Smith has suggested the consistency of their claim because no one else in the world has testified to the return of Elijah to the earth. Their testimony becomes more reasonable when it is realized that these two men could not turn the hearts of the children to their fathers, except by the power of God. President Smith also reminds us that they did not have the power to persuade millions of people who are not members of the Church to turn their attention to their dead fathers. He sets forth evidence that organized efforts to gather genealogical data were not forthcoming until after Elijah came to the Kirtland Temple in 1836. One year after this date, Great Britain passed laws compelling the preservation of duplicate records of the dead. The New England Historical and Genealogical Society was organized in 1844, and the New York Genealogical and Biographical Society came into existence in 1869 for the purpose of compiling genealogical records. 692 The great increase in interest on the part of individuals in genealogy has come since 1836. 'Thousands of family histories have been compiled outside of this Church to aid in the great work of redeeming our dead. These efforts on the part of nonmembers of the Church bear witness that Elijah did come and restore the keys of the Priesthood. The activity on the part of the members of the Church in the gathering of vital statistics with the modern methods of microfilming hundreds of thousands of records combine to bear testimony of the "spirit of Elijah" in the world. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 Questions for Discussion 1. What circumstances gave rise to this revelation (section 2)? 2. Discuss: The ministry of angels should be expected after the New Testament period. 3. Who was Eliyah? (See I Kings, chapters 17-22; 2 Kings, chapters 1-2). 4. What contributions are made by section 2 to an understanding of Malachi 4:5-6? 5. Why did Elijah restore Priesthood to the earth (1836) following the restoration of the Melchizedek Priesthood by Peter, James, and John (1829)? 6. Of what importance is the doctrine of salvation of the dead? 7. What evidence exists that Elijah has come in fulfillment of Malachi's prophecy? Visiting Seacher ITlessages — Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 4—''Remember That Without Faith You Can Do Nothing; Therefore Ask in Faith... Do Not Ask For That Which You Ought Not" (D. & C. 8:10). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, January 7, 1958 Objective: To show that all things are possible to him who has absolute faith and who exercises it wisely. AITH is the cornerstone of religion; it is the motivating force of action, and the first principle in the gospel of Jesus Christ. The message on this important principle, as found in section 8 of The Doctrine and Covenants, presents two areas of thought. First, we are reminded that nothing can be accomplished without faith, ybe it great or small, miraculous, or commonplace. To be complete, faith involves an unquestioning trust in God, full confidence in ourselves, and faith in the cause for which we are working. Second, faith is such a vital, motivating force that it must be employed sincerely and not utilized for selfish purposes. Faith is the foundation of courage, strength, confidence, hope, and trust.) It is solidly behind all of the accomplishments of man. Recently an effective vaccine has LESSON DEPARTMENT been developed which promises to control the scourge of polio. 'This wonderful benefit to mankind came after years of painstaking labor and research, every step of which was founded on faith that a vaccine could be found. The Lord achieves his divine purposes here upon the earth through the faith of mankind. He "... Workest unto the children of men according to their faith" (Ether 12:29). He has promised, "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (Mt. 7:7). But, he also adds, "... Let him ask in faith, nothing wavering..." (James 1:6). As indicated in the second area of the message, one should not attempt to employ faith in the furthering of one's own selfish interests. The story is told of a young gitl blessed with a great talent who won high honors in a national contest. When her grandfather congratulated her, she explained humbly that she had fasted and prayed and knew that the Lord would help her succeed. Her grandfather remarked 693 that it was probable that the other contestants had prayed that they also might win. Whereupon the granddaughter replied, "I did not pray to win, but asked the Lord to help me to do my best. He helped me do my best, and even if I had not won the contest, still I would feel that I had succeeded." It is a mark of sincere faith to ask the Lord to help us always to do our best. \With this type of motivation we can move confidently forward to the full utilization of all of our talents and abilities and with full confidence of the Lord's blessings, for:... Whatsoever thing ye shall ask the Father in my name, which is good, in faith believing that ye shall receive, behold, it shall be done unto you (Moroni 7:26). Faith is a gift from God. As with all other gifts, the more one exercises it, in the righteous way, the more it grows and develops. Finally, it becomes a great motivating spiritual power in the lives of men. And to him who has such faith Jesus has promised, "nothing shall be impossible to you" (Mt. 17:20). —- Living Proof Iris W. Schow Here, where I pause a moment in my flight From grief, with work, caught by the feel Of grass through parted fingers, I become aware That hands, tears, weeds, rose, thorn are sharply real. And suddenly less torn By woe, accept the fact these signs reveal: That in the realness of this grass, these hands, My tears, these weeds, this rose, its thorn, Lies living proof earth is no accident, And this bereavement can be borne. Work Neeting—Living More Abundantly (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4—Making Money More Valuable Elder William F.. Edwards For Tuesday, January 8, 1958 Objective: To become aware of the added happiness available to those who are always anticipating important and good things. ONE reason the sacred scriptures never grow old is because they contain so much basic truth that is recognized anew as our understanding increases. 'Thus one can continually study the scriptures and find "hidden treasures of knowledge." In the story of the creation of the earth and man and the mission of Jesus, we see in action principles that have application to our objective of a life filled with joy. Creation of Earth and Man The Book of Moses records the visions and the writings of Moses as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Lord made clear his goal: For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:39). With this goal established, there follows the greatest recorded story of preparation and anticipation. "The earth was without form, and void..." and in five intervals of time called "days," the earth was prepared for man (Moses 2:1-25). Then came the greatest of the days: "And I, God, said unto mine Only Begotten, which was with me from the beginning: Let us make man in Page 694 our image, after our likeness; and it was so" (Moses 2:26). And God blessed them "male and female" and instructed them. With the goal of creation completed, God "rested on the seventh day," "And I, God, blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it..." (Moses 3:2-3). In this story we desire to detect three fundamentals: a. Establishment of an important goal b. An adequate period of preparation and anticipation c. Realization of the goal. Jesus and His Mission The purpose of the earthly mission of Jesus (the goal) is clear from the scriptures. 'The story of the early life of Jesus is incomplete, but sufficient to reveal thirty years of preparation and anticipation. 'Then came the short but glorious mission, the realization of the goal (Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John). The Lord's Way—The Wise Way The story of the delivering of Israel from bondage, the story of Joseph Smith and the organization of the Church (Joseph Smith 2, The Pearl of Great Price), and other great events in the dealings of the Lord with his people, all emphasize the same fundamentals. It can be LESSON DEPARTMENT said that the Lord's way of achieving worthwhile things is to begin by the establishment of an important, praiseworthy goal, and then engage in an adequate period of preparation and anticipation. Applying these fundamentals to our lives quickly reveals that it is the wise way. A Successful Trip Many saints living in all parts of North America have thrilled with a trip to Palmyra, New York, to witness The Book of Mormon pageant at the Hill Cumorah. In this we can find a practical application of these fundamentals by imagining the experiences of two families. The first family did things the right way. Nearly a year in advance they decided to make the trip. This gave them time to prepare for the trip. They soon found that going by one route and returning another they could visit along the way almost all of the important spots in Church history. This stimulated a review of Church history to identify the exact location of the spots and to become more fully acquainted with the history. Now people in history became more important, and this family became better acquainted with the lives of early Church leaders. 'This also provided time to prepare financially for the trip. N contrast, let us imagine another family doing the same thing, but doing it the wrong way. This family made a sudden decision to take the trip. It was necessary to borrow money from the bank. They obtained road maps, but failed to identify many of the important historical locations and did not acquaint themselves with the desired 695 Church history. After returning home, they became aware of the many things they could have done with proper planning, and there was the debt at the bank to be paid off. Both families spent the same amount of time taking the trip and the same amount of money. But there is no question but that the first family obtained much more satisfaction—the money they spent was more valuable! Savings Should Precede Spending Savings should precede spending, with only justifiable exceptions. The First Presidency would like to urge every member of the Church to follow the example set by the Church and to live within his income. Anyone who lives beyond his income is inviting disaster. Borrowed money is not income. Borrowing on capital account, within your reasonable capacity to pay, may be sound, depending upon circumstances. But borrowing to live on is unsound, whether it be an outright loan or installment buying. We urge the members to be frugal, thrifty, industrious, temperate, saving, and to live righteously (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.). Some will ask: How could we ever obtain many things like an automobile, a refrigerator, or a_ television set, if we could not buy on credit, because it seems impossible to save first? 'There is only one correct answer. 'The more pressing your financial position, the greater the need to save before buying. Only the well-to-do can afford to buy on credit, and they are the ones most likely to avoid it. It is better to live simply, plainly, be sparing in every indulgence, even if it is harmless, than to replenish your purse for luxuries by going into debt (Joseph F. Smith). 696 Buying on credit usually means paying the equivalent of a premium price; it is the expensive way and, in the long run, the hard way of acquiring things. There are justifiable occasions for encouraging debts, such as buying a home, and this will be discussed fully in a subsequent lesson. But, generally, it is unwise to buy and pay later. Never be argued out of your soul; never be argued out of your honor; and never be argued into believing that soul and honor do not run a terrible risk if you limp into life with the load of debt on your shoulders (Bulwer Lytton). Money Can Be Made More Valuable It is a recognized principle in economics, as real as Newton's Theory of Gravitation or Einstein's Law of Relativity, that money changes in value. Most people have a greater opportunity to increase their economic satisfactions by doing those things that increase the value of money than by increasing the supply of money available for spending. In a very real sense, the family that planned carefully for the trip to Palmyra received enjoyment equal to having spent the money three times. The period of preparation and anticipation was one of real happiness and joy. 'The period of realization was enriched and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 made more satisfying. After returning home, their choice memories of the trip and satisfaction from having seen and experienced all of the things of interest were valuable. They really received $3 of satisfaction for each $1 spent! In contrast, the other family that failed to plan probably did not receive even $1 of value for each $1 spent. 'They were deprived of the experience of preparation and anticipation, received less enjoyment while on the trip, and, in the end, had a degree of remorse plus the burden of paying back the money borrowed. Conclusion Always be anticipating something wonderful. This not only results in spending money more wisely, but gives added new satisfaction frequently equal to that which comes from the actual realization — it truly makes money more valuable. The hopeful man is the man whom discouragement cannot harm, the man who is able to overcome reverses. If one lives each day in an atmosphere of preparation and anticipation for soul-satisfying and wonderful events, each day is somehow colored by this beauty, and all of life grows more lovely. All of the events of our life can gain in value if we look forward to them with joy, plan for them with care, and accomplish them in the spirit of the gospel. [' a person owned what he had and did not have to pay interest, and only bought as he had the money to buy, the majority of people would be in reasonably comfortable circumstances (President Heber J. Grant, Gospel Standards, page 112). hic, Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 12—The "Hamlet" Frame Elder Briant S. Jacobs Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948 For Tuesday, January 21, 1958 Objective: To appreciate Shakespeare's most provocative drama that we may find new meaning for our own lives and deeper or more adequate expression to our thoughts. The one word that explains the Shakespeare miracle is unconsciousness——Henry David Thoreau. AMLET is not only Shakepeare's most popular play, but it is generally conceded to be his most provocative one, as witnessed by its thousands of performances in the theaters of all nations. As early as 1702, George Farquhar called it "Long the Darling of the English Audience, and like to continue with the same applause, in Defiance of all criticism." It has been estimated that more books have been written about the character of Hamlet than any other name in fiction, and more than any "real" person, save Christ, Napoleon, and Lincoln. Jn recent decades the number of books "explaining" him continues to increase. Thus, apparently, we moderns continue to find new vitality in the play each time it is read. And even though no one completely understands the frustrations which make up Hamlet's character, he seems to tell us more about ourselves from over the centuries than do writers of our own day, so constant is his popularity. Probably the reason Hamlet is so provocative is because, without any close rivals, his is the most complex character in Shakespeare. So inexhaustible are the depths of conflicts within him, so vastly does he range from the highest pinnacles of hope to the darkest caverns of self-contempt and despair that each of us, regardless of our identity at this present moment, finds some large phase of himself mirrored in Hamlet. So complex is he that, as A. C. Bradley points out, he is the only character among Shakespeare's myriad creations who could have written Shakespeare's plays. A brilliant example of the various responses which he evokes is told by Frederic Harrison, an Englishman with a lifelong devotion to Hamlet, who recalls his disappointment at the French production of Hamlet he saw in Paris. "Why, that isn't Hamlet at all!" he complained to a Frenchman seated near him, who, in turn, replied, "My friend, you forget that Hamlet is not only an Englishman. There is a French Hamlet, a German, an Italian, a Russian Hamlet, each different in personal and national idiosyncrasy, but all profoundly true to Shakespeare's ideal of the inscrutable spirit of the ill-starred Prince of Denmark." This varying concept of Hamlet among various cultures is not to be questioned, so logical is Page 697 698 it. How much more true must be the variation within each culture; Hamlet, therefore, must appear as variously to each of us as we are different from each other. And an awareness of this truth is not to belittle him nor destroy his power, but only to acclaim the unconscious genius Shakespeare employed to incarnate most nearly his inexhaustible self within Hamlet, the largest single creation of his pen. It shall be the purpose of the second lesson on Hamlet to discuss him as the central, integrating symbolforce of the play, about whom all else hinges; indeed, in no other of Shakespeare's plays does one character so completely dominate. As preparation for such an approach, our present lesson attempts to point out how thoroughly Shakespeare prepared a magnificent setting or frame around the emerging character of Hamlet; how lesser characters within the play, even though they receive his contempt, his envy, or even his rapier, best serve to mirror the various conflicts within Hamlet himself. But before this is begun, we must look for a moment at the plot. Plot Prince Hamlet, son of Hamlet, King of Denmark, was away studying at Wittenberg when he received word of his father's—the King's— sudden death and returned home. Too soon thereafter his widowed mother, Queen Gertrude, had married Claudius, her husband's brother, who now reigns as king. At midnight on the battlements of the castle, the ghost of Hamlet's father appears to him and his best friend Horatio, and tells Prince RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 Hamlet that Claudius has murdered him after first winning Gertrude's affections. Next the ghost orders him to be revenged on his uncle, although he should spare his mother. In hesitation at performing this command, Hamlet pretends to be mad, and repulses Ophelia whom he formerly loved. He arranges for a play to be presented to the court which represents the crimes of his uncle who, seeing the play for what it is, betrays his evident guilt to Hamlet's satisfaction. King Claudius flees from the play to kneel in private prayer. Here Hamlet discovers him, yet cannot bring himself to kill him while he is in such holy pursuits. In a furious interview with his mother in her bedroom, Hamlet, it seems to her, is about to kill her, but, instead, he accidentally kills Polonius, who had been planted by Claudius behind the draperies to eavesdrop. As soon as hot-blooded Laertes learns that Polonius, his father, has been murdered, he returns posthaste from France to avenge his father's death, but he is controlled by King Claudius, who convinces him Hamlet will be taken care of. Knowing his own danger as long as Hamlet is alive and able to talk, Claudius sends Hamlet to England, unknowingly bearing orders for his own execution upon arrival. Completely spurned, then crushed by cruelly indifferent Hamlet, Ophelia goes mad, even as word comes from the high seas that Hamlet has killed his guards and former friends, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, has overcome pirates who attacked his vessel, and even now is back in Denmark. Once LESSON DEPARTMENT more Claudius and Laertes plot his death. Hamlet arrives with his friend Horatio just in time to witness the funeral of accidentally drowned Ophelia, and in rash despair over his lost love for her, he jumps into her open grave to quarrel with her fiery brother Laertes. Soon thereafter King Claudius announces a fencing match to be held before the court, in which Laertes is to use a poisoned sword against Hamlet. Laertes wounds Hamlet, but the foils accidentally had been exchanged, and Laertes, instead, is poisoned. Realizing that he has but seconds to live, Laertes tells of the King's treachery, but he speaks too late to prevent Queen Gertrude from drinking the poisoned wine prepared for Hamlet. Knowing that his own death is near, Hamlet finally becomes a man of action and stabs the King, then, to be doubly sure, Hamlet forces Claudius to drink the remaining poisoned wine, gallantly saves Horatio from death, and dies. As an ironic contrast, Prince Fortinbras of Norway enters en route to a successful conquest for his own glory and that of his country. Condensation Though Hamlet is by far Shakespeare's longest play, it is concentrated diet throughout. Ideally, nothing can be removed without injuring the entire structure. The play itself is its own best summary, and no other even approaches validity. It contains no one "best" scene because the play as a whole is its own best oneness. 'Therefore, in presenting excerpts, we do so only because of the shortness of time and space. 699 The play sparkles with well-worn phrases long familiar to our tongues. Who would have thought just one of Shakespeare's plays could have put so many words in our mouths as the following: "In my mind's eye" (I. 2. 185); "the primrose path of dalliance treads" (I. 3.50); "brevity is the soul of wit" (II. 2. Go); "Though this be madness, yet there is method in 't" (II. 2. 207-208); "Aye, there's the rub" (III. 1. 65); "shuffled off this mortal coil" (III. 1. 67); "the whips and scorns of time" (III. 1. 70); "The glass of fashion and the mold of form" (III. 1. 161); "as easy as lying" (III. 2. 373); "my offense is rank, it smells to Heaven" (III. 3. 36); "Hoist with his own petar" (III. 4. 207); "flaming youth" (III. 4. 84); "Cudgel thy brains" (V. 1. 63); "yeoman's service" (V. 2. 36); "Sweets to the sweet" (V. 1. 266); "dog will have his day" (V. 1. 315); "There's a divinity that shapes our ends" (V. 2.10). Many more quotations could be cited, if space permitted. Yet these are ample to indicate how memorable is the language of the play throughout, largely because of its intensity and condensation. Hub and Wheel Hamlet is such a tremendous experience because Shakespeare has been so successful in making Hamlet's confusions, contradictions, his hopes, and despairs seem entirely real. As the hub of the play's structure, Prince Hamlet receives along the spokes of the wheel the support or contrast of the minor characters, whose functions might be likened to the rim. As the influence of their actions and philosophies flows from each of them inward to Hamlet, at first it might seem that their weaknesses are allowed to surround or frame him in that the power of his character and the rightness of his cause and method may serve as contrast. But, upon closer examination, it becomes evident that the indecision and corruption flowing in to Hamlet often receive his contempt, his satire, or his vehement condemnation, not merely because he recognizes them as evils within themselves, but because, consciously or unconsciously, they are dominant within his own heart, thus making even more chaotic his own inward conflicts and bewilderment. Once this paradox becomes apparent, we then see that the rottenness which is Denmark is not only flowing to Hamlet, but he, in turn, radiates outward to the rim or frame surrounding him, his own intensified reflection of the very evils he condemns with such stern bitterness. This reciprocating absorption-condemnation radiation cycle is employed by Shakespeare to sharpen Hamlet's self-warfare as no other device could have done. Such a pattern is evident within at least three phases of Hamlet's mind and heart. 1. Action vs. Indecision The play opens in a fever of military activity with "daily. Cast of brazen cannon" and the forced drafting of:.. Shipwrights, whose sore task Does not divide the Sunday from the week.... I. 1. 75-76 In direct contrast to Hamlet's frustrating inability to execute the commands of his dead father, young Fortinbras of Norway, "of unimproved mettle hot and full' is threatening to invade Denmark to win back the lands seized by King Hamlet from Fortinbras' own uncle, King Fortinbras, and thus avenge this stain on his honor. King Claudius proves himself an_ effective diplomat by convincing young Fortinbras not to fight with Denmark, yet his "spirit with divine ambition puffed" will not permit him to stagnate, and in Act IV, scene 4, Fortinbras asks Denmark's permission to bring troops across her territory to fight Poland for a tiny patch of ground "that hath no profit but the name." Informed of Fortinbras' courage, his love of action, and his willingness to sacrifice two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats to gain such a trifle, Hamlet sees in contrast his own indecision, defines himself "... One part wisdom... Three parts coward..." (IV. 4. 42) and in envy, speaks of Fortinbras, thus:... Delicate and tender Prince Whose spirit with divine ambition puffed Makes mouths at the invisible event, Exposing what is mortal and unsure To all that fortune, death, and danger dare, Even for an eggshell.... IV. 4. 48-53 But whereas Fortinbras serves as foil or contrast to Hamlet (as does his steady, loyal friend Horatio), Laertes serves to sharpen Hamlet's dilemma both as foil and as pattern. Once Laertes learns of his father's murder, he returns: home furious, ready to lead indignant commonfolk against the apparently corrupt Claudius. This extreme action Hamlet justly spurns, recognizing it for the hot-headed foolishness which 700 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT it is; nevertheless Hamlet's suffering conscience reminds him that at least Laertes tries to do something, even while he, with far greater justification, remains inert. Yet at the burial of Ophelia, it is Hamlet, not the impetuous Laertes, who loses his head entirely and jumps into the grave to release the body of his beloved from the justifiable embrace of her brother Laertes. The Devil take thy soul! Pling with him] Haml. Thou pray'st not well. I prithee, take thy fingers from my throat, For though I am not splenitive and rash, Yet have I in me something dangerous, Which let thy wisdom fear. Hold off thy hand. V. 1. 282-286 Then the grief-stricken Hamlet pours out his love for Ophelia and, disclaiming Laertes' right to rant and moan, so outrants him that, quite justly, Queen Gertrude describes his action as "mere madness." 'Thus the distraught Hamlet excels Laertes in displaying excessive impulse to action, which formerely he condemned in Laertes, even while he envied him. 2. Integrity vs. Duplicity Polonius is a professional courtier, flatterer, cynic, hypocritical fawner, and self-styled master in the shady arts of eavesdropping and social intrigue. He has his son Laertes spied on while away at school, debases Hamlet's love for his daughter into flirtation, if not lust, and eagerly offers to spy for Claudius. Hamlet calls him a calf, a fishmonger, and "a tedious old fool," and, upon discovering he has killed him accident- 701 ally, Hamlet says, "Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell." Yet, ironically, it is this pompous windbag who speaks to his departing son what may be the most widely quoted lines Shakespeare ever wrote. Evaluated in terms of their source, then, the following lines are but further proof of his wordy shallowness; quoted in isolation "these few precepts" are immortal:... Give thy thoughts no tongue, Nor any unproportioned thought his act. Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar. Those friends thou hast, and their adoption tried, Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel, But do not dull thy palm with entertainment Of each new-hatched unfledged comrade. Beware Of entrance to a quarrel, but being in, Bear 't that the opposed may beware of thee. Give every man thy ear but few thy voice. Take each man's censure, but reserve thy judgment. Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy, But not expressed in fancy—rich, not gaudy. For the apparel oft proclaims the man, And they in France of the best rank and station Are of a most select and generous chief in that. Neither a borrower nor a lender be, For loan oft loses both itself and friend And borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry. This above all: To thine own self be true, And it must follow, as the night the day, Thou canst not then be false to any man. I. 3. 59-80 Though Hamlet's contempt for Polonius' duplicity was overwhelming, in fairness to Polonius it should be noted that probably he was unaware of his own dual nature. By contrast, much though he hated falseness and pretense, Hamlet's Laer. [Grap- 702 own assumed double nature was in large part intentional, and so effective, in confusing the royal household and court that by comparison Polonius dodders. And his supreme admonition, "To thine own self be true," destroyed Hamlet. As_ is proved by Hamlet's supreme soliloquies, no one ever desired more passionately to be true to himself, but Hamlet never knew to which of his many selves to be true; instead, in his complicating chaos, he was true to all and therefore to none. Similarly Rosencrantz and Guildenstern intentionally assume the pretended roles of friends to Hamlet when actually they spied for Claudius, but here, as elsewhere, Hamlet beats them at their own game, for it is they who die by his hand. For a most telling revelation of his superior skill at role-playing, as well as revelation of their own gullibility, few scenes in the play are more effective than Hamlet's conversation with Guildenstern concerning pipes, clouds, weasels, and elephants (III. 2. 364 ff.). Herein the hub's radiations outward to the rim fairly glow, so brilliant are they. 3. Control vs. Passion The first portion of Act III, scene 2, is devoted to an essay on temperance or control, a virtue ingrained within Hamlet's own usually controlled character, and one which he esteems most highly in others. In his famous advice to the players, his greatest plea is not to "strut and bellow" nor to:... Saw the air too much with your hand, thus, but use all gently. For in the very torrent, tempest, and, as I may say, whirlwind of passion, you must acquire RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 and beget a temperance that may give it smoothness. Oh, it offends me to the soul to hear a robustious periwig-pated fellow tear a passion to tatters, to very rags; to split the ears of the groundlings, who for the most part are capable of nothing but inexplicable dumb shows and noise. I would have such a fellow whipped for o'erdoing Termagant — it outHerods Herod. Pray you, avoid it. III. 2. 4-16 The substance of the long paragraph which follows, is to repeat Hamlet's plea for temperance, after which Hamlet commends _ loyal Horatio for his constancy and modesty, and above all, his temperance and control:... And blest are those Whose blood and judgment are so well commingled That they are not a pipe for fortune's finger To sound what stop she please. Give me that man That is not passion's slave, and I will wear him In my heart's core—aye, in my heart of heart, As I do thee.... III. 2. 73-79 Yet of all displays of passionate outbursts in this most intense play, none even approaches that of Hamlet himself, not only in his soliloquies but in his wild and_ biting words to his mother in the bedroom scene. In his scathing denunciation of her, he tears his own passion to tatters, and his mother's inmost soul as well. And who is more passion's slave than Hamlet when he intentionally destroys Ophelia's love by putting to her the most obscene questions and suggestions? His mad ranting at Ophelia's grave proves once again, that under the carefully managed organization LESSON DEPARTMENT of the play, it is the function of the lesser characters to contribute their emotions, their own suggestive weaknesses to Hamlet, who is the center of the play in every sense of the word. It is Hamlet's function, in turn, to magnify these currents and fallacies a hundredfold and fling them back, couched in the fiery images of his own giant-sized rhetoric. If, as Thoreau intimates, such reciprocating organization is Shakespeare's unconscious accom- 703 plishment, then here indeed is the unconsciousness of genius. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Do you agree that only a Hamlet could have written Shakespeare's plays? Why so? 2. Discuss the proposition that when Hamlet most vigorously condemns _ the weaknesses of others he is really condemning himself. 3. If Hamlet valued temperance so highly, yet was himself so intemperate, isn't he then either shallow or a hypocrite? Discuss. Social Science — Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 10—Eternal Marriage Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, January 28, 1958 Objective: To show the significance of temples in The Church of Jesus Christ and the advantages of temple marriage to the family. HE family can be established for eternity only in a temple of God. All true Latter-day Saints have as a goal the blessing of exaltation. Temple marriage is a condition precedent to exaltation in its fulness. Exaltation is not the only blessing of temple marriage, however. Certain blessings are available now to those who embrace temple marriage and live for its benefits. They include a proper preparation for marriage, aid in selecting the marriage companion, and adornment of the personality with basic virtues such as moral cleanliness, modesty, fidelity, and spirituality. To this must be added personal protection. When a family is united by temple marriage, happiness is not an accident. It flows from a set of attitudes and practices put into motion by the marriage. They include: family heritage, mutual consideration, family prayer, Church service, spirituality in the home, family organization, proper relationship to the Priesthood, and growth, both spiritual and intellectual. The blessing of exaltation, as well as the many blessings along the way, are available only to those who live for them. The extent to which the individual complies with God's will determines worthiness for blessings. There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all belssings are predicated— And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated (D. & C. 130: 20-21). 704 The Temple—W hat It Is The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is unique in many ways, but, probably, the characteristic which distinguishes it most from other Christian denominations is its temples and the significant ordinances therein performed. Only in Latter-day Saint temples can ordinances be performed having eternal consequences. Most people consider any elaborate church edifice for public worship to be a temple, but to Latter-day Saints a temple is more than a house of worship. Temples... Are sanctuaries specially dedicated for sacred rites and ceremonies pertaining to exaltation in the celestial kingdom of God (Doctrines of Salvation, Joseph Fielding Smith, Vol. II, page 231). The Marriage Covenant Let us now consider one of the important ordinances of the temple which has profound effect upon the establishment of the family and its role in eternity—the marriage covenant. God instituted marriage in the beginning.... This institution of marriage is not a man-made institution. It is of God.... God not only commends but he commands marriage (Gospel Doctrine, Joseph F. Smith, pages 272, 274). The Lord performed the first marriage when he joined Adam and Eve. This was obviously intended to be for eternity, since at that time death had not come into the world. The President of the Church, and only he, holds the keys of the binding and sealing power for eternal manage. (See D. & C. 1388) Marriage for eternity must, therefore, be performed by the President or one properly acting under his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 authority. In addition to this, the ceremony must be performed in a temple. A civil marriage stands wanting and empty compared to the promises made to those who pledge for time and eternity. (See D. & C. 132:14-17.) A careful analysis of the promises and blessings expected from these two contrasting marriage ceremonies should be sufficient to persuade all to be married in the temple for time and for eternity. Blessings which attend temple marriage are of an eternal nature. Some of them are available now and here, and they have tremendous influence upon the success and happiness of each member of the Latter-day Saint home. These blessings affect the personality of the individual and assist in the preparation for marriage. 'The temple marriage has a refining influence upon the atmosphere of the home, and it prepares family members for Church and community service. Benefits Before the Marriage Marriage Preparation: 'The preparation for marriage, as for life generally, starts very early in life. By the time the marriage ceremony is performed, the way of life of the marriage participants has largely been determined. Those who have caught the spirit and vision of temple marriage are influenced to live worthy of receiving a recommend for such a marriage. High standards are maintained, uncompromised, and virtue is guarded as a priceless treasure. Those planning a temple marriage realize: There is more to marriage than music and moonlight; there is trust... And LESSON DEPARTMENT sharing... And being loved and deserving to be. There is companionship through years of growing up and growing old together (Excerpts from "Virtue Is Its Own Reward," The Relief Society Magazine, June 1956, page 377). If we are honest with ourselves in marriage preparation, the temple ceremony spells no drastic change in our mode of living, but rather a delightful continuation of the good life already begun. Conformity to the temple vows follows as a natural, comfortable sequel to what has gone before. Choosing a Companion: One of the major causes of strife between married persons is the difference in religious affiliation and background. Those who live for a temple marriage and are determined to settle for nothing less, will go far tu avoid this cause of dissension. Chances of marrying within the Church are good for the person who accepts temple marriage as an ideal. He chooses his friends intelligently and discriminately, knowing that from them he will eventually select a mate whom he can take into the temple. Dating is planned with great care. Somehow he doesn't feel quite comfortable with those having standards unlike his own. He realizes that a partner throughout eternity must have ideals, likes, dislikes, and spiritual values which go hand in hand with his own. The importance of similar religious affiliations cannot be overemphasized in the building of a happy home, but it is also important that the marrying parties view in the same light the Church's pattern of living and have the same desire to conform to it. Having marriage permanence in mind at the beginning 705 makes for wise judgment throughout the courting and engagement periods. The Atmosphere of the Home The greatest blessings in this life from temple marriage undoubtedly are those which affect the atmosphere of the home. Basically, the effect of temple marriage upon the family, in this life, is on the feelings and fellowship of family members. Here are some of the ways temple marriage affects the home. 1. Spirituality the foundation of the home: Couples joined in the temple ceremony attach a deep meaning to their life together, because they understand the real purpose of life and have definite, spiritual goals towards which they strive. President Joseph F. Smith once said: "An ideal home is one in which all worldly considerations are secondary" (Gospel Doctrine, page 302). Certainly the temple is the best place to establish this concept in the minds of future parents. 'The temple ceremony starts the marriage on a high spiritual plane and suggests the formula for keeping it there. It sets into operation the greatest partnership which can be formed. It introduces a spiritual refinement which, if nurtured and cultivated, can help make a home a heaven on earth. It will develop and sharpen the appetite for the best life has to offer. Knowing the place of their marriage in the eternal scheme of things, husband and wife move forward with purpose and resourcefulness, weeding out nonessentials. But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you (Mt. 6:33). 706 With spiritual goals in mind, parents are inclined to put first things first and to make decisions which help the family and its members move in the direction of perfection. Parents who see the possibilities of the future, reflect sound planning into everyday living. 2. Love at home: If the spirit of temple marriage has really been captured, kindness and consideration will predominate in all family relationships. 'Tolerance and understanding will beget patience and the feelings of others will be protected at all times. If parents respect the rights of each other their children will do likewise. Latter-day Saints consider rearing a family to be their most sacred responsibility. Children are regarded as a blessing and, when so regarded and reared under the influence of the Church, the real spirit of the home is born. This spirit, often called love, is the spirit that shrinks the problems of life to the small size. (See Lesson 13, "Love —A Basic Ingredient," for a further treatment of this subject. ) 3. Relationship to Priesthood: It is in the temple where the wife's relationship to her husband's Priesthood is most vividly taught, and if a Latter-day Saint home is to operate successfully, this should be seen in proper perspective at the outset. (See Lesson 4, "Women and the Priesthood." ) 4. Family prayer, which is inspired and begun on the wedding day and continued thereafter, will invite the Lord's guidance to bless the marriage and family life of the home. This observance can do more than any other single thing to influence children for good and give them the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 security of "family backing" and the companionship of their Father in heaven. 5. Family Heritage: The knowledge that the family unit is linked together eternally makes one more family-conscious and helps one strive to live worthy of his place in the family circle. It makes fellow members more interested in those who have preceded and those to follow, and arouses a pride in one another's achievements. A sense of family loyalty is developed which is strengthened through the years. The Individual Is Affected Temple marriage, along with other ordinances and teachings of the Church, molds the desirable personal characteristics of family members. Such attributes as charity, tolerance, mercy, forgiveness, kindness, and the like, attach themselves to those who live the gospel. Temple marriage, being an important part of the gospel, encourages these qualities. (See Lesson 7, "Be Ye Therefore Perfect.") Modesty and fdelity, however, are individual characteristics especially fostered by temple marriage. Modesty, as suggested in the temple, includes modesty of dress, speech, and general conduct. Anything of an unseemly nature is shunned and avoided. Modesty of this kind develops gentleness which permeates the entire home environment. Fidelity is developed in a marriage fashioned for eternity. Husband and wife are inclined to adhere carefully to the marriage vows, giving both loyalty and devotion. All family members learn from the parental example of fidelity to be honest with one an- LESSON DEPARTMENT other, to perform obligations faithfully, and to find joy in so doing. The husband and wife who are true to their marriage covenants make a conscious effort to plan their lives so they can remain close together. Not only their religious life, but their recreational and _ intellectual interests are cultivated together, in order that they do not seek the companionship of others in_preference to their mates. 'hey develop trust and confidence which are never questioned, because of their constant devotion to one another. Their courtship does not cease with marriage. Another aspect of temple marriage which has great significance to the individual is the protective shield of the endowment. President Joseph Fielding Smith has said: If we realize what we are doing, then the endowment will be a protection to us all our lives—a protection which a man who does not go to the Temple does not have.... This protection is what these ceremonies are for, in part. They save us now, and exalt us hereafter, if we will honor them (Doctrines of Salvation, Joseph Fielding Smith, Vol. II, 252-253). Outside the Home Temple marriage encourages Church service. It is important that Latter-day Saint couples regard this in a harmonious way, because it involves the devotion of time, talents, energies, and means to the work of the Lord. This requires active membership in the Church for parents and children and will lead to individual growth and development as well as widening interests and friendships. Latter-day Saints who fully understand the gospel feel a responsibility to the community in 707 its worthy efforts. Wholesome associations outside the home are essential to a healthy marriage, as long as they do not become overbalanced. "Men are that they might have joy'—and real joy comes from a well-balanced life. Importance of Returning to the Temple Couples who have been married in the temple receive added joy and understanding each time they return to the temple. The full significance of the temple ceremony is not absorbed from one attendance at a temple session. Included in the benefits ensuing from returning to the temple on occasion after the marriage are: 1. Added knowledge concerning, and clarification of, the finer points of the endowment are received. 2. An opportunity is provided to do something essential for someone else— which develops a spirit of unselfishness and service within the home. 3. It is a spiritual uplift to review covenants made in the temple, and thus we are helped to live close to the Lord. 4. As individuals mature, the temple ceremony becomes more significant as it is viewed in the light of added experience and greater understanding. 5. Parents who are conversant with temple procedures are prepared to assist their children and accompany friends who are visiting the temple for the first time. 6. The romance and beauty surrounding the courtship and marriage are not forgotten. The sweetheart relationship must be maintained throughout a marriage to make it successful. It is an emotional necessity. 7. Emotional comfort and _ intellectual refreshment come from quietness and meditation. Temple Marriage and Exaltation While there are many advantages and blessings available in this life THE INCOMPARABLE CONN "Artist" This superb instrumenc offers at moderate cost, complete tonal resources, is simple in design, easy to operate. Features two independent Manuals. THE IDEAL ORGAN FOR LARGER HOMES, CHURCHES, SCHOOLS Created by CONN, musical instrument specialists for nearly a century, the versatile "Artist" organ provides a whole wondrous world of musical magic at your fngerups. Yet it is so easy to play, so easy to own! See and hear it row. Screws im Tone" \ mn 15 E. Ist South ses mete Guavensty, paved! Salt Lake City 11, Utch RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 to those who are married in the temple, the greatest blessings are to be experienced after our mortal life. The eternity of the family and the happiness which this affords have previously been discussed. (See "The Family Is Forever," Lesson 8, The Relief Society Magazine, July 1957.) Probably the greatest blessing of all lies in the opportunity which temple marriage affords for exaltation. There can be no fulness of exaltation in the celestial kingdom without this sacred ordinance having first been performed. Those who marry by civil authority alone have no promise as to exaltation in the hereafter, but they shall be servants or "ministering angels" (D. & C. 132:14-17). Eternal marmiage is so important that neither a man nor a woman can alone be exalted. Marriage in the temple for time and eternity is the Lord's way. And those who contract marriage in this way and keep his commandments will be eternally blessed. Supplementary References 1. "The Blessings of Temple Marriage," John Longden. The Improvement Era, December 1956, page 936. 2. "Eighty Years Service to Our Lord," Albert L. Zobell, Jr., The Improvement Era, April 1957. Page 224. 3. "Stay Close to the Church," Grant J. Woolley, The Improvement Era, May 1957. Page 305. 4. The Way to Perfection, Joseph Fielding Smith, chapter 35, "The Perfect Marnage Covenant," pp. 240-250. 5. Priesthood and Church Government, John A. Widtsoe, chapter 28, "The Pnesthood and Temple Work," pp. 350-365. 6. Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. II, Jo seph Fielding Smith, compiled by Bruce R. McConkie, chapter 13, "The Law of Temple Buildmg," pp. 231-257. LESSON DEPARTMENT 7. Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. II, Joseph Fielding Smith, compiled by Bruce R. McConkie, chapter 4, "Celestial Marriage," pp. 58-79. _ 8. Gospel Doctrine, Joseph F. Smith, chapter 24, "Eternal Life and Salvation," pp. 428-477. G. "My Daughter Prepares for Marriage," Harold B. Lee, The Relief Society Magazine, June 1955, page 348. 10. Conference Address, Harold B. Lee, The One Hundred Twenty-Seventh Annual Conference, April 1957, page 20. Questions for Discussion 1. What is a temple to a Latter-day Saint? To the world? 2. Discuss how the temple building program of the Church extends blessings to people of other nations. 3. What are the eternal blessings which follow temple marriage? 4. How can we best influence our children to go to the temple? 5- Why is it important to retum to the temple often? - Autumn Leaf on the Beach Eva Willes Wangsgaard Shake the sun from your eyes. The city calls. A gold leaf lies Where the bright sand falls, The poplar's mandarin Obelisk Is beginning to thin And the nights are brisk. Lost now the pealing Of feathery tunes While silence goes wheeling Above the dunes. The winds are erasing The pattern of feet With moire tracing The waves repeat. The trappings of summer Are thin and old, And a white newcomer Will smother her gold. 709 y y= Take one of Margaret Lund's happy tours to Hawaii. They will leave on November 18, 1957. Courape Ask about our tour to the Dedication of the Latter-day Saint Temple in England. Cuba Ask about this lovely tour also. Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Phone: IN 6-2909 or CR 7-6334 First Bath Christie Lund Coles Be careful now— This pan will do— This is something Requiring two; Bend your elbow, Be very sure The water is The right temperature; Get the downy towel, Her very own, And the soap as white As clouds, windblown; Lower her slowly Into the water, This miracle, A new granddaughter. For Relief Society and Genealogy Workers TYPEWRITING CLASSES Mid-Term Classes Start October 21 Classes to run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction for adults who wish to use typewriting in genealogy and other Church work. Call for reservations. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 © BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles - 50 to 300 miles. 300 to 600 miles. 600 to 1000 miles...... 54 1000 to 1400 miles.........00.....64 1400 to 1800 miles...........00..0.....0 76 Over 1800 miles.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 710 Sunday Evening Margery S. Stewart Our meeting house is just Above the hill, Close enough for walking. The path is narrow, One side the boulevard, And on the left the still Canyon where small things burrow. I did not know frogs Lived in cities, But they live here In the lush green of the gully By someone's pool. From their hundred throats A hundred pities Pour out for us Brushing their cool Paradise. There are crickets; Roses make a melody. That sounds nonsensical, yet I walk through music. I hear Notes of palms, trumpets of the sky, The drums of passing cars. I reach the chapel, how very clear It, too, sings on this night. Melody, fragrance, beauty flows Where? From heaven to earth? From earth to heaven? He knows, <> Autumn Vesta N. Lukei How crisp the autumn air And quick the season's flight, So brief each windy leaf, The earth so frosty whitel How precious is this time The moon has silvered bright. These autumn moments must Be captured in their flight... Together, we can hold This wonder and delight. 70 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah Birthday Congratulations Ninety-five Mrs. Mary ANN JoNEs RHODES Ogden, Utah Mrs. Emity Porter PArRisH Farmington, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Honora FERGONSON JONES Los Angeles, California Ninety-one Mrs. Marcaret Dexia TayLor Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. AMANDA BaILEY Murray Wellsville, Utah Ninety Mrs. LaureTTa JANE Kout Coie Dewey, Oklahoma Mrs. Ipa Nicwo. Tas DurFFEE Pocatello, Idaho Mrs. Henrietta McAFFEE Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. NELLIE ALBERTA LAMBERT Van Nuys, California > Pyromania Alice Morrey Bailey Sound the alarm! The sky is on fire! A holocaust, burning Up higher and higher. It kindled with leaves And rapidly spread. There are billows of clouds; Every cliff reflects red. The spectacular blaze Is attracting a crowd. Such flagrance in sunsets Should not be allowed! HAWAII Vida Fox Clawson is operating another of her lovely tours to HAWAII. This tour will sail on the New Matsonia on November 4, 1957. EARLY RESERVATIONS ARE ADVISABLE EUROPE Make your plans for Europe for the DEDICATION OF THE LATTER-DAY SAINT TEMPLE in England. For complete details write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: EMpire 4-2017 754 South State Street Salt Lake City, Utah SEAR' ROEBUCK AND CO. BACK - TO - SCHOOL WITH IVY LOOK Fashionable Ivy look strap at the heel. White with black, brown or red tartan plaid. 842 to 3. Page 71] From Near and Sar Thanks for the article "A Nursery Will Be Maintained," by Edna H. Day, in the June issue of the Magazine, and the clear picture it gives of that most essential part of Relief Society—the nursery and the nursery teacher. The poem at the end of the article made me weep for my own mother, whose grandchildren are far away. Turning my children over to the Relief Society nursery while I enjoy the stimulating lessons is a real treat for me. —Mrs. James K. Nickerson Austin, Texas I really do not know how to thank you enough for the happiness given me by our wonderful Magazine, which has been something to look forward to every month during my long sickness and accident.... I was seventy-five years old on the 25th of July. I send love to Brother Boyer [former president of the British Mission] and Sister Boyer. —E. A. Olive Bury, Lancashire England My name has been on The Relief Society Magazine subscribers' list for the past two years, and I have enjoyed reading the articles for Latter-day Saint women. I have learned much since the time I have joined the Church and have become interested in Relief Society, about the early history of the Church and its people to the present time. —Eileen Green Alameda, California I have enjoyed very greatly receiving The Relief Society Magazine during my mission here in Sweden. It has been a gift to me from the Millville, Utah, Relief Society sisters, which I have been very grateful for. I feel that the articles printed in the Magazine are also of great interest to the men of the Church. Many of my thoughts for speaking have been taken from the Magazine. —Elder Rodney Anderson Umea, Sweden Page 712 I was indeed pleased to see Edna Day's fine article "A Nursery Will Be Maintained" in the June issue of the Magazine. I especially liked the sonnet ending. I also enjoyed Frances Yost's story "Society Sonnets" in the August issue. I am grateful to Edna Day for many things. It was she and another friend and neighbor, Fern McClellan, and, of course, my old friend Shakespeare, who nudged me to go to Relief Society. Edna is the literature teacher, and her lessons are especially apt. She had us make Shakespeare scrapbooks with some _pictures and mimeographed "bests" from the plays as we studied them..... Then we went into sonnet writing, and some of us wrote both Christmas and Easter sonnets. The sonnets were added to our scrapbooks, too, because, of course, we had a sonnet section. —Mrs. Adah Lempke Idaho Falls, Idaho As a Relief Society literature teacher, I wish to express appreciation for Frances C. Yost's "Society Sonnets" in the August Magazine, and the editorial "Pen in Hand" by Sister Crawford in the May issue. They have both been inspirational and helpful to me. Sister Crawford's article was the basis of a fine lesson for the visiting teachers given by one of our former officers, Sister Ann Kelley. She also used many of the excellent poems published in the Magazine. —Elsie C. Carroll Salt Lake City, Utah I have just finished reading the short stories and the wonderful poems in the July issue of the Magazine. They are all so excellent that I cannot decide which one of them I like the best. It is a joy to read such wholesome realistic work. In each poem, I feel as if it were written just for me—with beauty and with a lesson. —Miss Jackie Jensen Portland, Oregon amily Family Courageous LOUISE LARSEN FISHER Utah's Uintah Basin is the fascinating locale of this heart-warming story of a large family (seventeen children). Although they must scratch for a living from a resisting soil, the family members still manage to have a whale of a good time and achieve a family solidarity that deserves high commendation. The story also has world-wide overtones, with the father drawn into the gospel net from far-off Denmark. Readers will agree this is truly a tonic for tired or jaded nerves—a MUST on every LDS reading list. The Story of The Book of Mormon GEORGE REYNOLDS Courageous or 5 SPRUMMRMA DD Allen n f DROP MRE Heer, Seventy years ago this superb narrative was written by master storyteller George Reynolds. Today it remains as bright and fresh as the day it was written and is being discovered again and again by new generations of enthusiastic readers. The language has an easy flow and scriptural truths are revealed in all their drama and glory. The printing of this current edition will find instant acceptance in every LDS home and will delight parents who conscientiously wish to place the most inspiring and worthwhile literature in the hands of their children. $300 3. Concordance of the Book of MOFMON — ccorce sevnoins This great Concordance, a magnificent accomplishment by one of the Church's leading scholars, serves as a guide and an almost instant reference to both words and subjects contained in Book of Mormon scriptures. Uninitiated readers, missionaries, teachers, researchers, and speakers will be quickly amazed with what proficiency they may become experts on The Book of Mormon through this wonderful key and guide. No Book of Mormon student will want to be without it. 5] (joo aieeg corot i Bok (o. DESERET BOOK COMPANY. 44 East South Temple 44 Casi South Temple - Salt take Cay Utah Salt Lake City, Utah:, ~ iis ' Gentlemen: | have an account. ( ) Please charge it. ( ) Enclosed you will find money order, ( ) check, ( ) cash, for the following encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 Amount enclosed $ FN Fo | d\n City coe ccecteeeeeeceeee ee Zone... State... Cece ceeeceeeteeeseeneeeeeeeeeee [DA F-I 2-157-45357 DEC 58 y % HAPPY FAMILIES (49 Do THINGS TOGETHER The legendary ghosts and witches who once wander- _,.. And while you're banishing those fabled "Halloed abroad on All Hallows Eve have been banished | ween Haunters," why not'also get rid of that other like thousands of other Western families—with Beneficial's Family Income Plan. \t protects your children during their growing-up years... It assures your wife the mortgage and bill-clearance cash she and Susie, or a fearsome tiger, like little Steve... Who systematically canvass the neighborhood, shouting, "trick or treat!" Mom and Dad get in the act, Call your local "man with the plan""— your Beneficial Life agent, or write to this address: BENEFICIAL LIFE Srsurance & Company David O. McKay, Pres Salt Lake City, Utah today by the children... The clowns, like Jimmy too... First as make-up artists, and then as coconspirators or dispensers of loot *.. And it's all wholesome family fun ugly specter, Fear of the Future? You can do it— might need... And at the same time builds up cash' values for emergencies and sizable retirement benefits for you... And all at surprisingly low cost, id 44 NO. I Lessons for February NOVEMBER THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Gladys S. Boyer Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Edith P. Backman Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - Associate Edito General Manager Charlotte A. Larsen Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford Vol. 44 NOVEMBER 1957 NO. 11 C ontents; SPECIAL FEATURES Cleanliness am Emma Ray Riggs McKay 716 Love's Equation oo.. C. Eccsssccsseescccesceceseeeeeeseseeeeeeseeeeeeeees Luett Stantliff 721 Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford 722 The Spanish-American Mission....0.00000..... Vse sesaas ueeeeasereessecsserecanen oePreston R. Nibley 728 Live and Learn Forever. Oo. Cccec ccccecceceseeecceececeesseeceeeeeeeeeceseeseee eine 742 SeTeNiIty 20.0... EcsceccscsousceoencesesseoenecseensceecscccenceceecsceecesseesccenedscusenonersonacerscsnensececensteccesseaeccenenaeeeaeeasAnne S. W. Gould 745 The National Tuberculosis Association ChrstpgaeBegis —.... Dorothea M. Lindsey 746 The Christmas Cards Dorothy Boys Kilian 730 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 736 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 737 Editorial: Gold, and Frankincense, and Myrrh. Vesta P. Crawford 738 Erratum: Relief Society Membership in the South Australian Mission 0.02. 739 Notes to the Field: Annual General Relief Society Conference Cancelled.. 740 Pictures of the Relief Society Building Available 740 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 22... CeececccceeseeccceesesseceecsesteeeetesecseeneceeeeesHulda Parker 753 From Near and Far 784 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Spanish-American Mission. _. Nina N. Bowman 744 Bread and Yeast Recipes Joan Staley 748 Netting and Crocheting Are Hobby Interests of Rozetta Hafen Bramsted... 749 Apple Butter ———. Eva Carter 749 Netting Today a Olive W. Burt 750 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: Satan's Opposition to the Coming Forth of The Book of Mormon ws Roy W. Doxey 760 Visiting Teacher Messages: ''... Behold, You Should Not Have Feared Man More Than God" Christine H. Robinson 764 Work Meeting: The Family and the Home.... William F. Edwards 765 Literature: Hamlet, Prisoner in Denmark 20... Eceececccscecceeeceeeceeeeeeeeeesteneee Briant S. Jacobs 767 Social Science: ''As the Twig Is Bent" aoe John Farr Larson 773 Thanksgiving Song—Frontispie ce.... N. N..... Cec-cecseecececee ec eceeeeececeeceecatenececsenecesneneneeneeneeeMargery S. Stewart 715 Friends Grace Ingles Frost 727 VWivtontione ANSOGTNS leer eoce ee eee EE EEEElsie McKinnon Strachan 743 Autumn Gift 0... Wo weuVesta N. Lukei 746 Where Maples Flame..........:..22:::0:: c-ccee eee Mabel Law Atkinson 747 Street tm Ream _2. N. Ece cece ec ecceeecceecee eee eeeeceeeeeeeeneseceeees Iris Schow 752 FOUTS, NCS) acne arene ce cerca soon cocoa ESSER CHEE HOCOCEES Enola Chamberlin 759 Eva W. Wangsgaard 780 Thelma Ireland 780 EEE SS aeLucille R. Perry 783 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subseription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Less Than Love The Old Base-Burner Wisdom Obedience in All Things -.. Ccceccccccsccc cece ce eceeeceneeeeeeeeceneeeereeseenss Shopping Yesterday 20... Ccccccesccesescee cc ceceeceesesceseeceeeeeeenoeee Birthday Congratulations 2.... Ceececccceecceceeceeccceeecceececseecesenssssnueacecouseasscneaueeesqeegececnetetsnseeeesceseeeece DOG OT, ooo cece cece cecece ee seseecscseseu ss cessesesenensneeseaeestvunssecsssneneceneneeesceertese: November Sprimg 2........-. Cccc: c-cececec cc cee ce ceeeeeeeneeceenenenectennenocees Helen W. Anderson 719 Elaine Reiser 734 783 Bessie I. Peterson 733 Ethel Jacobson 741 "ICMI guides the bride" A new Wedding Workbook—contains complete wedding timetable, Intermountain wedding guide, wedding guest list, honeymoon and entertaining guide. Get your free copy. ZCMI Wedding Gift Registry, 3rd floor For listing wedding gift preferences; household trousseau planning; and your complete shower service, bride ZCMI Bride's Shop, 2nd floor For all the wedding-party gowns, your trousseau, and for complete wedding planning with the help of experts. Gown shown, 69.95; Bridal Veil, 10.95 for the Thanksgiving Song Margery S. Stewart For all the fields from east to west That poured their goldness into bread, For all the rivers and the brooks, That sent their beauty down to me, For men and women whose quiet hands Wove warmth and cover against storms, For doctors I will never see Who nightly strained their hearts and minds Uncovering secrets that will be Armor against tomorrow's ills, For all these, Lord, my thanks to thee. For men in mines and men in planes, For men who govern this free land, For nurses rustling in the dark To where an ailing baby cries, For those whose songs fulfilled a need, For teachers holding high their lamps Who do not shrink nor compromise, I give my brimming gratitude, My love for each high enterprise. For blessings seen, Lord, I thank thee, And for those hidden from my eyes. "? The Cover: Transient Tower, San Antonio, Texas — a View From "La Villita, Little Town, Restored and Reconstructed Texas Architecture in the Foreground. Elicson Photography Photograph submitted by Nina N. Bowman Frontispiece: Harvest in the Valley, Near Provo, Utah Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cleanliness Emma Ray Riggs McKay LEANLINESS is next to Godliness" is a quotation tarmlar to evervene. Godliness is defined as "The careful observance of the laws of God." We desire to keep the laws of God and. If cleanliness is next to the observance of these laws, we certainly should have a desire to be clean, whether it be in bodv, mind, or heart. In regard to physical cleanliness, the preservation of health and comfort, good taste, and the approbation of friends. Require cleanliness of hair. Nails, teeth, and body. The sensi bilities of anvone should not be offended by neglect in these particulars. Since we must associate with ome another, we are under obligation to keep clean. Laziness iS NO excuse. While cleanliness of our homes and habits, considered hygienically, is of great importance, its effect upon the character of the members of the household is very important, for, generally, as the home is, so is the child. Nearly all people have a desire to have clean homes. But they do not alwavs know what is clean and what is not. Therefore, it is necessary to read, study, and listen to instructions concerning what must be regarded as very important sanitary measures. Constant effort should be put forth by mothers to keep homes free from filth, vermin, and flies, and, in general, try to have a state of orderliness at all times. There is now a drive to clean up cities in the United States, and Latter-day Saint mothers should be Page TIS 66 the first to accept this commendable idea and rallv around those who desire to make our place more attractive by teaching by example not to throw papers, tin cans, bottles, and other waste on floors, streets. And lawns. Children accustomed to untidiness become thoughtless, and their characters partake of this unclean carelessness. Mothers. All of this takes constant effort on our part, but do not be discouraged. Good results will give great satisfaction. Now. As to the cleanliness of the soul. In Psalms we read, "He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart... Shall stand in his holy place" (Psalms 24:4, 3), and in the New Testament. Paul says. ~ let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God." Are we doing this? A short while ago, a very prominent and conservative president of a university said, in public, that the present age is the most decadent in history, with the exception of the davs just before the French Revolution. He mentioned "dishonesty permeating public and private life alike, tainting the administration of justice, tainting our legislative halls, tainting the conduct of private business, polluting at times even the church itself." He said, "If there is to be social and political regeneration in our Republic and in the rest of the world, it must be by a tremendous regeneration of moral ideals." The true standard of nght and wrong ever remains the same amid CLEANLINESS all moral change. We Latterday Saints have been "aggressively alive' for over a hundred vears preaching that God is unchangeable, that the Ten Commandments are just as important and workable now as in Moses' time. That the Sermon on the Mount and other teachings of Christ are great additional helps to keep us in the "straight and narrow, if we will but heed them. But mothers often say, "How can we influence our children to be clean in thought when they see so many pictures that appeal to the coarse brutality of man, fist fighting, gun fighting, men striking women, women throwing anything near at hand at husbands, cruel talk, low private scenes of lovemaking, etc?" WOMAN asked a question of a prominent writer regarding intelligent girls who chose to read books which discuss clinical details that belong to medical specialists, and books which have been condemned as indecent. The woman said they choose such books and chat about them quite cheerfully. Much of the reading of these girls is found between covers of obscene books sold in less respectable stores to satisfy the taste of curious adolescents. Many of today's amusements give evidence of impurity in its most dangerous form. The sanctity that once shielded the marriage relation and the shame of infidelity and adultery seem to have disappeared. Is it possible that, with continuous thoughts of the human bodv, and a constant obsession with sex, that our girls can go into womanhood unscarred by such influences? The writer answered, in part, that 717 these modern girls, clean and dainty in their physical life, and careful of their personal appearance and their culture, "batten upon the filth of dirt" by reading novels that debase the relationship between men and women, single or married. She stated that if their mothers saw them bending over garbage barrels, it would be hormble to them, but that phvsical dirtiness is far less dangerous to fine womanhood than the distorted views of life gained from depraved literature. Notwithstanding the report that obscene literature has been cleaned up, on the nineteenth of September 1957, J. Edgar Hoover urged that there be a war waged against newsstands flooded with obscenities aimed at children as well as adults. Mr. Hoover said that the trade of "printed poison" is a big and lucrative business. "Not until longer sentences and heavier fines remove the financial advantages of this traffic will the producers, distributors, and dealers of filth be driven out of this sickening business. The activities of the muck merchants are national in scope and are closely organized. A smut dealer can produce for a small initial cost obscene photographs or publications which can then be copied by the thousands and then transmitted on an almost endless round of moral destruction. Your child can easily become one of their tragic victims. An aroused public is necessary—one that will not countenance the placing of this trash on public display." Emerson said. "Be sure to read no mean books" ( meaning books of inferior quality). "Consider what you have in the smallest chosen library. A company of the wisest, 718 wittiest men that could be picked out of all civil countries in a thousand years have set in best order the results of their learning and wisdom. Each gives up his grains of gold after the washing." Some people think that television's educational programs are an answer to the mind and soul's requirements for proper training; but Frank C. Baxter, Professor of English Literature at the University of California, at Los Angeles, who has had experience on some of those educational programs, says that your T. V. Set can at best be only an invitation to knowledge. One can't possibly grow up to be educated without wide reading. He said that the spoken word and the animated figure on the screen are fleeting shadows that will not stay to be mastered. Sound goes in one ear and out the other. Only the written word gives students the solid background that underlines all real culture. Besides reading low books that injure our young people's morals, there are other problems which influence them against leading a clean life. Three groups in Philadelphia in 1951 decided to solve those problems before they had a good start. These groups are: First, parents, Second, students, and Third, the school personnel. The problems are: (1) Unreasonable late hours, (2) drinking alcoholic beverages, (3) abuse of car privileges, (4) lack of parental responsibility in chaperoning parties in the homes, (5) a series of home parties after late school functions, (6) party crashing, (7) inappropriate dress, (8) a general disregard for the rights and property of others, (9g) parental acceptance of newer RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 and unsafe freedoms as a trend of the times. After deep study by these three groups of these nine problems, the result was a booklet called "We Can Agree." Every family has one, also every new student. Conditions are improving especially in the area of appropriate dress and party hours. These ideas of agreement in improvement of the young are now spreading to other states and the P. T. A. Is becoming interested. May these ideas be adopted by the whole United States of America so that our morals may be something of which we may be proud. These movements are good, but there is nothing so efficacious as confidence between a wise mother and a willing - to - listen - and - learn sweet young girl. Mother, get close to your daughter. Gain her confidence so that she will have a desire to talk to you after the show, after the dance, after the ride. A few words of wisdom on such occasions may change her desires to read the wrong book, to associate with the wrong boy, to make the wrong marriage. Begin very early with your little girl to build a strong character that she may be able to resist uncleanliness whether physical, mental, or moral. Then, if gentleness, kindness, love, cleanliness, and morality exist in the home, she can look upon the wickedness of the world in disdain and disgust at the low thoughts on the screen and in publications and they will influence her character not one whit. Teach her that according to The Book of Mormon "... Neither can filthiness or anything which is unclean be received into the kingdom of God..." (Alma 7:21). Obedience in All Things Counselor Helen W. Anderson ESUS said, "If ye love me, keep J my commandments.... If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him" (John 14:15, 23). Obedience to his laws and commandments has been a requirement of the Lord ever since the very beginning. If we truly love him, obedience to his laws will not be a difficult requirement. Great and glorious are the promises made to those of God's children who are obedient in all things. And if you keep my commandments and endure to the end you shall have eternal life, which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God (D. & C. 14:7). _ The rewards of those who are partially obedient to the law as compared with the majestic rewards awaiting those who are fully obedient is like comparing the flicker of the early day movies to the superb cinemascope of today. ~The gospel provides a plan of life and salvation to everyone that will render obedience to it. Every law the Lord has given is of such a nature that by keeping it we are preserved, protected, or blessed in some way. If we keep the Word of Wisdom, we are promised that we shall find "wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. And... That the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them" (D. & C. 89:19-21). If we keep the law of tithing, the Lord will "open... The windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it" (Malachi 3:10). If we abide the laws of the land, we are protected and made safe,.-~ The promise is made that America, a land choice above all other lands, will be a land of liberty and freedom to those who possess it, if they will but obey the God of the land, which is Jesus Christ. The universe renders obedience to the will of God. Obedience is required of all the children of the Lord. Of the Savior himself it is recorded, "Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered; And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him..." (Heb. 5:8, 9). The Master concluded his most important sermon by comparing the faithful doer of his words, "liken... Unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock" (Mt. 7:24). We are taught that obedience is the first law of heaven and order is the result. Obedience brings reward; disobedience brings its own punishment. Adam learned and understood the principle of obedience. He was commanded to build altars upon which to offer sacrifices. Page 719 720 Upon one occasion, after having complied with this commandment,... An angel of the Lord appeared unto Adam, saying: Why dost thou offer sacrifices unto the Lord? And Adam said unto him: I know not, save the Lord commanded me. And then the angel spake, saying: This thing is a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, which is full of grace and truth (Moses 5:6, 7). Adam knew that whatever the Lord commanded him to do would be for his best good and benefit; therefore, he never questioned why he should render obedience unto the Lord. The Lord rewarded him after he had fulfilled the commandment of offering up sacrifices, and Adam had a visitation from a divine being, imparting to him the knowledge of why he was to offer sacrifices. Although obedience is a requirement, we are not compelled to obey against our own wishes. 'There is a penalty attached to disobedience which all must suffer who do not obey.. The Lord has laid down certain laws for our guidance and welfare and made promises to us as a result of obedience to these laws. One of the first lessons in obedience we learned as children, and one that will be indelibly written in our memories, was the example of perfect obedience rendered by Abraham in his willingness to place his son Isaac upon the altar, as a sacrifice unto the Lord. Moses taught the children of Israel obedience. He said, "Behold, I set before you this day a blessing and a curse; a blessing, if ye obey the commandments of the Lord your God, which I command you RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 this day"...(Deut. 11:26, 27). However, the children of Israel became disobedient, and turned to the worship of the golden calf. The penalty for disobedience caused them to wander for forty long years in the wilderness before a new generation learned obedience to the Lord. No man had greater opportunity for progress than did Saul, King of Israel. He prophesied among the prophets and was a man greatly beloved of the Lord, but because of his willful disobedience, he was rejected from being King of Israel by the Lord, and was severely rebuked by Samuel: "Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams" (I Samuel 15:22). Obedience should be voluntary, not forced. The Lord promises his blessings if we honor and obey his laws, and not otherwise. "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise" (D. & C. 82:10). Obedience is a positive power; it disciplines the character and reflects a strong, noble spirit; it refines and enlarges the soul. We obey a law because we know it to be right, because we have a desire to do right and because of the blessings promised. Obedience prompted by love brings the greatest happiness man can enjoy. "God delights in a willing heart." - We attain success spiritually and temporally when we obey the laws. Any success is accomplished only by rendering the fullest degree of obedience to the law upon which it has been predicated... There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this OBEDIENCE IN ALL THINGS world, upon which all blessings are predicated—and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated (D. & C. 130:20, 21). As Latter-day Saint women, we are obliged to live and teach complete obedience. We must obey the counsel and instructions of the constituted Authority of the Church. We should sustain the Priesthood and hearken to the words of the living oracles and all the words of the authorized servants of God. Brigham Young said that women do exert a great influence in guiding the destinies of men and of nations. The women of the Church can exert a great influence for good, in their homes, in the Church, and in the world, by living and teaching the saving principle of obedience to the gospel. We have a responsibility for the total effect our influence will have in the lives of others. 721 President McKay said, "Men and women who obey the principles of life and salvation, sincerely repent of their sins, and as sincerely strive to live in accordance with the principles of the gospel, are guided and inspired by the Holy Ghost, and are shown things to come" (Gospel Ideals, page 147). He also said, "Obedience to the gospel means merely compliance with the laws of health and happiness. It means keeping the body undefiled and the spirit in tune with the infinite" (Cherished Experiences, page 10). Verily, thus saith the Lord: It shall come to pass that every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that Iam... (D. & C. 93:1). What a glorious promise to those who will live for it! Loves &quation Luett Stantliff sa short span of mortal existence never follows a straight course, but, rather, "a spiral with rhythms of progress and retrogression, of evolution and dissolution,'? In which time teaches that all true values are spiritual and eternal, while earth-life is but a passing experience in which we now see "through a glass darkly" in the exploration The most precious gift man can bring to Christ is love for his neighbor—that human interest in the needs of his fellow man which is inspired by God. The offering of love and sympathy expects no return, asks for no rewards, and finds its own joy full in the giving alone. The lessons of love are the jewels we must treasure. Material gifts, fine as they may be, are only the symbols of love and the tokens of need. Time dissolves them, but the jewels of spiritual value are oriented into the fabric of character. These jewels can never dissolve. They will shine on forever. And expectation of life, of hope, and of promise.. Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford (Prepared for delivery at the 1957 Annual General Relief Society Conference which was cancelled.) wish to commend stake and ward officers for the able direction they are giving to Relief Society. Organizations and Reorganizations The stakes of the Church are increasing in number, gratifying evidence of the growing strength of the Church. At the close of 1956, there were 235 stake Relief Society organizations, an increase of twelve over 1955. 'There were 202 new local Relief Societies organized during 1956, making a total of 3,939 ward and branch societies at the close of the year. 'There were forty-five mission organizations as compared to fortyfour for 1955. During 1956 there were forty reorganizations in the stakes and twelve reorganizations in the missions. Missions Through the missionary program of the Church the work of Relief Society is being extended to the far corners of the earth. It will be of interest to you to know that on April 3, 1957, the first Relief Society was organized in Hong Kong in the Southern Far East Mission for the Chinese sisters. Relief Societies are being organized for the sisters where Latter-day Saint servicemen are located, for example in Spain, Libya, Okinawa, and elsewhere. The majority of these sisters are young women. We pray for their wellbeing. Page 722 Generally speaking, the work of Relief Society in the missions is progressing along all lines. Membership We are happy to report to you at this time an increase in the Churchwide Relief Society membership during 1956 of 9,209 making a total of 172,722 enrolled members. The membership gain for 1956 was approximately 2,000 greater than for the previous year. In view of the growing trend of women working and the many other activities which engage women today, this gain is gratifying. It is evidence of alertness on the part of officers in interesting women in the work of the society. Undoubtedly, careful consideration is being given to holding meetings at the hour most convenient for the greatest number of available members. "Why should every L. D. S. Woman be identified with Relief Society as a member?" In answer we reply, "Because it gives her a living, growing testimony of the gospel; it affords her opportunity to render wisely directed service to her fellow men; it enables her to serve her Church through the organization given to the women of the Church by our Heavenly Father; it offers her rich educational opportunities; it gives her intellectual and spiritual contacts with women of like ideals and beliefs; it helps her to be a good wife, mother, and REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS homemaker; it affords her opportunity to form choice and _ lasting friendships. Relief Society deserves her loyalty because it was divinely organized for the women of the Church and has had divinely inspired guidance through the years." Visiting Teaching The visiting teaching program continues to engage the time and efforts of Relief Society officers, as well as 69,984 visiting teachers who constitute 40.51 per cent of the membership of the Society. Figures for 1956 show approximately three million visits were made or an average of 8.46 per cent to each Latterday Saint family. There are in every neighborhood many aged, lonely, or troubled people who may have no special temporal needs, but who need friendly interest, assurance, encouragement, spiritual uplift, and peace of mind. There are sometimes those whose temporal needs may be causing anxiety or even suffering. 'The visiting teaching program deals with all of these human needs. The Educational Program Theology Course: The excellence of the courses of study and the good teaching procedures being followed by the 14,147 class leaders are important factors in the growth of Relief Society and attendance at the regular meetings. A new theology course of study begins this year to be continued for several years. 'I'he course is to be a section by section study of the Doctrine and Covenants. 'The Doctrine and Covenants, containing the words of the Lord to this dispensation, will be the text. 723 It is hoped that during the period covered by this course of study every member of the Relief Society will read and study the entire book of the Doctrine and Covenants; however, no report on the number of sisters reading the book will be called for by the general board, as was done with regard to reading The Book of Mormon. The Book of Mormon Reading Project: We are pleased to announce, with regard to The Book of Mormon reading project, that there were 3,216 wards and branches out of a possible 3,938 which submitted reports. 'The reports showed 163,713 members participating. Of this number 76,989 or 47.03 per cent read the section covered by the lessons for the year 1956-57. 'There were 64,859 or 37.55 per cent of the total Church-wide Relief Society membership who read the entire Book of Mormon during the sixyear period in which the project was carried forward. Testimony Period: At one of our recent conferences, attention was called to words of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Which I would like to repeat: The sole ultimate aim and purpose of the auxiliary organizations of the Church is to plant and make grow in every member of the Church a testimony of the divinity of the Christ and of the gospel, of the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith and of the Church, and to bring the people to order their lives in accordance with the laws and principles of the restored gospel and of the Priesthood (The Relief Society Magazine, December, 1950, page 815). A special period has been set 724 aside at the theology meeting for testimony bearing. 'The theology class leader has opportunity through her preparation and presentation of lesson material to create an atmosphere conducive to the bearing of testimony, and to awaken in the sisters a desire to express their appreciation to their Heavenly Father for their blessings and to bear witness of the truths of the gospel. To slight the testimony period is to deny the sisters an important opportunity, privilege, and blessing. Visiting Teacher Messages: The visiting teacher messages, as heretofore, are planned to correlate with the theology lessons. The messages, "Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants," are taken from those sections of the book which will be studied in the theology course. You will find these lessons practical and illustrated with pertinent examples which can easily be applied to the lives of the sisters. Literature Course:. Those sisters who have enjoyed the first year of "Shakespeare in Our Lives," will eagerly anticipate a second year of this study in the literature department. Social Science Course: The social science course, "Latter-day Saint Family Life,' goes into its second year. Latter-day Saint families are not without problems, but these problems can be met and solved better when seen in proper perspective and when the solutions applied are based on Church teachings. 'The social science course for the coming year will give further consideration to the Latter-day Saint family in its role of returning its members to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 presence of our Heavenly Father. Do not underestimate the need for and the importance of this course. The Work Meeting: The work meeting was the third best attended meeting during 1956. The Home Management lessons for 1957-58, "Living More Abundantly," are planned to help the sisters live more abundantly through the wise handling of the family income. 'These lessons are expertly written. Surely, no one would question the necessity of them in a day of steadily rising living costs. We highly recommend their use by the wards. The question has been asked, "May a separate department be held for the Home Management lessons at union meeting?" In response, we say, "Authorization has been granted stakes to invite the Home Management discussion leaders to attend the work meeting department in the union meeting." It is expected that time will be allotted there for a consideration of this discussion course. Home Management discussion leaders are regarded as sisters with a special assignment. In attending the union meeting they are recorded as visitors. With regard to bazaars, I remind you again that bazaars should be an outgrowth of the regular work meeting activities insofar as possible. Although credit is given in the record book for articles assigned by and made under the supervision of Relief Society, even though none or only a small portion of the work is actually done at the work meeting, it would seem desirable to have as much of the work done at the work meeting as possible. It has been reported that for varied reasons officers REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS sometimes prefer to have sewing done away from the work meeting. This is not consistent with the purposes of the day. With regard to recording the number of articles of sewing completed, in the chart included in the minutes of the work meeting, the general board has ruled that only sewed articles, or articles requiring some sewing, are to be considered. You would not count crocheted doilies or crocheted tablecloths or crocheted articles of clothing on which there is no sewing. 'This interpretation of the ruling supersedes any other instructions you may have received. Music: We are happy to report that at the close of 1956 there was a total of 2,299 wards and branches having Singing Mothers choruses, with 34,621 singers participating in the choruses. 'Too much cannot be said in praise of these choruses, and the good being accomplished by them. The Relief Society Magazine We greatly appreciate the excellent work done by stake and ward, mission and branch Magazine representatives, as well as the strong support given by the Relief Society presidencies. An outstanding record was made during 1956. 'The annual report showed a paid subscription list of 148,562. There were 222 stakes on the Honor Roll. 'There were 1949 wards on the Honor Roll. There were fifteen missions listed, and 642 districts and branches. Increases were shown over 1955 in each instance. We recognize that special abilities, a vast amount of time, and 725 continuous effort are all needed to sell the Magazine. We recognize, also, that the representatives must be women truly devoted to Relief Society and fully converted to the value of the Magazine. We realize that all of these factors will be called into full play now that it has become necessary to increase the subscription price from $1.50 to $2 per year. We are confident that we can count on your full support in the action that has been necessary for us to take, and that you will urge ward officers to give special encouragement and support to the ward Magazine representatives during the period of adjustment to the new price. Welfare With regard to our welfare activities, I am reminded today of the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith when he said at the sixth meeting of the society. "... This is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads." Relief Society is endeavoring to meet its responsibility to the poor and needy by giving full support to the Church Welfare program and by rendering in ever-increasing amounts the so-called compassionate services. The average number of women participating in welfare sewing at work meetings during 1956 was 8,347, while 2,822 sewed at the sewing centers. There were 23,839 women who participated in welfare projects other than sewing. 'These figures are all increases over those of the previous year. Figures show a substantial increase 726 in number of visits made by ward Relief Society presidents to families in need under the direction of the respective bishops. However, there were fewer women receiving service who helped on welfare projects, who sewed at work meeting or who sewed for themselves. I call this to your attention in order that you may give greater emphasis to the importance of having these sisters do so. Compassionate Services The compassionate services continue to expand. During 1956 there were 255,719, or an increase of 7,841 visits made to the sick and the homebound. There was a total of 26,148 eight-hour days of bedside nursing care given the sick on a volunteer basis by assignment of ward Relief Society presidents. 'This was an increase of 638 over 1955. 'The number of funerals at which Relief Society assisted was 7,371 or an increase of 203 over the previous year. The Nurse Survey The Nurse Survey forms were sent to you again in August. They should be returned not later than December 15th. It is important that these lists be kept up and that the requested information be fully and accurately supplied. We also encourage you once again to provide instruction, where possible, in home nursing for Relief Society members. We suggest once again that you consult your local Red Cross chapters to ascertain whether or not they are in a position to co-operate with you in conducting such classes. It is our understanding that the Red Cross plans to conduct, in some areas, classes in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 mother and baby care. We suggest that you watch for these and advise the members of them. In view of the continuing shortage of nurses, we again encourage you to acquaint yourselves with available opportunities for both practical and registered nurse training, and to encourage sisters to take nurse training courses who are interested, qualified, and suitably situated. Funds. We are pleased to note that during 1956 Relief Societies were able to maintain themselves financially and in many instances also made contributions to building and other programs directed by Priesthood authorities. It is suggested that when money is raised by Relief Society at the request of the stake president or bishop to be turned to him for some specified purpose, that the total earnings from the project be entered in the "earnings" column of the Relief Society Record Book, and that expenses incident to the activity be entered in the Disbursement Column as expenses and that the money turned to the stake president or bishop be given in the form of a check and the amount also be entered in the Disbursement Column with a notation in the Remarks Column, indicating the purpose for which it was disbursed. Activities on a Stake Basis Discouraged Reports reaching the general office lead us to remind you of a recommendation made to you a number of years ago as follows: We note a growing tendency for stake boards to bring the wards together for REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS functions that could more appropriately be conducted in the individual wards. As a general rule it is more convenient for the members, more women participate, fuller interest is felt, and greater benefits accrue to the sisters and to the society when functions are conducted in the individual wards (The Relief Society Magazine, "Report and Official Instructions," December 1949, page 809). This, of course, would not apply to stake visiting teacher conventions. The general board discourages wards combining for special programs and activities. In some instances this appears to be done where wards have been divided and both wards use the same meetinghouse. Wards are divided for wise and specific purposes, and the Relief Society activities, insofar as possible, should be conducted separately. Reports have reached us of ward Relief Societies combining for the March and November Sunday evening programs where more than one ward uses the meetinghouse, and the question is asked, "May each participating ward credit itself in the Ward Record Book with having held the special program?" 'The answer to this is "No." Only one meeting was actually held. Only the ward under whose auspices the meeting was conducted, would take credit for the meeting. The other ward or wards would be regarded as visitors. Length of Mectings We call your attention to the ruling in the Relief Society Hand- 727 book, page 76, with regard to the length of the regular meetings: The regular meetings for the general membership held on the first, third, and fourth 'Tuesdays of each month October through May are planned to cover a period of one and one-half hours. The Relief Society Building It has been just a year since the beautiful Relief Society Building was dedicated. You may be interested to know that since its dedication, 58,859 persons (Latter-day Saint and non-Latter-day Saint) have visited the building, many of whom were from far distant places. Many favorable and gratifying comments have been made concerning the building, of which the following is representative: I have recently had opportunity to go through the new Relief Society Building. Not only the structure itself in its beautiful elegance but the quality of the work carried on there for the betterment of people everywhere throughout your Church make we want to congratulate you in highest terms. 'There is a spirit of peace and reverence in the building which one likes to associate with the type of work your organization is engaged in doing. My visit to your building was one of the very choice experiences of my travels throughout the United States. We are deeply grateful for the devotion and capabilities of the Relief Society sisters throughout the Church. May the Lord bless the wonderful women of Relief Society, and may he bless the great organization to which we belong. A Sriends Grace Ingles Frost I thank the Lord for all my friends, As this day of gratitude extends Its festive hours.... For of what should I more grateful be Than for the friends God gave to me? She Spanish-American ITlission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE Spanish-American Mission was formed at a meeting held in Los Angeles, California, on June 28, 1936, under the direction of Elder Reed Smoot of the Council of the Twelve. On that occasion the Mexican Mission was divided; the Republic of Mexico was designated as the Mexican Mission, and the Spanish-speaking people residing north of the border of the United States and Mexico, were included in the new Spanish-American Mission. Orlando C. Williams was chosen as the first president and was set apart for this office by Elder Smoot. El] Paso, 'Texas, was chosen as the headquarters of the mission. President Williams served until August 1, 1940, when he was succeeded by David F. Haymore. President Haymore was succeeded in March 1943 by Lorin F'. Jones. President Jones served for a period of ten years, until December 1953, when he was succeeded by Harold I. Bowman, who presides at the present time. In October 1955, a conference of Spanish-speaking saints from the Spanish-American and Mexican Missions, was held at Mesa, Arizona. President David O. McKay was present and addressed them. Harvey Patteson & Son Photograph submitted by Nina N. Bowman TEXAS LONG-HORN CATTLE This herd, owned by Mr. Greaves Peel of Christine, Texas, is said to be the last large herd of long-horn cattle in Texas. Page 728 THE SPANISH-AMERICAN MISSION 729 New Mexico State Tourist Bureau Photograph submitted by Nina N. Bowman HEADWATERS OF THE RIO GRANDE RIVER NORTHERN NEW MEXICO "He commended them for their faithfulness and interest in Temple Work, and reminded them that they had made Church History ten years before, when, in 1945, the Temple ceremony was given for the first time in a foreign tongue. 'It was because of your faithfulness and diligence,' he declared, 'that we were impressed to give other people the opportunity of receiving these blessings in their own language.' " At the end of July 1957, there were 3,800 members of the Church in the Spanish-American Mission, located in thirty-seven branches. 'These branches are located in New Mexico, Arizona, California, Colorado, and Texas. In July, 134 missionaries were laboring in the mission. Thirty-five Relief Society organizations, with 513 members, were teported in December 1956. Nina N. Bowman presides over the SpanishAmerican Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, "Transient 'Tower, San Antonio, Texas,'"' was submitted by Nina N, Bowman. Sce also "Recipes From the Spanish-American Mission," pase 744. The Christmas Cards Dorothy Boys Kilian RS. Alice Colts, rocking idly in the deep-cushioned platform rocker, stared out the front window into the early December twilight. Nowadays she put off lighting the lamps as long as possible; in the deep shadows it was easier to pretend that Harry's chair was not empty. He had been gone over a year, and she knew she ought not to brood and knew that Harry would say she was much too young to waste her time this way. But she did allow herself this half hour or so at the close of each lonesome day. Besides, she rationalized, it saved electricity, and goodness knows she had to use her funds carefully now. She stopped rocking as she saw a small boy skid his bicycle to a stop on the snowy walk out front. Like a young colt he vaulted over the low gate and hurried up the path towards the porch. A newsboy? Mrs. Colts wondered. As she started for the front door, she could hear him whistling bits of "God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen." She smiled wistfully. 'The holidays were a wonderful time for the youngsters! "Good evening, Ma'am," the ruddy-cheeked boy said cheerfully. "I'm selling Christmas cards. I have just this one box left, and I thought maybe you'd...." Mrs. Colts couldn't bear to have him go on. "I'm sorry," she interrupted gently. "I'm not sending out any cards this year." The boy's eyes widened, Page 730 ~ Why, I thought everybody sent Christmas cards!" She could see he was genuinely surprised. "Well, maybe someday again," she said. "Right now, I'm just not in the mood." "What will your friends think?" the boy asked, and somehow he managed not to sound fresh. "Oh, I think they'll understand," she answered lightly. "Now, if you will excuse me, it's pretty cold standing here with the door open...." "Please, if you could only take this one box!" The boy apparently didn't realize he had been dismissed. "You see," he went on eagerly, "if I sell a dozen boxes I get a bonus and that will give me enough to buy those ice skates for my brother. This is the twelfth box." He held it out toward her. "Well, you haven't even shown me the cards,' Mrs. Colts said, smiling. Just like her little grandson back in Cleveland, getting so excited over something he'd leave out half the story. "Oh, yes, sure," the boy laughed sheepishly. He snatched off the lid of the box. "See?" he said proudly. "The newest kind—these long thin ones with modern pictures." M*. Colts, whose tastes ran to old-fashioned snow scenes with green fir trees and red barns, gazed down at a tan deer with an elongated head and pointed ears who stared fixedly at her from a funereal black background. Stifling a groan, THE CHRISTMAS CARDS she glanced back up at the boy. He was smiling at her, obviously with complete confidence in her good judgment. "How much?" Mrs. Colts quavered. "Only a dollar for the box." "Vl take it." Even from the coat closet where she had gone to get her purse, she could hear the youngster breathing out a long happy sigh. She put the box of cards away in the desk, thinking that possibly next year she would use them. 'That is, if she somehow managed to survive this present lonely holiday season. Maybe she should have accepted her son Fred's invitation to come out to Cleveland after all. But he and his wife were living in a tiny apartment and were crowded enough with young Freddy. No, she had made the right decision, painful as it was. As she started sadly for the kitchen to cook herself a bite of supper, the doorbell rang. Startled, Mrs. Colts turned back to the front of the house. On the porch stood a little old woman, shoulders bent, with a huge black handbag on her arm. "I don't suppose," the woman said hesitantly, drawing a box from the bag, "that you'd be interested in buying a few cards?" Mrs. Colts stared at her unbelievingly. "T know it's pretty late," the woman went on in a tired, thin tone, "but I thought maybe you'd need a few extra at the last minute." Mrs. Colts found her voice at last. "Why, I bought some from a young boy just a few minutes ago," she said kindly. 731 The woman didn't seem surprised. She nodded her head sadly. "Yes, your neighbors said somebody else had just been through this street," she said. "Well, thank you anyway." She put the box back in her bag and stepped carefully down the first step of the porch. Why, she isn't half trying, Mrs. Colts thought. Somehow she felt as irritated as if she were the one who was missing out on a sale. "Just a minute," she said briskly. "What kind of cards do you have?" The woman turned back. "Oh, just the usual," she said dispiritedly. "The village church, the skating pond and such." "That's just the type most of us older people like," Mrs. Colts said firmly. "Come in for a minute, and we'll have a look at them together." She felt a warm glow as she saw a shadow of hope creep into the faded gray eyes confronting her. Fifteen minutes later she said goodbye and Merry Christmas to a smiling old Mrs. Ames and sat down at the desk to re-examine her two new boxes of greeting cards. The old-fashioned scenes brought back a flood of happy memories, and it wasn't long until she had decided that it would be kind of nice to send a few cards this year, at least to her dearest friends. UPPER forgotten, she found her address book and set to work. Fortunately, the majority of her friends knew of Harry's passing, so she didn't have to write that. In fact, in most cases she merely wrote on the card "Love, Alice" and popped it into its envelope. By seven o'clock she had gone through the usual list of folks that 732 she and Harry had sent to in recent years. She still had several cards left though, and she sat turning them over on the desk. Staring at a picture of a group of carolers under a street lamp, she thought back to the old high school crowd who used to go out singing together on Christmas Eve. And then John would take her home afterwards. John Roberts was her first beau. She hadn't really thought of him in years. When she'd left Stevenstown to take a job in a city office, they had just drifted apart. She had met and married Harry, and she had heard that John had married Vera Higgins, a home girl, a couple of years afterwards. Pll just send them a card, she thought, light-heartedly. No harm done after all these years, and they certainly will be surprised. She addressed a card to Mr. And Mrs. John Roberts, Stevenstown, Ohio, but of course, they might have moved away years ago. Three days later Mrs. Colts arrived home from the post office in the cold dusk of late afternoon and let herself in the front door. All day she had been working against time, finishing the homemade gifts for her son's family. 'This was the last possible day she could mail the package and be sure of its getting to Cleveland on time. No reason why she couldn't have got those mittens for Freddy knitted long ago, or the white party stole for Lucille, or the Argyle socks for big Fred. Certainly, she thought ruefully, she'd had plenty of time on her hands this fall. She took off her wraps and was about to sit down in the chair by the window as usual. Suddenly, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 perhaps because of the memory of the bustling crowds, the laughing faces, and the festive decorations downtown, she rebelled. "Is this all I'm going to do with the rest of my life?" she asked herself. Determinedly, she strode over to the table lamp in the front window. As she bent to switch it on, the corner of her eye caught a shadow out by the front gate. A man was standing there, a long box under his arm, one hand on the latch, staring in at the unlighted house. He half opened the gate, then allowed it to swing shut again. Instantly, Mrs. Colts recognized the symptoms of a reluctant salesman. She took her hand away from the light switch. I can't go through all that again, she thought wildly. Anyway, doesn't the poor fellow realize it's too late to be selling cards? HEN, as she watched, the man slowly took his hand off the gate, pulled up his coat collar, and began to turn away. "Oh, well," Mrs. Colts sighed resignedly as she switched on the light. "I guess it won't kill me to buy a dollar box for next year." As the cheerful patch of light fell on the snow-covered front lawn, the man turned back, opened the gate and started up the path. Before Mrs. Colts left the window, she had time to note, with a vague disquietude, that there was something oddly familiar about his stride. She snapped on the porch light and opened the door. 'The man was just reaching out to press the bell, but when he saw her he put his hand up to his hat instead, swept it off and stood there, silver-haired and smiling. "Alice!" he said quictly. THE CHRISTMAS CARDS Mrs. Colts stared at him. "John, John Roberts!" she exclaimed at last. "Why, I thought you were...." she laughed hysterically and pointed to the box in his hand. "I thought you were another Christmas card salesman. I was just about to be soft-hearted again and buy some more that I couldn't possibly use." John Roberts chuckled. "I'm glad, though, you bought those you did, Alice. Otherwise I wouldn't have learned your whereabouts again after all these years. I gathered from the way you signed the card that Harry is...." "Yes," Mrs. Colts said softly, "over a year ago. It was hard...." "I know," John said gently. "My Vera, too, three years ago." They looked at each other with warm compassion. Then John Roberts squared his shoulders. "If you'll allow me to come in," after thirty-five years, his eyes had the same twinkle, "you can find out what's really in that box." "Of course, John." Mrs. Colts stepped back apologetically. "My goodness, I'm so _ surprised I'm completely forgetting my manners. ») 733 Come in and take your coat off." "This is a pleasant room!" John exclaimed, looking around him at the book-lined shelves, the easy chairs, the open hearth, the warm lamplight. "Yes, it is," Mrs. Colts found herself agreeing heartily. It did seem to have a glow about it that she hadn't been aware of for a long time. "Now, perhaps we could build a little fire in the fireplace—the wood's right here in the basket," she told him gaily. "An excellent idea. That was a cold walk up from the depot," John said, smiling. "By the way,' Mrs. Colts paused in the door, on her way to the kitchen, "you said you'd tell me what was in that box." John, already on his knees before the fireplace, looked back at her over his shoulder. "Peanut brittle," he said, grinning. "Remember when I was courting you, I used to bring you pounds of the stuff—couldn't afford chocolates." Mrs. Colts smiled mistily. "Yes, I remember," she said softly and started down the hall with a lighter step than had been heard in that house for many a day. > Deft nition Bessie I. Peterson The meaning of Thanksgiving? The fragrant, spicy scent of pumpkin pie, The burnished gloss of turkey bursting with complacent pride, The gleam of silver, gossamer the shine of candles Burning side by side on cherished linen, The time for fun and laughter, warmth of cozy fireside, The gratitude for peace expressed in quiet thanks to God— All this is Thanksgiving! Shopping Yesterday Elaine Reiser HE community general store in grandfather's day stood as a monument to a man's willingness to serve his community. As the village storekeeper, he invested his money in stocks of merchandise —dried fruits, nuts, cookies, buttons, parasols, moustache curlers, washboards, sunbonnets, and medicines —to have on hand for his faithful customers. Here was a man willing to invest his money in hundreds of items of merchandise and to wait and wait until his customers wanted what he had and were willing to pay him for it. Though the general store of yesterday is not to be found in many places, one such store has been reproduced in the Sons of the Utah Pioneers Village in Salt Lake City, Utah. 'This store was owned and managed by Mr. A. Warr of Kamas, Utah, until his death. At that time the store became the property of his niece and nephew who were the beneficiaries of his will. However, they themselves were along in years and had no interest in running a general store. 'They closed it and had the doors and windows barricaded. It was in this condition that Mr. Horace A. Sorenson found the store in 1953. After he opened the windows and doors, photographs of the interior were taken in order that the store could be reproduced authentically in the Pioneer Village, 3000 Connor Street (2150 East), Salt Lake City. Kamas residents who once traded with Mr. Warr and who have visited the Village testify to the store's authenticity. Page 734 The store was the center of community life, as evidenced by the potbellied stove in the center of the room surrounded by hard, wooden chairs and a checkerboard, to add to the convenience and relaxation of the customers. Within the small store, slightly larger than an average American living room, are combined a men's and ladies' ready-to-wear, hardware, grocery, apothecary, toy, and notions store. The goods on the shelves are just as the shopkeeper left them, with prices marked and ledger entries made for all products. A variety of grinders are priced at 15c, cuff links, soc, stuffed toys and wooden wagons 15¢ to 4oc, checker sets 100, silk and gold threaded evening bags $1.50, ladies hose 15c, a yard of silk 19¢. As a trained apothecary, Mr. Warr offered veterinary supplies, camphor, alum, and a special of glycerated asafetida—a bag to be worn around the neck to kill all germs and therefore ensure good health. Within five steps of the pharmacy are complete supplies for the horse and buggy, including whips, carriage bumpers, axle grease, and _horseshoes. The leather-handled buggy whips are marked at 5oc. For the ladies, "gay-nineties" bathing suits, navy blue with white trim, hang at one end of the store. An 'ample red flannel nightgown with matching cap waits to be sold for a few pounds of butter or a leg of pork. High-button shoes and middy blouses are still in their boxes, waiting for stylish customers. SHOPPING YESTERDAY atl Beal Photograph Courtesy Sons of the Utah Pioneers 735 Visiting the Country Store, Pioneer Village, Salt Lake City, Utah, left to night: Dr. Joel E. Ricks; Horace A. Sorensen, Managing Director of the Pioneer Village, explaining the treasure-trove of yesterday; Mrs. McKay; President David O. McKay; Mrs. Ricks. ANGING from the ceiling are hardware supplies, toast racks, tin pots and cups, and stove lid lifters. Also hanging from the ceiling on a spring rack are glass chimney lamps, from which customers chose the proper neck opening and style for their own homes. Along the top shelf of the store is a lending library, and below the counter are local newspapers and a magazine or two, for the customer who enjoys visiting and reading by the warm stove. Herbs and spices are preserved in tin boxes in the grocery section. A bag of sassafras bark rests on top of the tins, and a jar of nutmeg stands on the counter. Near the jar is a nutmeg grater, as usable today as in the old store yesterday. Practicing good business, the storekeeper offered community use of his egg scale, arch fitter, shoe button adjuster, and weighted pencil pointer. Mr. Warr's store, unentombed after twenty years and transplanted from Kamas to the Pioneer Village, resurrects authentically an aspect of back-country life that is vivid and remarkable for the daring and imagination of the merchant. 'The great range and variety of goods bespeak the enterprise and resourcefulness of the community servant of yesterday — the country general storekeeper. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN or ALL NartIons" THE QUEEN'S THANKS TO HER PEOPLE: It is difficult for me on this occasion to say how truly touched and grateful I am for the spontaneous outburst of loyal affection which I have experienced on the completion of the sixtieth year of my Reign. During my progress through London on June 22, this great enthusiasm was shown in the most striking manner, and can never be effaced from my heart.... —Victoria, R. I. From Englishwoman's Review REFLECTIONS OF A PIONEER: My faith has been from early childhood when first taught to repeat my evening prayer.... Surely impressions made in youth are more lasting, the mind then being like a sheet of white paper and impressions are clear, not confused.... This pioneer feels an anxious desire that the youth may see the Gospel in its own true light, which when accomplished will fill their souls with light and joy and peace, it being the gift of the Holy Ghost, the Comforter. May we be fit temples for the indwelling of this good spirit, for it must have a pure heart to inhabit, it will not accept any other.... —Zion's Convert BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY The uncut stone is of little worth, Tempered with care is the choicest steel; So our lives are made the more sublime, By the tears we shed and woes we feel.. « « The discipline that each soul requires Is meted out by a loving hand; When fully developed, thy call will be, Daughter, return to thy Fatherland. —Nellie RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: The October general conference of the Relief Society was held in the large Tabernacle... October 7... Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding... Spoke a few minutes and welcomed the sisters affectionately; told the sisters she loved them as well as she was capable of loving, and appreciated their labor and works of charity and love.... President Emma J. Bennett of Bingham Stake... Felt there was no greater work than the one we are engaged in, and spoke of the laying up of grain—they had 1800 bushels now and expected to have more this harvest... President Temperance Hinckley, Bannock Stake, reported... They had to travel a distance of 600 miles around in visiting the branches.... President Mabel A. Hakes, of Maricopa Stake, thought we would laugh if we knew how they tried to store grain in five gallon tin cans.... An Indian sister had admonished them that to pray more in time of sickness and have more faith would lessen the sickness, and give them more time to go to meeting.... The Indians preserve wheat in baskets and cement it over. There are 1300 Indians in Maricopa Stake and only 1800 white people.... President Mary B. Eyring of Juarez Stake, Mexico... Felt the sisters improved in a temporal way, there were not many who had to be provided for, and they had the necessaries of life if they had not the luxuries.... —F. B. Wells, Sec, Page 736 RS. EMILY SMITH STEWART, daughter of the late President of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, George Albert Smith, has been appointed a member of the National Women's Advisory Committee of the March of Dimes organization. Mrs. Stewart is one of fifteen outstanding leaders in civic, church, public affairs, and educational circles in the United States who were appointed to this committee by Basil O'Connor, President of the March of Dimes organization. On September 27th, 1957, Mrs. Smith was given a special citation from President Eisenhower in commendation for her exceptional contribution in advancing the welfare and employment of the physically handicapped. BLSIE C. CARROLL and MARYHALE WOOLSEY, well-known contributors to The Relief Society Magazine, in August, received awards in the first writing contest sponsored by the Utah State Institute of Fine Arts for unpublished work. Mrs. Carroll was awarded first place for her novel "First Wife,' and Mrs. Woolsey received first prize in the short story section for her entry "Forever in My Heart." Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RS. Alberta H. Christensen, member of the general board of Relief Society, was awarded first prize in the unpublished poetry division at the annual Round-up of the League of Utah Writers held in Ogden, Utah, in September. Other contributors to The Relief Society Magazine who received awards were: Ouida Johns Pedersen, Rosa Lee Lloyd, Olive W. Burt, Mabel S. Harmer, Maryhale Woolsey, Lael W. Hill, Alice Morrey Bailey, Eva Willis Wangsgaard, Pansye H. Powell, and Elsie C. Carroll. RANCINE FELT, of Salt Lake City, Miss Utah in the Miss America contest for 1957, tied for the national talent prize with Miss Kentucky. Each won a $1,000 scholarship. Miss Felt, an active Latterday Saint girl, played the violin. She is in the violin section of the Utah State Symphony. RANDMA MOSES, of Eagle Bridge, New York, celebrated her ninety-seventh birthday in September. Mrs. Moses (Anna Mary Robertson Moses) began painting at the age of seventy-eight and has painted nearly two thousand _pictures. Her best known paintings are "The Old Oaken Bucket," and "The Checkered House." Page 737 CQ— > EDITORIAL c~O VOL. 44 NOVEMBER 1957 NO. 11 Gold. And Srankincense, and Myrch "And when they were come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary his mother, and fell down, and worshipped him: and when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts; gold, and frankincense, and myrrh" (Matthew 2:11). Gold, and _ frankincense, and myrrh were the first Christmas gifts. They were presented to the young Child by wise men from the East who had followed the star across the wilderness to the hills of Judea and the little town of Bethlehem. Gold, and frankincense, and myrrh were precious commodities in ancient times—gold from Ophir, frankincense, a fragrant gum from olibanum trees; myrrh, an aromatic resin from the Commiphora trees of Africa and Arabia, a resin mixed with labdanum from the rockrose of the East. Precious gifts brought by wise men to a Child whom they worshipped as King. To Bethlehem, in the land of Judaea, came also the shepherds, who watched their flocks in the hills roundabout the village. Having seen the glory in the heavens, they came with haste, and perhaps the only gifts they brought were themselves and the faith and reverence in their hearts, although many great artists have painted the manger scene with shepherds holding young lambs in their arms. Since the first Christmas they who come bearing gifts to their loved ones, and those who send messages afar, have realized the simplicity and joy of the gifts of rememPage 738 brance. And now, in a time of many strange and wonderful commodities, we are at times beset with perplexity, and we question our own wisdom in the selection of remembrances, Let us recall that gifts are symbols of love and thoughtfulness, and as symbols they bear a greater treasure than their commercial cost. Surely they can be measured only in the precious coin of love exchanged in the family circle and outward into wider areas of benevolence as the heart and the times may allow. As the wise men of old brought the treasures of their country, as the shepherds came, perhaps, emptyhanded to the manger, yet with reverence in their hearts, so let us give of that which is ours to present, whether it be a costly remembrance or only a message to bind together those who may be far from each other. For many, the planning of gifts may be a continuing joy to the giver, for during all the months of the year there are ways to fill the Christmas treasure chest—gifts to be made from one home to another, and personal gifts — handmade remembrances, heirloom gifts — gifts for the children and the aged — comfort and commodities for the unfortunate. For all of these, time and thought are more necessary than money—and often more appreciated by those who receive the offerings at Christmas time. A woman in her home may think EDITORIAL of winter-flowering hyacinths to be planted in the fall; she may carefully tend an African violet plant from its single planted leaf to its time of blooming, a lovely gift for any home. Another woman might give geranium plants raised from slips or seeds, or present a rose-flowered begonia— easy to start from a slip—yet typical of the gracious beauty of her home. Some women, in the seasons of fruit, set aside a number of glasses of jelly, or jam, or marmalade, designating the sunlit day when the color and flavor of fruit were stored for winter use — for gifts from one home to another. Then, there are the ancient and ever-new crafts and arts, paintings, etchings, needlework, and homesewed clothing. One woman collects flowers from her garden, beginning with the narcissus of. Spring, and ending with the late chrysanthemums. She carefully presses the flowers and combines them in exquisite designs for pictures, which she frames and sends as gifts at Christmas time. Another woman collects discarded clothing and makes braided or woven rugs, and these are highly prized in many homes and among housewives who treasure this cottage craft. Innumerable are the gifts which can be exchanged in families—the picture of an honored forefather, copied and sent with a short biography to someone interested in her heritage; a long-treasured vase or 738 plate sent by an older person to some young woman who is building her home; a treasured book brought over the seas and the plains and given by a grandmother to the granddaughter who bears her name; a piece of pillowslip lace, long ago netted by the flaring light of a campfire in the desert — a gift long-loved, but given to another who will sew the lace on new linen and place the pillows in a young girl's bedroom. For children at Christmas, there are many gifts beyond the expensive mechanical toys, the silken dolls, the bicycles, tricycles, and trains, which may be given. A rag doll, with a varied wardrobe made from scraps of cloth, would be long treasured by a little girl. Stuffed calico animals have delighted children through the long generations, and every woman knows the joys that decorated homemade cookies can bring. The family can make in the evening hours, shelves and _ tables and doll houses, small carved chests, and even a rocking horse. Gifts generous of time and thought, are given from the heart and the hands, and from one's own storehouse of treasures. 'They are symbols of love among families and friends; they are the lasting evidence of good will among men. Large gifts and small gifts are heart-messages in memory of the simplicity and saving grace of the first Christmas. —V. P. C. Srratum Revier Society MEMBERSHIP IN THE SouTH AUSTRALIAN MISSION N the August issue of The Relief Society Magazine, page 497; the total Relief Society branches in the South Australian Mission was given as ten branches, with 177 members. We are happy to call to your attention the correct figures: fifteen organizations, with 332 members. Notes TO THE FIELD Annual General Reliof Society Conference Cancelled N harmony with the action taken by the First Presidency in cancelling the General Church Conference, the Annual General Relief Society Conference, scheduled for October 2d and 3d, 1957, was cancelled This action was taken as a precautionary measure due to the high incidence of influenza. The "Report and Official Instructions," by President Belle S. Spafford, which were to be delivered at the Officers Meeting, appear on page 722 of this issue of the Magazine. We suggest that these instructions be carefully considered at your next Relief Society stake board meeting. Pictures of the Relief Society Building Available LACK and white glossy print pictures of the Relief Society Building, suitable for framing, as shown on the opposite page, may be ordered from the general board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. 16 inches x 20 inches..................--.---.---$3.00 14 inches x 11 inches.................-.--.-.- 1.75 8 inches x 10 inches.............--.------------ 1.00 Hand-colored pictures are available in each of the above sizes for an additional $1 each. Page 740 Ray G. Jones PICTURES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING AVAILABLE FOR F RAMING ce eagle, Spring Ethel Jacobson This silent mountain world is white— But blue as night, Sparkling and limpid as a gem Na queen's diadem Is this small jewel of a spring, limmering, It glints in sun whose pale rays show Prints upon snow Where foraging bird or beast has passed, So on this vast And frozen height we know that life, Though hushed, is rife— From secret, Suarded depths, a spring Eternally bubbling, shimmering, Page 74] Live an Learn Forever Be Honest with Yourself Live and Learn Forever! Is life is for serving and learning: so is the next. Part of life's lessons we learn by failing first and trying over. Some call it trial and error; another name for it is experience. A certain amount of trial and error we must accept. It's good for us. But there's a short-cut to learning, shorter than trial and error, which each of us should try to find. We should seek this short-cut through thoughtPage 742 ful study, from the experiences of others, by the reading of good books, by going to school. Most folks call this kind of learning "education." The chief purpose of education is to prepare us to live happily here and hereafter, and to make the world better for others who follow. The scriptures tell us why: "We are saved no faster than we gain knowledge;" "The glory of God is intelligence." 'These lofty concepts of the place of education in the lives of people are the special incentives which spur us on in our search for knowledge. It has been said even more plainly: "... If a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come" (D. & C. 130:19). Yes, and in this life, too. For knowledge here is also power—the power to produce the essentials of healthful, happy, comfortable living; the power to govern wisely and effectively; the power to avoid some of life's unnecessary pains and frustrations which come to the ignorant or unadjusted; the power to recognize and appreciate truth and teach it to others. These are some of the aims and products of learning and living— now and forever. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Winter Aspens Elsie McKinnon Strachan White limbed and graceful, they shared June's sun With the blue larkspur and the columbine; With lupine and monkswood and wild flax they dwelt, Blue marked their carpet in petaled design. The deer came to them on bounding hooves, And rushing waters sang them a song, The wind favored them with his cool, blue breeze— High in the hills their voices belonged. But hurrying autumn waved a swift wand, Turning each leaf to glittering gold; And, heavy upon the stem of time, Each pendant coin swung low... Lost hold. Now winter whiteness wears the penciled lace Of trellised aspen boughs held high; While slender and naked branches trace The pledge of spring on a frozen sky. LIVE AND LEARN FOREVER! 743 Recipes From the Spanish-American Mission Submitted by Nina N. Bowman ENVEULTOS DE GALLINA (CHICKEN) Adela Cabrera, San Antonio, Texas 2 Ib. Chicken 1 tbsp. Butter Boil the chicken, remove the meat from the bones, and grind. Add the butter to the ground meat. Sauce: 1% Ibs. Tomatoes ¥% Ib. Onions ¥%, tbsp. Salt ¥% tbsp. Pimiento ¥% Ib. Shortening 1% doz. Tortillas Cut medium size onions into small pieces. Crush tomatoes in the colander, add pimiento and salt, and mix. Season the chicken with sauce, and save some of the sauce to pour over the tortillas. Heat shortening to moderate heat. Quickly dip tortillas, one at a time, place on platter, and put on each one 1 tbsp. Of chicken and roll the tortilla. Serve hot. Mexican CANpDy Pauline Duran, San Antonio, Texas 1 c. Brown sugar 1 tbsp. Butter 2 c. White sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Water 1 Ib. Pecans % tsp. Salt Boil sugar and water until a drop of syrup forms a soft ball when dropped into a glass of cold water. Remove from heat. Add salt, butter, and vanilla. Beat until creamy. Add pecans, drop by spoonfuls on a buttered platter. Arroz (Mexican RIcE) 2 tbsp. Fat % green pepper 1 c. Taw Tice 2 tsp. Salt 1 c. Tomatoes 2 tsp. Chili powder 1 small onion 2 ¢. Water Wash rice well and then dry. Brown raw rice in hot fat and add minced onion, chopped green pepper, salt, chili powder, and tomatoes. Mix well. Add just enough water to cover and then cover with a lid. Allow to simmer until rice is tender, about thirty minutes. Remove the lid to allow mixture to dry. Do not stir after cooking starts. SpanisH CueEsE Dip Louise Turley, San Antonio, Texas Mix % c. Cooked tomatoes with one long green Mexican chili, minced, if a hot dip is desired. If a mild dip is preferred, use one bell pepper instead of the chili. Add ¥, Ib. Of pasteurized cheese which has been melted in double boiler. Mix together. Pour over fritos or tortilla chips. Page 744 RECIPES FROM THE SPANISH-AMERICAN MISSION 745 PLaIn GARNACHAS Louise Turley, San Antonio, Texas Place a thin slice of cheese or grated cheese on a tortilla chip and top with a slice of jalapena pepper. Then place in moderate oven to melt. For something different, mix melted cheese with diced chicken, tuna, shrimp, or ripe olives. Serve on tortilla chips or fritos. SouTH OF THE BorDER Dip Louise Turley, San Antonio, Texas 1 avocado Y, c. Celery (chopped) 1 tbsp. Sour pickles (minced) % tsp. Garlic salt 1 tbsp. Green chili pepper (minced) 1 tsp. Paprika salt to taste Cut ripe avocado in half, remove seed and peel. Mash to a pulp and add the remaining ingredients. Mix well. 'This dip should be prepared just before using, as it darkens while standing. It is delicious for dipping potato chips, corn chips, or fritos. EMPANADAS Esther Lopez, San Antonio, Texas Sweet Potato Filling: 26 c. Shortening 2 Ibs. Sweet potatoes 2 c. Flour sweeten to taste 4 tbsp. Water cinnamon to taste 1 tsp. Salt nutmeg to taste Boil sweet potatoes until soft and sweeten to taste. Add cinnamon and nutmeg to give mild flavor. Mash potatoes. Mix with a fork the flour, salt, and shortening. Roll each piece of dough into the size of a saucer. Put 3 tbsp. Of sweet potato filling on each pattie. Fold in middle. Pinch one side with a fork to allow steam to escape. Bake in 450 degree oven for about twenty minutes or until brown. Makes two dozen. MacarOnl! IN TOMATO Esther Rodriguez, Kingsville, Texas 1 box uncut macaroni 1 small can tomato paste 3 tsp. Hot sauce (Louisiana) % onion (finely chopped) ¥% lb. American cheese % c¢. Catsup 3 tbsp. Salt Cook macaroni alone in salted water and then drain. Fry onions until brown, add flour, tomato paste, and catsup. Then add the cheese until you have a gravy. Place in the oven and cook at 350 degrees for twenty minutes. Remove from heat and serve. - Serenity Annie S. W. Gould MID the strife, the unrest of the world, remain serene. Make your own little world beautiful within. Try to keep discordant thoughts away. If surrounded by discord, take it as a testing, try to keep your own outlook peaceful. It is much better for your health if you keep serene. You also help others by keeping yourself at peace. She National Suberculosis Association Christmas Seals Dorothea M. Lindsey Associate, Public Relations Will the 1957 Christmas Seal Sale, the tuberculosis associations enter the second half century of their traditional campaign to raise funds to fight 'T'B. In the first half century, the Seal Sale has proved itself an effective means of giving every American an opportunity to contribute to the fight. It has proved an effective means of spreading the truth about TB. While providing the sinews of war for the voluntary 'TB control programs, it has stimulated more and better tax-supported programs. It didn't happen overnight. The first Christmas Seal sale in 1907 raised $3000 for a single project—an experimental open-air hospital in Delaware. In spite of the limited area of the campaign, contributions came from distant states and even from Canada. After half a century, the goal is still ahead. Progress has been constant, but sometimes discouragingly slow. 'There have been only a few rapid spurts. 'The development of miniature film equipment for mass X-ray screening brought one such spurt, the discovery of effective drugs for treatment still another. The associations worked—and are still working—for higher standards of community health and welfare. They pioneered in the development of effective techniques of education and community organization. They pooled their limited research funds for projects aimed at solving the fundamental mysteries of the disease. Like the first Christmas Seal sale, the fifty-first represents hope that TB can be defeated. Even more, it represents a promise. In a few favored spots 'IB can be said to be almost under control. In others, less fortunate, it is still the leading public health problem. Everywhere it is giving ground before the organized team of medical men and laymen, professionals, and volunteers who work under the standard of the DoubleBarred Cross. But the end is not in sight. With one third of the nation infected with tubercle bacilli, the tuberculosis associations will not relax as they go into the second half century. — > Autumn Gift Vesta N. Lukei This hill Is wrapped in green Of pines and tied with gold Of aspens, ribbon-like along A stream. Page 746 MOUNTAIN VISTA NEAR VAIL PASS, COLORADO Where Maples Flame Mabel Law Atkinson "T will return in autumn," so I said, "To see these greening maples crown this hill With a flaming lei." But always when the chill Fall days returned as years too swiftly sped, I was not free so I could not fulfill The vow I made. My heart in mute lament Longed for wind-music, wild and eloquent, While skeins of geese displayed unerring skill. I could not be denied the joy-ascent To my bright hilltop when the autumn came. My spirit, country-bred, I could not tame To city confines, yet I know content: For though the autumn calls me still the same, My heart has built a hill where maples flame. Bread and Yeast Recipes Joan Staley HEALTH BREAD 1 ¢. Taw sugar or 1 c. Graham flour 1 c. Honey or % tsp. Salt ¥% ¢. White sugar and 1 tsp. Baking powder % ¢. Molasses 1 c. Chopped dates or figs, 1 tsp. Soda Taisins or currants, pineapple or 1 c. Chopped nuts (optional) mashed bananas, cherries or apples, 1 c. Milk or Christmas mix (optional) 1 c. Whole wheat flour Mix the dry ingredients, including nuts and fruit. Stir milk in quickly. When using sugar and molasses put the soda in the molasses. Bake at 350° oven for one hour. This recipe makes one bread tin or two half-sized tins. We like this for cake as well as for bread. Note: Sometimes there is a difference in the texture of the whole wheat flour. This makes it necessary to use an extra one-fourth cup of milk in the health bread. The bread isn't a runny batter, but is good and moist. HomMEMADE YEAST CAKES 2 qts. Buttermilk 2 tbsp. Sugar 4 yeast cakes (dry yeast cakes, 1 ¢c. Lukewarm water fresh yeast cakes, or powdered yeast) 1 c. All-purpose flour white corn meal c. Potato water N Put buttermilk in large kettle and heat to near boiling point. Stir in enough corn meal to make a thick mush, boil until completely cooked and let cool. Soak yeast cakes in warm water, and when mush is lukewarm stir yeast in. Let rise three times, stirring down each time. Last time you stir down let stand overnight. 'Then, in the morning, add the flour and enough corn meal to make a stiff dough. Mold on wellfloured cookie sheet and cut in sizes a little larger than commercial yeast cakes, as the homemade yeast cakes will shrink, about 1% inches by 1% inches by %4 inches would be advisable. Let dry, turning often. When completely dry, wrap in aluminum foil, store, and put in a tin can with a tight lid. Watch for weevils. 'This yeast has been used as long as two years after preparation and storing. Also, you can make yeast cakes by using the homemade cakes in place of commercial yeast cakes or powdered yeast. Breap Mapvre From HoMEMADE YEAST CAKES To make bread, start fresh yeast with two of these yeast cakes dissolved in warm water. Add potato water and sugar. Let this work one or two days before using. Make a sponge and let rise, then mix more flour and finish making your bread. This yeast works slower than commercial yeast. You may keep about one-half cup of the yeast as a start and add more potato water and sugar for the next time. Page. 748 Netting and Crocheting Are Hobby Ynterests of Rozetta Hafen Bramsted ROTA Hafen Bramsted, eighty-four, of Grass Valley, California, has gained much pleasure from her hobby of net work and crocheting and from giving her work to her family and friends. She has made ten bedspreads, numerous doilies, and other articles. She was born in Mt. Pleasant, Utah, February 3, 1873, a daughter of Jacob and Ann Katherine Hafen. She was married at the Manti Temple, May 1, 1895. The mother of eight children, she survives her husband and four children. She has fourteen grandchildren and twenty-two great-grandchildren. She is an active member of Relief Society and served as a counselor, a secretary, and a teacher at different times for many years in Melba, Idaho, and Macdoel, California. She spent sometime doing ordinance work at St. George 'T'emple, and has been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine for over forty years. Her husband was president of the Hebron, California, Branch of the Church for many years. —~—_ Apple Butter Eva Carter 14 ¢. Apples (cooked and pressed through 12 c. Sugar colander to remove lumps) cinnamon, ground or pieces to suit taste Put apples in large enamel pan. When hot, add sugar and cinnamon. Cook on medium heat, twenty minutes, stirring constantly. Seal in pint jars, or pour into smaller containers and cover with wax. Page 749 Netting Today Olive W. Burt ETTERS passing through the Salt Lake City postoffice, with stamps from countries all over the world, indicate that Utah women have triumphantly won a battle, and the winning signifies the beautification of the home, the happiness of many people. This battle is the fight to preserve the ancient craft of netting, a handicraft that seemed, a few years back, to be disappearing from many areas where it had once flourished. With machines taking over so many of the jobs formerly done by hand and in the home, netting might easily have disappeared in most localities altogether, had it not been for the valiant efforts of Utah women. And this is rather strange—that this craft, born of the sea, should find its staunchest defenders in inland Utah. But that is the story. The craft of netting was brought to Utah by Latter-day Saint converts from Norway, Sweden, France, and other countries where fishing was a basic industry. It is exactly the same art as fishermen use in making their nets, adapted by the womenfolk to the making of delicate lace to trim linens and to beautify the home. In place of using rope and heavy sticks, the women used thread and a slender steel needle, but the stitch was exactly the same as that used by the menfolk. Netting was very popular with the Utah pioneers, because they had very little material for fancy work, and in this craft any kind of thread or string could be utilized, and the Page 750 material "went further" than in crocheting or knitting. The lace was particularly dainty and exquisite, fulfilling a need for loveliness that must have gnawed incessantly at the pioneer mother's heart. Added to these advantages, the fragile-looking lace produced by netting is exceedingly tough and strong —curtains, bedspreads,. And_ tablecloths are practical. Bonnets, shawls, purses, and handkerchief edgings vie with doilies and place mats in beauty and utility. As the years passed, however, and pioneer stringencies gave way to an easier life, netting began to fall into disuse. A dozen years ago, it was practically extinct, not only in Utah, but in other parts of the world where it had once flourished. During World War II, England, which had always produced most of the netting needles, had no steel and no time to devote to the manufacture of anything so unnecessary. It became impossible to buy the meager equipment required. THEN, suddenly, the women of Utah rose up and demanded that some action be taken to preserve this ancient craft and to restore it to the popularity it deserves. The movement was probably sparked by the late "Aunt" Tina Macfarlane of St. George, Utah. "Aunt Tina" learned to net when she was five years old, and she continued to make netted lace until her death at ninety-one, some seven years ago. The articles she netted numbered well into the hundreds; she carried her work with her wher- NETTING TODAY 751 Bill Shipler ever she went—on trains or buses, in the doctor's waiting room, at an afternoon gathering of friends. And wherever she went, her nimble fingers and her beautiful lace attracted attention. "How can we learn?" "Where can we learn?" was constantly asked. The queries were brought to the attention of the public, and the answer was almost immediate. Women from many parts of Utah, as well as volunteers from other states, offered to teach the craft of netting. There was just one impediment: there was no equipment to be had. Now, the equipment for netting is very simple—a steel needle with an eye at each end, a mesh stick, and a knitting needle. But the needles were not being manufactured and Bill Shipler could not be imported. It looked as if netting was doomed. To the rescue came a Salt Lake City man and woman—Frank Nelson said he would manufacture the equipment, and his wife, Vera, set to work to publish a manual giving explicit directions and many lovely patterns. A solution of the problem was in sight. During the past half-dozen years the Nelson's have distributed hundreds of the pamphlets, supplemented by special leaflets on particular subjects: Patterns for handkerchief edgings and doilies have been sent to all parts of the world with the netting kits Mr. Nelson manufactures in Salt Lake City. 'These kits contain the netting needle, the mesh sticks of various widths to make bbe nd? + * J * x: ~ loops of different sizes, and instructions for the beginner. 'There is only one basic stitch to be learned, the intricate patterns being formed by the variety of groupings of this stitch, the differences in width of loops, and other variations. While Mr. Nelson still manufactures the mesh sticks and assembles the kits, world conditions have made it possible for him to import the famous English netting needles, which often come to Salt Lake City only to be shipped back to England with instructions for their use! There is no longer any danger, for the time being at any rate, of this ancient handwork dying out. And it is to the women of Utah that the credit is due. It was their interest and ingenuity that saved the craft from probable oblivion. << Sumetin Rain Iris W. Schow The bright shop windows sheathed in rain Are parcels wrapped in cellophane. 752 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 FROM THE FIELD General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the T'ield" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ada J. Taylor FARR WEST STAKE (UTAH), HARRISVILLE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT SOCIAL, June 26, 1957 Front row, seated, left to right: Ozula Taylor (1915); Lillie Harris (1915-1927); Semantha Agren (1927-1938); Ada J. Taylor (1938-1941); Iva Costley (1941-1945). Back row, standing, left to right: Irene Crowther (1945-1946); Ellen Crowther (1946-1949); Jeptha Taylor (1949-1951); Sadie Parker (1951-1955); Louisa Agren (1955-1956); Lena Maxfield, present President (1956-). Sister Ruby Romrell, who was president in 1927, was not present when the picture was taken. President Ada J. Taylor reports: ''Fifty-six women attended the social in Harrisville Ward in the beautiful new Relief Society room. A lovely lunchcon was served and a program presented honoring the presidents. Each was presented with a beautiful corsage. A history of the Relief Society of Harrisville Ward was given by Ada J. Taylor, and all the presidents gave their testimonies. Each one said that her testimony had grown through activity in this organization." ' Page 753 754 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 Photograph submitted by Barbara D. Howell SAN JOSE STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CLOSING SOCIAL, May 1957 Ethel M. Beckstrand, stake chorister, stands in the front row, at the left, with Gladys McAllister, accompanist. Barbara D. Howell, President, San Jose Stake Relief Society, reports that six wards of San Jose Stake sang two beautiful numbers at the closing social and furnished music for the San Jose-Palo Alto Stakes convention, May 2gth. Photograph submitted by Clare K. Claridge MOUNT GRAHAM STAKE (ARIZONA), LAYTON FIRST WARD SEWING PROJECT MODELS AND DIRECTORS Front row, left to right: Twin daughters of Ronda Evans (one, partly hidden); Marene Mack; Frank Anderson; Denice Jones; Alva Blake; Sherri Lines. Back row, left to right: Corinne Evans, work meeting leader; Corinne Wimmer, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 755 President, Layton First Ward Relief Society; Jackie Farley; Marie Clifford; Alma Nuttall; Helen Hoopes; Elizabeth Jones; Dorothy Woolsey; Edwina Gietz; Carol Lines. Thelma G. Maloy, President, Mount Graham Stake Relief Society, reports: "In keeping with recommendations from the general board of Relief Society that we teach the sisters to sew, a very successful project has been completed in the Layton First Ward. With twenty women participating, in three months, twenty-eight articles were completed. For a number of these sisters, this was the first dress they had completed. All of the dresses were modeled as a part of the Relief Society birthday party. Those responsible for the success of this project were: Corinne Evans, work meeting leader, with Carol Lines, Marie Clifford, and Helen Hoopes as assistants. The ward Relief Society presidency is composed of the following sisters: President Corinne Wimmer; First Counselor Florence Wignall; Second Counselor Lorraine Robinson; SecretaryTreasurer Dorothy Porter." Photograph submitted by Roseafton Cesario SAN DIEGO STAKE (CALIFORNIA), LA MESA WARD PRESENTS ONE-ACT PLAY "WHEN SHAKESPEARE'S LADIES MEET," May 28, 1957 Left to right: Cleopatra, portrayed by Deon Clark Butler, with handmaidens Elaine Glenn and Nadine Hatton, ready to fan her; Wilda Fowles as Portia (a young Doctor of Laws) Clair Etta Sorenson, as Katherine (Bonny Kate and Kate the Curst); Mildred Bergeson as Ophelia; Helen Benson as Desdemona (with her fateful handkerchief); Artella Hunter as Juliet. Roseafton Cesario, Secretary-Treasurer, San Diego Stake Relief Society, describes this unusual event: " "When Shakespeare's Ladies Meet,' a one-act comedy by Charles George, and directed by Kathleen B. Lund, culminated the first year of literature lessons about the famous bard, when the play was presented in La Mesa Ward.... Cast and staff had thirty children to be arranged for, but the show went on! 'The play will be presented again in September on a stake basis, as the beginning of another enthusiastic year with Wilham Shakespeare. Opal Gardner was assistant director, Shirlemae Jones, stage manager, and Cecil Bell was in charge of makeup and costumes." Enid Miller is president of San Diego Stake Relief Society. 756 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 Photograph submitted by Julia N. Barg PIONEER STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Standing at the left of the organ: Vondra Dipo, chorister; seated at the organ: Molly Taylor, organist. Front row, left to right: Hazel Colclough; Elizabeth Barney; Hazel Lockyer; Flora Taylor; Drucella Petersen; Sarah Marchant, First Counselor; Doris Pickthall; Emma Frenette; Lena Pirenti; Rura Woodall; Nellie Peck; Rachel Fromm. Second row, left to right: Pearl Hughes; Cora Newbold; Julia N. Barg, President, Pioneer Stake Relies Society; Bonnie Robinson; Lucile Noyce; Edna Mitchell; Ida Ogilvie; Betella Ashard, Second Counselor; Ann Paskins; Mary G. Perry; Clara. MeDermett; Amelia B. Gale; Mabel A. Williams; Rose Nielson; Dorothy Henderson; Dicie Godfrey. Back row, left to right: Zada Jones; Catherine Odsey; Adella Caldwell; Dorothy Reudter; Meiva Dean English; Lavina Bone; Elma Taylor; Winnie Stanley; Myrtle Renshaw; Esther Boekweg; Kathryn Haycock; Effie Harper; Viola Kadleck; Leora Roush. Photograph submitted by Geraldine D. Petty SOUTH CAROLINA STAKE, COLUMBIA WARD VISITING 'TEACHERS CONVENTION Front row, seated, left to right: Alice Voyles, first President of South Carolina Stake Relief Society; Minnie Ricks; Bishop Jack I'. Joyner; Counselor Nellie Opie; Elizabeth Perry, President, Columbia Ward Relief Society; Mildred Bass, Counselor; NOTES FROM THE FIELD 757 Annie H. Capps, President, South Carolina Stake Relief Society; Malcolm Fagan and Lottie Joyner, Counselors, South Carolina Stake Relief Society. Second row, standing, left to right: Vivian Graham, Secretary, Columbia Ward Relief Society; Ruth Edwards; Louise Manning; Catherine Black; Geraldine Bone; Lessie Kirkland; Letha Strickland; Ida Smith; Mae Wynn; Willie Boykin; Barbara Stone; Claire Bone. Back row, standing, left to right: Eula Joyner; Myrtle Gerald; Sally Joyner; Mildred Maddox; Zelma Foy; Elma Bone, visiting teacher message leader; Ethel Moody, member, South Carolina Stake Relief Society Board; Nina Petty; Nola Mathis; Lucille Black; Lexie Hersey; Margaret Joyner; Barbara Carroll. Geraldine D. Petty, Secretary-Treasurer, South Carolina Stake Relief Society, reports: "The visiting teachers are doing a great work in the Columbia area. We are very proud of their efforts. A wonderful spirit was enjoyed in our convention, and each member has a great love for the program." Photograph submitted by Alta Fuhriman NAMPA STAKE (IDAHO) FORMER STAKE BOARD MEMBERS HONORED AT UNION MEETING, April 28, 1957 Front row, standing, at the left, left to right: Manilla Dowdle; Myrtle Leavitt; Clarissa Ashlock; Marcelline Garner. Front row, standing at the night, left to right: Dorene Dike; Louise Tobler; Gayle Hales, present literature class leader; Lillian Aldous. Second row, standing, at left, left to nght: Ruth Holland; Lilly Loveland; Vilate Crane; Ethelyn Russell; Lucille Butler. Second row, standing at the night, left to right: Lucile Rawlins; Lorraine Wigand; Gertrude McKnight; Melva McClellan. Back row, standing, at the left, left to right: Sarah Squires; Helena Richards; Lela Thueson; Myrle Dowdle; Gladys Squires; Blanche Murphy, Margaret Rose. Back row, standing, at the right, left to mght: Frieda Winslow; Anna Babcock; Afton Blanc; Lilly Logan; Nina Burch; Luzean Yorgason. Standing, back of the pulpit, center, left to right: Isabelle Svedin; Dorothy Swenson; Bishop Joseph McKnight, former high council advisor to Relief Society; Estella Day; Clara Mason, a former Relief Society President. Alta Fuhrman, President, Nampa Stake Relief Society, reports: ""Since the publication of the booklet containing our Stake Relief Society history and entries from our short story and poem contest were to be delivered to the wards at our union meeting, we thought it timely to honor all former stake board members. We were sorry only one former stake president was able to attend. All of the women in the picture reside in the Boise Valley area, except Freida Winslow, a former stake counselor, who flew from Ogden, Utah, to attend. Corsages and a boutonniere were tinted in the Relief Society colors and presented to each honored guest, and a copy of the booklet was given or sent to each former stake president." 758 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 Photograph submitted by Delora R. Hurst SOUTH OGDEN STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR STAKE CONFERENCE ON MOTHER'S DAY, May 1957 Standing at the center, in the back row, wearing dark dresses, are June Ray, organist, and Elma Ross, chorister. Delora R. Hurst, President, South Ogden Stake Relief Society, reports that this group consists of 141 Singing Mothers. One of the numbers which they sang was "Memories of Mother," written by G. Ellis Belnap, father of chorister Elma Ross. Photograph submitted by Evyln R. Richardson UINTAH STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Mother's Day, May 12, 1957 Seated, center, front, left to right: EvylIn G. Richardson, President, Uintah Stake Relief Society; President Milton R. Hunter, of the First Council of Seventy; Darlene Evans, chorister; Lucile Calder, organist. Standing in the background are members of the stake presidency and high council. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 759 Photograph submitted Hilda Camier SANTA MONICA STAKE (CALIFORNIA) PRESENTS DRAMATIZATION "CHARACTERS AND TEACHINGS OF THE BOOK OF MORMON," May 1957 Front row, seated, left to mght: Myrtle Zundel, representing a Jewish sister; Kay Abbott, representing a Lamanite sister; Aileen Rose, representing a Japanese sister. Back row, standing, left to night: Elder Clinton Davenport, as Mormon; Elder Robert Throckmorton, as Moroni; Elder Wilford Brimley, as King Benjamin; Bishop Wallace R. Reid, representing Nephi; Nellie Stevenson, theology class leader. Hilda Goucher, President, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society, reports: "The dramatization was presented by Nellie Stevenson and was followd by a delightful luncheon served to more than 400 women under the direction of Kathleen Savage and Jane Jamison, assisted by stake board members. "From the beginning of the strains of the impressive 'Lamanite Song of Thanks,' through the inspirational, soul-stirring testimonies of the four sisters at the close of the production, the audience was captivated and impressed.... The Santa Monica Stake Singing Mothers, under the direction of Lola Brimley, sang: 'How Gentle God's Commands,' 'An Angel From on High, and "The Lord Is My Shepherd.' Venna Van Almen sang 'If Ye Love Me Keep My Commandments.' Nan Rains was organist. Ward theology class leaders were ushers and gave the prayers. 'The luncheon tables were beautifully decorated under the direction of Isabel Brodbeck. One comment of the many favorable ones given was: "The tables looked so beautiful and everything was in such readiness, that I knew it was to be an outstanding affair.' " ali Shis, Soo Enola Chamberlin This, too, will pass— This, too, will pass— The storm that shakes your life The empty vase you hold, The dry and withered grass, The coin of worthless brass— The pruning knife. And you will claim God's gold. LESSON DEPARTMENT Sheology— The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 5—Satan's Opposition to the Coming Forth of The Book of Mormon Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants: Sections 3 and 10) For Tuesday, February 4, 1958 Objective: Remember, remember that it is not the work of God that is frustrated, but the work of men (D. & C. 3:3). Satan the Archenemy of God From the creation of Adam, there has been opposition to the Lord's work on the part of Satan. He has sought to destroy the souls of men by his enticings; whereas, the purposes of the Lord have been to bring about the "... Immortality and eternal life of man" (The Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:39). When the Lord has instituted his work upon the earth, the powers of Lucifer have also been present to seek to destroy or, in any way, to hinder the Lord's purposes. 'This dispensation of the gospel is by no means an exception. When Joseph Smith sought the Lord in prayer to determine which of all the churches was right, the powers of darkness were present to interfere. Here are the words of Joseph Smith:... [kneeled down and began to offer up the desire of my heart to God. I had scarcely done so, when immediately I was Page 760 seized upon by some power which entirely overcame me, and had such an astonishing influence over me as to bind my tongue so that I could not speak. Thick darkness gathered around me, and it seemed to me for a time as if I were doomed to sudden destruction. But, exerting all my powers to call upon God to deliver me out of the power of this enemy which had seized upon me, and at the very moment when I was ready to sink into despair and abandon myself to destruction—not to an imaginary ruin, but to the power of some actual being from the unseen world, who had such marvelous power as I had never before felt in any being—just at this moment of great alarm, I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me. It no sooner appeared than I found myself delivered from the enemy which held me bound... (The Pearl of Great Price, Writings of Joseph Smith 2:15-17). Notice the words "... Not to an imaginary ruin, but to the power of LESSON DEPARTMENT some actual being from the unseen world..." (Ibid., 2:16). Joseph Smith had come to understand, in part, the power of Satan and also the power of God on the same day. Joseph may not have known at this time that during his life many efforts would be made by evil forces to keep him from following the counsel of the Lord, but the angel Moroni cautioned him against such a temptation. (See Ibid., 2:46.) Background of Sections 3 and 10 A notable example of Satan's efforts to deceive is found in the study of Sections 3 and 10 of our text. After receiving the gold plates from the angel Moroni and having translated some of the characters thereon, the Prophet was asked by Martin Harris to permit him to take the manuscript pages of translated material and show them to members of his family. Two times Martin Harris was denied the privilege to show the manuscript to others, but a third request of the Lord by Joseph Smith brought forth permission to do so. The provision was that it should be shown to only five persons and to none others. By stratagem others to whom Martin Harris showed the manuscript got it away from him, and it was never recovered. (See D. H. C. 1:21.) The Lord's Rebuke to Joseph These circumstances bring us to a consideration of Section 3, which constitutes the Lord's rebuke to Joseph Smith for his part in allowing the manuscript to be lost. In the light of these conditions, the first three verses of the revelation state that the works of God cannot be frustrated, but it is the works of men that are frustrated, 761 It seems that at this point in the Prophet's life the Lord was teaching him an important lesson. He was to trust in the Lord, who would always uphold him, and not to fear man more than God ( D. & C. 3:48). We might well ask ourselves at this point wherein we fear "man more than God" and do not put our confidence in the Lord to assist us? Do we, for example, accept the entreaties of friends and associates and violate a commandment of the Lord in order to keep the friendship or good will of those persons? Or do we stand for the word of the Lord and his promises to us if we are faithful? Joseph Smith's Honesty Consider also, for a moment, the importance of this revelation in attesting to the honesty of Joseph Smith. He stood rebuked by the Lord for his part in the loss of the translated portion of the plates, but, at the same time, he made known this rebuke to his friends and to the world in allowing the revelation to become known and printed. At times people have questioned the integrity of the Prophet, but this revelation stands as a monument to the basic honesty of Joseph Smith. After receiving Section 3, Joseph recorded that "... Both the plates and the Urim and 'Thummim were taken from me again; but in a few days they were returned to me, when I inquired of the Lord..." (D. H. C. 1:23). The Lord then gave to the Prophet section 10. Analysis of Section 10 In order for us to have a connected account of this episode in our Church history, a study should now be made of Section 10, especially verses 1 through 45. As indicated in the superscription (italicized foreword), this revelation is about the designs of wicked men to alter the manuscript in order to destroy the truthfulness of 'The Book of Mormon when Joseph would print as a part of that book the retranslated portion which was "lost." Plot to Destroy the Lord's Work Revealed Verses 1 through 3 of Section 10 refer to the gift of translation which Joseph had received with the further admonition that he was to "... Be diligent unto the end" (D. & C. 10:4). Martin Harris is condemned by the Lord as a "wicked" man, because he was not faithful in keeping his covenant to show the manuscript to only five persons, but permitted it to get out of his hands forever. (See D. & C. 10:6-9). Now comes that part of the revelation which describes the purpose of the men in altering the manuscript (D. & C. 10:10-19). But who does the Lord say is the instigator of this plot to destroy his work. It is Satan (D. & C. 10:10, 14). From this point on the Lord reveals to the Prophet and Martin Harris (and us) the designs of that wicked one, Satan, to destroy the Lord's work and_ also '... That he may lead their souls to destruction" (D. & C. 10:22). (Read The Book of Mormon, 2 Nephi 28 for information on the works of Lucifer in the last days. ) Satan's Tactics Observe the tactics of Satan in his leading men and women astray: Yea, he stirreth up their hearts to anger against this work. Yea, he saith unto them: Deceive and lie in wait to catch, that ye may destroy; behold, this is no harm. And thus he flattereth them, and telleth them that it is no sin to lie that they may catch a man in a lie, that they may destroy him. And thus he flattereth them, and leadeth them along until he draggeth their souls down to hell; and thus he causeth them to catch themselves in their own snare. And thus he goeth up and down, to and fro in the earth, seeking to destroy the souls of men (D. & C. 10:24-27). Upon the basis of what you have already learned from this revelation, do you believe that Satan is an actual being and not an imaginary product of the mind? The Lord's Foreordained Plan In verses 30 to 45 the Lord informs the Prophet that he is to translate from the small plates of Nephi and not to retranslate from the plates that portion of the Nephite history which Martin Harris had lost. Foreseeing the circumstances which gave rise to the revelations known to us as Sections 3 and io, the Lord inspired Nephi and early historians to keep the additional set of plates (The Book of Mormon, 1 Nephi 9:2-6; Words of Mormon, verses 3-7). 'This part which now contains the books of Nephi to Omni, inclusive, in The Book of Mormon "... Is more particular concerning the things which, in my wisdom, I would bring to the knowledge of the people... Fand] which do throw greater views upon my gospel..." (D. & C. 10:40, 45), declared the Lord. It would seem that we are more richly 762 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT blessed by reason of having the translated material from the small plates of Nephi which contains "... The ministry and prophecies (1 Nephi 19:3; 9:4), and the "sacred" things (1 Nephi 19:6), whereas the other plates gave "... A greater account of the wars and contentions and destructions of my [Nephi] people..." (1 Nephi 19:4). What does the Lord prescribe in this revelation that Joseph Smith might do, and which we also must do, to gain a victory over Satan? >. Pray always, that you may come off conqueror; yea, that you may conquer Satan, and that you may escape the hands of the servants of Satan that do uphold his work (D. & C. 10:5). Additional Items in Sections 10 and 3 Section 10: The Nephites prayed that their brethren the Lamanites should have the gospel in the latter days (D. & C. 10:48), and that this gospel should be made known to others who should possess this land of Zion and, "... That whosoever should believe in this gospel in this land might have eternal life" (D. & C. 10:50). It was also their wish that this land should be a free land. (See D. & C. 10:49-51.) On the other hand, those upon this land who build up churches to get gain, and do wickedly and thus build up the kingdom of the devil shall be caused "... To tremble and Shake to the center" (D. & C. 10:56). The Lord avows that the people shall learn of the "other sheep" of whom he spoke during his mortal ministry (John 10:16), and of the 763 gospel which he brought to them. This will be by The Book of Mormon which shall "... Bring to light the true points of my doctrine, yea, a. The only doctrine which is in * (D. & C. 10:62). Again we are aware of one phase of Satan's activities; namely, to:. Stir up the hearts of the people to contention concerning the points of my doctrine; and in these things they do err, for they do wrest the scriptures and do not understand them (D. & C. 10:63). Finally, in closing this revelation, the Lord points out what his doctrine is (D. & C. 10:67), and he who declares anything less than that doctrine "... Is not of my church" (D. & C. 10:68). And now, behold, whosoever is of my church, and endureth of my church to the end, him will I establish upon my tock, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against them (D. & C. 10:69). Section 3: Notice verse 9 in which the Prophet is reminded that he "... Wast chosen to do the work of the Lord..." and compare it with 2 Nephi 3:1-15, especially verses 6-8, 11, 14, 15. In Section 3:16-20, the purposes of the coming forth of The Book of Mormon are made known. 'These verses contribute to our understanding of the purposes given on the title page of The Book of Mormon. Questions for Discussion 1. Why has Satan opposed the Lord's work in this dispensation? 2. Why do you think the Lord rebuked Joseph Smith because of the loss of the translated part of The Book of Mormon plates? 3- In what way does Section 3 attest to the honesty of Joseph Smith? 4. How does Section 10 verify the fact that Satan is a personal being? 5. Discuss: "It is not the work of God that is frustrated, but the work of men." Ussiting leacher ITlessages — Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 5— "... Behold, You Should Not Have Feared Man More Than God.. "" (D. & C. 3:7). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, February 4, 1958 Objective: To show that to fear God means to love him and to keep his commandments and that in so doing we earn the respect of all good people. RECENTLY a group of college students were discussing what they wanted most out of life. Some were seeking financial security; others, power; but the majority agreed that what was really important was the good will, respect, and approbation of their fellow men. It is good to seek the respect of others. However, we make a mistake when we allow our fear of criticism and disapproval of others to cause us to violate the principles we know to be right. To fear man more than we fear God actually means that we are more anxious to please others than we are to live by the principles God has set down for us to follow. One example is in the matter of expressing our thankfulness and asking the Lord's blessings in prayer. Sometimes in strange places or among strangers, many of us are tempted to avoid criticism from others, and we fail to pray. The story is told of a young draftee in the army who had always knelt in prayer before going to bed. But in the barracks, in the presence of all the other boys, he feared to follow the usual practice lest he be ridiculed. Consequently, he waited until he thought all the boys were asleep before he slipped out of bed to say his prayers. On one occasion the young man on the cot next to his observed him and remarked that he, too, had wanted to say his prayers but had been afraid to do so. This gave both boys courage, and soon thereafter others saw them, admired them, and followed their example. Thus, nightly prayers came to be the regular practice by many of the boys. It is true that often the very things we fear might bring ridicule from others, actually build respect and admiration. Constancy, consistency, and adherence to right principles are choice character quali- 764 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT ties. They are traits which all good people approve and esteem. Certainly those who fear the Lord and follow his teachings regardless of the consequences, build strong characters and fine personalities. To fear the Lord means that we have profound reverence for him; that we love and honor him; that our love is so strong that we will not knowingly offend him. That we want to please him by doing his will and keeping his commandments. To those who have this type of fear and love in their hearts the Lord has said: 765... I, the Lord, am merciful and gracious unto those who fear me, and delight to honor those who serve me in righteousness and in truth unto the end (D. & C. 76:5). Yes, to seek to earn the respect and approbation of our fellow men is good. However, if we are ever tempted to compromise our principles and ideals because of fear of criticism, let us remember:. It is better that a man should be judged of God than of man, for the judgments of God are always just, but the judgments of man are not always just (Mosiah 29:12). Wome Tlecting—Living More Abundantly (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 5—The Family and the Home Elder William F. Edwards For Tuesday, February 11, 1958 Objective: To consider the fundamentals of owning a house and making it a home. HE family and the home are the basic units in society and in the gospel plan. Its foundation is as ancient as the world, and its mission has been ordained of God from the earliest times (President Joseph F, Smith, Gospel Doctrine, 3d Edition, page 375). It was not by chance that the Master concluded his most important sermon by comparing the faithful doer of his words "... Liken. Urto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock...." (Matthew 7:24-27). Jesus recognized that the home is paramount in life. Joyful living is no more secure than the home. A home-building, a homeowning, and a home-loving people will always be a superior people. Aim to Own Your Own Home The Church has always encouraged the saints to own their homes. Nauvoo remains an important spot in American, as well as in Church history, because the early saints were builders of superior homes. President Brigham Young consistently counseled the saints to be home builders and home owners. This has continued to be the advice of the leaders of the Church to the members. 766 There may be temporary or special circumstances that make it more desirable for a family to rent than to own a home. But, as a general objective, every family should own a home or prepare for the day when they will own a home. The owning of a home adds to one's security, helps to preserve one's independence, strengthens a family, makes better citizens, and enriches daily living. Every young man should have an ambition to possess his own home. It is better for him, for his family, for society, for the state, and for the Church. Nothing so engenders stability, strength, power, patriotism, fidelity to country and to God as the owning of a home—a spot of earth that you and your children can call yours (President Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, 3d Edition, page 382). If we are home owners, "Every improvement that we make not only adds to our comfort but to our wealth" (Discourses of Brigham Young, chapter 26, page 302). Selecting the Location of a Home It is likely that most of the class members will already be home owners, but because of the importance to those who have not yet acquired their homes, and to those who may subsequently sirable to review at least three fundamentals in selecting a location. 1. Neighbors are of the greatest importance. Your children will probably spend more time with the neighbors' children than with you. In this association they will learn many of the lessons of life, for good or for evil; hence, the lmportance of choosing neighbors with great care. 2. Trends within the neighborhood are also important. If the homes in the area are being neglected, your home will likely become less desirable. Population groups, in the larger cities, in particular, are conmove, it may be deRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 stantly shifting. A prospective buyer should look ahead and try to select a location that will remain attractive. 3. The importance of convenience of location can hardly be overrated. The dominating considerations are usually schools, work, and Church, and of the three, convenience to Church is most important. How to Finance a Home Be certain that the cost of the home is not excessive relative to your means. A family cannot be happy and successful, if it is forced to underspend for clothes, food, medicine, education, and recreation, in order to keep up unreasonable payments on a home. In planning the cost of a home, it is good to remember the following words of counsel from the Master: For which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not down first, and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it? Lest haply, after he hath laid the foundation, and is not able to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him, Saying, This man began to build, and was not able to finish (Luke 14:28-30). Usually a home can be acquired only by borrowing part of the cost. The objective should be to borrow as little as necessary, and to pay off the loan as rapidly as possible. A family owning a proper home, free of debt, and living according to the standards of the Church, can withstand almost any economic storm and remain secure. Ere we as a people become too free in mortgaging our homes, we do well to remember the following words of President Joseph F'. Smith: The land of Zion is an inheritance, and every man who mortgages his part of that inheritance places in jeopardy the land... (Gospel Doctrine, 3d Edition, page 385). LESSON DEPARTMENT Converting a House Into a Home The strongest attachments of childhood are those that cluster about the home, and the dearest memories of old age are those that call up the association of youth and its happy surroundings (President Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, 3d Edition, page 376). In our homes we must live to earn the blessings of the Lord. Pray 767 together, play together, work together, and share joy and sorrow alike with courage and glad hearts. Bind the family together with love and obedience to the gospel standards and ideals. You will then understand the full meaning of the prophetic words of President Stephen L Richards: "Our heaven is little more than a projection of our homes into eternity." ee Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 13—Hamlet, Prisoner in Denmark Elder Briant S. Jacobs Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948 For Tuesday, February 18, 1958 Objective: understand our own. As our last lesson pointed out, none of Shakespeare's plays is centered more in one person than is Hamlet, yet without the surrounding characters and crosscurrents the character of Hamlet would be limp. This lesson reminds us that, without Hamlet, the supporting characters within the organized frame of the play would be useless. Hamlet may be defined most simply as the story of a man in search of his soul, but who never finds it. Intertwined with impulse —dramatic bravado, despair, and a most incongruous inconsistency are To seek to understand Hamlet's mind and heart, that we may better Hamlet's evident weaknesses, his most discouraging weakness being that he is human. "He was a man, take him for all in all. " Were he all bad he would contain within himself no conflict and therefore would never hold our _ interest. While his balance tilts and varies, he does maintain balance of a sort throughout the play, which implies a goodness to counteract evil. And who can miss the traits of goodness within him? For despite his sufferings he never allows his strength of character to be entirely undermined; he always maintains his identity, even while he inwardly loathes himself and the sordid weaknesses of those near him whom once he most loved. He is, when he chooses, polished, courteous, friendly and genial, witty and sparkling. And though many times he brands himself a moral coward, it is our privilege to remember that his is the cowardice of a brave man, best illustrated by his fearlessness in confronting his father's ghost for the first time. Hamlet's Word Vitality The ripeness and vigor of Hamlet's vibrant, hissing, gentle wordvolleys are rivaled by nothing in Shakespeare or out. Shakespeare's unconscious, imaginative genius might be likened to a high-strung show horse which his master delights to ride, so completely are horse and rider one, so entire the master's control, so sharp the tresponse as he exhibits his mount's versatility. And with what enjoyment do they run through their paces. First, a slow, majestic walk: If thou didst ever hold me in thy heart, Absent thee from felicity a while, And in this harsh world draw thy breath in pain To tell my story.... V. 2. 357-360 Next a mincing, teasing trot: Haml. Now, Mother, what's the matter? Queen. Hamlet, thou hast thy father much offended. Haml. Mother, you have my father much offended. Queen. Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue. Haml. Go, go, you wicked tongue. Queen. Why, how now, Hamlet! Haml. What's the matter now? Question with a Queen. Have you forgot me? Haml. No, by the rood, not so. Ill. 4. 8-14 Then a long-rolling gallop, or canter. What a piece of work is a man! How noble in reason! How infinite in faculty! In form and moving how express and admirable! In action how like an angel! In apprehension how like a god! The beauty of the world! 'The paragon of animals! II. 2. 315-319 And, finally, the runaway, when almost riderless, the great charger takes bit in teeth and pounds forth in unrestrained surges of sheer power: Haml. Here is your husband, like a mildewed ear, Blasting his wholesome brother. Have you eyes? Could you on this fair mountain leave to feed And batten on this moor? Have you eyes?... Oh, shame! Where is thy blush? Rebellious Hell, If thou canst mutine in a matron's bones, To flaming youth let virtue be as wax And melt in her own fire. Claim no shame When the compulsive ardor gives the charge, Since frost itself as actively doth burn, And reason panders will. III. 4. 64-67, 82-88 Ha! ProHamlet often becomes wellnigh drunk with his own word power, nor do we escape a feeling of light headiness in ourselves. Rather than worrying that this might be a weakness, let us ask who else can build drama and character with words alone until it all blends into an illusion of reality "livelier than life'? 768 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT This is Shakespeare's greatest gift, even as it is Hamlet's. 'This play offers more proof than any other that Shakespeare surpasses all other dramatic poets who have written in modern times, because herein he does everything with words. As Wilson Knight has justly observed: Hamlet is universal. In him we recognize ourselves, not our acquaintances. Shakespeare's.. Persons make utterance from a height where all men speak alike (Wheel of Fire, page 288). And for the lofty identity of poetic power made most personal to each of us through great wordskill, what can rival Hamlet's soliloquy as he finds life too loathsome to bear: To be, or not to be—that is the question. Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, Or to take arms against a sea of troubles And by opposing end them. 'To die, to sleep— No more, and by a sleep to say we end The heartache and the thousand natural shocks That flesh is heir to. "Tis a consummation Devoutly to be wished. To die, to sleep, To sleep—perchance to dream. Aye, there's the rub, For in that sleep of death what dreams may come When we have shuffled off this mortal coil Must give us pause. 'There's the respect That makes calamity of so long life. For who would bear the whips and scorns of time, The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely The pangs of despised love, the law's delay, The insolence of office and the spurns That patient merit of the unworthy takes, When he himself might his quietus make With a bare bodkin? Who would fardels [burdens] bear, To grunt and sweat under a weary life, But that the dread of something after death 769 The undiscovered country from whose bourn [boundary] No traveler returns, puzzles the will, And makes us rather bear those ills we have Than fly to others that we know not of? Thus conscience does make cowards of us all, And thus the native hue of resolution Is sickled o'er with the pale cast of thought, And enterprises of great pitch and moment With this regard their currents turn awry And lose the name of action.... IIT, 1. 56-88 Hamlet's Identity True education is a continuing venture into new realms of self-discovery 'Thus a sustained rereading of Hamlet becomes one of mortality's greatest educational awakenings for, regardless of who we are, Hamlet's true identity les within each of our individual fallible bosoms. 'This play reveals us to ourselves. Hamlet is real not when he reveals Shakespeare's heart, nor is his reality "in the book"; his only reality lies in us. Hamlet is eternal Everyman. He is universal because he is no one thing or person. His character is a mirror which flashes us back to ourselves in jerky, shifting patterns, showing our own traits. Hamlet is thus all of us and not one. And far from being a lovable character, he is a variously true one. He is a brave coward, impulsive procrastinator, and ambitious philosopher, a believing unbeliever. One moment an obedient son, and docile, the next moment he grossly underrates efficient King Claudius while artificially puffing his own dead father with extreme praise. With evident relish in his own word-power he tortures his guilty, cringing mother for exhibiting those very weaknesses which consume in fire his own inner peace. His famous advice to the players is really an essay on temperance and emotional control, yet in his mother's bedroom just two scenes later (III. 3) Hamlet tears himself to tatters through his own passionate accusations of his mother, splitting not only her ears but indeed her very soul. Possessing all the soldierly virtues—courage, foresight, endurance, judgment, skill — and with every justification for blood revenge, nevertheless he delays killing his uncle for reasons unclear to himself, He hopes nobly but does basely; he is as brilliant in word-play and in analysis of character as he is bungling yet heroic in the destruction of his own happiness and that of those around him. The Idealizing Hamlet Those souls who have soared beyond the clouds can suffer themselves into the lowest and darkest caverns of the bitter, frustrated human soul. Such a person is Hamlet. Nor should we forget that Hamlet exemplifies the very idea of tragedy in its highest, purest form. He knew that, instead of blaming the stars or fate, each man creates his own destiny. As in all tragic heroes, the sources of both Hamlet's greatness and his weakness are one and the same— himself. At the time of his father's death, young Hamlet might be defined sketchily as intelligent, clever, dramatic, well-adjusted, substantial, moral, and idealistic. If he has one flaw it is the flaw of youth itself; namely, the impatient urge for an immediate and complete perfection, which he has assumed to be his lot in life. 'The sequence of events following his father's death devastates his hitherto unchallenged idealism. Fundamental to young Hamlet is his complete honesty; he is not concerned with that which seems, but only with that which is (I. 2). He is completely honest with himself (so far as he is able) and expects his world to be, not seem. Once he begins to realize this is not so, his inner vision is fractured and tragedy is born, the two-way pulling and no-way going in varying degree representative of us all. We might say of Hamlet with Dostoevsky "God and the Devil are fighting there, and the battlefield is his heart." As the tension mounts within the play, Hamlet's own inner conflicts become so strong as to be unbearable and in a moment of intuitive genius he invents his pretended madness which he wisely uses as a safety valve to let off his steaming passion rather than exploding from within. And in the piercing frankness of the soliloquies Hamlet holds back nothing from us. His words do not describe his emotion; they create it. We do not stand as witness at the moment of creation; instead, we are feeling the same forces welling up within ourselves; Hamlet merely mouths them for us. Consider the following passage, for example. Horatio and Hamlet pace the battlements at midnight hoping to see the ghost whom Hamlet has been told resembles his father. Note how his tongue waggles on, while all else within him anticipates. Herein is no cadence, no inner mu- 770 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT sic, but words shapeless and halt, expressing a strained point: So oft it chances in particular men, That for some vicious mole of nature in them, As in their birth—wherein they are not guilty, Since nature cannot choose his origin— By the o'ergrowth of some complexion, Oft breaking down the pales [defenses] and forts of reason, Or by some habit that too much o'erleavens The form of plausive manners, that these men— Carrying, I say, the stamp of one defect, Being Nature's livery, or Fortune's star— Their virtues else — be they as pure as grace, As infinite as man may undergo— Shall in the general censure take corruption From that particular fault. Of eale [evil] Doth all the noble substance of a doubt To his own scandal. [Enter Ghost]. The dram Hor. Look, my lord, it comes! Haml. Angels and ministers of grace defend us! Be thou a spirit of health or goblin damned, Bring with thee airs from Heaven or blasts from Hell, Be thy intents wicked or charitable, Thou comest in such a questionable shape That I will speak to thee. I'll call thee Hamlet, King, Father, royal Dane. Oh, answer me! Let me not burst in ignorance, but tell Why thy canonized bones, hearsed in death, Have burst their cerements, why the sepulcher Wherein we saw thee quietly inurned Hath oped his ponderous and marble jaws To cast thee up again.... I. 4. 23-51 771 Thus the ghost unleashed the true lyric Hamlet. Shakespeare's ability to create reality right into our own eyes and mouths is best proved if the above passage is read aloud and repeated, as all Shakespeare should be. Many other examples might be cited, among them the famous "Oh, that this too too solid flesh would melt," beginning in Act I, scene 2, line 129. But skillful use of words creates more than mere words can say. Really Hamlet's words are the vessels which "contain transaction between Hamlet and his moral sense," the inner reality according to Charles Lamb, which, when tevealed comprises nine-tenths of the play. Note, how different Hamlets cancel each other, discernible to us only if we realize that Hamlet speaks himself in complete truth only in moments. Already he has spoken his noble, "What a piece of work is a man"; now he qualifies one source of his nobility more tightly:... What is man If his chief good and market of this time Be but to sleep and feed? A beast, no more. Sure, He that made us with such large discourse, Looking before and after, gave us not That capability and godlike reason To fust in us unused.... IV. 4. 33-39 Noble and godlike as man in the abstract may be, Hamlet detects other attributes within individual men. How painfully has he just learned of Claudius that "one may smile, and smile, and be a villain" (I. 5. 108). Hamlet felt no regret in killing Tz Polonius. But when he replies to inquiries about the whereabouts of the corpse that "within a month you shall nose him as you go up the stairs" (IV. 3. 37), we realize how various Hamlet's definition of man, upon different occasions, really is. Regardless, Hamlet was always as honest as he could be. It merits note that no one in the play save the ghost and Hamlet himself ever insinuates that he is either weak or cowardly. And in compassion we should also remember with G. K. Chesterton, that "The duty that Hamlet shirked is exactly the sort of duty that we are all shirking: that of dethroning injustice and vindicating truth." The Prison Denmark Haml. Denmark's a prison. Ros. Then is the world one. Haml. A goodly one, in which there are many confines, wards, and dungeons, Denmark being one o' the worst. II. 2. 249-253 Within this play the dramatist Shakespeare details Hamlet's search for identity. He recognizes evil as such, and attempts to resist it, but in vain. He realizes the sin of Fortinbras' agressive war, which will accomplish only the fulfillment of his own ambition (yet Hamlet envies him). He had acrid contempt for the poseur Osric (yet during the play Hamlet acts out not one part at a time but several). He would send Ophelia, his own truelove, to a nunnery to prevent her from becoming a "breeder of sinners." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 It is in his own self-revelations of these conflicts that we find the real Hamlet. In revealing his own sufferings he echoes also the weaknesses of those who surround him—those whom he has helped create in his own image much as they helped create him in theirs. While each fulfills the other, identity is given this most powerful conflict only through Hamlet's impassioned poetic statements. Herein lie the enduring life and loftiness of the tragic Hamlet. Broadly seen, Hamlet is the education of modern Everyman as he falls from pristine idealism and the security offered by the concept of the ordered universe to the awareness that "nothing is good or bad but thinking makes it so." It was only by surviving such inner torment and awakening that Hamlet earned his belief in each man's right to freedom of thought and action. Through witnessing his emerging self-knowledge we, too, can realize more fully how each of us inescapably creates a personal heaven or hell here on earth; as mortals we surely cast our lives, just as he did. Outside such a central personal vision all lesser realities skitter away like chaff in the gentle wind. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Which identity is the real Hamlet? 2. "Since Hamlet is two people at once, he is therefore a hypocrite." Discuss. 3. Why is Hamlet probably the most popular figure in Shakespeare? 4. Why do we sympathize with Hamlet? Social Science— Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 11—"As the Twig Is Bent" Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, February 25, 1958 Objective: To illustrate how we are influenced by our environment, particularly by the environment of the home. LIFES experiences touch and mold the heart and soul of man. Each of us is the result of many influences, yet we have common needs and desires. 'The type of family life we have and how our needs and desires are met, influence what we are. 'The perfection of man can be facilitated through the family. Acceptance of the gospel in its fulness and its wise application will result in the full spiritual growth and development of the individual. A person reared in a home where gospel 'principles are practiced, adjusts socially, obtains a sense of personal destiny, a thirst for knowledge, and the courage to attempt and a pride in achievement. The love and democracy found in such a home develop selflessness, the ability to share, and a desire to care. In this lesson we shall consider the effects of our environment upon us, particularly the environment of the home, in the light of our basic needs. The following lesson will demonstrate the personal _ significance of the family to each age group and how their needs are met through the family. What We Are Fach man is an individual, the product of a myriad of varied influences. While all persons have similar endowments and are influenced by similar things, yet each person is single in kind and, therefore, matchless. How we dress, look, talk, move, and think make each of us an individual different from all others. Our physical features and the mental capacity with which we are endowed are determined to a large extent by characteristics inherited through our parents. Much of our behavior, likewise, is influenced by our physical and mental aspects. The health and condition of our bodies, our size, color, strength, sex, intelligence, and other features influence not only our own conduct but the response of others, which, in turn, affects us. This illustrates the complex nature of human behavior. | While the physical man is important, yet the fine points of difference come from our environment. The world about us is a part of us, for it influences our behavior patterns. 'The family circle, our friends, our teachers, and the other people with whom we come in contact; where we live, what is said and written and taught, all influence what we are. World events, the kind of community in which we live, our government, our income, Page 773 what we have—all produce satisfaction or anxiety, in varying degrees, which color our actions. That part of our environment having the greatest influence is the home. It is in the home that personality characteristics are indelibly stamped; it is there that the most good or harm can be done. 'The way a person feels largely influences how he thinks and acts. 'The interpersonal relationships with family members largely determine how we feel about people and things. Our feelings tend to make us do that which to us is pleasant, satisfying, comfortable, and safe, and also tend to make us avoid the opposite. 'The deep grooves of habit and attitude, acquired through often-encountered situations and our reactions to them, are, in fact, a part of us. Parents have the responsibility to teach basic virtues. (See Lesson 8.) Each President of the Church has taught the importance and necessity of the individual gaining knowledge. "The glory of God is intelligence" has been embedded in the heart of every Latter-day Saint. The Prophet Joseph Smith, speaking to the saints in the Grove at Nauvoo, observed, '"'A man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge..." (D. H. C. IV:588). Knowledge of every nature, technical or general, of good or evil, of people or principles or things, is an important, integral part of the individual, for this is his source of reference in decision making. To illustrate, the child whose basic knowledge concerning coins is limited to identification by name, when offered his choice of a nickel or a dime, would likely choose the nickel. A child having knowledge of the value of money, when given such a choice, would readily take the dime. The difference lies in the background of knowledge upon which the child calls in making his decision. Acquisition of knowledge is not enough. It must be evaluated as acquired. How we evaluate depends, again, upon our atmosphere of people and ideas. The ability to decide properly is the power by which we grow and develop. When our storehouse of knowledge is sound and when we have learned properly to evaluate that knowledge, we then are in a position to make "decisions of character" which can raise us to the greatest heights. Fortunately, man can carve his own destiny. He can control his own environment, at least in part, and with this control he can make a success or failure of his life. By his ingenuity he can enlist the help of other persons, and if he lives for it, he is aided by the Holy Ghost and our Heavenly Father. (See Lesson 8.) Our Basic Needs The yearnings and desires of all persons fall into similar categories. How these needs are met and our reaction to them somehow leave an imprint upon our behavior. Individual needs may be divided broadly into three categories: (1) Physiological needs, that is, those relating to a healthy functioning of our bodies; (2) The need to grow intellectually, socially, and spiritually; (3) The need to love and to be loved. 1. Physiological Needs: One of the strongest human impulses is man's desire to survive. This desire prompts him to seek food, clothing, 774 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT and shelter. How these needs are met, even from the first days of life, influences the course of life. That is to say, if our experiences in meeting these needs are pleasant, we react pleasantly and favorably; while stress and anxiety in the process leave a negative mark upon the actions of man. Some of us need specialized attention to preserve and prolong our lives. Good physical health is an important ingredient to good mental health. While physiological needs are important, and while a minimum must be met for the continuance of life itself, yet lavish or quantitative "trimmings" are unnecessary to produce a Lincoln. More often than not extravagance proves to be a disadvantage to the individual. 2. The Need to Grow: Most individuals are possessed of a desire to achieve intellectually; all desire to be socially accepted, and many recognize the need for spiritual growth. Latter-day Saints know this to be the purpose of mortality. A. Growing Intellectually: Man's hankering for accomplishment has brought forth principles and truths which have revolutionized our daily lives. Scientific discoveries and their applications have given us conveniences unheard of a few years ago. 'The fight against disease and illness has made tremendous gains. Man's creative ability has produced pleasant and interesting things ranging from hieroglyphics to modern skyscrapers, music, sculpture, painting, and all the discoveries of science. For proper intellectual development each person needs opportunity to learn, along with 775 reassuring encouragement to persist in seeking knowledge. B. Growing Socially: The eagerness with which we pursue social acceptance illustrates the magnitude of this basic need. Our adventure through life, in relation to our family and home, spans the extremes from infancy and complete dependence upon the home to becoming an adult and relatively independent. Maturity is arriving at a healthy compromise between these extremes. As we venture forth from our homes, figuratively speaking, we go forth with confidence, if we know we can always return to a home where there is love and security. This is true of all family members from the youngest to the oldest. Our social ambitions are met when we have status with our associates, a sense of being a person whose worth is recognized, and a selfesteem which enables us to meet situations appropriately according to our age and sex. C. Spiritual Growth: The spirit of man has an innate eagerness to return to God. When _ properly stimulated, he pursues knowledge of God and his ways. He receives satisfaction from embracing characteristics and principles taught in the scriptures. He has a sense of pertsonal accomplishment which pushes him ahead to seek his Heavenly Father further. Spiritual growth does not come automatically, however. Devotion and effort are required here as in other fields. Faith, together with applied effort, results in spiritual growth. Parents can influence the spiritual growth of their children by how they think and act. Family prayer, devotion to Church duties, the parents' favor- able regard for Church leaders, and their respect for Deity, all contribute to the spiritual growth of family members. And the Spirit giveth light to every man that cometh into the world; and the Spirit enlighteneth every man through the world, that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit. And every one that hearkeneth to the voice of the Spirit cometh unto God, even the Father (D. & C. 84:46-47). The desire to accomplish gives vision, and having accomplished, we look ahead to new horizons. If this inherent yearning is guided in the right direction it can be a stimulus to perfection. 'The child takes pleasure in learning to read or learning to draw. The young man _ takes pride in being able to run fast or build. A mother's accomplishment may be a happy baby or an obedient child. A man denied the opportunity to grow intellectually, socially or spiritually, becomes frustrated, and this often results in mental illness. A man's dream of tomorrow, sets his compass of life today. 'This is the first step, followed by planning, devotion, and a search for knowledge. The result is growth. 3. The Need to Love and to Be Loved: There are few things more important to man than to love and to be loved. Later we shall study this need in more detail. Briefly, love is more important than nutrition. Love is the nourishment of the soul, the concept which reduces to a minimum the distance between people. It is the "common denominator" in the development of a healthy personality through all its stages. 'The personality of a child is shaped by the love of his parents. The love that is found in good homes gives children a feeling that all is well. It inspires parents to do for their children and to weather hardship for them and with them. It is the stability of love that helps a child venture forth into the world with confidence. 'The unloved child, starved for affection and the company of others, will actually wither in body and spirit. A child, properly nourished with love and affection, security, and ideals, has been given the "stuff"? With which he may succeed. The Parental Influence The home environment is set primarily by the parents. The regard and concern that parents have for one another and for their children is the basis of the home environment. If parents are emotionally stable and secure, they will find that their natural impulses really suggest what is best. In the parent-child relationships having profound effect upon child behavior, there are, broadly speaking, four different types of home environment, although most homes have some attributes of each. 1. Parental Autocracy: In this setting, children are required by force or fear to act precisely as parents decree. The child has no opportunity to exercise independent judgment, for all his decisions are made by others. The personality of such a child is unstable, withered and weak, often for life. The mind, like other body parts, is developed by use. He who is not called upon to think, generally does not develop his ability to think. The home atmosphere created by coercive pat- 776 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT ents does not provide for true love nor the opportunities for growth. Such an atmosphere builds a volcano of resentment which one day may explode. 'The parent who gives supportive help to his child's judgment-decisions, however, is not an autocratic parent. Helping a child through a consideration of facts to a conclusion, is to the mind what physical support is to the toddler learning to walk. 2. Parental Submission: The child is "king" in this type of home. He makes decisions and exercises his free agency without parental interference. Somehow his parents believe he will turn out best, if they let him be his natural self. Unfortunately, they have adbicated what is likely their most important role, i. E., building within the child a solid basis of evaluated knowledge of right and wrong, and ideals to which he can refer in the exercise of his free agency. It was never intended that free agency be exercised in a vacuum. Children who come from an environment where parents have adopted a "hands off" policy often are bullies, are disliked, and have little consideration for the rights or feelings of others. This environment often stems from the parents' own basic insecurity. Here again, the child is denied the opportunities for intellectual growth and social adjustment because the supportive help is missing. 'The spiritual growth of these family members is also stilted. The parent who chooses this easy way is cruelly kind, but fails to provide the love a child needs for stability. 3. Parental Confusion: These par- 777 ents alternately rule and mis-rule. They teach their children conflicts from what they say and from what they do. They lack consistency in their relationships with the child and in their limitations upon him. Parents, although having good intentions, sometimes become absorbed in various activities and thus fail to maintain with their child a consistent relationship. Parents under stress often follow the same course. A child is quick to note the inconsistency of parents and, somehow, takes little security from such a setting. Such a child often does not know what is expected of him, nor the limits within which he is expected to behave. He may easily conclude that his parents and others are unfair. Many cases of vandalism and property destruction come from persons reared in homes of inconsistent parents. 'These parents are the first to point out how they have "taught" their children respect for the rights of others. Unfortunately, a child is not "taught" merely by being "told." No one has taught until someone has learned. Parental confusion often results when one parent does his job properly while the other does not. One may be autocratic and the other submissive. Children from such homes do not always become a half-way compromise between the divergent parental tendencies. Often a child will identify with one parent or the other, generally the parent of the same sex, and to the extent that a child identifies with a parent, his resultant behavior favors such parent. 4. Parental Guidance in Self- 778 Use * CHRISTMAS CANTATAS FOR _ LADIES VOICES THREE PART CHIMES OF THE HOLY NIGHT— Holton.................:..- 1.00 CHRISTMAS MESSIAH—Handel.... 1.00 DAWN OF CHRISTMAS—Nolte.... 1.00 MUSIC OF BETHLEHEM—Holton.. 1.00 PREPARE HIM ROOM—Hadler.... 1.00 SONG OF THE HOLY NIGHT— Wilson o. Oo...... Eeeeeceeeneeeeneedeneeeeeeeee 1.00 THIS lS NOEL—Davis................ 1.25 WONDROUS STORY—Kountz.....60 TWO PART CHILD OF BETHLEHEM—Walter.... 1.00 MUSIC OF BETHLEHEM—Holton.. 1.00 Music Sent on Approval this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY | 15 E. Ist South | Salt Lake City 11, Utah 1 { | I | | ' i Please send the music indicated above. CL] On Approval (1 Charge; O Money Enclosed | \ | | | | | | | \ \ TTT. 15 E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 Determination: 'The parent in this type of home is aware of his child's basic needs: physiologically, intellectually, spiritually, and socially. Such a parent knows of the child's desire to become independent of the home, and his desire to become a separate individual. Parents must identify and recognize the importance of each step. As the child grows and develops, parents will reassure him of their love and support which he can have in the home, yet they will let him reach out and have experiences which develop him as a responsible adult. His parents instill within him a belief in himself as a person, with confidence in his decisions. 'The child is not forced, yet he is given opportunities to grow intellectually, and he is constantly storing evaluated knowledge to which he can refer in making decisions. Giving a child love and security is not at all inconsistent with teaching him to accept responsibility. 'The child learns fair play if his parents treat him fairly. From his parents he learns to be thoughtful of others and to accept differences without anger. His spirit is fed, and, while he learns of God, he moves toward him in spirit and in fact. Latter-day Saint parents who live the gospel will educate their children so as to prepare them to meet life's situations realistically and constructively. They will develop the judgment and skill of each child to meet whatever may come. They will not abandon their role of teaching the child what he should know, nor will they push him or let him fall from the nest of parental influence until his wings are strong. LESSON DEPARTMENT Supplemental References 1. "The Home on the Hill"—Alyce O. Nelson, The Relief Society Magazine, March 1956, page 208. 2. "Citizenship and Self Understanding'—Bonaro W. Overstreet, National Parent-Teacher, December 1956, page 14. 3. "The Need to Know More About Human Growth'—Alfred H. Washburn, M. D., National Parent-Teacher, December 1956, page 24. 4. "Failure Is to Learn On"—Margaret Blair Johnstone, Reader's Digest, December 1956, page 73. 5. "The Controversial Problem of Discipline," Katherine M. Wolf, Ph. D., and Aline B, Auerbach, The Child Study Association of America, Inc., 132 East 74th Street, New York 21, New York, 30 cents per copy. 6. "The Why and How of Discipline," Aline B. Auerbach and Faith Laursen, The Child Study Association of America, Inc., 132 East 74th Street, New York 21, New York, 40 cents per copy. 7. "Marriage Is Now My Career," Mary H. Robinson, The Improvement Era, March 1956, page 148. 8. "Back to What Woodshed?" Justine Wise Polier, Public Affairs Pamphlet No. 232, Public Affairs Pamphlets, 22 East 38th Street, New York 16, New York, 25 cents per copy. G. "The Part of Parents," Richard L. Evans, The Improvement Era, January 1957, page 36. 10. "Need for Belonging," Antone K. Romney, The Improvement Era, May 1957? Paeee324- 11. "The Lengthened Shadow," Richard L. Evans, The Improvement Era, May 1957, Page 332. 12. "A Child of Any Age Is a Challenge to Parents," Antone K. Romney, The Improvement Era, February 1957, page 84. 13. "How Early Does Discipline Begin?"' George Sheviakov, National Parent-Teacher, February 1957, page 4. 14. "Becoming Sensitive to Children's Fears," Jewel Goldberg, Dolores Heidman, Darwin North, Doris Patterson, Ferne Smidderks, and Ann Younger, National Parent-Teacher, February 1957, page 22. 779 RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS y at Home Stu 331X, 332X, 333X The origin and content of the Doctrine and Covenants by sections. The main ideas of this book of scripture are emphasized. Instructor: Roy W. Doxey. A Course for Theology Instructors and Other Students of Religion ADULT EDUCATION AND EXTENSION SERVICES BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Provo, Utah Name Street City and State - Please send me, without cost, Brigham Young University's HOME STUDY CATALOG 780 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music (0. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH — @, LIVIN Live Better Electrically with FULL HOUSEPOWER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 15. "Six Sure-Fire Ways to Raise a Heel at the Wheel," Paul Jones, National Parent-Teacher, April 1957, page 10. Questions for Discussion 1. What are some of the basic emotional, intellectual, spiritual, and physical needs? How do the home and family help satisfy these needs? 2. In which category are we most successful? Where do we fail most frequently? 3. Why is it important for parents to take an individual interest in the '"'growing up" process of their children? Why must they be well adjusted themselves? OLess Shan Love Eva Willes Wangsgaard Friendship should not need a chain To hold the love it shares; Love is always struggling free, Breaking nets and snares. Friendship held too close becomes A prison and a pain. Seldom does the spirit rise Higher than its chain. Friend, if you would hold my love, Leave the door ajar. Friendship that is free will stay, Happy where you are. She Old BaseBurner Thelma Ireland We sat around a base-burner With jolly, fat red cheeks; We stretched our feet up to its warmth, Not minding winter weeks. There was no central heating then, So in the winter weather, Though we might wish to be alone, We had to be together. We had to learn to give and take, We got used to each other And found we liked the company Of sister and of brother. And so the family bond grew strong Within that sheltering cove, Encased in warmth and family love Around that glowing stove. NETTING SUPPLIES NEEDLES — PATTERNS INSTRUCTION BOOKS For Price List—Write or Call THE ARTCRAFT PRESS Ww THE HOUSE < QAFT Pp RS vp \ ATTN FOR NX WEDDING " = ANNOUNCEMENTS AND SUPPLIES PRINTED-ENGRAVED:- EMBOSSED THE BEST FOR LESS Moog Arors 21% EAST 2"°SOUTH Salt Lake City Hawaii Leave Salt Lake City November 3, 1957, sail on the lovely new Matsonia, Sister Ship to the beautiful Lurline, November 4th. New Zealand Temple Dedication tour sails from San Francisco on the fabulous Mariposa April 2, 1958. Note: You will be delighted to know that Mrs. Matthew Cowley, who lived in and traveled throughout the South Pacific during the years her husband, the late Matthew Cowley, presided over that mission, will conduct this tour. Europe The definite date for the dedication of the temple in England is not yet known, but we shall have tours to Europe in June, July, and August of 1958. For further information write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 ® BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles 150 to 300 miles. 300 to 600 miles. 600 to 1000 miles. ' 1000 to 1400 miles WW... D 1400 to 1800 miles _........00.2......... Py | Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah oS (~ — For Relief Society and Genealogy Workers TYPEWRITING CLASSES New Classes Begin Soon Classes to run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction for adults who wish to use typewriting in genealogy and other Church work. Call for reservations. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 Page 781 Over 1800 miles 70 North Main.87 Salt Lake City, Utah THE PERFECT CHRISTMAS GIFT Eualts. Josus Christ Jestifics. Of Josoph Smith Confirms. Jemple Work Opens the Prophecies and Histow Reveals Jrue Jsracl! ONLY (Grdor Now! ONLY $275 On BE GLAD ork $2.75 IT'S THE IDEAL XMAS GIFT FOR = [TST e (OETACH AND MAIL) from EARL W. HARMER, Publisher 177 Yale Ave. Salt Lake City 5, Utah | | | ] ea i Yo u A FZ £ | PRICE $2.75 POSTPAID Y o_o C0 Please send C. O. D. Z l Enclosed Check or Money Order | | I Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Four Mrs. Rutn May Fox Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-eight Mrs. Hitpa Erickson Grantsville, Utah Mrs. Lucy Ann HensHaw MartTIN Petersburg, Virginia Ninety-five Mrs, Ametia Evizasetu Hatcu JACKSON Ogden, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Exviza T. Nretson Glendale, California Ninety Mrs. Lavina BASINGER Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Marcaret NIELSEN ANDERSEN Bear River City, Utah Mrs. Harriett P. §. CLrawson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Janet Jones McDonaLp Hazen Salt Lake City, Utah aie Ws d. Om Lucille R. Perry My father read from Tennyson, He searched out beauty's every guise, And when his rough hands closed the book He gazed at it through tear-filled eyes. Then, in the hollowness of youth, I comprehended not at all, Why tears would rise to fill his eyes And slowly on his worn cheek fall. But many storms since then have filled With salty drops that empty place, And made a spring of tenderness That overflows upon my face.... Remembering, with heart more wise, I understand his tear-filled eyes. GIFTS GIFTS GIFTS Make Pembroke''s Your Christmas Headquarters! Mail Orders are promptly handled. 24 East Broadway SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Invest in Yourself Discover an Exciting New Hobby with the HAMMOND SPINET Organ Relax — Have Fun! A Small Deposit will assure Christmas Delivery Convenient Budget Pay Plan ACT NOW! Full Information From GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. Salt Lake—74 So. Main Ogden—2546 Washington Blvd. Provo—57 No. University Page 783 rom Tear and Sar I am writing to let you know how much I appreciate Dorothy S. Romney's serial "The Bright Star' (concluded in the September Magazine). In my estimation it is one of the best that has appeared in our fine Magazine. I also liked Elsie McKinnon Strachan's frontispiece poem "Country Neighbors." It is graphic, and the last two lines are intriguing. —Grace Ingles Frost Provo, Utah I loved Mabel Atkinson's story "For This I Have Yearned'"' in the September issue of the Magazine, and I think the world needs the lesson contained in Rosa Lee Lloyd's excellent story ""he Heavenly Bonus." I very much liked the editorial "Her Choice" by Marianne C. Sharp. The poem "My Husband's Hands" by Marie Ricks touched my heartstrings. —Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho The lesson material and lesson department are excellent. My special enjoyment is Shakespeare and the renewal of my acquaintance with his masterful dramas.... The article "Life Is a Journey," by Cleopha Jensen, in the July issue is especially inspiring, and the June issue contains a helpful and delightful article, "Help Yourself to. Happiness," by Frances C. Yost. The ten points of the guide to happiness are really worthwhile.... The article on the Samoan Mission by Preston Nibley is truly interesting and informational... And the pictures are scenic treasures of enchanting beauty. —Emma M. Gardner Long Beach, California I would like to tell you how much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine, especially now that we have moved where there are very few Latter-day Saint people. I look forward to the Magazine each month. There are so many things in it that are helpful in my everyday life. —Geraldine Court Castlegar British Columbia Canada Page 784 I especially liked the September frontispiece poem "Country Neighbors," by Elsie McKinnon Strachan. I could see it and smell it, and feel it, as I read, and I have read it several times. A _ lovely, lovely poem! And what a homey, powerful, and beautiful poem is "My Husband's Hands," by Marie Ricks. "Tour of Pennsylvania" grips the heart and makes us know nothing is ever lost. I appreciate the editorial "Her Choice," by Marianne C. Sharp, and am grateful for the good it will do. What a lovely tribute to a father is found in "My Father—A True Leader," the tnbute to President David O. McKay written by Emma Rae McKay Ashton. Every line of the Magazine is good to read. —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho I enjoy The Relief Society Magzine very much and wait for its coming each month. I especially enjoy the poems... And Edna Day's article "A Nursery Will Be Maintained" in the June issue. Jennie Brown Rawlins' article in the same issue "Mother Had Seven Girls" started me wishfully reminiscing about my happy childhood. After reading another of Frances Yost's wonderful stories, "Society Sonnets" (August 1957), I wanted to sit right down and try my luck with a sonnet. I'm going out to wash the dinner dishes now, and I'm going to see what I can do with a little idea I've had wandering around in my brain like a little orphan for quite awhile now. Maybe I can catch him and put him down on paper. —Phyllis Chapman Idaho Falls, Idaho I have been a reader of The Relief Society Magazine since I was a small girl and have enjoyed it these many years... I was thrilled to find in the June issue the pictures sent in by Sister 'Taylor ("A Relief Society Gleaning'') of officers of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society, especially as one, Elizabeth H. Goddard, is my great-grandmother. It is the first time I have found any record of her Church activities, and I will treasure the account and copy it in my family history. —Gladys W. Savage Sumatra, Montana aS ow -, a DEY a fp SSS =f ' = SHV SSN Gye? Od aS SSS. SS NS en CR LAr si La Aa i é Ser <—F ih i, a - al ~ Vy ' — = i _, ~! = Z yt 3-2 (Sy \\ Y | om ae = ~ A: ~~ ~ =< ASS ' Ny * Sa ~ WHAT FINER GIFT THAN.... J — ws PATHWAYS TO waa HAPPINESS DAVID O. McKAY Compiled by Llewelyn R. McKay President McKay has devoted a lifetime to bringing happiness to others, and through his rich, full life of valuable experiences offers practical, down-to-earth helps in this impressive volume. $3.95 2. HANDY SCRIPTURE GUIDE Benjamin Alward Missionaries and teachers will appreciate this handy pocket-size (5 x 7) edition. It contains conveniently arranged scriptures from the Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price. $1.75 7 DESERET BOOK 3. MESSAGES OF INSPIRATION J COMPANY Selected addresses of the General Authorities of the 7 rH eee Temple Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. $3.75 te StS hal wa Gentlemen: La Enclosed you will find a x. ( ) check ( ) money order. I ( ) | have an account. Please 'ae South: T charge it. ( ) Please send the followie Amount enclosed... ORDER BY MAIL TODAY y) NMG ooo cece cece ee cecee cee sseaeeee cee ceterscoeceeceescesesseeeeceteeeeeeee Adress oe. Eecscccececeeenecenseescconseeenseesacesesecseecesestencsenseatsenees City........ 0... A secceeeeees ZONE... SHOt@ 2. Esses Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. A: aad pout emple. 'ah take ing encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 LY, Gis 2 | Ue MAGA AIN B Lessons for March DECEMBER 1957 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Helen W. Anderson - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Mildred B. Eyring Elna P. Haymond Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Gladys S. Boyer Annie M. Ellsworth Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Charlotte A. Larsen Mary R. Young Leone G. Layton Josie B. Ba Edith P. Backman Mary V. Cameron Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Winniefred S. Afton W. Hunt Alberta H. Christensen Manwaring Wealtha S. Mendenhall RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 44 DECEMBER 1957 NO. 12 Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES Arrival of the Suepherds ers 788 Jesus Is the Christ. En nee.. Testimonies of the First Presidency 789 Testimony of the Stick of Joseph. Christmas 1884 2 aseosecssecesaeceesecesececvesensecsos itLouise S. Cotterell 820 _ Vernessa Miller Nagle 824 FICTION Merry Christmas, Mother] oooo.0ccccccccceccesseseseecccecees A Grandma for Christmas. Something Lacking..........0.20.... Am Rosa Lee Lloyd 790 ne enMyrtle M. Dean 806 errrFrances Carter Yost 826 Sixty Years Ago A Lob ceKe tel SES) ©) 6)'Ramona W. Cannon 813 Editorial: The Message of Christmas......... Se none.. Marianne C. Sharp 814 New Serial ''Elizabeth's Children" to Begin. 'in "January |. 822 Notes to the Field: Christmas Presents for Relief Society Women nee eee 815 Notes From the Field: Relief Beciey Activities -.0.022........ _ Birthday Congratulations.......... From Near and Far Holiday Guests Deserve the Best Bodell Christine H. Jensen CrochetsPrizeTie Your Ideas With String.. Quick Christmas Ideas LESSON DEPARTMENT One of Those Who Labor in the Ministry Theology: Visiting Teacher Messages: That Shall Ye Also Reap"' Work Meeting: The Importance of Insurance |Sylvia Pezoldt 833 Elizabeth Williamson 863 snseccenssa amRoy W. Doxey 838 'Fear Not to Do Good, My Sons, for Whatsoever Ye Sow, Christine H. Robinson 844 William F. Edwards 845 Literature: King Lear onion. Ceccecceececceececenceseenenecosnacnsconees-nseceesssceuaesssoneeacaneneeecesccoseeeansateeeBriant S. Jacobs 848 Social Science: Families Have Members 20.-.. O.......222.. CcesenccscecesecensceceneeeeeeeeceseneecceeeoesJohn Farr Larson 855 POETRY Bless This House—Frontispiece —...0....0..-.0..0..-ED cocseceree oeMaude Rubin 787 Christmas Is Being Home oi... Cccee cc cececeecececenneneneenncneenenesneeeesseneeanasnaneeccssnneasscsoeeeChristie Lund Coles 805 voceDorothy J. Roberts 819 Mabel Law Atkinson 823 Pimale oe. Eececeeeeeeeeeeecene Childhood Home Blessed Among Women A Christmas Prayer......... Of Dreams.......... Shepherd Lad. Upon a Holy Night _ "Enola Chamberlin 847 a. Rose T. Graham 862 Iris W. Schow 862 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Live and Learn Forever........ Merry, Merry Christmas!...... For You at Christmas 000000000... 816 Helen Spencer Williams 798.. Sylvia Probst Young 797 Lift ideas from a /QUI I thrifty, yet ideal for the most discriminating person on your list Engraved Initial Stationery For letters with that personal touch, Beautiful quality stationery by White & Wyckoff. 1.59. Mail orders to: MARGOT MANNERS, ZCMI Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please send the following Gift items: Hostess Ensemble Personal golden initial Masslinn holiday entertaining. 3.50. Name City. Zone _. State............... Include 16c postage for first item, 5c for each additional. Utah residents add 2% state tax. Quan. ( Charge (J Check or M. O. [] Open an Acct. Ete ceneeeeeeeen Item napkin ensemble. Ideal for ZCMI BOOKS & STATIONERY—Street Floor RELIED ETE M8 Bless Shis Flouse Maude Rubin The cookie jars are filled, the puddings made; The pine fire's ruddy comfort fades to coals. I fill the small, limp stockings, trim the staid Cen spruce with bells and baubles; fill the bowls With popcorn balls and raisins. On the wall The motto "Bless This House" has potency To call this yearly benison for all, A bridge of thought, time's fragile legacy... Now childhood memories come streaming far To tie earth's tinsel to the sacred star! The Cover: Madonna and Child, From a Painting by Sichel A Perry Picture Frontispiece: Christmas Mantel in the Home of Florence C. Williams Photograph by Hal Rumel Cover Design by Evan Jensen A Perry Picture From a Painting by Lerolle ARRIVAL OF THE SHEPHERDS ND it came to pass in those days, that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus, that all the world should be taxed.. And all went to be taxed, every one into his own city. And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judaea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem.... To be taxed with Mary his espoused wife, being great with child.. And so it was, that, while they were there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered. And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room for them in the inn. And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them: and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you; Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men (Luke 2:1-14). Jesus Js the Christ TESTIMONIES OF THE FIRST PRESIDENCY President David O. McKay... Acceptance of the divinity of Christ's mission and compliance with the principles of his gospel, give assurance of immortality and eternal life. I testify that a knowledge of his existence and of the truth of his gospel is the source of the greatest comfort and happiness to man....* Brethren, I know as I know I am looking into your faces that the gospel of Jesus Christ is true and that he is my Savior, as real as he was when Thomas said, with bowed head, "My Lord and my God!" President Stephen L Richards I know that our Redeemer lives. I know that he is the Savior of mankind. I know he has revealed himself through his chosen prophets, and I know that his divine gospel is the only plan which will bring salvation and exaltation to man and peace to a distracted world. I thank God from the depths of my soul for the transcendent gift of his Son, the Lord of the earth, the supreme Giver of all time in all the world.' President J]. Reuben Clark, Jr. And now may I, of the lowliest of the lowly who seek to serve him, and fully acknowledging my own weaknesses and imperfections, bear in deep humility my own testimony, born of the Spirit, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living God, the Only Begotten in the flesh, chosen before the foundations of the earth were laid to be the Redeemer of the World, the First Fruits of the Resurrection, through and by whom the spirits and bodies of all men will, in the due time of the Lord, be reunited and resurrected from the grave, "they who have done good in the resurrection of the just, and they who have done evil in the resurrection of the unjust." May I be preserved in this testimony till I lay down my body in my last sleep, I pray, in the Lord's name. Amen.* lConference Report, April 1953, pp. 18-19. 2Gospel Ideals, page 45. 8Where Is Wisdom? Page 322. 4On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, page 77. Page 789 Merry Christmas, Mother! Rosa Lee Lloyd 66 OW listen, honey," Joe said, smiling at Shirley over his newspaper. "I think it's a great idea for your mother to come for Christmas. We can afford to show her a good time on her first visit." Shirley felt her nerves tighten. All the lazy, lovely months of living here alone with Joe since their marriage last June, faded away like sunshine before a thunderstorm. "Oh, Joe," she breathed, "if you knew what Christmas means to Mother, you'd run for the nearest desert!" Joe's mild blue eyes crinkled as he folded the paper and put it beside his breakfast plate. "You're making mountains," he teased. "Your mother loves Christmas. Why shouldn't she come down to California and spend it with her only daughter? Perfectly natural, I'd say. Be a good girl," Joe coaxed. "Write back and tell her we'd love to have her for Christmas. We won't make a lot of work about it. We can eat out or we can buy a turkey ready-cooked at Hammond's. They deliver them, stuffing n'everything. Even gravy!" "Gravy!" Shirley scoffed. "Imagine Mother eating restaurant turkey and gravy on Christmas. Imagine!" She began to laugh, a shaky kind of laugh that made Joe's brows worry together. "What's so funny?" he demanded. "You should be mighty glad your husband wants your mother to Shirley bit her lip. "It's because you don't realize," she told him. "You were a bachelor, living with other bachelors, when you met me at that office party. And you went to a boys' school before that because your parents were dead, and you didn't have a real home. And then you married me, and I'm glad to live free and easy without a schedule of any kind. I like to eat out or have chili and sandwiches while we watch T'V. Any old hit or miss way you want to live suits me. But Joe, Mother doesn't live this way. She wants order and planned gracious living, as she calls it. And Christmas! If she had a slipshod Christmas, she'd feel that she was a failure." Joe groaned. "So it's that bad! Well, she's still your mother, and I like her. I only met her when she met us in Salt Lake City for our wedding. How did she ever have a_pixie-faced daughter, with red hair and wicked little glints in her eyes?" "Tm like my Dad," Shirley answered, trying to force a smile. "No sense of order or responsibility; get up with the sun one morning or sleep till noon the next. You can guess what Mother's life was like with Dad and me, before he was killed in an accident in South America." The clock on the little shelf above the breakfast table chimed the half hour. Joe stood up and reached for his coat. MERRY CHRISTMAS, MOTHER! "Tell her to come down," he concluded. "We can have her kind of Christmas this year." Shirley sighed. Joe couldn't realize what it meant, she thought, dismally. "Okay," she managed, "but don't say I didn't warn you!" AFTER Joe had kissed her and gone out to the garage, whistling, Shirley wrote a letter to her mother. They would make a real Christmas, she told her, the kind she was used to, and they wanted her to take the plane at their expense and arrive next Saturday, Christmas Eve. Shirley felt happy when she gave the mailman the letter. It was nice to have a generous husband who wanted to make her mother happy. The telephone was ringing when she went back into the house, and she sat down lazily to answer it. Kit Brown always called early every morning. Kit was bubbling with an idea. "Look, hon," she raced on. "Let's go to Las Vegas for Christmas. You and Joe, Leone and Steve, Phil and me. We can have fun, there's a big, new holiday show. I can't bear the thought of trimming a tree or cooking a turkey. And Phil doesn't care. He's still a bachelor in his ways. I'll bet Joe is, too. They lived together so long." Shirley caught her breath. 'The plan would suit her to a T. But they just couldn't go. Not now. "We can't go," she almost cried. "Mother's coming on Christmas Eve!" "Can't you make an excuse or something?" Kit asked. "Not now. We are painting the 791 extra room tonight so it will be ready for mother by Christmas Eve." Kit sighed. Miss you." Shirley put the receiver back in its cradle, thinking how she'd like to go to Las Vegas. But she might as well forget it and start planning Christmas. 'There wasn't a minute to lose. She reached for the pad and pencil and wrote rapidly. Monday, paint the spare room; 'Tuesday, buy the ingredients for mother's fruit bread and mince pies. They should be baked by Thursday. She would make her favorite lemon-rind candy on that day, too, while the bread and pies were baking. 'That left Friday to get the house cleaned, order the turkey and groceries, and remember to leave the bread out so it would be dry for stuffing. She must write for those recipes her mother always used for oyster sauce, creamed onions, and toasted almond rings. And she had _ to shop for curtains for the spare room! There was so much to do she couldn't think straight. She went reluctantly to the spare room and began the tedious job of packing the things they had thrown in there for the last six months. "Sorry, hon. We'll N Thursday the answering letter came from her mother. Shirley was in the spare room hanging the new curtains when she saw the mailman at the door. Mother wrote that a real Christmas with Shirley and Joe was her dearest wish. And wouldn't it be fun, she suggested in her sweet, persuasive way, to be Santa Claus for some unfortunate family the way they had always done every Christmas Eve? Shirley felt despair mounting in her. Here she was swamped with work, and her mother expected her to take care of another family, too! She strode to the telephone and dialed Joe's number. He must come home at once, she told his office girl. She needed him. By the time Joe's green sports car had swung into the driveway and he bounded up the front steps, Shirley had calmed down somewhat. Joe flopped into a chair. "What's emergency about that?" he demanded. "I thought you'd broken your neck or something!" "Oh, Joe," she cried against his shoulder. "Can't you see what it means? We'll have to shop for toys and groceries and soap. 'They always need soap. It takes dozens of bars of soap!" "We can afford a little soap," Joe soothed her. "A lot of soap," she corrected. "Okay, then. A lot of soap. I got my bonus check this morning, more than I thought it would be. Enough extra to buy toys and stuff for some family of kids. So don't worry. I'll make arrangements. You can forget about the whole thing. Your mother and I will go out there after she gets here on Christmas Eve." He pushed her gently to her feet and stood up. His eves brightened as he looked down the hall toward the spare room. "Say!" he beamed. "TI like those curtains. 'They dress up the whole place. And that paint job turned out fine, didn't it? Of course it's not the pink we thought it would be." Shirley smiled. "Mother will like it," she said, 'because it's sort of a heather color. I thought the pale blue curtains set it off." "They sure do! I'm real proud of it," Joe agreed. "We should've fixed that room months ago. It's been a black spot to me." "Why, Joe!" Shirley gasped. "I thought you liked it for a catchall!" "T like it this way," he said, starting toward the door. "I'll be home early and help you." FTER Joe drove away, Shirley sat down with a thoughtful air. The blue curtains were pretty, but she hadn't known until this moment that Joe was the kind of fellow who would pay attention to a pair of new curtains. Maybe there were a lot of little things she didn't know about Joe. He came home an hour earlier than usual. Shirley was in the kitchen mixing the diced citrus peel for the fruit bread. "Ummm! Smells good in here," he said, as he tossed his hat on the table and pulled her onto his lap. "Nice to find you home, honey," he whispered against her cheek. "Real nice." Shirley sat quietly in his arms wondering why he hadn't told her before that it mattered whether she was here when he got home. She and Kit and Leone had been in the habit of meeting for lunch nearly every day, and visiting until time for their husbands to be home. No, she hadn't thought it made any difference to Joe. "Guess what?" he laughed. "The boss gave us our choice of a fivepound box of candy or a fifteen- 792 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 MERRY CHRISTMAS, MOTHER! Pound turkey. I took the turkey. I dashed right out to the warehouse and had my first pick. It is a beauty, clean as a whistle, and not a pin feather!" Shirley kept her face hidden on Joe's shoulder. She really didn't understand him at all. 'his Joe who was helping her get ready for her mother wasn't the foot-loose bachelor she had thought she married. Jor must have secretly despised the way they had been living, snatching meals any old place at any old time. He must have thought she didn't know how to cook or make things attractive. But she did know how, she thought, defensively, because her mother had taught her before she came to California to work. But Joe had told her he liked canned stew and tamales, and those frozen pies they advertised on television. She got to her feet with a little bounce. She'd really show him a thing or two that he didn't know about her. "Would you like a nice steak?" she suggested, twinkling at him. "And a baked potato?" "Baked potatoes take time," he argued. "I'm a starving man." Shirley shook her head. "I put them in the oven when I baked the pies. They're nearly done. And I made popovers, too. Mother's recipe. Never fails." Joe gave her a strange look. "Sounds good," he said. "And then after dinner, let's go shopping for that family." Shirley swung around. "But, Joe! We don't know about them yet. How many or anything." 793 He took a slip of paper from his wallet. "Yes, we do. Mrs. Lucy Groves, a widow with six little kids. Oldest boy eight. How about slacks and a sweater for him?" "And a space helmet?" Shirley suggested. "Why, sure! A space helmet. Why didn't I think of that? And there's another boy six and four little girls. We'll have to go doll hunting, too. Maybe you can make some extra doll clothes." HIRLEY threw her hands up. "Now listen, Mr. Joe Markham," she said flatly. "I'm knee-deep already. I haven't time for doll clothes." A flashy, yellow convertible whizzed into the driveway, and a horn honked as though the owner felt very chipper. "What the blazes!" Joe grumbled, looking out of the window. "Here's Kit and Phil. We haven't time for company!" But they stayed for dinner. Shirley had enough potatoes and she cut the big sirloin steak into four pieces. 'There were plenty of string beans and a green salad and the popovers were delicious with apricot jam. Phil leaned back in his chair with a quizzical grin. "Say, Shirley, I didn't know you could cook. I thought you'd starve if you lost the can opener. Just like us." "Hidden talent," Shirley tossed back. Joe ate as though he had been starving for weeks. Once he glanced at Shirley wonderingly, but there was a flash of pride in it, too. "Who's fighting on 'T'V tonight?" Phil asked. Joe answered quickly, "We can't watch 'TV tonight, Phil. Or the rest of the week. We've got a family to care for." "A family!" Phil repeated. "A bunch of little kids who need a Santa Claus," Joe explained. Phil took a drink of water, then put his glass down thoughtfully. "So you're playing Santa Claus," he mused. "You're the last guy in the world I expected to see in a red suit and long white whiskers!" Joe's head jerked up. "Say, that's an idea. White whiskers and a red suit. 'Thanks, Phil. Shirley's mother will like that. We want everything right for her." Shirley couldn't swallow. Joe meant it, she thought, the wonder of it swelling in her heart. He is going to dress up for those kids! "I don't get it, Joe," Phil went on. "You need relaxation after that grind at the office. A trip to Las Vegas would be just the medicine." Joe shook his head. "Not for us, Phil. We have a job to do. That's why we have to shop tonight. Want to go along?" Phil looked across the table at Kit. She nodded. "Let's go along. We might find something cute for my sister's kids instead of giving them a check." HE next afternoon Kit and Leone came over while Shirley was baking the fruit bread. "T had a brainstorm after we got home last night," Kit explained. "I told Leone about those dolls you bought. So we rummaged through our stuff!" She dumped a sackful of bright ribbons, laces, and fluffy bits of fur on the glass-topped table before the fireplace. Shirley stared at them. 'There were enough to make fancy doll clothes for a dozen dolls; little hats, too, and velvet coats trimmed with fur. Leone and Kit began to sort them over, chatting about a piece of light blue taffeta that would make an adorable dress for a yellow-haired doll. Shirley couldn't believe it! Leone and Kit making doll clothes! 'They had worked in the same office with her, and since they married last August they had lived as_ they pleased. That is, Shirley thought, they had been like that until this moment. Now they were natural young women, bent over a table of doll clothes. It was as though flowers had blossomed through the snow. Shirley's throat was suddenly dry and aching. She was terribly afraid she was going to cry, so she made an excuse and went back to the kitchen. She sliced a loaf of fresh fruit bread, poured three glasses of milk, and put them on a tray with a plate of nippy cheese. If Mother were preparing this, she thought, she would have a flower in a vase to set it off, and she would carry the tray as though it were loaded with precious jewels. Every woman is a queen in her own home, she had told Shirley many times. All at once, and for the first time since she had left home a year ago, Shirley was very lonesome for her 794 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 MERRY CHRISTMAS, MOTHER! Mother. Why hadn't she appreciated the countless little things she had done to make their home a place of comfort, harmony, and loveliness, during those unsettled years when Shirley was growing up? Even when their finances were low and Daddy was away on some project, still her mother had been able, somehow, to make things attractive. Shirley stood very still remembering turnip greens topped with sliced hardboiled eggs and bran muffins fresh from the oven. And she could see again the red geraniums encircled with sprigs of homegrown holly in the center of their Christmas table the lean year that her Daddy didn't send a check. With her eyes misty she reached for the African violet on the window ledge and placed it in the middle of the tray; then she lifted her head and carried it proudly into the living room as though it were loaded with something precious. JOE brought the tree home on Saturday morning. 'They decided to decorate it before her mother arrived at six o'clock. The Christmas Eve dinner was in the oven ready to be served when they returned from the airport. Shirley had planned one of her mother's special dinners: a Boston butt roast of pork, baked apples, a casserole of navy beans flavored with molasses and mustard, brown bread, and a tossed green salad. The tree was twice as large as Shirley had expected, but Joe was so pleased with it she didn't have the heart to suggest that they exchange it for a smaller one, even though they would have to move 795 the piano or the television out of the living room to make a place for it. After they moved the television set and put the big tree in front of the picture window, Shirley sat down on the settee to rest a bit. She took a long, deep breath, thinking how everything smelled like Christmas. 'The pungent odor of pine, the oranges and apples on the buffet; the spicy fragrance from the plum pudding she had decided to make at the last minute, and the dinner baking in the oven. She watched Joe sprinkle the tree with sparkling snow. It was their very first tree together, and all the ornaments were brand new. When he touched them his eyes were eager and bright, as though it were the first tree he had ever really owned. Maybe it is, she thought, remembering that he had lived in a boys' school until he was sixteen. Her heart tightened and she closed her eyes. If it hadn't been for her mother, Joe wouldn't be trimming a tree; there wouldn't be a huge box in the back of their car loaded with dolls and toys and good things to eat, and nice warm sweaters and slacks and — she swallowed hard — and pretty little doll clothes that Kit and Leone had made, all ready for Lucy Groves' children. And their own home wouldn't be a shining miracle with Christmas in every corner! Shirley got to her feet quickly and began to unwind the tinsel for Joe to drape on the branches. "Pretty stuff," he smiled. But she didn't answer. She was too choked up. It was a busy afternoon, but by five o'clock everything was ready. 796 Joe stood in the center of the living room with a big, satisfied smile. "Think she'll like it?" he asked Shirley. "Have we forgotten anything?" "She'll love it, Joe. And we haven't forgotten a thing." The doorbell rang. "Merry Christmas," Phil called. "We're in a hurry, but we stopped by anyway." "Good!" Joe said. "Come in." They trailed in with their gaily colored packages. "Sure wish you two were going along!" Phil slapped Joe on the back. "We'll miss you," Steve said in his jolly way. "Same here," Joe answered. IT and Leone were strangely quiet as they put their packages under the big, sparkling tree and took the packages Shirley handed to them in return. "Ummm! Sure smells good in here!" Phil clicked his tongue. "Tt sure does,' Steve echoed. "Smells like Christmas when I was a kid." Leone pulled her fur stole close around her as though she was shivering. "Let's go," she said. The telephone rang sharply, and Shirley hurried to answer it. Maybe the plane had arrived ahead of time, she thought. But it was a telegram. A crisp voice read the message: Sorry I cannot be with you. Neighbor very ill in hospital. Her children need me, Please forgive me, my darlings. I love you. Mother. Shirley couldn't breathe. Silently RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 she handed the receiver to Joe who asked the girl to repeat the message. Everyone crowded around them, but Shirley bent her head and covered her face with her hands. The house seemed suddenly dark and empty. All their work and planning had crumbled to nothing. "Oh, Joe," she said bleakly as his arms went around her. "What a shame!" Kit murmured. "You've worked night and day. And now she can't be here!" "Tough break," Phil consoled them. "Let's make the best of it," Steve joined in. "Now you can go to Las Vegas with us." Las Vegas, Shirley repeated to herself. She looked at Joe. He drew a long breath and wet his lips. "It's up to Shirley," he said slowly. "But somehow her mother seems right here with us — because — well, because everything she loves about Christmas is right here. If we chase off to Las Vegas, I'd feel we were letting her down and letting ourselves down, too. But it's up to Shirley." A little pulse began to beat in Shirley's throat. She and Joe were free now to go to Las Vegas. They could have Christmas a la carte or any old way they wanted it. Her eyes moved to the big tree shimmering in the window, and back again to Joe's face. He loved that tree and all it meant to him and everything else they had done for Christmas; all the work and plans. She met Joe's eyes and a sort of magic brushed between them. "Why don't you all stay right here with us?" she offered smiling. "We'll have such fun out there MERRY CHRISTMAS, MOTHER! With those children—then we'll come back for dinner and open our gifts and sing carols...." Her voice trailed off wistfully, as she saw Kit's surprised face. 'Then she noticed Leone was biting her lip and pulling on her gloves. Steve and Phil looked as though someone had asked them to go up in a balloon. At last Steve said, "That's a swell idea, but we promised our wives a trip to Las Vegas." "That's ight," Phil agreed. "We promised." Leone bent her head and started to cry. 797 "Why, baby!" Steve said, "Don't cry. We're going." "But—I—don't want—to go!" Her voice broke into pieces. "I want to watch those little girls play with the doll clothes we made!" "So do I," Kit chimed in, "but I was afraid to say so." Phil tossed his hat up in the air and danced her around the room. "Hurray!" he yelled. "Merry Christmas!" Steve grinned like a kid who had just found a dime in his pocket. Joe winked at Shirley and_ his smile had wonder in it. All the wonder of Christmas. Sor You at Christmas Sylvia Probst Young When bells for Christmas ring across the snow, I wish for you all joys your heart can hold— The warmth of home and hearth, a candle glow, A star above your window, yellow gold; A star as guided Magi through the night, To bring you to the One—the Perfect Light. May yours be quiet peace at each day's ending; The peace that Christ was born on earth to bring, White-winged—and like a gentle dove ascending Unto the cloven skies where angels sing— The peace that shepherds found in Bethlehem Be with you like a shining diadem. And may you know the blessed joy of giving— The Child that Mary cradled tenderly Gave to the world a selfless way of living, And chose the darkened road to Calvary— Oh, may his gracious love with you abide For all the days—beyond the Christmastide. IMlerry, IMlerry Cina Helen Spencer Williams &G HRISTMAS is coming and C the geese are getting fat!" The mincemeat is in the making — luscious plum puddings are ripening in their crocks. Now is the time to begin on Christmas decorations. There is no way better to kindle that warm Christmas spirit than to begin making gifts and decorations for loved ones and to beautify our own houses. Nothing in the world is so contagious as happiness. Just to be near Florence Williams, as she radiates her Christmas spirit in plans and projects, is to partake of her enthusiasm and happiness. This year she has more ideas and suggestions for Yuletide decoration than ever before — and such beautiful ones! Florence begins by checking on her Christmas supplies and materials, plasta foam, spray paint that comes in convenient hand-operated cans, artificial snow, angel's hair, and a dozen other articles that will be needed as she makes her Christmas decorations. One reason why Florence can create such novel and Christmasy decorations is because she is ever on the alert for new ideas, and for the materials to bring them into gay, colorful articles. She watches the magazines, shops in the _five-anddime stores, floral stores, and department stores long before Christmas comes, and then she is ready to start working to share her ideas with others when the season arrives. Everything pictured here was made by Florence and can be made Page 798 by you, too. You will have the best time of your life as you see plain green felt become gay tablecloths and Christmas tree skirts; peanuts and pecans and dried-up pine cones transformed into beautiful Christmas wreaths; old artificial flowers, long since discarded, changed into golden nosegays. You, too, will have to shop the five-and-dime stores for little Santa boots and figures, for tiny Christmas trees, horns, and drums, and _ for artificial snow, tinsel, and glue; and, also, you'll have to gather pine cones and twigs from evergreen trees and maybe dig up some of your dried ivy and vines—but you will have fun doing it, we promise you. The Staircase Before the Christmas holidays, this was a very ordinary dignified staircase and railing in Florence's home. But now—presto! It takes on the magic of Christmas. The railing has been covered with green felt, scalloped and appliqued with miniature Christmas trees which were cut with pinking shears. Standing guard at the foot of the stairs, is a Christmas pixie, and marching toward the pixie down the rail are tiny Christmas trees sprinkled with snow. These have been fastened to the felt with glue. Attached to the wroughtiron railing with bight red mbbon are brightly colored drums; little felt figures holding golden-colored trombones are hanging to the railing. 'The felt figures are cut out in four pieces, and the body, arms, MERRY, MERRY CHRISTMAS! Wed Hal Ruwel THE STAIRWAY 799 Arrangement by Florence C. Williams face, and cap are glued together; the perky face is painted. Right in the center of the staircase hangs a jolly old snowman's face made of plasta foam; the eyes, nose, and mouth are made of felt. Up in the window above the staircase are two round wax candles that look just like snowballs, and they glow brightly to light the way up the festive stairs. The Dining Room Now, let's go into the dining room, where the Christmas buffet Hal Rumel THE BUFFET TABLE Decorated by Florence C. Williams table is waiting for all the delicious food that has been prepared in anticipation for this holiday season. The buffet table stands in front of a large mirrored wall which reflects the window on the opposite side of the room. A doll-sized Santa dressed all in white velvet has climbed a ladder and has just finished wnting "Merry Christmas," so that all who come to break bread with Florence's family at Christmas time may be greeted with the most jovous wish of all the year. The table is covered with a snowwhite cloth trimmed with gold braid. Big and little Santa Claus boots, with tall suckers, stand in a double row at one end of the table. In the very center of the table stands the grand old man of Christmas, sort of overseeing all the fun of dining festivities. He is made of a huge candy jar half filled with hard and chewy colored candies for the children. His head is a large ball of plasta foam, his beard soft white cotton; bright buttons are his eyes; a cherry his little red nose, and red felt his mouth. Atop his head perches a bright cap made of felt with a tassel of varn. Around his shoulders is a collar of felt fringed in gold and white which his sleeves snuggle under. The cap, collar, sleeves, hands, and the buttons down the front are all cut from bright red felt. "The belt which circles his fat little belly is buckled with red so it won't shake like jelly." 800 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 MERRY, MERRY CHRISTMAS! This jolly old man has his clothes all stuck on with glue. Even his black shoes, which cover the base of the candy jar, are made secure with it. Over at one end of the table in a bright red compote burns a large candle ball made of shavings from old candles and trimmed with sequins and artificial snow. It rests on a bed of bright holly and greens. Small figures of Santa stand at either side of the large glass Santa. Soon the buffet table will be spread with delicious things to eat. The little ones and big folks will take their plates to the tables. The top for the children's table is a circle of painted composition board resting on an empty barrel 801 that has been painted a_ bright Christmas red. It has another felt Santa Claus adorning its side. On top of the table is a Santa tablecloth made of red crepe paper and pasted with figures of angels and reindeer from Christmas storybooks, Santas and sleds dancing round and round making a perfect setting for the big Santa boots holding candy canes, and little wooden candle holders. Big special glasses that have decals of Santa's jolly face on the side mark the place of each tiny guest. The centerpiece is a Swiss music box that goes round as it plays Christmas carols. Just above the children's table is a parade of Christmas elves and reindeer dancing along the window THE CHILDREN'S TABLE Decorated by Florence C. Williams Hal Rumel THE GOLDEN FLOWERS Arranged by Florence C. Williams sill. No wonder the children's eyes shine brighter than the Christmas star itself as they sit at their own festive table for their Christmas dinner in their little red chairs. An Arrangement of Golden Flowers Perhaps the very loveliest and unusual decoration in the house is the arrangement of golden flowers. 'This 802 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 MERRY, MERRY CHRISTMAS! Is a magnificent arrangement of flowers and balls in a tall tiered compote on top of the piano. 'True, many of us do not possess such a beautiful container, but we can look at this one Florence has, and find inspiration from its beauty to use what we do have and make something just as exquisite and unusual of our own. First, Florence gathered all of her old artificial flowers that had accumulated through the years; next she went to the five-and-ten cent store and bought as many artificial roses as she felt she could afford; then, with her old standby, plasta foam, she made large balls about five inches in diameter. She placed all of the flowers and balls on a paper-coyered table, and with her spray she 803 painted everything with gold. She was very careful to turn all the flowers so that none of the original color of the flowers showed through. 'The balls were turned so they were completely covered. 'The spray paint dried quickly, and as soon as the balls were thoroughly dry, she covered them with small golden coins. Each coin had a tiny hole bored into it and it was then stuck into the golden plasta foam ball with a large pearl-headed pin. Such beautiful ornaments! Then came the fun of arranging these golden flowers and balls in this elegant dish and circling the base with waxy green laurel leaves. On one side she placed a golden cherub holding one tall white taper with a little wax figure clinging to THE FAMILY TREE In the Gilbert and Florence C. Williams Home 804 it and another one just like it nearby. Perfect symmetry is in this arrangement. This decoration, so regal and tall, would not be suitable in all of our homes, but the golden flowers, the balls with the coins and pearls could be arranged in any compote or a low or high bowl. It would be lovely for a mantel; for a table, or for an entrance hall. And, oh, what a perfectly wonderful time you will have spraying the flowers and making these beautiful balls and arranging them to fit your own particular setting. The Family Tree At the head of the stairs in Florence's house stands an old grandfather's clock. For days and weeks and months and years it has been chiming the hours away. Up the stairs little ones have climbed and paused before it to watch the hands go round and round, to see the pendulum swing back and _ forth; and have wondered, would it never stop? The children have grown to manhood and womanhood now, and have gone to make homes of their own. Grandparents and __ greatgrandparents who loved the old clock have gone to their rest, and each generation has taken its own distinctive place in the passage of time and in family life and tradition, and the clock ticks on, giving atmosphere to the memories that have made the home so dear. The old clock stands as a sentinel guarding "The Family Tree" which is painted on the wall just above the upstairs hall. Here, too, the children pause to wonder and to ask questions; to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 point with pride, saying, "Why, that's Great-grandfather Thomas Allen Williams,' and "There is Great-great-grandfather John R. Winder, who was called by President Brigham Young to supervise the completion of the Salt Lake Temple," and "Here is Great-greatgrandmother Racheal Ballif Campbell whose parents were born in Lausanne, Switzerland, and who came here for the gospel way back Hal Rumel THE GRANDFATHER'S CLOCK In the Williams Home MERRY, MERRY CHRISTMAS! In 1854." Or "That is Great-greatgreat-grandmother Pernecy Allen, who lived in a covered wagon when she was first married. She sheared her own sheep to weave wool for her little ones' clothing, and she was only fifteen years old when she was married." Thus, "The Family Tree," painted freehand on a wide wall with poster paint by one of Florence's friends, Rebecca Clawson Smoot, tells the story of generations by the quaint pictures hanging from its branches. On the back of each picture is the name, date of birth, marriage, and death, of -all those who adorn the tree. As Gilbert and Florence Williams' family grows, more branches will be added to the tree, and new faces will appear among the leaves. What a unique and wonderful way to teach an appreciation for genealogy! The upstairs hall is long, the ceiling high. The roots of "The Family 805 Tree" are strong and deep, and the new branches will have space to grow and unfold, adding new beauty and strength to the family life as the years go on. And the grandfather's clock will go ticking along as each new member pauses to listen to its chimes and to ask questions about mother, father, grandparents, and __ greatgrandparents—who they were, where they came from, and where they are now, and "Will we ever see them again?" It is good to be wellborn and to be part of a family tree and to listen to a message that will chime out through all eternity. 'The clock and "The Family Tree" are part of the past and will be part of the future, holding a family together in love, tradition, and pride. May the tree and the clock always remain at the head of the stairs in Florence's house, as symbols of the strength of family ties! —>- Christmas ACE Being Home Christie Lund Coles Christmas is being home; wherever you are, You are led backward through the boughs Of evergreen and spruce, over the far, Firm-crusted, sequined snow to where snow plows Have left no mark, no pathway; but the feet Of children's Fox-and-Geese can route again The entrance to a long-familiar street, 'Where stars seem twined upon each weathervane. Christmas is seeing loved ones' eyes more bright In bauble's satin sheen, in candle glow; Hearing Noel's bell-tone and the quiet night; Kneeling in praise like shepherds long ago. Christmas is being home. Backward forever..... The spirit yearns. And tonight returns. A Grandma for Christmas Myrtle M. Dean ANCY knew afterward that she would never be able to forget the slender, dark-eyed boy who came to her door that morning. She knew she would never forget him, any more than she had forgotten her only child Michael, who had been struck down in the snow while riding his new sled the day after Christmas. That had happened many years ago, but Michael was the only child she had ever had. Now another boy had suddenly come into her life. Nancy saw the boy as he came up the sidewalk alone two days before Christmas. He seemed not to notice the other children who were playing in the snow along the street. Children in bright jackets and warm caps and mittens were tossing balls of whiteness at each other. Some fell in the deep softness, making figures in the snow. Nancy could hear the gay shouts and happy laughter of the others, while the lone boy hurried along as though bent upon some important errand. "Why, he is coming in here," she said to herself. 'Then she asked her husband, "Please, go to the door, David, there is a boy there. See what he wants here." As David moved slowly to the front door, Nancy thought, it must be something important, or the boy wouldn't be out in this weather without better wraps. A pang of hurt went through her as she noted Page 806 the seriousness of the boy's dark eyes and the thinness of his body. His jeans were faded and were much too short for his lanky legs. His coat was not warm, and his arms protruded from the too-short sleeves. He can't be more than _ twelve, Nancy thought. As David answered the timid knock, she could hear a shy voice speaking, but could not hear the boy's words. 'Then, she watched the boy move slowly away as David came back to her. "Wanted me to hire him to shovel away the snow, but he isn't big enough to handle a snow shovel. Besides, the snow is still falling and it would do no good." "Oh, but David, you can see very well that the boy needs money. Perhaps his mother has sent him out to earn a little for Christmas." Nancy's voice was full of anxiety. "Well, he'd probably spend the money on some foolishness anyway. You know how kids are nowadays. Besides, he'd likely get pneumonia for Christmas, if he stayed out shoveling in this wet weather," David argued. "He'll likely get it anyway, if he has to go on and on, trying to get a job, with his clothes wet to the skin." Nancy's face was troubled as she watched the boy go from one house to another, only to come out, dejectedly moving on along the street. For a brief moment she lingered A GRANDMA FOR CHRISTMAS near the window, then turned away. She turned away from the sight of the boy walking along with the hopelessness showing in his slight body. She turned away, too, from the sight of the happy children playing in the street. For deep inside her was creeping back the same deep hurt that always came when she saw happy children playing, just as her little Michael had been playing when he was killed. "It was so long ago, Nancy—such a long time, and we can't forget," David said tenderly, as he saw Nancy's face as she turned from the window. "But Christmas always comes— again and again it comes, and with it for us comes always only the hurt, when Christmas should be such a happy time." David took her arm and led her to a chair. For a moment they were silent, then, suddenly, Nancy raised her eyes to David and spoke very firmly, "I want to go to town and do a little Christmas shopping, David." David looked surprised, but waited for an explanation. Nancy never waited this late to do Christmas shopping. She always shopped early and missed the rush and bustle of last-minute shoppers. "IT think I'd like to go alone today, David," Nancy added. "Tl take the car if you don't mind." There was a new light in her eyes that pleased him. NANCY had forgotten the streets could be so crowded. She was almost carried along by the people as they pushed along the sidewalk. She was breathless as she moved to 807 the inside of the walk and paused to get her bearings. There were so many children in the crowd. Children with bright, hopeful eyes, as they looked at the gaily decorated windows, and the many toys. Again came the deep hurt inside her chest. She could hear their little Michael saying, "I want that pretty new sled." She was remembering his sparkling eyes when they brought him to see the Christmas things. Now the years seemed to melt away, and it seemed but yesterday. As Nancy moved on, she noted many child faces gazing hungrily at toys, and the many pretty things which she knew they could not afford. She watched a young girl looking at a lovely dress in Merrill's store window, and she knew that the longing for this dress would not be satished. This girl could only dream of pretty clothes. All about her she saw so many who really needed things. She saw unhappy and worried faces, as well as those who could well afford luxurious spending. "T did not realize that there were so many in need, and people whom one might help," she said to herself. Again her mind turned to the young boy who had come to their door this morning, and she wondered what he was doing. She wondered if his family would have a happy Christmas. Mernill's Department Store was a good place to buy everything she would want, but Nancy almost turned back as she reached the store door, for she could still feel the pressure of her little Michael's hand in her own, as she had always brought him to Merrills. He had danced with excitement when they reached the door which was an entrance to a Christmas fairyland. Nancy knew that she must push away that old feeling that had enveloped her for so long, and had kept her isolated from all the brightness of the holiday season. Wiaithout any ordered plan, she began her purchasing. First she went to the glove counter, and bought several pairs. 'Uhe soft woolly mittens were so warm looking. "I'll take bright, red ones and blue ones for little girls, and the gray and brown for boys, in several sizes," she told the clerk. ANCY looked in astonishment at the many toys that a child might choose these days. 'There was miniature farm machinery — that looked so real that one wanted to set it to work on a farm. 'The electric trains that ran around on long tracks, and the fire engines that blew shrill sirens as you pressed a lever were enchanting. Nancy selected some of these exciting things for boys, before she moved to the section where the dolls of every description held little girls enthralled by their naturalness and beauty. Nancy chose a sweet, rosy-cheeked dolly. She loved to touch the softness of its skin. Like a real, live baby, Nancy thought. "Tll take this one," she told the saleslady. 'Then she saw the tiny baby doll and asked for it, too. "There are little girls who would like them, I am sure," she said to herself. While Nancy waited for her parcels to be wrapped, she noticed a boy standing nearby at the costume jewelry counter. The jewelry looked so inviting, all set out on purple velvet; the sparkly sets winking up so bright. Some of it was placed on trays on top of the cases, so one might take it up and view it closely. Nancy thought it unusual that a boy so young should be so interested in jewelry. He was perhaps eleven or twelve. He was poorly dressed, and was tall and thin. His legs were too long for the rest of him. His face was away from Nancy, but she watched him pick up a pair of earrings, and slowly put them back. They had lovely red sets in them. "They would match the necklace that David gave me for my birthday years ago," she said to herself. Nancy moved quickly to the boy, and started to take hold of his arm. "Why do you like the earrings?" Nancy spoke softly. He moved away from her his eyes averted and his head bent low. It was the same boy who had called to shovel snow. "T wanted them for my mother. It was for her I wanted them," he said slowly. "I wanted her to have something pretty, like other women do." The salesgirl was coming over to them now, and the boy tried to leave, but Nancy held to his arm. "Wait, boy, please don't go yet. I must talk to you," Nancy said. "MAY I help you?" the girl asked Nancy. "Yes, please, the earrings; the red sets are so pretty in these." Nancy pointed to the pair. "Three dollars," the girl said, 808 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 A GRANDMA FOR CHRISTMAS Nancy counted out the money, while the girl wrapped them in a dainty parcel. "T can't give these to you, lad," Nancy said, as she and the boy left the counter. "But perhaps you can earn the money for them." The boy spoke tempestuously. "She works so hard for all of us. Since my father died we can have only the things like clothes and food. There is never anything pretty or anything like jewelry for mother to wear. I do all I can to help, but I go to school." For a moment a flicker of a smile came to his lips as he said, "I bought a tiny red fire engine for my little brother. He will like that. And I got a tencent storybook for my two sisters." The boy hesitated and his eyes fell, then, "I did want something for my mother for Christmas." 'The boy's voice broke as he raised his eyes to meet Nancy's. "What is your name, Son?" Nancy's lips trembled as she spoke the word, Son. "My name is Joe. Son," he spoke softly... Joe Carl- "T would like very much for your mother to have these earrings, Joe. Maybe you can come and work to pay for them. 'The snow has stopped falling now. Would you like to shovel it away? 'There would be the walks and the roof, too, I think. There is so much snow. 'Too much for David, my husband, to manage." Nancy watched the boy's eyes lighted up, and the sullen, despondent look fall away. "Oh, I would... I would like ever so much to pay for them that way, so I'd have them for my moth- 809 er." Joe's lips relaxed into a timid smile. "Then, Joe, come to 620 Maple Street, David and Nancy Brooks live there." "Why, I live just a few blocks from Maple, down on Elm." He started to hurry away, then turned and smiled. "Thanks... Thanks a lot." Nancy knew she must hurry home, and be there when the boy arrived to shovel snow. David met her at the door. "What in tunket is all this?" he asked, as the parcels spilled over the dining table as she put them from her arms. Nancy evaded his question for the moment, and spoke with censure in her voice, "You've cleared the snow from the front walk, David." "What is so wrong about that? It stopped snowing, and I had to have something to do. It's lonesome with you out of the house, you know." ig pleased Nancy that David missed her. She gave him a little smile, then she said, "he roof should be cleared, and you shouldn't be climbing a roof." "Well, I didn't know I was so old and decrepit. Just last week when it snowed you said that I'd better clear the roof." David spoke with an injured tone. "T have asked a boy to come and shovel the snow, David. 'This boy needs money. He is the boy who came here this morning and we sent him away. I didn't know there were so many worried and unhappy people all around us, until today, David." 810 "That reminds me; I haven't sent our usual charity check for gifts for the needy," David said. "Don't this year, David. We have been doing things the wrong way. We haven't been part of our giving at all. 'Today, I have seen so many who need more than gifts that money can buy. I want us to give something more." Nancy's eyes shone with an interest that David had not seen for a long time. "But, all this you brought home today, Nancy?" David motioned to the bundles piled upon the table. "There are many who need them," she said. They heard the door bell then, and Nancy went to answer it. Joe stood there wiping his shoes on the mat. "This is the boy, David. He is here to clear the snow," Nancy explained. "My wife thinks that I am too decrepit to shovel snow. Do you think that you can do it?" David asked with a sly grin. "Yes, yes, I can, I'm sure." The boy scuffed his feet nervously as David eyed him critically. Nancy wondered, too, if the boy should do it, as she saw closely how thin and pinched he really was. "Get him a pair of your gloves, David. His hands will freeze in the cold," she said. David brought the gloves from the hall closet. "There is a ladder out back so you can start with the roof. 'The shovel is by the back porch," David told the boy. "His legs are so spindly and long, he may get them tangled up and trip himself," David said mischievously, "but you hired him." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 Nancy looked worried as she heard the boy on the roof. "It would be terrible if he should get hurt for Christmas," she said. ANCY slipped away to her room, and took from her jewel case the old ruby necklace that David had given her. She fastened it about her throat; her eyes soft with happy remembrance. 'hen she placed it with the earrings she had bought at Merrill's today. She carefully wrapped them together in a box with white tissue, and tied it with blue ribbon. She took it with her to the kitchen, where she hurried to make hot chocolate. "Come in and warm up a bit," Nancy said, as she met Joe at the door as he finished clearing the snow. Nancy led the way to the living room and placed a chair before the fireplace for Joe. She carried the chocolate in a bright pottery pitcher, and poured it into pretty pottery cups. Beside it was a plate heaped with golden doughnuts. <A tenderness for the boy filled her as he held out his thin, cold hands to the fire to warm, while he sat in the big cushioned chair before the hearth. She saw the sweetness of his face and felt his gratefulness as he tasted the food she gave him. 'There are things that a boy needs, even more than food and drink, she thought soberly. "What most of all would you like for Christmas, Joe?" Nancy asked, hardly realizing what she was asking the child. "T think... I think most of anything in the world..." Joe hesitated again briefly, "I think I would rather A GRANDMA FOR CHRISTMAS have a grandma," he said solemnly. Surprised and sobered by the boy's unusual wish, Nancy questioned, "Don't you have a grandma?" "Not anymore," Joe said. "I remember though, how my Grandma Brown used to help us children make popcorn balls and taffy candy at Christmas time, and she would knit warm mittens for us every winter." I will never be a grandma, never, Nancy thought, now. I am not too young to be a grandma though, and David could be a grandpa. I really think he would like it very much. I wonder if a substitute grandma would do for Joe? T'll have to talk the matter over with David. I can't make him a grandpa without his consent, Nancy said to herself, but she thought from the serious way he was looking at the boy now that he would not be hard to convince. AVID took out his purse to pay the boy for his work. He looked puzzled, when Nancy said, "I'm paying Joe, David." 'Then she slipped a tissue-wrapped parcel into the lad's hand. "I put an extra trinket in that I think your mother will like, Joe." In Nancy's smile was the love of a real grandma. "What in tunket kind of pay are you giving a boy — a tissue-wrapped box, tied with a ribbon bow?" Joe's bright smile left a warmth and glow in the room even after he had gone. "T thought you said that the boy needed money," David said abruptly. "He needs some things even more than money. Did you hear him, David? The boy said, 'more than anything,' he wants a grandma." 811 "Might be you could take on the job. Seems to me, you would make a real fine grandma. But then, then I'd be a grandpa for sure, wouldn't I?" "Would you mind, David?" From the pleased expression he wore, Nancy was sure he would not. Now she told him about the boy in the store, and why she had brought him to shovel the snow. "You're a trump, Nancy." David's eyes crinkled in a tender smile. "We could have a real Christmas Eve party, with Joe's mother and the children. There are three of them, besides Joe. 'There are others, too, whom we could invite." Nancy was surprising herself, her ideas were cropping up so fast. "And I will find the finest Christmas tree in town." David was as enthusiastic as a boy. Nancy's eyes lowered, and for a moment she could not speak. She was seeing again their little Michael as he gazed happily at the bright tree in the corner of the room. Nancy had said, after Michael had gone, "We will never have another tree." All these years there had been none, but now Nancy raised her head high, and spoke firmly, "Yes, David, get the finest tree in town." Nancy and David looked at each other. There was a shining look in their eyes, and an awareness of two people who are very close. Nancy began to hum a tune very softly now. It was just a bit of the song that came to her, "All is calm, all is bright... Sleep in heavenly peace." She knew that at last a heavenly peace had come back to their hearts. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1897 "For THE RicHTs OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN or ALL Nations" RESTORATION OF MOUNT VERNON: | It will be gratifying news to many to learn that Mount Vernon is to undergo restoration to as near its condition at the time of its occupancy by our first President as it is practicable. It was recently discovered that decay had set in in some of the timbers used in the erection of the mansion and work has already begun under the direction of the Mount Vernon Ladies association for their replacement by materials of most lasting quality.... —Home Magazine RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN DAVIS STAKE: The Relief Society conference of Davis Stake met at Kaysville Oct. 28, 1897, President Susan Grant, presiding... Said, "Through the blessings of the Lord we are permitted to meet again in this capacity. I am afraid we do not appreciate the blessings the Lord is continually showing to us.... I want to encourage the sisters to take the Exponent."... Sister L. D. Alder addressed the meeting: "When the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Society he did it as a pattern of the olden times, I think these organizations existed in the days of the Savior.... When we do anything in the Relief Society we are helping ourselves, these meetings are our own meetings and we can work a little extra to attend them... There is a bond that unites the sisters that work together...." —Phebe C. Sessions, Sec. WOMAN'S APPEAL O never yet has freedom called in vain On woman's hand or woman's brain, Through shadowy stretch of fleeting years, See her undaunted by her fears, Set forth from kindred and her native strand To dwell thenceforth in foreign land.... The Nineteenth Century on roll of fame Has oft inscribed a woman's name.... —Bertha M. Wixon SAVE YOUR MONEY: And when you get a dollar, deposit it with Zion's Savings Bank and Trust Company, the oldest and largest savings bank in Utah.... The laws of Utah permit married women and also children who are minors to open savings accounts in their own name, subject to their own order.... —Advertisement CHRISTMAS AND THE CHILDREN: Christ loved little children and he told his disciples, "Except ye become as these little ones ye shall in no wise enter the kingdom of heaven." The very simplicity of the language in which our Savior taught... Clothes it with a significant beauty and makes it all the more touching to the human heart.... The children should be made as happy as possible with nice and comfortable gifts from those who love them.... On the blessed Christmas day let us hope there will not be a hungry child or an unhappy one in all Utah.... —Editorial Page 812 Mss JOYCE MYRON, eighteen, of North Bergen, New Jersey, is an expert on the atom, and in September she demonstrated the operation of a huge nuclear reactor, thus winning $64,000 and_ barely missing winning $120,000 on the Sixty-four Thousand Dollar Question program on television. Miss Myron is a college sophomore. RS. IVY BAKER PRIEST, a native of Utah, and United States Treasurer, recently received from the Easter Seal Society a citation for her "dedicated effort" as chairman of the 1957 National Easter Seal Campaign. 'The citation praised Mrs. Priest for her great service to crippled children and adults during the campaign. ID RICKETTS SUMNER, at the age of sixty-four, author of Traveling in the Wilderness, "calmed her nerves" by exploring, partly on a rubber raft, the dangerous canyons of the Green and Colorado rivers. RS. IRMA R. De VIGO, of Puerto Rico, Public Welfare Consultant to the Bureau of Public Assistance, helped co-ordinate welfare activities during a recent hurricane. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RS. GROVER FLOWERS, of Ozark, Alabama, is the State's only woman school superintendent. ULIA MORGAN was the architect of the magnificent San Simeon palace of William Randolph Hearst, recently presented, with its great art treasures, to the State of California as a museum. Miss Morgan designed more than 700 other buildings. She was the first woman to attend the famous Beaux Arts school in Paris. She was also one of the first women engineers. She wielded a pronounced influence on American architecture. Julia Morgan died last February in San Francisco at the age of eighty-five years. HREE women recently admitted to United States citizenship, are especially interested Sky Watcher volunteers in Great Neck, New York. Mrs. Rosia Stolzenberg said, "Until 1938, when I slept the first night on American territory, fear never left me." Mrs. Johanna Whitfield was a former member of the Dutch Underground, and = Mrs. Beatrice Heinbock endured the bombardment of Brussells in 1940. Mrs. Whitfield has served 1500 hours in the Ground Observer Corps. Page 813 Q—> EDITORIAL <9 VOL. 44 DECEMBER 1957 NO. 12 She Message of Christmas HE message of Christmas is one filled with love and joy. One reof love, and has been since the young, beautiful mother Mary wrapped her Babe in swaddling clothes and lovingly and awesomely laid him in the manger. Love for the Son of God has filled the hearts of Christ's true followers down the ages. The Savior would not have his worshipers follow him through fear or dread, but because of the love which fills their hearts. His entreaty is "If ye love me, keep my commandments" (John 14:15). It was love in the heart of the Heavenly Father which caused him to send his Only Begotten and Beloved Son in the flesh that his spiritual children who inhabit the earth might regain their heavenly home. "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life" (John 3:16). Love for God and humanity are the first and second great commandments. As one commemorates the event of the First Christmas the heart is Page 814 creates in his mind that scene — Mary gazing in adoration at her Son, with Joseph standing protectingly nearby, then the worshiping shepherds who had heard the heavenly host proclaiming the birth and promising peace, and, later, the outpouring of the wise Magi's gifts. Joy and awe mingle with the love one feels. No shadow of Golgotha casts its threat over that wonderful scene. Only love has place and the outpourings of its manifestation. Gold, myrth, and frankincense are but symbols for the gift of love each follower must lay at the feet of the Babe—a broken heart and contrite spirit. Anything less is tawdry and tinsel, but a broken heart and contrite spirit surpass the riches of the whole world. They reveal true compliance with the Son's entreaty "Tf ye love me, keep my commandments." He who brings those gifts carries the supreme gift for Christmas to his Savior. —M. C. S. Notes TO THE FIELD Christmas Presents for Relief Society Women GPECIAL Relief Society gifts for the women on your Christmas list are available at the office of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Included are the following items, any one of which would make an appropriate and treasured Christmas remembrance: THE RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING PLATE A ten-inch plate made of exquisite Staffordshire china, with a border design of golden wheat, centered by the official Relief Society seal, with its motto "Charity Never Faileth." Portraits of the nine General Presidents of Relicf Society circle the plate around the central motif—a lovely picture in full color of the Relief Society Building. Price $3.50, including postage. THE OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN An attractive pin in gold and blue, the Relief Society colors. The pin has a delicately fluted edge and is centered by the engraved initials "R. 8." The motto "Charity Never Faileth" circles the pin, with the date 1842—commemorating the organization of Relief Society. The pin is beautifully made and has a safety clip lock. Price $1.75, including postage. "WIST YE NOT THAT I MUST BE ABOUT MY FATHER'S BUSINESS?" A beautifully illustrated book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., containing six chapters which narrate the journey of Jesus from Nazareth to Jerusalem, the temple sacrifices on the day of the Passover, and the appearance of Jesus in the temple. This scholarly volume is written with great precision and beauty of language, and authoritative interpretation. The paper is of excellent quality, and the book is bound in dark blue fabricoid, with gold lettering of the title. Price $2, including postage. Page 815 ob ive and Learn Sorever DIMENSIONS OF KNOWLEDGE Learn Forever ANY of us are distressed because we may think our capacities for learning and our talents are limited, but few of us realize that no one has ever reached the full measure of his ability to learn. All of the time given to us on this earth, and in the eternities to come, is for our development. At best, we learn only a small fraction of the great knowledge which is waiting for us to discover. Knowledge, in itself, is valuable and becomes a source of joy and advancement. Without some knowledge of our earth home, its peoples and their ways, its past, and its possible future, we have no real foundation for our journey into the wider paths of wisdom. The Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith gave us direction in Page 816 our search for learning, when he spoke of the many subjects of study suitable for the saints: Of things both in heaven and in the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms... (D. & C. 88:79). Our knowledge of the forces of nature, of the plants and animals of the earth, the history of men and nations — all the knowledge that we can gain in the wide fields of science and art and industry — these tools, alone, will not give us complete wisdom — for wisdom is knowledge in action; wisdom is that use of knowledge which will best serve us here and hereafter. It is the ability to choose among many things those which have a lasting value for us and our loved ones. It is the understanding to select from many paths those which will lead us most surely to our destination, to that time and place when our possibilities for learning shall be increased, when our sphere of understanding shall be magnified, and when our wisdom will be sufficient for us to understand the light which... Proceedeth forth from the presence of God to fill the immensity of space— the light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed, even the power of God... Who is in the bosom of eternity, who is in the midst of all things (D. & C. 88:12-13). Holiday Quests Deserve the Best Counselor Helen W. Anderson O* all the holiday festivities, I like most of all the times when family, friends, and neighbors drop in informally to visit around the fireplace and enjoy the Christmas goodies prepared ahead of time. BERLINER-KRANSER 1 c. Butter 2 hard-cooked egg yolks, sieved "2 ¢. Sugar 2% c. Sifted enriched flour 2 egg volks Cream butter and sugar. Add uncooked egg yolks one at a time. Stir in sieved egg yolks. Add flour, stirring only until blended. On lightly floured board, roll small pieces of dough under your hands to pencil size—about five inches long and about % inch thick. Form each into a circle bringing one end over the other to form a bow knot or wreath. Beat one egg white slightly and brush tops of cookies. Sprinkle on coarsely crushed sugar made by crushing cubed sugar with a rolling pin. Bake on ungreased cookie sheet in 350° oven from 10 to 12 minutes or until set, but not brown. KRUMKAKA A special iron is needed for these crispy cones. 'This iron can be found in European specialty shops. 6 eggs 1% tsp. Crushed cardamon seed 1 c. Heavy cream (Buy the whole seed. Remove outer 1% ¢. Sugar = and crush seed with a rolling 28 c. Sifted flour % c. Melted butter Beat eggs with heavy cream, add sugar, flour, cardamon seed and melted butter. Put 1 tbsp. Batter in hot iron and bake about one minute. Remove from iron and roll around ice cream cone to achieve desired cone shape. Cool and take off cone. These look especially attractive when arranged on a large tray with fruit cake, brownies, Norwegian snowballs or other cookie varieties. NorweEcIAN SNOWBALLS "2 ¢. Powdered sugar % tsp. Salt 1 c. Butter 1 tsp. Vanilla 2% c. Flour 1 c. Nuts (cut up) Cream butter to soften. Add powdered sugar and blend. Add flour, salt, vanilla, and nuts. Roll into balls the size of a walnut. Bake in 400° oven for 10 to 20 minutes. Bake on rack just above center of oven. Cool and roll in powdered sugar. Store in tight cake tin. SANDNOTTER Y, |b. Butter 2 c. Corn starch 1% c. Flour 2 tsp. Baking powder 1 egg 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 ¢. Sugar Cream butter, add sugar, beaten eggs, sifted flour, baking powder, and vanilla. Roll in nut-sized balls. Press flat with a fork. Bake at 4oo° until light brown. Page 817 818 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 SPRITZ 1 c. Butter "% tsp. Salt % c. Sugar 1 tsp. Almond extract 1 egg 2% c. Flour % tsp. Baking powder Cream butter, add sugar gradually, and unbeaten egg. Sift together flour, salt, and baking powder three times, and add to first mixture. Add extract. Put through cookie press. Bake 10 to 12 minutes in 400° oven. Holly wreaths, Christmas trees, or poinsettias may be decorated with red and green candy decoretts. Honey Tarry 3 ¢. Sugar, 3 tbsp. White vinegar 1 c. Honey 3 tbsp. Butter or margarine 36 c. Water % tsp. Salt Combine and cook, stirring occasionally until very hard ball forms in cold water. Pour into buttered pan until cool enough to handle. Pull until light golden color and porous. Twist and cool on a greased pan. Mark with knife and, when cool, cut or break into pieces. PANOCHE %' c. Sugar (carmelized) 1 c. Canned milk % c. Water % tsp. Salt 3 ¢. Sugar 1 c. Nuts (cut up) 2 tbsp. Light corn syrup 1 tsp. Vanilla 2 tbsp. Butter or margarine Caramelize sugar and add % c. Water. Boil until caramelized sugar is dissolved. Add sugar, syrup, butter or margarine, milk, and salt. Cook in heavy saucepan until soft ball forms in cold water, stirring occasionally. Pour onto marble slab or platter. When cold, add vanilla, stir until hard and creamy, and then knead until smooth and firm. Knead in nuts. Form into rolls and when firm and cold, cut into slices. MELT-IN-YOuR-Moutu FupcE 2 1-ounce squares unsweetened chocolate 1 ¢c. Canned milk 3 Cc. Sugar % tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Corn syrup 1 tbsp. Vanilla 2 tbsp. Butter or margarine 1 c. Walnuts (cut up) Combine all except last two ingredients in heavy saucepan and cook slowly, stirring until chocolate is dissolved. Cook to soft-ball stage, stirring frequently. Remove from heat and pour onto marble slab or platter until cold. Add vanilla and stir until it can be taken up into hands. Knead until smooth. Knead in walnuts. Form into rolls and slice when cold and firm. FONDANT 2 ¢. Sugar % ¢c. Water 2 tbsp. Light corn syrup % tsp. Cream of tartar Cook ingredients in a heavy saucepan, stirring until it comes to a boil. Wipe sugar crystals from around sides of pan several times during cooking with a fork wrapped in a damp cloth. Cook until it forms a soft ball in cold water. Pour onto marble slab or large platter. (Do not move.) When cold, stir until creamy and stiff, then knead until smooth. Wrap in waxed paper and store in large covered bowl and let stand in refrigerator over night. For a Christmasy-looking roll, cut red and green maraschino cherries into small pieces, add nuts, and knead into fondant. Fondant may also be used to stuff figs or dates, or it may be molded into small round balls and covered with melted chocolate. CarAMELS 2 c. Sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla 2 c. Light corn syrup 1 c. Nuts (cut up) 1 square butter or margarine pinch of salt 1 can evaporated milk Bring sugar, syrup, and butter to a boil, add soda and milk slowly. Continue stirting until a firm ball forms in cold water. Add vanilla and nuts. Pour into buttered pan, cool, and mark into squares. Raisin SuGar CookKIEs % ¢. Butter or margarine 2 tsp. Grated lemon rind % c. Sugar 1% c. Sifted flour 1 egg "4 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Milk % tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Lemon juice 2 c. Raisins Mix together thoroughly butter, sugar, egg, milk, lemon juice and rind. Sift together and stir in flour, baking powder, and salt. Add raisins. Chill dough. Roll dough into nut-sized balls. Flatten balls with bottom of glass greased with margarine, and then dipped in sugar. Bake at 425° seven minutes or until lightly browned. Finale Dorothy J. Roberts Watch the world converge again In gift and card and holly, Joining underneath the tree In a grand finale. Moved by dreams in children's eyes, It stirs its dream's slow ember, To give to love a glowing form. And young hearts will remember Another gift of truth and love, The promise and the reason, And slowly learn the bleakest year Will bring a shining season. HOLIDAY GUESTS DESERVE THE BEST 819 Testimony of the Stick of Joseph Louise S. Cotterell ND now, after the many testimonies which have been given of it, this is the testimony, last of all, which I give of 'The Book of Mormon: 'That it lives! Thus do I testify of the Nephite scriptures, even as Joseph Smith the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon bore testimony that Jesus lives. No volume is more pulsing with life, more throbbing with the earthly struggles of men, both good and bad. The Book of Mormon lifts a magic curtain and grants me imaginative entrance into the remote past. Innumerable times I have felt the cold chill of the wind in my face as I have stood on the top of lonely Mount Shelem with the Brother of Jared and have gazed in ecstatic wonder at the sixteen clear, white, transparent stones illuminated by the touch of the finger of the Lord. Rocking to and fro in her misery, Sariah has often shattered the stillness of the desert air with her Hebraic lament as, helpless to comfort her, I have sat beside her in the tent of Lehi in the valley of Lemuel. Mother-heart has spoken to motherheart; I have comprehended Sariah's anguish in her fear that her four sons had perished in the wilderness on a return trip to Jerusalem. In a thicket of small trees I have listened intently to the words of Alma. I have heard Alma counsel his little band of followers (exiles from the tyranny of wicked King Noah) to be baptized in the name of the Lord. And, with the others, I have clapped my hands for pure Page 820 joy as I have seen Alma take Helam into the waters of Mormon; both men were buried in the fountain of pure water and came forth rejoicing, filled with the spirit. With the light-hearted abandon of joyous youth, I have gayly danced and sung with the daughters of the Lamanites on a sun-flooded green in a place called Shemlon. Our laughter has rung forth clear as bells as we have shyly exchanged secrets about stalwart Lamanite youths who have caused our hearts to flutter and our eyes to shine. Breathlessly, I have run from door to door in the Land of Ishmael with Abish, the Lamanitish woman, making known to the people that Ammon, the Nephite missionary, King Lamoni, his queen, and all their servants lay prostrate on the earth, overpowered by the Spirit of the Lord. Fervently I have prayed with Abish as we have hurried on our way, prayed that the Lamanites would assemble in the house of the king, prayed that the strange sight of those who lay as dead would cause the Lamanite multitude to believe in the power of the living God. While kneeling close to Nephi III on the grounds of the temple in the land Bountiful, I have clutched a corner of the hem of his robe, when, awe-struck and trembling with emotion, I have witnessed the descent of the Glory of Godhood and have heard the pronouncement: "Behold, I am Jesus Christ!" At that breathtaking moment I have felt that sustaining strength flowed to me TESTIMONY OF THE STICK OF JOSEPH through the spiritual power of Nephi the Disciple whose faith in the Lord Jesus was so great that angels ministered to him daily. Such people (and many, many others) from the pages of The Book of Mormon have become my intimate friends. I have shared their lives, suffered with them, rejoiced with them. Though they have long since passed from earthly existence, my heart assures me that they are still alive. And the scriptures confirm that my heart speaks truly: "For he is not a God of the dead, but of the living: for all live unto him" (Luke 20:38)... My mind finds the Nephite record fascinating with its intricacies of plot, its varied character delineations, and its cultural details which slowly but surely are being verified by scientists. My mind appreciates, too, the excellent moral teachings of The Book of Mormon; these principles, if applied, would undoubtedly make for more abundant living and a happier social order among all the children of men. But my heart leaps beyond the logical, the human, the intellectual, the social, or even the moral, to recognize the divinity of the record of the Nephites and the Jaredites. Upon Mount Sinai, Moses received two tables of stone written on both sides by the finger of God. Though actually engraved by human prophets, the ancient American plates just as surely had divine endorsement, for I know that Nephite and Jaredite fingers were guided in their writing by the inspiration of the Holy Spirit; yet the ancient American historians, in deepest humility, more than once expressed their feelings of 821 inadequacy for the tremendous task assigned them. Moroni, in particular, acknowledged his imperfection as a literary man: his awkwardness of hands in writing, his stumbling in the placing of words. Fools may mock, as Moroni feared, but they shall surely mourn. 'Though inscribed by fingers, faltering at times, because of the Christ-like humility of the writers, The Book of Mormon rings forth with the living word of God. This knowledge of the divinity of The Book of Mormon came to me neither easily nor miraculously. As the result of an earnest desire to know, as the result of patient study to gain understanding, and as the result of fervent prayer for guidance and enlightenment, the revealing power of the Holy Ghost was gradually exercised in my behalf. One blessed day, I knew that in the early nineteenth century an untutored farm boy (doubtless chosen before the world was, for his tremendous mission) had been raised up by the Lord to restore to the earth the gospel of Jesus Christ in its purity and truth. I knew, as I know that I live, that the ancient Nephite record translated into English by Joseph Smith and published as The Book of Mormon was in very truth another witness for Christ. Since that happy day when a sure testimony entered my soul, I have felt flooded with light, light sufficient to brighten my way as I walk through the darkness of mortality, sufficient to cast a reassuring gleam along the pathway toward eternal life. Nor do I regret that neither mitaculous manifestation nor startling discovery proved to be the foundation of my testimony. I can testify to the truthfulness of The Book of Mormon far more surely than if one of the Three Nephites had borne witness at my door; more surely than if, somewhere in the Americas, a stela had been unearthed bearing carved figures and decipherable inscriptions which read as follows: Lehi, Sariah, Laman, Lemuel, Sam, Nephi; more surely than if recently in the Hill Cumorah in New York there had been accidentally discovered some gold plates, curiously engraved with characters which scientists had identified as ancient Egyptian. Yes, I have a testimony far stronger than that founded upon miracles or upon the corroborating support of external evidence. 'Through the enlightenment of the Holy Ghost, I feel as if a testimony has permeated every fiber of my being—a testimony that Jesus of Nazareth is the Christ, that Joseph Smith is a true prophet of God, that The Book of Mormon is the Biblical stick of Joseph. Now, the stick of Judah and the stick of Joseph are one in my hand and one in my love. May the Lord graciously look beyond my inadequate words to read the gratitude written in my heart for the testimony which I have gained! Well do I understand the wise words of King Benjamin. Though I should thank the Lord and serve him all the days of my life, I should still be an unprofitable servant because of the magnitude of the gifts which he offers me. I can only bow in humble devotion before the glory and the wonder of it all. With the strengthening of my testimony has come a greater peace of soul than I had ever previously enjoyed. A calming realization has dawned. Disappointments and failure to achieve goals set by human ambitions and desires will continue to test my faith, from time to time. But, if I sincerely and prayerfully attempt to obey, all the laws and ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ, I have faith that I shall live to fulfill the mission of my creation in the divine plan of God. More I ask not. New Serial Elizabeth s Children to Begin in January new serial "Elizabeth's Children," by Olive Woolley Burt, will begin in the January 1958 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The questions of woman's work and woman's destiny are considered in this serial, which relates the changes brought about in the life of Carol Wilson when her sister Elizabeth dies and the children want their Aunt Carol. The author will be remembered for her previous serials in the Magazine: "And for Eternity" and "Bitter Medicine," as well as for her many excellent short stories, articles, and poems. 822 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 Bodell Christine H. Jensen Crochets PrizeWinning Rugs RS. Bodell Christine Hansen Jensen, Salt Lake City, makes rugs of great beauty and durability. Using cast-off clothing — house dresses, pajamas, shirts, skirts, and other materials, she crochets the rag strips into lovely, colorful designs, and, for durability, makes the borders of new materials. She is ninety years young and has been a Relief Society worker since her young womanhood. For sixty-two years she was a visiting teacher. She is the mother of nine children, six of whom are still living. She has seventeen grandchildren and thirty-two great grandchildren. Mrs. Jensen was born in a small, two-room adobe home which was built on 27th South Street in Salt Lake City by Mary Fielding Smith, mother of Prades? Joseph F. Smith, and her sons in 1848. This home still stands. It is said to be the oldest house in the valley which still stands on its original site. —— > Childhood Home Mabel Law Atkinson How dear that home whose shrine invited rest; With children's laughter its melodic chimes; Where twelve of us, the Master as our guest, Stepped in and out of heaven many times! Deserted now and lonely, still there gleams Its light to mark the pathway to our dreams. Page 823 Christmas 1884 Vernessa Miller Nagle MOTHER $ found that first M Christmas in the upper valley of the Snake River very different. 'There had been a comfortable home in Davis County, Utah. But this one—how primitive, how formidable, it seemed. But home it was to be, and there was no turning back, so_ stated Grandfather whenever he observed a half-wistful, half-longing expression on the face of any one of the children old enough to make comparisons from poignant memories of another home. The snow had come unusually early that year, the November rains turning to frost with snowdrifts piled high about the few dirtroofed log cabins that hugged the frozen ground. 'The mad Snake had gouged its brush-lined banks, the frozen slush spreading out into the valley inundated all signs of vegetation. From yarious points South, the early colonizers had trekked into the valley, crossing the Oregon Trail at Fort Hall, plowing their way on northward, thirteen days from Farmington, Utah, to Egin Bench, a distance of approximately two hundred sixty miles—a record trip. They had used a span of splendid horses on wheel with mules on the lead pulling a lead wagon. Resting the horses at intervals. Of two or three hundred feet, the women and children had often walked to lighten the load. Over Anderson's toll bridge at Eagle Rock, the trail led, Page 824 then followed the Corrine-Butte freighting road to Market Lake, on across the sands and lavas to journey's end. And now Christmas Eve. A few homemade candles threw questioning shadows about the dark corners of the mud-chinked wall logs and played about the rough puncheon floors. A huge kitchen stove sputtered rebelliously, coughing and hissing as pale flames bravely attempted to eat their way into foot lengths of semi-dry sapling boughs. Mingled odors of foods in preparation for the Christmas dinner permeated the room, foods that would do justice to the occasion. Water barrels but recently filled with icy water from the river bottoms of the Snake had been placed in their respective corners of the kitchen. An uncrated wooden hogshead placed near the washstand was evidence of a recent addition to the family supply of staples, hauled by sleigh outfit from Market Lake, a distance of about thirty miles. Contents? Frozen potatoes shipped by friends from the old home in Utah. On the morrow they must be placed out of doors to prevent thawing. A hewn-log work table near the stove was piled high with the ordinary and unusual specimens of culinary achievement. 'This dinner was to be the highlight of the first winter in the valley. Baked 'venison, headcheese, finale of the lone porker brought into the valley with the personal belongings; vinegar pie _ CHRISTMAS 1884 Vernessa M. Nagle 825 IDAHO CABIN IN THE WILDERNESS in tallow pie crust; steamed "Lumpy Dick," frozen potatoes with crackling gravy; home-bleached hominy grits, and cornbread constituted that well-planned menu. Several beds had been spread down on the well-scrubbed floor, with the smaller children clambering for the feather tick. From nails conveniently pounded into wall logs, knitted stockings had been suspended, their grotesque contours suggesting the contents: popcorn balls, molasses taffy, hand-carved wooden toys, and rag-stuffed Punch and Judy dolls. As the fire burned low, the contracting wall logs loomed ominously through the night as though to register the rapidly descending temperature without. A lone coyote call hurtled across the frozen stillness and, reverberating, was picked up and mingled with discordant yelps and howls of an approaching band as they slunk across the frozen drifts of buckbrush-studded sand dunes. Father and Mother exchanged knowing glances, and the former looked hutrriedly toward his rifle. Then all was silent; the few gutted candles burned low. A dark shadow cast by the moon, stalling momentarily behind a low cloud, enveloped the valley for a brief second, then all was bright again. Stars flashed beacon-like across the sky. Far across the junipers one star stood out brighter than the rest. A new land, a new home, new friends, yet the same bright star looked down in benign benediction to light man's way. Something Lacking Frances Carter Yost 66 OW does that look?" Margarct Conway asked, as she fastened the sparkling star to the top of the Christmas tree. "It doesn't look right," Joey, her seventcen-year-old son, said. "Something's lacking." "It's wonderful!" Jamie, her seven-year-old son, replied. Jamie's little face was alight with Christmas expectation more this Christmas Eve than ever before. "IT said it doesn't look right. Something's lacking!" Joey repeated. His voice was packed with usurped authority. "Please, boys, let's not disagree Christmas Eve." Margaret sighed. Even a Bethlehem star on the Christmas tree didn't suit Joey. It's hard rearing two sons without a father, Margaret thought. 'Then she stopped short, why she shouldn't even think such a thought. She wasn't rearing her sons without a father. They had the most wonderful father in the world, Major Joseph Conway of the United States Air Corps. He was doing his share of the rearing of his sons by remote control, right now from Japan, where he was stationed. "Major Joseph Conway," Margaret said his name silently. Major to most people spelled rank and quality, but to Margaret it spelled Lonely with a capital letter. When she and Joe had made their wedding vows, oh, even before that, when they had been courting, they had planned a big family. A family Page 826 of boys and girls, a half dozen of them. 'Two years after their marriage Joey had arrived. "A fine start," Joe had said. 'Then overseas duty, followed by war with Germany, had kept them apart. Joseph Conway had served in the European theater of war. Margaret could never understand why they called anything so hateful as war, a theater. As if they were playing a role on a stage. It was in the hateful European theater, that Joe had been shot down, and for more than a year his whereabouts had remained unknown. Then, after what seemed an eternity, Margaret had received word that he was a prisoner of war. Margaret could still shut her eyes and imagine the wakeful nights, knowing Joe was hungry, sick, and cold, and she could do nothing for him. Even after Joe was able to come to the States, there followed years of convalescence in hospitals. Finally, that glorious day when he could come home! But, by then, Joey was eight years old, and | outgrown any brothers and sisters he might ever have. But new hope was theirs, when two years later Margaret and Joe brought little Jamie from the hospital. It was then they rearranged their plans for a family. Joey would be the "big brother" to several little brothers and sisters near Jamie's own age. But here again their dreams were crushed for, following Jamie's birth, came her operation SOMETHING LACKING which made the large family a dream not to be fulfilled. Now here was Joey, a prince of a fellow of seventeen. His only fault was that he became so annoyed with everything Jamie said and did, just because he was too small to be the pal Joey needed. And here was Jamie, trying to grow up too soon, because of the hero worship he had for his older brother. Yes, Margaret thought, Jamie is growing up much too soon. He won't even let himself be seven. Why, when Joey was seven he let me go with him to do his Christmas shopping, but would Jamie this year? Definitely not! Margaret recalled his very words: "Let me be big like Joey and go all by myself! I earned the money cutting the lawn and things, and I've saved it, so I'm big enough to spend it all by myself," Jamie had pleaded. It was just like Jamie to have bought something for Joey which he would have liked for himself. Something that just wouldn't appeal to a seventeen-year-old. With Joey going through the. Stage of changing from boyhood to manhood, well, anything could happen! If Jamie had only let her go with him that day he had gone shopping.... Wk OOK O Jamie Conway, the entire city seemed like fairyland with the Christmas decorations. Big green wreaths hung on every light post, while strings of colored lights stretched across the streets, blinking their elf-like eyes in the daylight. Jamie was not aware of the coldness of the day, though passersby turned up their collars against the icy snow flung by the wind. To 827 Jamie, the world was wonderful, and he was big like Joey and doing his own shopping! Jamie almost ran as he saw Santa Claus in the next block, standing on the sidewalk in his red, furtrimmed suit. As Jamie came closer he could tell it was just a Santa Claus helper. You could tell a helper, because his beard was made of cotton, not real whiskers. 'This helper was shaking a bell, and over a charcoal fire, hung a big black kettle with a sign which read: "Help the poor to have Christmas." Jamie was glad that he could read. He would never forget Miss Mason, the first grade teacher who had taught him to read. It was so handy to be able to read the signs when you shopped all alone. Jamie lingered and watched older people dropping money into the kettle. Jamie had lots of money, he could help the poor people have a good Christmas, too. He pulled a silver quarter from his pocket and listened to it jingle in the kettle. But he must hurry along now, and get his shopping done. First, he would buy a present for Momie. He decided to look in the windows first, that would save time. Jamie couldn't ever remember giving Momie a present that she didn't like. Even with the homemade things he had made when he was little, she had hugged him close when he gave them to her. Why, even when he gave her the little perfume sachet he had made in school last year, she had thanked him over and over and she still kept the little sachet in her hanky box, though the perfume smell was all used out of it. But this year he would buy some- thing nice like Joey would buy. Jamie looked at the nightgowns in the window. Four dollars and ninetyeight cents. He felt the two silver dollars in his pocket and pennies for the tax, and walked on. Chocolates in the pretty boxes would make a nice gift, but Jamie remembered Momie was passing up candy these days. She said she wanted to be trim when Daddy came home, but Jamie liked Momie just the way she was. Jamie looked at the earrings and necklace sets, and even the watches in the jewelry window, but when he looked at the price tags, he knew they were presents for Daddy to give her. And then, there it was, just the right present for Momie. 'There was a little manicuring set, and it closed up like a tiny coin purse, which would fit in Momie's big purse. So often Momie was busy doing dishes and things, and didn't have time for her nails until they were on their way to church, and she would use her fingernail file while Joey drove the car. But Jamie had heard Momie say, "I've lost my file," and there was the cutest little file in this manicure set. And there was an orange stick, and even a tiny pair of trimming shears, and all of them fitted in the tiny, brown, purse-like case. Yes heart stood still, if only the present didn't cost too much! He had two dollars, he could spend sixty-six cents on each person in his family. Jamie hardly dared look at the price tag on the little manicure set. Surely it would be more than sixty-six cents, but he crossed his fingers and hoped, as he pushed his nose flat on the windowpane. Then, taking a long breath, he opened his eyes wide and looked at the price tag. One dollar and thirtyfive cents. At first Jamie started to go on, but the manicure set was just the right present for Momie. He went into the store. "T want to buy the little manicure set in the window." It was hard to speak out, but Jamie remembered how Joey would have said it. Jamie stood at the window and pointed to the manicure set, and the clerk walked right into the window, and picked it up, and came back to where Jamie stood waiting. "Tt's the last one in the store," the clerk said. "Oh, I'm glad," Jamie said, then swallowed, thinking of all the mothers who would be disappointed on Christmas not getting a little manicure set. "I'm glad there is one left for my Momie," Jamie explained. "Shall I gift-wrap asked, then added, " " mor; re. Jamie hesitated. He would like to give Momie a present wrapped neatly, like Joey would, but he needed the ten cents. Anyway, Momie always made a fuss about the big hide and seek packages he fixed. "I'll wrap it," Jamie replied. Then, pocketing the sixty-five cents change, and putting the little manicure set safely in his inner pocket, he left the store. Daddy's present wasn't hard to figure out. He had planned all the time to send a box of stationery, the air-mail kind with thin paper. It?" the clerk it's ten cents 828 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 SOMETHING LACKING It would be fun seeing all the letters coming back, and Momie would say: "Jamie, this is the very stationery you sent Daddy for Christmas! " But the stationery cost sixty-five cents, and that was all the money he had. Jamie stood on one foot and then the other trying to figure out how to buy the stationery and still have money to buy Joey something. But when he thought of the candy and fruit cake mother had made to send, the bath robe and Joey's fountain pen for Daddy, Jamie just had to buy the stationery. Jamie walked back into the store. "Tll take the stationery," he said and handed over the last of the Christmas money. Jamie took the package and went from the store, but his heart was heavy. Somehow the Christmas decorations looked gaudy now to him. The colored lights stretching across the streets blinked freakishly at him in the daylight. Jamie just couldn't help thinking about the present he didn't have for Joev. He kept thinking of the quarter he had dropped in Santa Claus' black kettle for the poor. He didn't want his quarter back, he just wanted another one like it to buy something for Joey for Christmas! If it were summer he could earn some more money cutting lawns, but it wasn't summer. If it would snow hard, he could make some money shoveling snow, but it wasn't snowing. Jamie scuffed the mud on the sidewalk. And then all of a sudden he saw the sign. Jamie was glad that he could read. He thought again of 829 Miss Mason, and how he was using reading for shopping. 'The sign said, "Merry Christmas, little children, Come in and get a balloon." Jamie turned into the store. 'The balloons were all sizes and shapes, and their colors glittered and dazzled Jamie's eyes. "What color do you want, Sonny?" the clerk asked. Jamie stretched his neck looking at every single one, before he spotted the big blue one hanging from the ceiling. "T want that big blue one." Jamie could hardly wait to hold it. He would like to walk down the street waving it behind him. And wouldn't Momie and Joey be surprised about the free balloon? But he couldn't tell them about it, at least not yet. What was the clerk saying? "Do you want me to put a stick on it, to carry?" the clerk asked again. "No, no, I want you to let the air out," Jamie explained. "You see it's for a present." Jamie left the store with a good feeling inside his little heart. 'The whole city seemed like fairyland again. The big green wreaths hung fresh and green, with their red beads of holly, and the street lights blinked again like elves in the daylight. Everything was wonderful for Jamie, and this would be the happiest Christmas he had ever had. It was fun to be grownup and able to do your own shopping.... %& oe Kk O&K ARGARET came to with a start. She had been thinking of Jamie and wondering what he had wrapped so bulkily in those two packages he had placed under the tree. He had hesitated even to tell her what he had for Daddy Joe, but when she had explained that she had to declare at the post office everything in the box she shipped, he had shown her the air-mail stationery. But about her present and Joey's, he remained very secretive. It didn't matter what he gave her, she would love it. She remembered the little plaster of Paris print of his hand he had brought home from kindergarten, and how she had hung it in the bedroom, so she would see it first thing in the morning and last thing at night. She hoped he had used seventeen-yearold wisdom when he _ purchased Joey's present though. "Well, boys, the tree is as pretty as any one we've ever had. Before we go to bed, Joey, let's get out the kodak and take some flashlight pictures of us all by the tree. But first, let's sing a Christmas song," Margaret said with enthusiasm. "Let's sing Jolly Old St. Nicholas," Jamie warbled. "I like it best." "Ah, that's kid's stuff," Joey replied with a sneer. "How about Silent Night?" Margaret compromised. E: ven singing ls a problem with different aged children, Margaret thought. She sat down at the piano, and the boys sat beside her on the bench. The piano was such a comfort to Margaret with Joe gone so much. Her hands touched the familiar keys: Silent night! Holy night! All is calm; all is bright Round yon virgin mother and Child, Holy Infant, so tender and mild. Sleep in heavenly peace... Sleep in heavenly peace.... "Now, let's open the presents," Jamie said. Margaret never remembered seeing Jamie so excited. The custom of opening family presents on Christmas Eve had begun one of those first -years that Joe had been in the Air Force. It helped to fill the empty hollow of Christmas Eve without him. Christmas morning wasn't too lonely, as there were all the Santa Claus surprises. Another custom which had arisen in the Conway family was the drawing of straws to see whose presents were to be opened first. 'The one who got the longest straw had the presents he was giving opened last. 'The middle straw was second, and the short straw, the first. "Joey, you fix the toothpicks," Jamie called excitedly, "and Momie and I will draw. I hope my presents are opened first." MARGARET drew first, the boys both insisted. Her straw was the middle one. Jamie drew, getting the longest straw, and Joey was left with the shortest. Joey's presents were to be opened first. Margaret hesitated to open her present from Joey, it was so beautifully wrapped. "Gift wrapped from Lothrop's," Margaret exclaimed. Carefully she slipped off the ribbons and turned back the gilt paper. 'There it was, a lovely nylon nightgown. "Oh, Joey, how beautiful!" She decided to express her thanks more fully later on, nght now Jamie was opening his present 830 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 SOMETHING LACKING from Joey, and all eyes were upon him. "Ah! Just what I wanted!" Jamie chuckled, holding up a glove and mit in miniature size. "Gee, thanks, Joey!" It didn't take long for the boys to open Margaret's presents to them. They were blue striped pajamas which she had made herself. It was a tradition in the family to have new pajamas to wear to bed the eve of Christmas. Both boys took time out to go and undress and test the fit, which was perfect. Jamie, in his excitement, brought his grotesquely wrapped packages to Joey and Margaret. "Here, Momie, you unwrap yours first," Jamie said. Margaret's package from Jamie wasn't as big as Jocy's. She came to the little brown something after only four different colors of wrapping paper. She opened it and laid it flat. "Why, Jamie, a cute little manicure set! Why, bless your little heart!" She reached over and drew his small pajama-clad body close to her. "I didn't think you were big enough to go shopping all alone, but this proves you are. Well, Joey, it's your turn to unwrap your present from Jamie." Margaret looked over at Joey. Joey. Untied and unwrapped box after box, and Jamie stood by giggling with excitement. And then, finally, the old powder box Margaret had discarded turned up, and Joey broke the string and looked inside. He picked up the balloon, and looked for something else, but that was all there was in the box, just the balloon. Margaret's heart faltered. She 831 looked at Joey's expressionless face, and then at Jamie's wreathed in smiles. 'There was no doubt Jamie was pleased with the gift he had given. He was babbling something about spending all his money on Daddy and Momie and seeing a sign, "Merry Christmas, little children, come in and get a balloon." But when Jamie looked at Jocy's face, and didn't see any smile, even Jamie realized the free balloon wasn't such a good idea. TILL Joey's face registered neither joy nor sadness, just blank, blank thinking. Over and over in Margaret's mind ran part of the words of a poem, or was it an essay? "The gift without the giver is bare." But what about a gift without the receiver? Margaret wondered. Jamie had given his gift in good faith. 'The balloon was something Jamie himself would have enjoyed. He had made a priceless sacrifice in giving his present. If Joey could only look beyond a free balloon as a gift, and see the worth of the giving! What was it Jesus had said, the widow with the mite had given more than all the others? Margaret found herself wishing Jamie had given her the balloon and the manicure set to Joey. If only she had known ahead, but it was too late now to connive any form of exchange. Margaret breathed a prayer in the silence of the room, Dear Heavenly Father, don't let my boys hurt each other, just because they are ten years apart in age. 'The gift without the receiver is bare, then please, Father, give my Joey an understanding heart. Margaret looked at Joey, was that a sneer breaking out on his face? Was he going to laugh, or would the disappointed boy heart in him break down and cry? What was going through that half-boy, halfman, mind of his? Margaret watched Joey sprawled on the floor in his new pajamas. She had never realized how very large Joey's hands were until he held that balloon between them and started blowing it up. Still his face was expressionless, and the silence was appalling. 'The balloon became larger and larger. Was he going to break the balloon, and with it, break the dreams Jamie had put into his mite of a present? The balloon was so very large now! Would Joey ever stop blowing? At length Joey stopped, sized up the balloon, felt its perfect roundness, and tied the end _ securely and said: "Jamie, come here!"' Jamie, hungry for brother love, cuddled between Joey's sprawled legs on the rug, their blue striped pajamas blending as one. Margaret's heart took up a slow beat as Joey started speaking. "You know, Jamie, I told you and mother earlier this evening, there was something lacking when she hung that star on the top of the tree. Well, I know now what it is. The night Jesus was born, there was a big star, it shone, oh, even brighter than the big star at the top of our tree, but there was something else shining that night. 'There was a big blue moon behind that star. It was big and blue like this balloon you gave me.' Joey unfolded his length, and reaching easily to the topmost branch of the tree, he tied the balloon securely behind the shining star. Margaret knew as he came back and cuddled Jamie in his arms again, that even though her boys were ten years apart, they would never be lacking in brotherly love. =P Blessed Among Women Eleanor W. Schow She loved to hear the mothers talk, and listened quietly; Received their counsel and their praise in gentle piety. They spoke of shoulders broad and strong, the clench of little fists, Expansive chests and sturdy legs, the strength of little wrists. They dreamed, as mothers ever dream of brighter days to dawn, Of sheltered years for each who had a son to lean upon; She loved their kindly mothering hearts, but longed to share the while 'The healing in his little hands, the blessing of his smile. She kept his vestments, all his things, in spotless purity. The mothers marveled at her faith. Whence came her surety? She thought of wonders still to be, of holy ones who cared, And kept their sayings in her mind, too hallowed to be shared. She learned by angel whisperings how God would guide her through, And pondered secrets in her heart, that only Mary knew. 832 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 Sie Your Ideas With String Sylvia Pezoldt OU say you are not very good at lettering, and yet you would like a poster for a party or some way to decorate a big package that is new and different. Try string! Any size, from the fine cord that is used to tie parcels in stores, to the big, soft cotton variety used by most laundries will do. It is sold in variety stores and also in hardware and stationery stores, or it can be saved from parcels. It can be dyed, painted, dipped in glue, and have glitter sprinkled over it. When properly placed, it forms eye-catching decorative poster letters. It has other uses, too. The poster board or large sheet of paper for your sign should have the letters sketched in. Script is very effective. One doesn't have to be a fine penman to be able to write in a big, flowing hand such words as Welcome, Come, You Are Invited, or a person's name. That is your guide. 'Tempera paint, which is sold for show card writing and is soluble in water, can be used for the dye. Choose the desired color and mix with water in a can or similar receptacie. Better wear rubber gloves, as it works best to use your fingers to shape the letters. The string is lifted from the paint and placed upon the outlined words. Let it dry thoroughly, and it will stick to the poster almost as if it were glued. If you wish to use glue, you can make the words with colored yarn, or with tinsel string, which is a favorite for Christmas packages. It is best to use very thin mucilage and soak the string in the glue. Follow the pencil outline, let it dry, and you have an unusual and effective poster. Page 833 A big package can be decorated handsomely by first wrapping the box in white paper and securing it smoothly with cellophane _ tape. Then write Merry Christmas, Happy Birthday, or the person's name in big script. Follow the outline with the dyed string, or glue fancy cord to the box, sprinkling with glitter while it is still wet. Starshaped sequins will dot the i's, or fancy-shaped sequins can spot the box in hit-or-miss style. Your imagination can make the decorated boxes as amusing and individual as you wish. A cowboy, cut from a magazine advertisement, can swing his lariat to form the name of the person for whom the gift is intended. <A boat can be "tied" on the side of the paper by outlining the message in string with one end glued to a picture of a boat. A jumping rope can spell out a greeting with string. A swing can have two sides of colored string with the person's name for the seat. String smoke can arise from a chimney to send a greeting across the surface of a box or poster. There are many ways to use colored cord, so give a thought to tying your ideas with string. A Christmas Prayer Grace Ingles Frost O Prince of Peace! O Son of God! On this your natal day Before you we contritely kneel And for your guidance pray. There are so many need our care; Like little wolf-affrighted lambs, The children of this sin-scarred world Extend imploring hands. O touch our eyes that we may see, Our ears that we may hear! Make worldly dissonance decrease As year succeedeth year! O Son of God! O Prince of Peace! Help us, your will to do... Loving, giving all the way, That we may be like you! Amen. 834 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 FROM THE FIEL ry General Secretary-Treasurer, Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field'' in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES ams.. Pk 5 a Photograph submitted by Lovell W. Smith CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISSION, NORTH CAROLINA EAST DISTRICT ACHIEVES 102 PER CENT IN THE BOOK OF MORMON READING ASSIGNMENT 1956-57 Front row, left to right: Eugenia S. Cochran, President; Hertha B. Child, First Counselor. Back row, left to right: Katherine L. Bailey, Second Counselor; Elizabeth Shingleton, Secretary. Lovell W. Smith, President, Central Atlantic States Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Relief Society sisters of the North Carolina East District obtained 102 per cent completion of The Book of Mormon reading assignment for the year 1956-57. This was accomplished through the use of posters, progress charts, constant correspondence, and personal visits to the seven branches in this district, which are scattered over an area of 160 miles.... This accomplishment is due to the efforts of the faithful sisters of the Dulah, Hampstead, Harkers Island, Jacksonville, Mount Zion, New Bern, and Wilmington Branches. These sisters have showed their desire to serve our Heavenly Father and to co-operate and follow instructions from those in authority through their participation in this reading assignment.... Also, out of the 176 Relief Society members in this district, 105 members were awarded diplomas for having completed the reading of the entire Book of Mormon over a six-year period." Page 835 836 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 ures Sygate ae SE Photograph submitted by Ella T. Lee ST. JOSEPH STAKE (ARIZONA), GLOBE WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR FOUR YEARS Front row, seated, left to ght: Martha Gillespie; Vinetta Dallas; Mary Self; Clara Pace, President, Globe Ward Relief Society; Margery Clark; Lucy Henderson; Bella Zufelt. Second row, seated, left to right: Susie Wallace; Della White; Irene Besner; Susan Cluff; Ruby Eaton; Olis Youngman; Nellie Dixon; Orissa Winkler. Third row, standing, left to right: May Banner, First Counselor; Blanch Smith; Neta Patterson; Gwen Machula; Blissie Lee; Dorothy Smith. Back row, standing, left to right: Vera Larsen; Fay Zufelt; Margaret Gould; Joyce Knucky; Leah Ford; Florence Lewis, visiting teacher message leader; Evelyn Anderson, Secretary; Ethel Medlin; Lillian Rose; Opal Suomela, Second Counselor. Ella 'T. Lee, Secretary, St. Joseph Stake Relief Society, reports that Globe is a mining town, and they feel that the Relief Society should be congratulated for the very fine achievement of their visiting teachers. Lavona L. Hoopes is president of St. Joseph Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Margaret D. Stephenson NEW YORK STAKE, MANHATTAN WARD RELIEF SOCIETY AT THE SHAKESPEARE, MEMORIAL THEATER, STRATFORD, CONNECTICUT July 13, 1957 Boy in foreground: Carlton Morrison. Front row, left to right: Mary Jean Frecbairn; Weston Edwards; Lelia Seegmiller, President, Manhattan Ward Relief Society; Louise Shaffer; Barry Thompson; Peggy Heidt, Secretary, New York Stake Relief Society; David Seegmiller. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 837 Second row, left to right: Norma Rhoda; Elena Torres; Wanda Carlson; Lois Brasch; Lael Littke; Golda Evans, Counselor, Manhattan Ward Relief Society; Mary Randall. Third row, left to right: Mildred McBeth, Counselor, Manhattan Ward Relief Society; Beth Haws; Virginia Panessa; Irene Kearns; Lila Mae Dickson; Shirley Collins; Norma Roberts; Helen 'Thackeray, member, New York Stake Relief Society board; Josina Monson. Fourth row, left to right: Max McBeth, member of the Manhattan Ward bishoptic; Ingrid Schmitz; Caroline Dunn; Janet Bateman; Linnea Morrison; Mary Van der Peyl; Ann Cullimore; Margaret Stephenson, President, New York Stake Relicf Society; Charlotte Zerker. Sister Stephenson reports: "The photograph shows the Manhattan Ward Relief Society at the Shakespeare Memorial Theater in Stratford, Connecticut. Included are several members of the Priesthood who went along to enjoy a splendid performance of Othello. At other times during the season the various wards of the stake made excursions to the theater, some seeing The Merchant of Venice and others seeing Othello." Photograph submitted by Thelma J. Nebeker PASADENA STAKE (CALIFORNIA), EAST PASADENA WARD BOOK OF MORMON PROJECT Thelma J. Nebeker, President, Pasadena Stake Relief Society, reports a communication from the East Pasadena Ward Relicf Society: "A small, sweet-faced teacher took her place at the podium in the East Pasadena Ward chapel to deliver her last theology lesson of the Relief Society year. A group of 105 women had assembled to hear her. As the teacher faced them, she asked those who had read The Book of Mormon during the lesson year to come forward. Seventy-two women stood, and one by one filed forward to receive the special diploma and Book of Mormon Treasure Chest which she and her husband had prepared for them. That this feat was far more than a statistical achievement... Was evident in the testimony mecting that followed. 'The increased spirituality of the group and the outpouring of personal testimony bore evidence to the strength... Of 'The Book of Mormon in the lives of these many women who had just finished reading it. "Sister Cotterell made her remarkable achievement as a teacher with the aid of a tremendous personal knowledge and command of her subject, with a beautiful spirit of inspired humility, and with some top-flight teaching devices. The device which may have been most instrumental in inspiring many women to systematically read 'The Book of Mormon was the assigning to each member of the class a number. After writing each number on a small piece of cardboard, she placed the number at the bottom of a picture of the Hill Cumorah. As each person reported her reading prog: ress on the monthly roll, her number was shifted upwards towards the top of the hill." Sister Louise S. Cotterell stands at the podium, with a representation of the [ll Cumorah in front of her. Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 6—Qualifications of Those Who Labor in the Ministry Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 4 and 12) For Tuesday, March 4, 1958 Objective: To show the importance of service and the qualities necessary in the lives of those who are called into the Lord's work. GECTION 4 is the first revelation given through the Prophet to another person. Later many revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants were addressed to individuals. Some of these came in response to questions on the part of the persons concerned, or a problem existed which was clarified to Joseph Smith through revelation, as we shall see in subsequent lessons. From the Prophet's journal or history, it is not indicated that Section came either at the request of his father Joseph Smith, Senior, or because of an existing problem. Verse 3 would suggest, however, that the Prophet's father had a desire to serve in the ministry. In a study of The Doctrine and Covenants one should, insofar as possible, know the historical background and context of the revelations to interpret properly their contents. 'This means not only the Page 838 environment or setting but oftentimes the person or persons to whom the revelation is directed. There are also other benefits derived from such an approach, such as a better acquaintanceship with the lives of some of the men who were called into the Lord's service in this dispensation. The Prophet's Father The first vision and the visit of Moroni were not beyond the belief of the good man, the Prophet's father. Joseph Smith, Senior, seemed to be of a believing heart. He was the first to receive the testimony of his son concerning the visits of the angel Moroni. Undoubtedly, the spirit of the Lord had prepared the way that Joseph Smith might have just such a friend and confidant as his father. After Joseph had been visited three times during the one night by the angel, he arose early to LESSON DEPARTMENT work with his father in the field. This attempt to work was unsuccessful because of his exhausted condition. Upon leaving for the house, Joseph was visited by Moroni who again repeated the message of the night before. He was "commanded" to tell his father of the vision and message delivered by the angel. Upon doing so, his father said it was of God and that he should do as the angel directed him. The Prophet's father died at the age of sixty-nine, just seventeen years after he counseled his son to do as the angel Moroni had commanded. During those years he became a member of the Church, and later he was ordained a Patriarch to the Church, an office that was to continue from father to son. In this way he would fulfill the promise that he would "... Strengthen the church..." (D. & C. 23:5) which was his duty forever. It was the privilege of his son Joseph to see by vision his father in the celestial kingdom, (See D. H. C. IT:380.) It may also be of interest to know that he is referred to in The Book of Mormon in connection with the name by which his son should be known as a descendant of the Joseph who was sold into Egypt. (See 2 Nephi 3:14-15.) Use of Footnote References Section 4 commences with a thought which appears in other revelations (Sections 6:1, 11:1, 12:1, 14:1). At this point in these lessons, a suggestion is offered in connection with the footnote references and their use. For instance the letter "a" by the word "marvelous" in verse 1 of Section 4 refers to the first of the series of scripture references at the 839 bottom of the page, designated by "a." As one examines each of these references, he discovers (1) the word in the reference, or (2) a similar thought expressed. 'The frequent use of footnote references gives a better comprehension of the meaning of the work or the thought which the Lord wishes one to know in relation to that word or thought. One should keep in mind, however, that these footnote references may not always seem to apply. This is probably true in regard to the reference Section "38:12" of "a" which may be a typographical error. A Marvelous Work A dictionary definition of the word "marvelous" suggests that which causes wonder, astonishment, wonderful, exciting marvel. 'There is also associated with these words the idea of miracle. Without referring to all of the footnote references, it should be noted that reference is made to Isaiah 29:14 where the Old Testament prophet foresaw the day when The Book of Mormon would be revealed to the world, and the Lord would perform a "marvelous work and a wonder." Certainly, we can understand that this ancient volume of scripture is a wonderful work as a part of the Lord's great work which was to be established on the earth in the last days. 'The Book of Mormon has also come to the world in a miraculous way which has created astonishment and wonder. 'The reference in Section 4:1 to "... A marvelous work..." which was "... About to come forth among the children of men," may refer to the coming forth of The Book of Mormon since it was to be pub- 840 lished soon, and especially the establishment of the kingdom of God with all of the keys of the Priesthood. 'There are other things associated with the marvelous work of the Lord in the latter days. We shall not attempt to point out all of these at this time, but only what is suggested by the footnote references under consideration. In the references Sections 95:4 and 101:95, it is made known that the Lord's "strange act" is to be brought to pass,. That I [the Lord] may pour out my Spirit upon all flesh," and "... That men may discern between the righteous and the wicked...." The marvelous work, or strange act, of the Lord in the last days we learn is also to convince many "... Of their sins, that they may come unto repentance, and that they may come unto the kingdom of my Father" (D. & C. 18:44). The Book of Mormon does convince men of their sins and converts them by the Spirit of the Lord. Men learn that they must repent to receive the kingdom of the Father. Wholehearted Service With the Lord about to bring forth his wonderful work, it is enjoined upon each person who enters his service to "... See that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day" (D. & C. 4:2). In reference to this verse, this comment is given: Because the Lord was about to begin a marvelous work among the children of men, he needed servants who were willing to give themselves entirely to that work— "heart, might, mind, and strength"; that is, affections, will-power, reasoning faculty, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 and physical strength, all must be dedicated to the service of the Lord in this latter-day work (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, 1950 edition, page 24). Message to All Who Seek to Serve Section 4 is primarily concerned with the qualifications of those who are to labor in the Lord's ministry. This would not only include Joseph Smith, Sen., but all who would seek to make a contribution to the building up of the kingdom of God upon the earth. 'To accomplish this work, it is necessary that they give of themselves in the manner suggested above. By the wholehearted service that one performs for others as an officer or teacher in the kingdom, he "... Layeth up in store that he perisheth not, but bringeth salvation to his soul" (D. & C. 4:4). In what ways do you consider that your service in the Church has contributed to your journey on the way to salvation? Responsibilities of the Church The mission of the Church is to save men and women. For this purpose the Lord has established his work on the earth. In this process of saving, two of the great responsibilities resting upon the Church are the preaching of the gospel, and the perfecting of the lives of the members. In both of these purposes, the Lord has wisely established as a part of his Church organization opportunities for individual service. In the accomplishment of the general objectives of the Church, every member may make a contribution. In fact, when one enters the Church he takes upon himself the obligation of building up the king- LESSON DEPARTMENT dom of God (Church). When this covenant is entered into, the convert receives an opportunity which, if accepted, provides the means whereby he may work toward perfecting his own life. Missionary Service One of the most soul-satisfying experiences is to participate in advancing the Father's kingdom by performing missionary work. 'There are many opportunities to participate in this activity for those who qualify. Now that stake missionary work is available to the members of the Church, one need not serve in the foreign missions to receive the happiness of being a party to the conversion of souls. All members are under the obligation of living lives that will assist others to see the light of the gospel; but this is not all, the responsibility carries over into worthy action. It is service in the kingdom that brings salvation. The Lord has provided our unusual missionary system in which men and women may reccive the opportunity to serve in preaching the gospel. The Auxiliaries of the Church also provide many opportunities for service. Service in the Auxiliaries In this anniversary month of the Relief Society of the Church, it is appropriate to refer to this "the first and most important auxiliary organization of the Church," as an example of a service organization. In the great Welfare Program of the Church, we find the Relief Society making a tremendous contribution to those whom that program serves 841 and also to the members of the Society in service opportunities. The other Auxiliaries of the Church, or aids to the Priesthood, provide many activity opportunities for the officers and teachers and also the members who make up the organizations. 'Thus, the very organizational pattern of the Church is designed to further the salvation of man. Active participation in the Church keeps one spiritually alive. It is one of the factors which increases faith and keeps testimonies strong. Some Revelations for All When one becomes an_ active agent in the ministry of the Lord, what is expected of him? Revelations numbered 4 and 12 give an answer to this question. Although they are directed to individuals, the message is for all who seek to labor in the cause of Zion. 'The fact that both revelations are similar suggests this point, but in Section 12 one finds that the message is intended for all having the same desire: Now, as you have asked, behold, I say unto you, keep my commandments, and seek to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion. Behold, I speak unto you, and also to all those who have desires to bring forth and establish this work; And no one can assist in this work except he shall be humble and full of love, having faith, hope, and charity, being temperate in all things, whatsoever shall be entrusted to his care (D. & C. 12:6-8). The revelation given to Joseph Smith, Sen., gives additional virtues to be expected of the true ministry of the Lord: And faith, hope, charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God, qualify him for the work. Remember faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, patience, brotherly kindness, godhness, charity, humility, diligence. Ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. Amen (D. & C. 4:5-7). Qualifications for the Ministry A brief statement of definition and explanation of most of the virtues mentioned in these revelations may assist us to appreciate more fully the scope and truth of these qualifying requirements. Faith in its broad sense is the principle that impels men to resolve and to act. It"... Becomes to us the foundation of hope, from which spring our aspirations, ambitions, and confidences for the future.... Faith is the secret of ambition, the soul of heroism, the motive power of effort" (James E. 'Talmage, Articles of Faith, page 103). "The predominating sense in which the term faith is used throughout the scriptures is that of full confidence and trust in the being, purposes, and words of God" (Ibid., page 96). Hope—Desire, with expectation of obtaining what is desired, or belief that it is obtainable (Webster's Dictionary ). Read Moroni 7:40-43 for Mormon's teachings on hope. Charity and love, with an eye single to the glory of God. "... Charity is the pure love of Christ..." (Moroni 7:47). This love becomes a motivating power in the lives of those who have been "born again." It becomes the oftering of the true followers of Christ in return for the love the Father and the Son have bestowed upon them through the atonement wrought by the Savior. It is manifested in a keeping of the commandments, one of which is the love of mankind. Read Moroni 7:43-46, 48 on Mormon's teachings on faith, hope, and charity. (See also I Corinthians 13; Colossians 3:12-15.) Virtue—Moral practice or action; moral excellence; rectitude; morality; also chastity (Webster's Dictionary). Learn the will of God, keep his commandments and do his will, and you will be a virtuous person (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 300, 1925 edition).. Sincerity, "the mother of a noble family of virtues"; simplicity and purity, "the two wings with which man. Soars above the earth and all temporary natues..." Purity lies in the affection. It ''unites with and enjoys God." It = the pure in heart that shall see God. No person of impure heart, though baptized a hundred times, can approach him (David O. McKay, Gospel Ideals, pp. 14, 15). Knowledge—Familiarity from actual experience; practical skill, acquaintance with fact; hence, scope of information (Webster's Dictionary). Add to your faith knowledge, etc. The principle of knowledge is the principle of salvation. 'This principle can be comprehended by the faithful and diligent; and every one that does not obtain knowledge sufficient to be saved will be condemned. The principle of salvation is given us through the knowledge of Jesus Christ (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 297). (See also D. & C. 131:6; 130:18-19.) Temperance — Moderation; self- 842 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT control; calmness (Webster's Dictionary). The Saints should... Avoid excesses and cease from sin, putting far from them "the lusts of men; and in their amusements and pastimes adopt a course that looks to the spirit as well as the letter, the intention and not the act alone, the whole and not the part, which is the meaning of moderation. In this way their conduct will be reasonable and becoming, and they shall find no trouble in understanding the will of the Lord (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, page 300, Fourth Edition) The best way to teach temperance is to keep the Word of Wisdom (Ibid., page 301). Patience — Quality of being able to bear or endure pains, trials, or the like, without complaint or with equanimity; forbearance (Webster's Dictionary). Now we exhort you, brethren, warn them that are unruly, comfort the feebleminded, support the weak, be patient toward all men (1 hess. 5:14). (See also D. & C. 67:13; 101:38.) Brotherly Kindness—Quality of being sympathetic, gracious, loving, affectionate (Webster's Dictionary). Godliness — Purity in person and in morals is true godliness. Humility — Humility is submission to the will of God. It is the opposite of pride and arrogance. (See also Mosiah 3:19.) Diligence — Quality of being industrious; persevering effort; not careless or negligent (Webstet's Dictionary). (See also D. & C. 107:99-100. ) Virtues to Seek; Vices From Which to Repent The foregoing virtues are goals to which all Latter-day Saints should 843 strive. The object of gospel understanding and teaching is to bring about perfection in the lives of the true followers of the Master. 'The Lord performs his work through imperfect people. He does expect, as indicated above, that they who seek eternal life will seek perfection. As a practical test for each member of the Church, we may have brought to our attention some of the things from which we should repent. It is suggested, therefore, that a list of each one of the virtues given in Sections 4 and 12 be made, with its accompanying antonym opposite the virtue. 'The opposite word, or antonym, is the vice from which we should repent. An example of this procedure is shown below: VIRTUE VICE Faith Doubt; unbelief Charity Selfishness, hatred Knowledge Ignorance Patience Irritability Godliness Irreverence Diligence Slothfulness; Negligence Hope Despair, discouragement Chastity Immorality 'Temperance Excess Brotherly kindCruelty ness Humility Pride; unteachableness Questions for Discussion 1. What was the marvelous work which was about to come forth among the children of men? 2. Why would you believe that Sections 4 and 12, though addressed to individuals, were intended for others? 3. What are the two great responsibilities of the Church, and show how these Sections (4 and 12) emphasize these objectives? 4. In what way does the Relief Society provide opportunities for its members to serve? 5. Name the virtues mentioned in these two sections and tell their importance as qualifications for the ministry. 6. How do these two revelations help one to know wherein his life may be more perfect? Illustrate. Ussiting Seacher IMlessages — Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 6—"Fear Not to Do Good, My Sons, for Whatsoever Ye Sow, That Shall Ye Also Reap; Therefore, If Ye Sow Good Ye Shall Also Reap Good for Your Reward" (D. & C. 6:33). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, March 4, 1958 Objective: To emphasize the fact that everything we do, our every word or deed, has its effect for good or evil, and we shall be blessed through our good acts. ONE of the firm realities of life is that as we sow so shall we reap. This thought has been a central element of religious doctrine for thousands of years. It is found not only in modern revelation but in the teachings of both the Old and the New Testaments. For example, in Proverbs we read, "*... To him that soweth righteousness shall be a sure reward" (Prov. 11:18). Paul, writing to the Galatians, said, "Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap" (Gal. 6:7). A beautiful aspect of striving to do good is that in the process, we not only help others and perform useful service, but in so doing we increase our own ability to do more good. Step by step we tend to become that for which we are striving. One good act performed makes the next one that much easier. "For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he..." (Prov. 23:7). Thus we reap as we have sown. The story is told of a little boy who, with his parents, moved into a house overlooking a deep ravine. One day, because of a reprimand, the little boy became very angry with his mother. In order to give vent to his feelings he ran to the edge of the ravine and shouted as loud as he could: "I hate you, I hate you." Almost immediately there came rumbling back at him an angry, hollow voice, "I hate you, I hate you." The little boy was terrified and running back to his mother sobbed that there was a wicked man in the ravine who hated him and wanted to harm him. 'The wise mother took the little boy by the hand, and led him back to the ravine. 'Then in a tender, pleasant voice she called, "I love you, I love you." A kind, happy voice echoed back the 844 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT same sweet words she had spoken. So it is in this life. Every good or evil deed we sow comes back to us in kind. We cannot wrong another without reaping an injury ourselves. And every good act we perform returns to bless us.... Every good deed done to others is a great force that starts an unending pulsation through time and eternity. We may not know it, we may never hear a word of gratitude or of recognition, but it will all come back to us in some form as naturally, as perfectly, as inevitably, as echo answers to sound. Perhaps not as we expect it... But sometime, somehow, somewhere, it comes back... (The Power of Truth, W. G. Jordan, page 39). It is not only important to sow good deeds but kind words also have a reciprocal effect. As we sing in a well-known Latter-day Saint hymn, "Let us oft speak kind words to each other; kind words are sweet tones of the heart." 845 Ofttimes the most precious gift we can give to another is a word of sincere sympathy, love, and appreciation. Such words which express our gratitude to others spread cheer and encouragement. As wise Solomon said, ""Pleasamt words are as an honeycomb, sweet to the soul..." (Prov. 16:24). And in the words of our Savior:. Every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment. For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned (Mt. 12:36-37). Let us then be conscious of our every thought, word, and deed, and:... Not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap, if we faint not (Gal. 6:9). Work Mlecting—Living More Abundantly (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 6—The Importance of Insurance Elder William F. Edwards For Tuesday, March 11, 1958 HIS lesson will include a_ brief general review of the more important types of insurance that all families should consider. The discussion leader should strive to motvate members to give adequate attention to insurance in their financial planning and to have sufficient general background that they will be able to talk with qualified insurance representatives, Life Insurance If every person could be certain of living in good health until sixtyfive or seventy years of age, it would be possible to anticipate and prepare for the important things of life. 'The average man and wife working as a team, if given time, would be able to acquire a home and ultimately be free of debt, finance the education of their children, support the chil- 846 dren who might be called on missions, and accumulate savings to provide for the closing years of life. But life itself is not that certain. Every responsible bread earner must recognize that there are some things in life that he must make more secure than life itself. 'This can be accomplished with life insurance. Every head of a family should carry sufficient life insurance to protect his minimum dreams, the minimum he desires to provide for his family. As circumstances permit, the amount of life insurance should be increased according to needs and desires. Fire Insurance Every home should be protected with fire insurance. 'This is not because of the likelihood of a fire, but the risk involved in case of a fire. For most people, the cost of a home equals nearly a lifetime of saving. If the home were destroyed, it may be that there would not be sufficient working years left to acquire and pay for another. 'This would be a real tragedy. It is a risk you can't afford. Every effort should be made to avoid a fire and, in addition, it is wise to protect the investment with fire insurance. In some areas, other forms of insurance, such as earthquake and _tornado insurance should be considered in the same way. Automobile Insurance The common ownership of an automobile, especially by the saints living in North America, and the constantly demonstrated risk of an accident make it essential for all automobile owners to carry some type of insurance protection. Never operate an automobile without inRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 surance to at least protect you from possible damage to others. If the insurance is considered too expensive, then find a way of living without ownership of an automobile. Hospital, Surgical, and Medical Insurance Most families, especially those with young children, will find it advantageous to carry insurance for protection against the occasionally large hospital and surgical expenses associated with illness. 'These expenses are often so large that, unless covered by insurance, a sound financial program can be upset and life is exposed to financial emergencies that are discouraging and avoidable. The value of such insurance is becoming so well recognized that in increasing numbers employers are adopting group programs covering all of their workers. Cost of Insurance Insurance is expensive and many neglect needed protection for this reason, hoping, praying, or just gambling, that they will be spared. The circumstances of each family vary widely, and there appears to be only one sound rule. Determine the cost of the minimum protection needed for the family, and provide for this in the budget even at the expense of reducing the allotment for the basic essentials of food, clothing, and shelter. Regardless of how difficult the circumstances or how pressing the needs, it is easier to spend less on these essentials and pay insurance premiums than to be without in a time of emergency. Surely the mother, who usually stands to benefit most from insurance protection, should willingly LESSON DEPARTMENT support the payment of insurance premiums. Spiritual Insurance The writer prays with all his heart that each discussion leader will catch the spirit and help the class members to understand the importance of maintaining in full force an insurance policy that will guarantee to each eternal life. The Master came to this earth and gave his life that such a policy would be available. In the early revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith, the plan was again made clear: And, if you keep my commandments and endure to the end you shall have eternal life, which gift is the greatest of all the gifts of God (D. & C. 14:7). We are all in need of this protection. The greatest risk in life is that by partial or complete disobedience, we may lose the spirit and forfeit God's choicest blessings. The premium to be paid for this policy is complete devotion to the principles, ordinances, and standards of the Church. The terms of the contract are definite. There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated— 847 And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated (D. & C. 130:20-21). I the Lord am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise (D. & C, 82:10). There are no circumstances in life that make it necessary or wise to deviate from the gospel standards. Read Matthew 24, verses 3 through 13, where the Master tried to make this clear to his disciples. 'The Prophet Joseph Smith learned the lesson the hard way when he gave Martin Harris custody of certain manuscripts of 'The Book of Mormon. (Read Doctrine and Covenants 3, verses 1 through 8.) We should each outline our noblest dreams and protect them with constant, proper living. Supplementary Reference "Dollars and Sense," by Charles V. Neal, a column appearing several times a week in The Deseret News. The author, a family financial counselor, gives advice on better living through better spending. Such subjects as purchasing clothing, food, and household equipment are discussed, and advice is given on budgeting the family income, insurance, borrowing, savings accounts, checking accounts, and other financial procedures, as well as_ practical suggestions on the general management of income. —> Of Dreams Enola Chamberlin What can he know of dreams who dreams at morning And sees his dream fulfilled before the dusk? What can he know whose dreams mature aborning? The autumn's corn within the springtime's husk. What can he know who holds within his fingers The shine of stars, the curve of heaven's blue? Within whose heart no unattainment lingers; What can he know whose every dream comes true? ol iterature — Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 14—King Lear Elder Briant S. Jacobs Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948 For Tuesday, March 18, 1958 Objective: To rise above life's tangible trivia and conceits and feel about us the sustaining bonds of universal family love. Oh, sir, to willful men The injuries that they themselves procure Must be their schoolmasters.... II. 4. 305-307 Who alone suffers suffers most i' the mind... But then the mind much sufferance doth o'erskip When grief hath mates, and bearing [grief hath] fellowship. ING Lear is perpetual miracle; it contains everything. A literary diamond, it flashes more brilliantly with use, repaying the owner in kind —whatever the reader brings to the play, he receives back in legion, intensified and deepened. 'Thus, within reason, King Lear is all things to all men, containing almost too much of God's plenty, so great is its powerful recoil. It is a play to be suffered rather than read silently or talked about; once sounded, its accumulate blow penetrates clean through the surfaces of things, politics, intellect, to strike fully at the heart, the spirit. 'The most delicately constructed, the most complex in interrelationships, King Lear exhibits a clear correspondence between inner meaning and outward event or word. Hamlet thought his way into reality; Lear feels his, and his power is, therefore, greater over us. Many regard this "symphony of suffering" as the greatest "deep Page 848 IIT. 6. 111, 112-114 tragedy" ever written in English since it provides us most purgation within. Some of its scenes are so cruel, so pitiful, that we must strongly resist calling out to Shakespeare for mercy. Because many prefer to escape such terrors, and choose not to witness life being scraped so near the living bone, King Lear is not Shakespeare's most popular play; it is merely his greatest. In very deed King Lear is only for the strong-in-heart. But for those so defined, it is unique, magnificent, and, above all, true. From its earliest known form as an early fable or chronicle to the present, this play has undergone many significant changes. The original King Lear is suffused with Christian virtues and faith in the hereafter; in Shakespeare's play Lear's only source of strength or weakness is himself, and the codes and imagery of wild beasts are more native to it than are the values of LESSON DEPARTMENT any ordered, restrained culture. Surely because Shakespeare's version seemed too fierce and dismal, Nahum Tate rewrote it in 1681, and this version, which left out more than half of Shakespeare's lines, was the only one to be played on the English stage for the following 150 years. Shakespeare sharpened the point of the original King Lear by condensing it, and by adding Lear's madness, the Fool, the storm, and an unhappy ending (in the original, Lear is restored to the throne and his beloved Cordelia lives). In doing this Shakespeare was entirely right, since his purpose is to give dramatic body to man's ceaseless warfare between good and evil within his own heart. By achieving this, Lear's intimate personal conflict became universal, enabling all who would know some phase of themselves more fully to find identity within Lear's tortured breast. Shakespeare's play is _ rightly named King Lear, for within the evolution of the play a spoiled, selfrighteous, tempestuous, and shallow king becomes a humble, compassionate, selfless, loving man. Othello is a general, Hamlet a prince, Macbeth a king, as are the subjects of all the histories, yet only Lear is honored with the royal title of king, which is also fair and just, so great is his own inner revelation and final self-discipline over the most malign of evils. Plot The carefully made plot is divided into two parallel patterns, one centering about King Lear, the other about the Duke of Gloucester. While these two strands compli- 849 ment each other and intermesh, Gloucester's relationship with his sons best justifies itself by providing contrast with Lear's relationship with his daughters. Also it should be noted that while Gloucester withers from within, withdrawing under suffering (and attempting suicide), Lear pours forth his unbearable remorse and shame in torrents of passion. For him life is always to be faced and met. 'Through this release, plus gentle sympathy from his friends and Cordelia, he is temporarily restored to sanity before Cordelia's hanging and his own death so that, even though briefly, father and daughter were finally reconciled. The Lear Plot: In ancient, Druidic England, proud, uncontrolled Lear promises to give his kingdom to the daughter who publicly proclaims the most love for him. Goneril and Regan gush sweet adjectives in their greed, but young Cordelia, in her integrity refuses to allow so intimate a truth to be flaunted for public hearing and says she loves him neither more nor less than the natural bond of daughter to father dictates. Furious, he disinherits her, gives all his lands and powers to Goneril and Regan, with whom he plans to stay alternately a month at a time. Dowerless Cordelia marries the King of France. Goneril, then Regan, so insult and shame their spoiled father that in a rage he runs out into the open storm, refusing to debase himself before them. 'The two sisters care nothing for their husbands, quarrel over the rising, unscrupulous Edmund, and finally both meet death through their jealousy over 850 him. Cordelia comes from France to reinstate her father, but her forces are defeated, and she joins homeless Lear and restores him to sanity with her love. 'The two enjoy but a brief time together before she is hanged at Edmund's order, Lear enters with her body in his arms, and immediately dies himself, happy in knowing that at least one of his children loved him truly. The Gloucester Plot: Pompous, self-satisfied Gloucester allows his illegitimate son Edmund to convince him that his brother, Edgar, seeks to usurp Gloucester's place, so honest, innocent Edgar is banished. When Cornwall, Regan's husband, gouges out Gloucester's eyes thinking he opposes his rule, Gloucester is cast out blind into the world. In disguise Edgar attends his father in his wanderings, protecting him from himself in his despair and attempted suicide. Edmund is accused of treason, he and his brother Edgar fight, and Edmund is_ mortally wounded. Before he dies he tries to do good "despite his nature" by countermanding his order to hang Cordelia, but it is too late. Gloucester recognizes the virtues of loyal, banished Edgar, but still he crawls off alone to die of a broken heart, and Edgar is left to guide the affairs of state. Themes 1. Nature's true laws always triumph: To the illegitimate Edmund, Nature's law is that of cutthroat competition so familiar to us all: Thou, Nature, art my goddess, to thy law My services are bound. Wherefore should I Stand in the plague of custom, and permit The curiosity of nations to deprive me.... I. 2. 1-4 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 This passage expresses a feeling more easily understandable in someone conceived outside wedlock and, therefore, a lifelong outlaw. In Edmund, as in Goneril and Regan, Lear's daughters, we find pure evil, since they likewise define nature as that force which rewards their selfishness, greed, cruelty, and ingratitude. In these and other hearts we see illustration of Shakespeare's great conviction that, if the most common and powerful human flaws— fear, pride, anger, ambition—are allowed to run loose, they always destroy the humans dominated by them. "Lechery eats itself." Conversely "Nature's" great law that "he who loses his heart shall find it" is seen in the Fool, Edgar, Kent, Cordelia, and in Lear himself. Finally all these achieve selfless compassion and forgiveness. 'Through his suffering Lear finds a new identity with "naked, unaccommodated" man, now become a fellow creature, in contrast to the selfish trivia of his former court status. Thus can mankind achieve salvation from brute force and animal passion, both of which produce human chaos. 2. Man is not saved alone: Edmund and Cornwall are lone wolves, Goneril and Regan lone vixens, and Gloucester and Lear are at the play's beginning alone in their irresponsibility and pompous self-concern. Gloucester is led to true self-realization only when Edgar, whom he foolishly mistrusted and disinherited, attends his father in loyal love when he is outcast, just as Kent, the Fool, and Cordelia grant Lear unqualified forgiveness and suffer with him, sharing his unbearable griefs until they help him regain sanity. LESSON DEPARTMENT 3. Mankind becomes one in its bare, common humanity: Once Lear no longer succumbs to his lifelong habit of self-pity, he experiences for himself in the storm and hovel what it is that hurts the poor creatures of earth, and he sympathetically defines both himself and his fellows as "poor, bare, forked animals." Once this great step is achieved, he distrusts the pomp, the shallow display, and the supreme concern with surface appearance which so preoccupy the wealthy, powerful classes of society. Now the renewed Lear would return to sustaining Nature, where gaudy adornment is unknown and clothes are used to keep man warm: If only to go warm were gorgeous, Why, nature needs not what thou gorgeous wear st, Which scarcely keeps thee warm.... Il. 4. 271-273 Now the rejuvenated Lear confesses how men separate themselves by worshiping false gods:... Plate sin with gold And the strong lance of justice hurtless breaks. Arm it in rags, a pigmy's straw does pierce it. IV. 6. 169-171 Cordelia returns to her outcast father only because she loves him, Lear realizing this in his true ecstasy defines the true tie that binds, in contrast to the pomp and circumstance he once worshipped. All he asks now is to be with his Cordelia, bonded together in love.... Come, let's away to prison. We two alone will sing like birds 1 the cage. When thou dost ask me blessing, Tl kneel down And ask of thee forgiveness. So we'll live, 851 And pray, and sing, and tell old tales, and laugh At gilded butterflies, and hear poor rogues Talk of court news. And we'll talk with them too, Whao loses and who wins, who's in, who's out, And take upon's the mystery of things As if we were God's spies. And we'll wear out, In a walled prison, packs and sects of great ones That ebb and flow by the moon. V. 3. 8-19 How sweet is this return to "Natural" goodness, in contrast to being embroiled within a group which holds itself superior to mankind as a whole. 4. Reciprocal respect and love between the old generation and the new best bridge the natural gap between them. 5. Often inner blindness ends when physical blindness _ begins. Until his eyes are gouged out, Gloucester has been blinded by his own impulses, to which he yielded in begetting Edmund, and bragging of his achievement later. But, once his eyes are gone, he replies to one who finds him lost—lost both in the physical world and in steering his moral course: I have no way and therefore want no eyes. I stumbled when I saw.... IV. 1. 20-21 This reversal of unquestioned, surface truth is couched in wise words, first from a Fool:... All that follow their noses are led by their eyes but [they are] blind men.... II. 4. 69-70 and next from mad Lear, whose madness nonetheless reveals subconscious truth as he speaks to blinded Gloucester: 852 Lear. Oh ho, are you there with me? No eyes in your head, nor no money in your purse? Yet you see how this world goes. Glo. I see it feelingly. Lear. What, art mad? A man may see how this world goes with no eyes. Look with thine ears. See how yond Justice rails upon yond simple thief. Hark, in thine ear. Change places and, handy-dandy, which is the Justice, which is the thief? IV. 6. 148-158 Wise, knowing, Edgar reminds his illegitimate brother how much father and son have in common: that Gloucester's blindness in begetting Edmund was the blind force upon his eyes when he still had sight: The gods are just, and of our pleasant vices Make instruments to plague us. The dark and vicious place where thee he got [begot| Cost him his eyes. V. 3. 170-173 Perhaps the main strands of the play might be brought together in one thematic statement: King Lear tells the tragedy of two old men who were blinded by selfishness and pleasure while they had eyes and sanity, but who, through suffering, came to know inner sight and truth. Great Scenes In many ways Act I, Scene I, might justly be described as the climax of the play; all that follows is passion and unfolding. Excerpts from this judging scene might profitably be read aloud, that the contrast between Goneril's and Regan's artificial praise and Cordelia's genuine statement of affection might be felt. It should also be pointed out RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 that various phases of Lear's own character and emotions are mirrored exactly in his daughters, and that the love of display and praise, as seen in the two elder sisters, as opposed to the integrity and love of truth of Cordelia, are values firmly grounded within their common father; therefore, if in this scene as throughout the play, they sin or achieve, they are true to their heredity and follow his precept. Storm on the Heath Few scenes in literature contain greater power than Lear's tumultuous inner release of his broken heart and bewilderment as he wanders forlornly against wind and thunder, as spoken in Act III, Scene 2. Here the correspondence between the inner soul and the outer tempest is wellnigh perfect. But Lear's bursting madness leaps the bounds of his own tortured self beyond the immediate scene, to symbolize a universal expression. (Enter Lear and Fool) Lear. Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks! Rage! Blow! You cataracts and hurricanoes, spout Till you have drenched our steeples, drowned the [weather] cocks! You sulphurous and thought-executing fires, Vaunt-couriers to oak-cleaving thunderbolts, Singe my white head! All-shaking thunder, Smite flat the thick rotundity 0' the world! Crack nature's molds, all germens [seeds] spill at once That make ingrateful man!... Rumble thy bellyful! Spit, fire! Spout, rain! Nor rain, wind, thunder, fire, are my daughters. I tax not you, you elements, with unkindness. And _ thou, LESSON DEPARTMENT I never gave you kingdom, called you children, You owe me no subscription. Then let fall Your horrible pleasure. Here I stand, your slave, A poor, infirm, weak, and despised old man.... More sinned against than sinning. III. 2. 1-9, 14-20, 60 Rarely has human - suffering achieved such majestic tumult as this. Shakespeare injects a short scene at Gloucester's castle, after which he returns us before a hovel where Lear, supported by his loyal Kent and the Fool, is now less concerned with the visible storm, but looks within himself and confesses to a habitual indifference for those fellow-humans who, naked and alone, have endured like buffetings without ever having received Lear's sympathy for them. Kent. Good my lord, enter here. Lear. Prithee, go in thyself, seek thine own ease. [Now first he considers others] This tempest will not give me leave to ponder On things would hurt me more. But I'll go in. [To the Fool] In, boy, go first. You houseless poverty— Nay, get thee in. I'll pray, and then Pll sleep. [Fool goes in| Poor - naked wretches, wheresoe'er you are, That bide the pelting of this pitiless storm, How shall your houseless heads and unfed sides, Your looped and windowed raggedness, defend you From seasons such as these? Have ta'en Too little care of this! Take physic, pomp. Expose thyself to feel what wretches feel, Oh, I 853 Reproduced by Permission of the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre Stratford-Upon-Avon, England Photograph by Angus McBean JOHN GIELGUD AS KING LEAR AND ALAN BADEL AS THE FOOL That thou mayst shake the superflux [superfluities] to them And show the Heavens more just. Ill. 4. 22-36 Here for the first time in his selfish life, Lear's own inner tempest has jarred him until he can perceive reality, both within his own blood relationships and his relationship to all mankind. By thus losing himself in "common" human suffering, he triumphs over his own. Father and Son at Dover Turned out to "smell his way to Dover," blind Gloucester seeks the 854 top of the towering chalk cliffs, from which he hopes to jump and end his wretched life. His only guide is a concerned peasant, really his banished son in disguise. In one of the most magical passages in the play Edgar creates an_ irresistible word-picture of the cliffs as they look down on tiny, moving fisherfolk far below, helps his father jump from the cliff (supposedly), then picks his father up to convince him of his miraculous survival from the fall. On the stage this is awkwardly performed (though surely in the Elizabethan theater Gloucester jumped from the balcony to the stage). This scene, Act IV, scene VI to line 80, can well be read aloud; its verbal, pictorial power sustains it fully. Forgiveness and Reconciliation Cordelia has returned at the head of the French army to restore her father to kingly status, but most of all to find him and repay his impetuous banishment of her with her unqualified love. Lear, maddened and debilitated, sleeps in a tent, surrounded by French gentlemen and attended by a doctor. Soft music plays as Cordelia speaks her gratitude to Kent for standing by her father; then, after she expresses concern for his illness, Lear speaks: Lear. Pray do not mock me. I am a very foolish fond old man, Fourscore and upward, not an hour more nor less, And, to deal plainly, I fear I am not in my perfect mind. Methinks I should know you and know this man, Yet I am doubtful, for I am mainly ignorant RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 What place this is, and all the skill I have Remembers not these garments, nor I know not Where I did lodge last night. Do not laugh at me, For, as I am a man, I think this lady To be my child Cordelia, Cor. And so I am, I am. Lear. Be your tears wet? Pray weep not. If you have poison for me, I will drink it. I know you do not love me, for your sisters Have, as I do remember, done me wrong. You have some cause, they have not. Cor. No cause, no cause. Lear. Am I in France? Kent. In your own kingdom, sir. Lear. Do not abuse me. Yes, faith. I Doct. Be comforted, good madam. The great rage You see, is killed in him.... IV. 7. 59°79 Once these lines are sounded, slowly and in sympathy, they make their own way. If Shakespeare is sublimity, these lines are most moying and sublime, and Cordelia's "no cause, no cause," is one of the purest statements of universal forgiveness in our heritage. Surely after such tender communion, both are ready for death. And soon it comes. Yet none live into immortality more certainly than they. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Do you feel Shakespeare was justified in naming this play King Lear? Why so? 2. Discuss universal qualities revealed in Lear's self-discovery. 3. Compare Gloucester's and Lear's reactions to adversity. 4. What do you consider the source of Cordelia's greatness? Social Science — Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 12—Families Have Members Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, March 25, 1958 Objective: To show how the family unit meets the needs of the various family members. S they share both privileges and responsibilities, family members develop love, respect, and understanding of one another. A spirit of unity comes from playing, eating, working, and worshiping together, from the sacrifices and sorrows shared. 'The home gives each family member a sense of belonging, a feeling of security, of love, and opportunities for growth regardless of age. We cannot fully understand the power of its influence, however, nor what the home really means to an individual without first appreciating his specific situation. Even though family members may all have common basic needs and be affected by similar influences, still, each is an individual, and what the family is to one it is not to another. Let us look at the family successively through the eyes of the husband and father, the wife and mother, the child as he grows from infancy to adulthood, and through the eyes of grandparents. What does each expect of the family? What does each contribute? How are their various needs met? Husband and Father To the Latter-day Saint husband, marriage is a declaration of faith in the future. It is a recognition of his belief that he is ready to face the world and capable of assuming the leadership of a family. It is his assertion that he has achieved the full stature of manhood and is anxious to prove that he is prepared to cope with life's adult problems. When he marries, a whole new set of responsibilities and relationships ensue. His sweetheart is now his wife, but his sweetheart still. He becomes the head of this union, with new responsibility for decision, which he shares with his wife, and they move forward as one. New happiness is found as they build together. By law and custom the husband assumes the responsibility for support, for providing the material things needed to maintain the home. His diligence stems from a strong desire to give his family every opportunity and advantage possible. He is proud of his wife for her capabilities, for the little things which she does for him, for her understanding, for her inner worth, and for her devotion as a partner. He enjoys the security and love of this new-found relationship and looks forward to the children who will bless the home. As his family responsibilities increase and he sees his children grow and develop, he too, grows in wisdom and maturity. He acquires a Page 855 greater capacity for love, tolerance, and understanding. Within the heart of every father there is a desire to see his children achieve. If he holds the Holy Priesthood, he wants his family to improve and progress temporally and spiritually. His desire is voiced in the words of Joshua:.. Choose you this day whom ye will serve... As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord (Joshua 24:15). To his family, he stands as a pillar of strength, a symbol of security, honor, integrity, dependability, and constant devotion. In return, an honorable family and a stable home life give desired status to him in his profession, business, community life, Church assignments, or social contacts. The father who overhears his son volunteer, "My dad can lick any dad in the neighborhood" may not choose to accept the challenge, but he swells with pride at the thought that he represents to that boy the peak of perfection in all things. Such loyalty is one measure of his success as a father. The little girl who expressed in a song: "Oh, if Mother hadn't married Daddy, Daddy might have married me," was also trying to say that her father was her choice of all manhood. Fortunately, what a husband and father wants for his family, once achieved, or partially so, are the very things from which he derives his greatest pleasure. Only God could devise such a satisfactory reciprocal arrangement. It serves to emphasize the need each of us has for other family members. A father's reward for his devotion as head of his family is to see his efforts bear fruit in the lives of his children. My son, keep thy father's commandment, and forsake not the law of thy mother: Bind them continually upon heart, and tie them about thy neck, When thou goest, it shall lead thee; when thou sleepest, it shall keep thee; and when thou awakest, it shall talk with thee (Prov. 6:20-22). Thine Too often family members fail to express outwardly their appreciation for a father's contributions to the home. Though a busy man, he, too, has needs, and he looks to his home for deference, love, affection, loyalty, voiced appreciation, and small gestures which indicate he is well liked. He thrives on the feeling of fellowship which comes from surprises planned by his family for his pleasure and delight. Wife and Mother The Latter-day Saint woman who marries also looks to the future with faith and aspirations. If she has been properly prepared for marriage, she has selected her husband wisely. She honors his Priesthood and accepts him as the head of the home. Her children, each of whom she regards as a blessing, have crowned her with the sacred blessings of motherhood. Like all great blessings, motherhood carries great obligations. 'The present fulfillment of these obligations is the real motherhood. She accepts responsibility to see that her children are well fed, to keep them clean, to minister to their wants, to relieve their discomfort, to safeguard their health, to listen to their problems sympathetically, and to contribute to their social, intellectual, and spiritual training and development. She constantly sacrifices for her children spontaneously and without fanfare. 856 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT It is the mother, largely, who creates the atmosphere of the home. She is uniquely prepared to provide emotional security for her husband and children. Somehow the warm love of a mother for her child compels the child to achieve in a manner he knows will please her. The mother who knows of the potentialities of this relationship will labor hard to point the proper way and will be gratified with the results. She will observe the effect of her love, the result of her teaching, the power of her example; and her heart will come to the knowledge that hers is an opportunity to mold her child in the image of God. 'Though she gives much, she receives more. Her most satisfying compensation is found in the love and appreciation of her children, and the devotion of her husband. If a mother serves her family as the Lord intended, she will be entitled to the inspiration and guidance of her Heavenly Father. Her children bless her with a feeling of accomplishment as they walk in her footsteps, for they represent the consummation of all her dreams. A home and family bring to a mother her greatest contentment. Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her.... She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life.... Strength and honor are her clothing.... She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household.... Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth hete... Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: 857 but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates (Prov. 31:10-12, 25-31). The Child Grows The birth of a child, after months of preparation by his parents, heralds the greatest of earthly joys. Spirituality seldom reaches greater heights. Kindness, tenderness, concern, love, and faith are never more finely expressed. Birth is the union of a spirit child, born of God, eternal in nature, with a physical body born of earthly parents. Every child brings a sacred responsibility to the mother and father alike. 'The mother is anxious that her child be "perfect" in every respect and that she will measure up to her responsibilities in making him so. 'The father's major concern is that the newborn baby and his mother are surrounded with every comfort, safeguard, and _ protection. One baby daughter, with the help of her mother, wrote the following message to her father to express gratitude for his concern over them: Mother and I would like to thank you for the beautiful flowers and for the many kindnesses with which you have showered us while we've been getting "adjusted." It surely is wonderful to open your eyes in a new world and find that you have the best father in it! Imagine what a break! I can tell you it's "Love at first sight" for me! No wonder mother picked you. The newborn child is sweet and innocent, but has power to pull tenderness from the heart and a response to his every movement and sound. He has only a fuzzy idea about the family. He experiences feeling rather than comprehension. By his cries and smiles, those who care for him can see, hear, and feel his pleasure or displeasure. If his needs are met, he, somehow, manages a smile or a relaxed nap, and he is said to be a good baby. While his physiological needs are important, the "feeling" of those about him, which he senses, does more to fix his course in life than anything else. If he is not fed properly and regularly, if his discomfort is not alleviated, and if love is absent, the feeling for others which he thus obtains may prove disastrous to him in future years. Every child should be recognized as the child of God, which he is, from the moment of his birth, and accorded the dignity due one of that standing. He somehow knows if people do or do not care for him, and thus feels secure or uncertain of the trust he can place in others. It is the atmosphere of the home where all children develop feelings about people and situations. Because of this, parents should regard the molding of a life as a rare privilege. It is in the family where a child first learns anger, love, fear, and other emotional responses. Parents will want to help their child cultivate desirable characteristics and will try to avoid situations which might instill fear, anger, and other less desirable traits. As a child grows, he gradually leaves the complete protectiveness of his family. He learns to walk, talk, inspect, and explore, and, thereafter, never stops. Somewhere in his preschool life is born a desire for new experiences and friends outside his home, yet he is fearful of getting beyond the protection of home. He figuratively starts with a shy peek out the door. He soon learns he is an individual and sometimes asserts the fact with an arbitrary "no" much to the surprise of his parents. He is particularly sensitive to the attitude of his parents who can help best through an understanding love to which he can securely tie. As the child reaches middle childhood he continues to be dependent upon his parents, but his desire to be recognized as an independent individual increases. Sometimes this desire causes him to assert himself by defiance. Parents need to recognize such behavior for what it is, i. E., a declaration that "I am a person." Understanding parents will not resist this but will ingeniously provide experiences by which he can assert that he is a person. Children of this age need to continue in the participation of the family group, but they also need to achieve recognition and a sense of belonging with other children of their own age group. The pre-adolescent strives hard for group approval. He wants to belong so strongly he acts, dresses, and combs his hair like his pals. Children of this age progress well in reasoning and the acquisition of such characteristics as tolerance, sympathy, and affection for others. They have a good sense of justice, fairness, and truth. 'Their desire for more recognition from their friends, and less from adults, helps them in their quest for personal recognition. During this period and the adolescense which follows, the home should surround children with a variety of wholesome recreational and creative interests to give proper balance to their development, to serve as an excellent outlet for their energies, as a port of welcome to associates, and to give constructive 858 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT direction to their emotions and talents. The adolescent child is sensitive to what others think, do, and say. His physical growth is often perplexing to him. He becomes conscious of the opposite sex. He is inclined to be moody, often shifting abruptly from the heights to the depths. He likes to exaggerate. He is a mature adult and an inexperienced child all rolled into one. His parents are alternately proud and perplexed as he shows his maturity only to be followed by the behavior of a little boy. He strives vainly to convince all of his standing as an adult, and when we are almost convinced, he returns to his childish ways. Parental love, expressed by limitations, is often regarded by the adolescent as a lack of love or trust. Parental skill and understanding at this time are given the supreme test. He basks in the "glory" of being recognized as an adult. If treated as a child he may quickly throw a tantrum, withdraw, or become irresponsible. At this stage his emotional disturbances often result in delinquent behavior which is basically a reflection of what the child has received from his parents and society. 'This stage can be smoother if the parent-child relationships in the preceding years have been close and effective. Actually, parents will emerge from the crucial experience much wiser than anticipated, having learned much more than they have taught. As the child approaches young adulthood, it is important for parents to build up his faith in society and in its democratic and spiritual ideals. He should be taught the 859 significance of his contribution to society, the importance of sound planning for the future in preparing to assume adulthood. He should understand the purpose of his earthly probation and be given a sound sense of confidence in fulfilling it. He needs guidance in selecting his profession or vocation. He needs help in making educational decisions, and encouragement in the attainment of educational goals. He can be greatly aided in social adjustments, and in developing mature conduct patterns. When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understand as a child, I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things (I Cor. 13:11). He needs assistance in choosing a mate and in planning his own family life. This is not to say that when a child approaches adulthood, we suddenly start to teach him how to assume his intended role. <Actually, the best guarantee of a strong family life in the next generation is a strong family life now, for the attitude of the child towards family life is largely created from what he absorbs from the family in which he grows. Certainly the home should instill into this age the truism that if he gives to the world the best he has, the best will come back to him. He should leave the home determined to surpass mediocrity in whatever vocation he chooses. 'Good, better, best; Never let it rest until the good is better, and the better best." Grandfather and Grandmother The family is not complete without grandfather and grandmother. They, too, are individuals with needs and desires not unlike the rest of us. These oldest of family mem- bers are faced with distinctly new problems. The ingenuity of man has lengthened their years with empty days. Socio-economic factors have tended to remove them from the family setting. Industry has said they are not really needed at a time when they are the wisest. Physiological factors, such as the inability to recuperate from stress, slowness of step, and dimming eyes, have a tendency to discourage. However, a special kind of wisdom, tolerance, love, and steadiness, forged from the experience of years, ls possessed only by grandparents. There is no influence to compare with that possessed by one who has been seasoned by living the gospel pattern for a period of many years. The warmth of a grandmother's smile and the adventure of a grandfather's story mean worlds to a child. Grandparents, likewise, are fully absorbed by their grandchildren. 'The distance of two generations is magnetically spanned by this mutual admiration society. Grandparents wanted: Must like children, know tall tales, have eyes that twinkle, and a warm heart. Prefer someone who is lonely. No age too old. Apply: To millions of American kids. Now when people stay young longer, the concern for young grandparents is how to be helpful but not interfere with the families of their children. 'The Biblical injunction, "Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh" (Gen. 2:24) indicates the pattern to be observed. As we approach the later years, we need the security derived from a sense of belonging and recognition of our worth as individuals. The gospel plan gives status to accomplishment, and the path of perfection, having no place for idleness, gives direction to life to the very end. Activity for All Within the Gospel Plan There is no substitute for the family. In no other way can the needs of family members be met. Other social institutions, such as the Church and_ school, contribute much, and indeed are essential to the fuller development, but neither can replace the home. Each should be regarded as a resource to enrich our lives. Within the Church lies an over-all philosophy and a_ program of activities to meet various needs of all family members, of whatever age. These resources and others should be generously called upon to aid in personal development, but the qualities of growth and greatness spring from the home, where each member contributes and likewise receives, where love and understanding and opportunities are found. Supplementary References 1."Outings and Family Solidarity'— LaVern W. Parmley, The Relief Society a oe July 1956, page 420. "Developing Safeguards for Youth" _Delbert L. Stapley, The Relief Society Magazine, November 1956, page 718. 3. "How We Conduct the Family Hour in Our Home'—Helen S. Gardner, The Relief Society Magazine, March 1956, page 160. 4. There's No Substitute for Parents" —Morton M. Hunt, Reader's Digest, December 1956, page 39. 5. "The First Line of Defense—The Home," Helen Spencer Williams, The Relief Society Magazine, October 1942, page 679. 6. "What Grandparents Are For," Edith G. Neisser, National Parent-Teacher, January 1957, page 21. 7. "Agenda for Adolescents," Lawrence 860 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 LESSON DEPARTMENT K. And Mary H. Frank, National ParentTeacher, October 1956, page 25. 8. "What Makes a Good Home," Anna W. M. Wolf and Margaret C. Dawson, The Child Study Association of America, Inc., 132 East 74th Street, New York 21, New York. G. "As Your Child Grows. The First Eighteen Months," Katherine M. Wolf, Ph. D., The Child Study Association of America, Inc., 132 East 74th Street, New York 21, New York, 40 cents per copy. 10. "Fathers Today: Neglected or Neglectful,"" Gunnar Dybwad, the Child Study Association of America, Inc., 132 East 74th Street, New York 21, New York, 15 cents per copy. 11. "Mature Adults or Oldsters," Dr. Harvey Fletcher, The Improvement Era, May 1956, page 320. 12. "Parental Relations With Adolescent Youth," Ila Rupp, The Improvement Era, June 1956, page 386. 13. "Your Child From One to Six," Children's Bureau Publication No. 30, Revised 1956, U. S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Washington, D. C. 14. "A Healthy Personality for Every Child," Fact Finding Report Digest, Midcentury White House Conference on Children and Youth, 1951, Health Publications Institute, Inc., Raleigh, North Carolina. 15. "When Parents Grow Old," No. 208, Public Affairs Pamphlets, 22 East 38th Street, New York 16, New York, 25 cents per copy. 16. "Neither Children Nor Adults," Antone K. Romney, The Improvement Era, April 1957, page 233. 17. "The Diagnosis," Omer A. Kearney, The Improvement Era, May 1957, page 307. (Old Age.) 18. "That Junior High Age," Maurice A. Wogaman, National Parent-Teacher, May 1957, page 16. 19. "What Youth Worries About and Why," H. H. Remmers and L. E. Taliona, National Parent-Teacher, February 1957> Page 7- 20. "Are We Prolonging Youth's Dependence?" Irene M. Josselyn, M. D., and Roy E. Larsen, National Parent-Teacher, April 1957, page 4. 21. "Pressures on the Cooker," Dale B. 861 * CHRISTMAS CANTATAS FOR _ LADIES VOICES THREE PART.... CHIMES OF THE HOLY NIGHT— Holton... 1.00.... CHRISTMAS MESSIAH—Handel.... 1.00.. DAWN OF CHRISTMAS—Nolte.... 1.00.... MUSIC OF BETHLEHEM—Holton.. 1.00.... PREPARE HIM ROOM—Hdadler.... 1.00... SONG OF THE HOLY NIGHT— DT | | 1.00.... THIS IS NOEL—Davis................ 1.25.... WONDROUS STORY—Kountz.....60 TWO PART.... CHILD OF BETHLEHEM—Walter.... 1.00.... MUSIC OF BETHLEHEM—Holton.. 1.00 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank! I |!!!!! L i | 4! '! | 1 DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Lst South Salt Lake City 11, Utah 1 \ | \ | \ | Please send the music indicated above. | C) On Approval C] Charge f Cl Money Enclosed } i \ I { I I I I I ame ddress. Oo > Z ity & State oo. Eee eeeeeesnesenecee 1 a ee TTT OTT ls e151 sour 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO w Salt Lake City 11, Utah 862 Costumes Correct costuming for Shakespearean dramatizations. When ordering costumes, please always send measurements and sizes. We are also headquarters for the American Flag. Please write or phone: THE SALT LAKE COSTUME COMPANY 248 South Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 3-1031 or EM 3-9842 © BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50 Leather Cover—$3.50 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles _......0.......22..... 35 150 to 300 miles —................... Be) 300 to 600 miles " 600 to 1000 miles.... 1000 to 1400 miles.... D 1400 to 1800 miles _...........22..... 76 Over 1800 miles 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1957 Harris, National Parent-Teacher, 1957, Page 7. June Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss how the Latter-day Saint family and home can meet the needs of the following age groups: (a) infant; (b) growing child; (c) adolescent boy; (d) adolescent girl; (e) young adult; (f) parent; and (g) grandparent. 2. How does the Church assist the home in satisfying these needs? Shepherd Lad Rose T. Graham I piled the wood — kindled the fire, Watched the flames leap high and higher. Then stretched me out on the ground to sing And tune my golden lyre. As flames bowed low and coals grew red, I slumbered on my outdoor bed. Upon a Holy light Tris W. Schow Upon a holy night, Beneath God's holy sky, Feet race, completing errands, And purpose lights each eye. Soon comes the joyous dawn When, since the long ago, Our gifts have been the loveliest That hearts and hands bestow. For each who gives of self The Christmas truth has found; Again the great star showers its beams, The angel's words resound. Birthday Congratulations Ninety-four Mrs. EMELIA CARLSON Los Angeles, California Ninety-three Mrs. JosEPHINE ErtcKson HALVERSON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. SELENA V. KELSEY Springville, Utah Mrs. Carrie A. NICCOLLS Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. AtIcE VERNON MayNarpD Anderson, Indiana Ninety-two Emity Frances CooLey WELLS Huntington, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Errie WILLEY Hott Burley, Idaho Mrs. Minnie Watts CuMMINS Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Ciara Burns DoMAN Bountiful, Utah Mrs. EvizABeTH SHAW Los Angeles, California Mrs. AnniE M. Roserts SMITH Salt Lake City, Utah > Quick Christmas Gdeas Elizabeth Williamson A pot of herbs (chives, oregano, parsley, or thyme). Dress the pot up with silver kitchen foil and add a green bow. Put popped corn and baby rick-rack in red and green on a big fir cone to make a miniature Christmas tree for the table. NEW ZEALAND Temple Dedication Tour sails from San Francisco on the fabulous Mariposa April 2, 1958. Note: You will be delighted to know that Mrs. Matthew Cowley, who lived in and traveled throughout the South Pacific during the years her husband, the late Matthew Cowley, presided over that mission, will conduct this tour. EUROPE The definite date for the dedication of the temple in England is not yet known, but we shall have tours to Europe in June, July, and August of 1958. For further information write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 | h For Relief Society and Genealogy Workers TYPEWRITING CLASSES New Classes Begin Soon Classes to run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction for adults who wish to use typewriting in genealogy and other Church work. Call for reservations. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 Page 863 70 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah From Near and Sar I wish to express my gratitude for all who make up our wonderful Magazine. At our opening social this year we featured the Magazine. Among other things, a friend of Frances Yost gave us the intimate side of her life, then a story by Mrs. Yost was retold. Now, when we see a story by this author, it seems so personal that we doubly enjoy it. May she write many more! —Josie P. Condie, President 16th Ward Relief Society Pocatello, Idaho "Pine Nutting," by Alice R. Rich, in the October issue of the Magazine, brought tears of nostalgia to me. The setting for Sister Rich's reminiscing is the place of my birth. I'll go home for a day to my parents' house in New Harmony, some time this month, as I do every month or two. Much has changed since Sister Rick gathered pine nuts there, but many things remain the same — the fall beauty, the pine nuts, the vermillion cliffs, and the love and security she spoke of — may still be found. Thank you for bringing us these fine articles and stories of our heritage.: —Marguerite N. Mecham Milford, Utah I am a Long Beach, California, widow over here in Wiesbaden visiting my son and family in the service. I have been over here a year and have had The Relief Society Magazine come to me _ every month. I do appreciate the Magazine. I read it from cover to cover and am passing it on to other sisters.... It is a wonderful experience to know that the young mothers in the Church are so faithful.... It is a privilege to hear their testimonies and listen to the brilliant way in which they conduct the Relief Society lessons.... I assure you we have no fear for the future, if all the sisters in the Church are as faithful as they are here in Wiesbaden—almost one hundred per cent. —Estella D. Jones Wiesbaden, Germany Page 864 I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much. It has a lot of good reading in it for every member of the family. I like the "Near and Far' page — reading what each sister has to say. I was very much interested in the article on the Southwest Indian Mission (in the October Magazine), as we have a son who labored in that mission.... I was pleased to see my mother's sister's name in the August Magazine — Annie Katherine Erickson Benson. She is ninety-one years old. I like the article '""When Mother Made Butter" by Mae R. Winters in the July issue. I could see again our home and mother churning butter, and I would have a drink of the good buttermilk. —Mtrs. Katie Gittins Lewiston, Utah On behalf of the Welsh members of the Merthyr Tydfil Branch, let me thank you for such a fine Magazine. I pass my Magazine on to my friends who are not in our Church, and they really enjoy reading about the sisters of our Church. Out here, we are few, but gain a better testimony every time we read this Magazine. Even the brothers read the Magazine, it is so interesting. —Mrs. June Drew Merthyr Tydfil Glamorgan, South Wales Great Britain I have the desire to let you know how I depend on the lovely Magazine for comfort and help in my life. My children have enjoyed it as I have enjoyed it. I am thankful to my mother for making it available to me when I was young, cultivating my taste in reading material. 'Today I ran across the poem "To Aunt Cetty's Old Blue Bowl," by Matia McClelland Burk, in the September issue. I know it must be dedicated to my Aunt Cetty's possession. Her name was Alcesta Burk, and I notice this author's name is Matia McClelland Burk. Thank you for helping to make this world smaller, drawing us closer together. —Clara Perry Rexburg, Idaho 1. Ee TO GOSPEL QUESTIONS Joseph Fielding Smith Many general questions concerning LDS theology and practices are given direct, forthright answers MSs, ay at AN Tan pee by a leading Church scriptorian, President mi ISWETS Joseph Fielding Smith. These questions have Ra z been asked by both young and mature persons. Ihe A spel Some of the questions may be the very ones you; would personally like answered. $2.50 io 'y (uestions 2. PATHWAYS TO HAPPINESS David O. McKay Compiled by Llewelyn R. McKay President McKay points the way to true happiness and a full rich life in this vital volume, and discusses such subjects as education, courtship and marriage, free agency, death, labor unions, heredity, and personal aspirations. $3.95 ioe "FF & 3. HANDY - SCRIPTURE GUIDE mn a Benjamin Alward All scriptures supporting the main features in the Restoration of the Gospel are assembled and organized for immediate reference in this handy, pocket-size book. Missionaries who use the standard missionary teaching plan will especially welcome this book. $1.75 oes encircled books: 1 2 3 Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax.! | > AAA CSS Ee ered ee en eee Se ee es ee \ | Amount enclosed $.......0........-20---- for the following City eee 7éeiieie=.. SCH = eee I!! Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check @) | money order ( ) I have an account. Please charge it.! I Your ave a Merry €¢ "BENEFY, CIAL" Jamily js caroling £0 you: A Happy New Year, foo," BENEFI AL Beneficial Life Bldg' Christmas oe }
