A OCH) wa us @ of VOL. 47 NO. 1 JANUARY 1960 Lessons for April nt tt Se THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - -: First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - - + = = Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond Elsa T. Peterson Edith S. Elliott Christine H. Robinson Annie M. Ellsworth Irene B. Woodford Florence J Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Leone G. Layton Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron Elizabeth B. Winters Blanche B. Stoddard Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt LaRue H. Rosell Evon W. Peterson Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Jennie R. Scott Aleine M. Young Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawtord General Manager ~ - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 47 JANUARY 1960 NO. 1 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES New Year's Greeting In Memoriam: President Amy Brown Lyman Belle 5. Spafford 3 Obedience to the Truth Joseph Fielding Smith 6 Award Winners — Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest... 10 Immigrant's Child — First Prize Poem nnn ETTDorothy J]. Roberts 1} According to the Day — Second Prize Poem Lucille R. Perry 13 Loam-Stained — Third Prize Poem Eva Willes Wangsgaard 15 Award Winners — Annual Relief Society Short t Story Contest 17 Summer's Grace — First Prize Story Deone R. Sutherland 18 The Northern States Mission.2.......... Ccceceecceececeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeees Preston R. Nibley 24 "Oh Say, What Is Truth?' oe. 31 Prevent Crippling Diseases Basil O'Connor 33 FICTION More Precious Than Riches Betty Lou Martin 36 The New Day — Chapter 4... Hazel K. Todd 39: GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago 26 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 27 Editorial: The Days of a Woman's Life Vesta P. Crawford 28 Notes to the Field: Relief Society Assigned Evening Meeting of Fast Sunday in March............. 30 Award Subscriptions Presented in April.. 30 Bound Volumes of 1959 Magazines.. 30 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 43 Birthday Congratulations 71 From Near and Far 72 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Dust of Every-Dayness Celia Luce 16 Recipes From the Northern States Mission Vera C. Stratford 34 Rosella Jenkins Makes Quilts and Rugs 38 LESSONS FOR APRIL Theology — A Trial of Faith Roy W. Doxey 49 Visiting Teacher Message — ''Govern Your House in Meekness, and Be Steadfast' oo... Css: Christine H. Robinson 55 Work Meeting — Food Care and Preservation Charlotte A. Larsen 56 Literature — The Federalists (and the Great Transition) Briant S. Jacobs 58 Social Science — Creative and Spiritual Living — Pathways to Peace — Part I Blaine M. Porter 65 POETRY No One Too Poor Zara Sabin 9 Years... Roxana Farnsworth Hase 29 What Gifts I Bring Ida Elaine James 32 I Could Not Cry Gladys Hesser Burnham 33 Ruth to Boaz Katherine F. Larsen 38 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Tew Year S G reetings HE wings of time have once again flown in a New Year. With its advent, the General Presidency extends affectionate greetings to Relicf Society sisters throughout the Church. Your labors of the past year have borne good fruit. To you as individuals has come life enrichment, those whom you have helped on life's way have been blessed, and the organization of which you are a part has been strengthened by your good deeds. Regardless of how well the past has been met, however, with the dawning of a New Year there stirs within each of us feelings of new beginnings, a desire to start afresh, hopes that tomorrow will be better than today, and a determination to shape our lives more adequately to mect life's obligations and thus realize greater happiness in living. We are living in a great, wide, beautiful, wonderful world filled with endless resources for our well-being and happiness. Almost daily new wonders present themselves adding interest, length, and comfort to life. All about us we see evidence of the love, kindness, and benefactions of a Heavenly Father, lavish in providing for his children upon earth. Not only has he generously given to us the materials out of which we may build a good life, but he has taught us how to build. He has made clear what follows our every act. He has given us an irrevocable plan of life and salvation. Through his prophets he has made known his will for his children and has commanded us in all things. Nonetheless he has given us our free agency to make choices for ourselves. Upon these choices rests the form our lives shall take. Upon them depend our productivity, happiness, and cternal well-being. The choices we make throughout the coming year will control in large measure the realization of today's desires, ambitions, and hopes. 'Today's dreams may be tomorrow's fulfillments if we choose aright, and having chosen, exercise the self-discipline and self-mastery that lead to action in accordance with our choices. To each Relief Society sister we say, "What will be your choices this New Year? Will you choose to rid yourself of encumbering and nonessential activities which complicate your life and interfere with your joy in living? Will you choose to be more sensitive to the desires, hopes, and necds of your husband and your children? Will you choose to devote vourself more fully to the rewarding labors of your home? Will you choose to expand your friendships, and deepen those with which you are already blessed? Will you choose to reach out more frequently and more willingly to help a neighbor in distress? Will you choose to become better acquainted with what the Lord would have you do, and in appreciation for Page | 2 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 his goodness and the abundance of his blessings, will you choose to serve him more devotedly? Having made these choices, will you exercise the will to act in harmony with them?" If so, the New Year will be a fruitful and a happy one for you. Peace will reign in your heart. The evil impacts of life, over which you have little or no control, life's strains and sorrows which are the common lot of man will leave you unbowed and unbroken. The Lord has told us "... Fear not little flock; do good; let earth and hell combine against you, for if ye are built upon my rock, they cannot prevail." Our earnest prayer for the sisters of Relief Society is that the worthiness of their lives as wives, mothers, homemakers, Relief Society members, and Latter-day Saint women may bring to them throughout the new year an abundance of the choice blessings of our Heavenly Father. Affectionately, Suilfed The Cover: Buckingham Fountain, Chicago, Illinois Photograph by Rupert Leach Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Gn Mlemoriam President Amy Brown Lyman President Belle S. Spafford (This address was delivered at the funeral services for Sister Lyman held in the TwentySeventh Ward Meeting House, Salt Lake City, Utah, Tuesday, December 8, 1959.) N speaking at this service today, I feel a deep sense of responsibility to Sister Lyman whom I loved, to her family and friends, and to Relief Society, over which she presided as its eighth General President, and whose affairs she influenced as a member of the General Board for many years. This is an important and sacred occasion. It marks the close of earth life for one of our Father's favored daughters. Sister Lyman has completed her earthly work. She has fulfilled her mission and now goes on to a new sphere of action, rich in the experiences of earth life. Sister Lyman has lived an eventful and colorful life here upon earth. Born amid the rigors of pioneer days in the little village of Pleasant Grove, nestled at the foot of loftv Mount Timpanogos, a village which she loved, she took advantage of the opportunities life afforded and made her earth life a fruitful one. Her life has been rich in experiences, progressive in viewpoint, extensive in service, and broad in influence. She has met each day with a keen interest in its affairs, and with judgment and courage she has responded to the requirements each day has made of her. Sister Lyman, I believe, was born generously endowed with talents and leadership capacity. 'These she has continuously enlarged upon. They have cast her into roles of leadership, both within and without the Church. I believe I speak advisedly, however, when I say that among the many organizations and groups to which she gave her talents and leadership abilities, none superseded Relief Society in importance in her mind and heart. Relief Society was her great love. Just as she loved Relief Society, so she loved Relief Society women. She has said of her work in Relief Society and of the sisters, and I quote: I am grateful for the opportunities I have had of serving my Church... Particularly in the Relief Society, where during most of my mature life I have worked so happily and contentedly with its thousands of members. I have visited in their homes, slept in their beds, eaten at their tables, and have thus learned of their beauty of character, their unselfishness, their understanding hearts, their faithfulness and their sacrifices. I honor beyond my power of expression this great sisterliood of service. Sister Lyman was called to the General Board in 1909, during the presidency of Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. Prior to this time she had been a member of the society in her own ward, and, in her childhood Page 3 PRESIDENT AMY BROWN LYMAN home, she had been taught to honor this organization as a great humanitarian society. As a member of the General Board, her special talents were soon recognized, and, in 1911, she was named Assistant General Secretary, a position she held for two years, when she was appointed General Secretary. In this responsible post she serv ed for fifteen years, being relieved only to take over the responsible duties of First Counselor in the General Presidency. She served as a Counselor for eleven years until she was called by President Heber J. Grant, in January 1940, to become Gencral President of Relief Society, an office she held for five years. A total of thirty-six vears she gave to the work of the Relief Society General Board — testimony enough of her love for Relief Society and her belief in its divine mission, URING the thirty-six years she identified herself with the General Board, she took part in many interesting developments in the work of Relief Society and played an important part in the expansion of its programs. Time permits mention of only a few of these activities. Under the presidency of President Emmeline B. Wells, she took an active part in modernizing the business affairs of the society, including those of stakes and wards. When she assumed the duties of General Secretary, Relief Society headquarters were not equipped as they are today. There were no typewriters, no filing cabinets, no adding machines or mimeograph machines. There was no typist and no bookkeeper. It was not long, however, until necessary equipment for ef- 5 ficient work was obtained and good business and bookkeeping _ procedures established. During her time as General Secretary, uniform ward record books and visiting teacher report books were introduced. These were important, not only in standardizing the record keeping, but the work itself. For more than thirty years she was associated with the business management of The Relief Socicty Magazime. For parts of two years she acted as Magazine Editor. She loved and supported the Afagazinc to the hour of her death. She frequently called me, commenting on some new feature or expressing appreciation for some article, referring to the Magazine "as a dearly beloved child to her.' Indeed she must have loved it always, for in the davs of its beginning, days of abject poverty for it, she and Sister Jeannette Hyde went from busincss house to business house soliciting advertising in order to finance the Magazine, and with the help of their children, they wrapped and mailed the publication in order that it might continue to exist. She was active in the development of good educational programs and served as chairman in the preparation of the first Relicf Society Handbook published in 1931. I am sure she is happy today that the Singing Mothers are represented here. It was through her great vision and foresight and wise action that the Smging Mothers program was guided into one of ward and stake choruses, which could be combined for General Relief Society Conference, rather than having one (Continued on page 46) Obedience to the Truth President Joseph Fielding Smith Of the Council of the Twelve (Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 7, 1959) fee] it an honor to be asked to come and address this great body of sisters. As I have been sitting here, I have been thinking of the ages past and how the women, members of the Church, were invited always to take back seats and keep silent in the churches. Paul, himself, gave counsel to that effect, that the women should be silent, and if they wanted to know anything about the gospel they were to ask their husbands at home. Well, I am grateful that that day is not now. Tam grateful that the Lord revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith that there is a work for the sisters in the Church to perform, and there are responsibilities which rest upon them just as well as there are responsibilities resting on the shoulders of the brethren. Salvation is not something that is confined solely to the men, the women have to be saved also, and they are saved by the same principles and ordinances. It is just as important that a woman repent of her sins, believe the truth, accept it, and be baptized for the remission of her sins and to receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, as it is for a man. 'The same principles that save the men will save the women. 'There is one glorious thought that has been given to us through the revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith and that is that the men Page 6 S [STER Spafford and sisters, I cannot be saved alone, neither can the women. In order to fulfill the purposes of our Eternal Father, there must be a union, husbands and wives receiving the blessings that are promised to those who are faithful and true that will exalt them to Godhood. A man cannot receive the fulness of the blessings of the kingdom of God alone, nor can the woman, but the two together can receive all the blessings and privileges that pertain to the fulness of the Father's kingdom. 'The women will become queens, priestesses, in the eternal order that the Lord has given for the fulness of his kingdom. 'The gospel means just as much to our sisters as it does to the brethren. 'They are just as much concerned in it as are the brethren. And when the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith, "Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled,' he did not limit that commandment to the male members of the Church. 'This revelation from which I have quoted begins as follows: Hearken, O ve people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together (D & C 1:1). Now, people include both men OBEDIENCE TO THE TRUTH and women. When we say this people or that people, we don't just single out the men. It means everybody. 'Therefore, it is just as important that our sisters understand the Plan of Salvation as it is for the men. It is just as essential that they keep the commandments. No woman is going to be saved in the kingdom of God without baptism for the remission of sins and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. Now someone might read what's in our scriptures and conclude to the contrary. UR sisters are entitled just as much to the inspiration for their needs of the Holy Spirit as are the men, every bit. They are entitled to the gift of prophecy concerning matters that would be essential for them to know as it is for the men. When they pray they should pray earnestly, expecting to have an answer to their prayers. The Lord will hear them, if they are carnest, true, just as well as he will the brethren. Now I can remember the struggle that the women of this country went through in order to get the franchise. I am sorry to say that after they got it, many of them have failed to know just how to use it. They haven't been any worse than the men, but, nevertheless, they had to struggle in order to obtain that great gift or blessing and have a voice in the Government. 'The women have a voice in the government of the Church. When someone is appointed to an office, we do not ask the men only to vote, but we ask the whole congregation. The women have a right to raise their hands. 'They have a right to speak. And it was by the inspira- 7 tion of the Almighty that the Relief Society came into existence. 'lhe Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and the Primary, give our sisters opportunity to teach, to give instruction, as well as to learn. When the Lord said that no person could be saved in ignorance, I think he meant women as well as he did men, and I think the women of the Church are under the obligation of studying the scriptures just as well as for the men. Now, we are living in a day of turmoil, strife, and contention, I think nearly as bad as the world has ever seen. There may have been times worse, but I don't know of any other or reading of anything worse than what we are getting today — the violation of law, the selfishness of men, the greed, the ambitions, the turning away from faith in God. I think we are getting today, speaking of the world, in a very serious condition in relation to matters of that kind. Even the so-called Christian churches are moderating the doctrines, changing them. ° Many of them today are beginning—if they have not already reached the point—of denying the divinity of Jesus Chnist. Now, I I think as far as the women are concerned, if they believe that sort of thing they learned it from the men. The gospel is just as true today as it was in the days of the Lord, Jesus Christ, when he came to testore it. 'The mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith is just as necessary today as it was in the beginning. The need of mankind to know that God lives and Jesus Christ is his Son, the Redeemer of the world, the Savior of men, is just as vital today as it has ever been. It is just as true as it was when Pctcr, 8 James, and John, and Paul were teaching. The world needs repentance today just as much as it ever did. OW it is my opinion, and I have a very strong opinion to that effect, that this world is rapidly reaching the point when the cup of iniquity. Will be full, and we send our missionaries out to warn the people. Among those missionaries now, for many, many years, we have been sending our sisters. They have been doing a good work. Now the Lord says: Verily I say unto you, that they who go forth bearing these tidings unto the inhabitants of the earth, to them is powcr given to seal both on earth and in heaven, the unbelieving and_ rebellious; yea, verily, to seal them up unto the day when the wrath of God shall be poured out upon the wicked without measure (D & C 1:8-9). I think that day of wickedness is rapidly drawing upon us. We need the help of our sisters, you good sisters of the Relief Society, to help us teach the principles of eternal truth just as well as we do the elders of the Church. You can teach it in your organizations. Our sisters need to be taught, many of them, just as well as do our brethren. We have sisters in the Church who are losing their faith. We have sisters who love the world more than they do the kingdom of God. There is plenty of work to do for the sisters of the Relief Society and of the Mutual Improvement Association. We, the Latter-day Saints, should keep ourselves in order, humble, sincere, obeying the commandments of the Lord. Otherwise, those who rebcl shall be removed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 out of their place, the Lord said it. Today there is a condition existing in this country among our youth. When I read the papers, our own local papers here, it seems to me that those same conditions are creeping into our communities. Our young people are becoming rebellious, filled with the spirit of wickedness, and something ought to be done as far as we are concerned to see if we can't correct it. I hope that these young men who caught a young man on his way home and beat him up were not, any of them, members of the Church, sons of members of the Church. I hope that is not getting in among our people. I hope that our good sisters will join, if they have not joined, the Relief Society, instead of going out to join clubs to play cards and waste their time while their children, perhaps, roam the streets. Our Mutual Improvement Association has a slogan which is only half of the sentence, ""The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth." Now we have cut that off nght in the middle. I have no objection to it. It is all right, but that is what the Lord said, ''the glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth." Then he said, "Light and truth forsake that evil one." Well, we want to live so that the evil power will have no influence with us, and we want to exercise our responsibilities in the Relief Society and in the other organizations to keep this commandment. "Light and truth forsake that evil one," says the Lord. VERY spirit of man was innocent in the beginning. God having redeemed man from the Fall, OBEDIENCE TO THE TRUTH men became again in their infant state, innocent before God. Every child born into this world is innocent. No matter what he did before he came here, he comes here innocent, as far as this life is concerned. Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning, and God having redeemed man from the Fall, men became again in their infant state, innocent before God. We should remember that. But here's our trouble,. That wicked one cometh and taketh away light and truth, through disobedience, from the children of men, and because of the tradition of their fathers. But I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth (D & C 93:39-40). That is the commandment to the members of the Church. Now our sisters of the Relief Society can help in this matter, as can the other organizations, to sce that the children of the Latter-day Saints obey counsel, understand the truth, walk in its light, are taught to pray, and have a love for their fellow men. We don't want our sisters, because of responsibilities given to them in the organizations of the Church, to have to neglect their families. We don't want any sister in the Relief Society to have to 9 attend her meetings and at the same time leave her children to run the streets. If her Church duties require her attention, then she should see to it that some provision is made to care for her children, if she has children, that they might be protected and taught to pray and to be faithful and true, and brought up in light and truth. That is our responsibility. No, we do not want any sister to neglect her responsibility, but we do not want her to have to do it at the sacrifice of children by neglect, leaving them to find bad company or to be idle. Let us see to it that our children, if we are called into the work of the ministry in this regard, are provided for, that they have protection. We are in a wicked world. I know there are good people in the world, yes. But the Lord says it is wicked, and if he says it is wicked, I think maybe I can, too, and I think it is getting more so every day. We have many responsibilities, but none of them to cause us to neglect our homes. I bless you good sisters. I am grateful that you are engaged in this work. It is necessary. It is part of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and so I leave my blessing with you in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. To One Soo Poor Zara Sabin The quick kind words our neighbor needs Are hard sometimes to give. We lack the practice. He succeeds Who early learns to live For others, vaunting not his own Nor envying. Secure With love, none are too rich to have known Such joy, no one too poor, Arvare. Weiner Sliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1959 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1959 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and closed August 15, 1959: The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Dorothy J. Roberts, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Immigrant's Child." The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Lucille R. Perry, Woods Cross, Utah, for her poem "According to the Day." The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Eva Willes Wangsgaard, Ogden, Utah, for her poem "Loam-Stained." This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board, since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader. The contest is open to all Latterday Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the General Board. The General Board also reserves the right to publish any of Page 10 the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has reccived the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Mrs. Roberts appears for the fourth time as an award winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest; Mrs. Perry is a first-time winner; and 1959 marks the seventh time that Mrs. Wangsgaard has placed in the contest. There were 173 poems submitted in this year's contest. Entries were received from twenty-eight states, with the largest number coming, in order, from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, and New York. Entries were received also from Washington D. C., Canada, and England. The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board wishes, also, to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. 'The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights on the prize-winning contestants, are herewith published in this issue of the Magazine. SqUIL] JO [OOA\ OY} YIM HW porpy uty], "OOI[RD JO s}iq UT _ WdyaTyOg_ JO 12}¢,, oy} FYSNe oS 'paq pooypytyo Au passayq ey], Iv}S V WUIOJ "UOSLULID puke "SyOOTG DUY AY 'peaids st yfinb umos-puey IOP] dloojs AU puP IOJUIM OY} UddMJOg sy1oqoyy *{ AyJOIOG PRYD suDibnuw 7 WoO g IZUg qSIl] SINACOW "f ALLLOWOd 189707) OEE Fy) Oe WY Bei SWUdOf} buruuiy4 "IZM of} || e6og "MOIS SSUIURIU P[O sprit puy |! The "Star" that lit the centuries IJas touched my mother's hands— The carding combs they deftly meshed, The wool in flaxen strands. The "Lamb" that warmed the multitudes, Still sheds warmth on my dream, Bound to me by her linen thread, A prayer, and a seam. With little save her faith, she brought The star to a quilting frame, And cloth repeats, now hands arc still, Ter meaning of love's name. My fingers walk the even hills Her measured stitches laid, The miles, the years, her needle took— That beds be warmly made. When waiting slumber's sustenance, I traced the lines she grooved, Finding a richer vein than sleep, Where her swift fingers moved. And still, when sleep has failed to come, More calm, I wait the light, Because she placed this comforter Between me and the night. ) Dorothy Jensen Roberts, Salt Lake City, Utah, tells us that she enjoys working with words and experimenting with their lovely sounds and learning their intricate and exacting meanings: "The total power of words is not known to us, but, uttered at a crucial time, words can make or break a life. Our words are our prophets, our sorrow or our solace, and, in a measure, our immortality. "The Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest is a challenge to express ourselves in an exciting and enjoyable tradition. I am thrilled and proud to be an award winner in this contest for the fourth time, along with other State and local contests I have won, including the Deseret News Christmas Poem Contest. However, some of my most satisfying writings have been to my loved family — parents (each eighty-four years old), two daughters, sons-in-law, five grandchildren, and my beloved husband L. Paul Roberts." 12 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 PRIZE-WINNING POEMS LUCILLE RAMPTON PERRY Second Prize Poem According to the Day Lucille Rampton Perry Morning Looking back toward Eden, song was still; Fruited branches brushed upon the ground, The grass was parted on the languid hill By windy combings, innocent of sound. Our world is winter as we face the West, Stiff-booted feet upon unyielding soil, We walk into the summer's ash, divest Of comfort, dedicated to our toil. A handcart carries sustenance for life: The grain, a kettle, all our woolen stuff, A spade, a Bible, courage of a knife; 'T'wo candlesticks for beauty are enough, I kneel in prayer upon the frozen crust, "Preserve me, God, in thee I put my trust." 13 Noon The white waste washes in against my eyes, In wholeness, broken by a shallow grave. My ears are burdened by the children' S CrICS; I cross the gentle hands that made them brave, Place the willows, stones, a bit of loam Upon the rose that sanctifies this tomb. Love, yours is a cruel unfriendly home; Hard earth is grudging of that meager room. Tears that once could warm my face and hands Are prisoned underneath an icy veil; Desolate the view my heart commands, Long, long and lonely winds the rutted trail. "Give me new strength of soul, with force of will, I cannot bide the good and not the ill." Night The skies have prophesied the builded West In silhouetted phantoms, gray and gold, And spilled the soothing wines the day has pressed Into a sea of blackness, deep and cold. Our nights can raise us high above this sphere, And thrill our vision with a galaxy, But stars are chill and distant. I am here With all I need to fix my destiny. Somewhere ahead there is a greening field, A spring that rises from the colored stones, A sun-warmed earth whose fertile womb will yield To planting, where the westerly has blown. And thou, who gave vicissitudes to men, Shall lift me up and quicken me again. ' Lucille Rampton Perry, Woods Cross, Utah, is a first-time winner in the Ehza R. Snow Poem Contest. She tells us: "I am the wife of Curtis S. Perry, and mother to six children, two boys and four girls. Mly oldest son is a freshman at the University of Utah, and my youngest daughter is four years old. At present I am first counselor in the South Bountiful Second Ward Primary. I have been writing poetry for only two or three years, and this is my first real accomplishment in poctry, except for one other poem which was published i in The Relief Society Magazine last year. My interest since childhood has been primarily in drawing and painting. Family responsibilities have forced me to set this interest aside for awhile. Poetry has given me much satisfaction. I belong to a small group who meet for an hour every other week to study and criticize cach other's poetry, and this has been very helpful to me. Some day I would like to combine my interests in writing and painting and illustrate some work of my own." 14 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 PRIZE-WINNING POEMS Ae EVA WILLES WANGSGAARD Third Prize Poem Bi geen-ianned Eva Willes Wangsgaard All day the hungry gulls Followed my plow, Rising to wheel and cry, All quiet now. Calm are these russet waves. Breakers of gold Wait for the way of sun And seed in the mould. Wide-flung on unseen masts Luminous sails Wait in the evening skies Westering gales. 15 16 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 Crossed now by tardy wings Limned on red light, Pressed by twin urgencies, Aloneness and night. Loam-stained as mine her feet, Our path the same. Transformed by light she gleams Winging through flame. Now for a heartbeat's span, Lifted, light-pure, I wear her silver wings Homebound and sure.! Eva Willes Waugsgaard, Ogden, Utah, was born in Lehi, Utah, and attended high school there, later attending the University of Utah and Utah State University. Mrs. Wangsgaard began writing after her three children were grown, and was past forty before she wrote her first poem. 'Unlike most writers I have known," Mrs. Wangsgaard tells us, "I never had a craving or longing to write. The poems came with such urgency and such volume the first year that I was forced to recognize the need. After that I studied as I wrote. My poetry education was acquired chiefly by correspondence lessons and by self-study. Now I have five books of poetry: Singing Hearts, Down This Road, After the Blossoming, Within the Root, and Shape of Earth. I was included this year in Who's Who in Poetry International, published in London, England. I have published in many magazines and newspapers in America, in England, and in India. I have three children, all living in Cache Valley, Utah, thirteen living grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren. 'This autumn I was notified that I had won the Aleda Hall Lyric Award sponsored by a poets' forum in Miami, Florida." > << Dust of 6veryDayness Celia Luce Wé were driving past a hillside of gray rocks, or so they seemed to us. Then the road veered closer to the hillside and moved through a cut. Here the rock had been blasted away. We found that the rock was not gray at all, but delighted us with its red and golden hues. The rock had been covered by gray dust from the hillside above, so looked gray. I was reminded of how we put a gray veil of every-dayness over the people and things about us, seldom stopping really to look at them and enjoy their sparkle and beauty. We have become so used to them that we ignore them. We sometimes even put a veil of gray every-dayness over our relations with God. Sometimes it takes the blasting of trouble to tear away the gray veil and wake us up to the rare beauty of the everyday joys. Avard Winners Annual Relicf Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1959 issuc of the Magazine, and which closcd August 15, 1950. The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Deone R. Sutherland, Idaho Falls, Idaho, for her story "Summer's Grace." The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Myrtle M. Dean, Provo, Utah, for her story "Grandpa's Red Suspenders." The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Dorothy Clapp Robinson, Boise, Idaho, for ""The Fishbite Story." Mrs. Sutherland is a second-time winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest; Mrs. Dean is a thirdtime winner; and Mrs. Robinson is a fourth-time winner. The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Rehef Society General Board in 1941, as a feature of the Relief Society centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latterday Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1960. Fortynine stories were entered in the contest for i959. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. 'The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and will aid the women of the Church. In the development of their gifts in creative writing. Women who are interested in entering the short story contest are reminded that for several years past, and continuing to May 1958, a helpful article on story writing has been published in the May or June issues of the Magazine. Prize-winning stories are the property of the Relicf Socicty General Board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. 'The General Board also reserves the right to publish any of the stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A wniter who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again cligible to enter the contest. The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning stories. The General Board also acknowledges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee in supervising the contest. Page 17 Sirst PrizeWinning Story Annual Relicf Society Short Story Contest First Prize Story 9 Summer's Grace Deone R. Sutherland DEONE R. SUTHERLAND T' was one of those days when the hot noon sunlight overflowed and shimmered bcfore our feet. Even with the hose running all day, the daisies wilted and the grass browned. The green vines reddened on the trellises before their time, and we sat in the windless air of our tired apple tree and dreamed of sudden frosts and faraway Alps where snow glimmcers above cooling clouds. Almy and I lifted our noses to the air. We slid down the tree with me first to guide Almy's feet. Through the screen door we could Page 18 see Mama moving back and forth in the kitchen. Marjorie came out the back door wiping her forehead. "She's baking a cake!" "A wiggily cake," we breathed. But Marjorie had gone to sit in the apple cellar. It was cool there, but Almy didn't like the spidcrs. Besides, Marjorie had a book, and if we fooled with the cider press or made a noise, it meant trouble. We crouched in the shade of the house. A wiggily cake rose four glorious layers high with sweet cream custard nestled between the white layers. I looked on Almy tenderly. Her round brown cheeks and rosy mouth looked happy as she patted her own dirt cake together and frosted it with white dust. "Maud!" Mama's voice brought Almy and me racing to the back porch. In the kitchen the wiggily cake rose grandly above the cake plate with the silver Icaves edging the frosting. Mama was busily tcaring off wax paper and adjusting toothpicks. "Can I trust you to carry this ever so gently down to Mrs. Fanshawe's? She's sick today, and with nine children." Reluctantly we said goodbye to the wiggily cake. Almy's lip turned out. Her dark brows drew down SUMMER'S GRACE threateningly, but Mama_ never noticed. She was busy changing into a fresh apron and tidying the soft hair that clung to her cheeks. Mama's kiss was swift and sweet on my cheek. She lifted Almy for a kiss and a hug, though Almy weighed a ton. "Keep an eye on Almy,' Mama cautioned me confidently. I nodded reassuringly. When you were with Mama, you never minded giving away all the cakes in the world. It was only afterwards, while you were walking down the dusty road and the cake smelled and smelled in your hands that you minded. Almy _ begged for finger-licks at the edge. It was hard to give her some and not disturb the silver leaves. "They'll not notice," I soothed my conscience, though Almy's hands showed traces of her own cake making. We minded most of all going up the dusty lane with the barefoot Fanshawe kids crowding in upon us, hungry eyes fastened on the towering cake. We had hungry eves, too, I wanted to shout to them. Mary took the cake at the door. "Mama's sick," she said shyly. "Yes, we know." "We'll bring back the plate," they shouted after us. It was a refrain we'd heard too many times. Our dog Jake came running crookedly to meet us. "Go away," I grumbled at his wild wagging. He was really one of Mr. Johnson's pups that he'd tried to drown, but Mama had caught him at it. Finally, Papa had held a private talk with Mr. Johnson. After all, Mama could take in only so many dogs and cats and all. Mr. Johnson agreed to go some place farther 19 away to dispose of stray animals than the canal dividing our property. "How is your wonderful Mother?" Mr. Clough's horse pranced in the road. We told him proudly how well Mother was. "She is a fine woman." Mr. Clough leaned over and looked at us sternly. We felt a thrill of pride for Mother, and a twinge of conscience for our own shortcomings. We would never grow up to feed every gypsy who came begging, or take in every Indian who knocked at the door, as Papa says Mama does. We turned in our yard, looking furtively over the hedge at the lawn. No, Mama's dark patchwork quilt was not stretched across the grass with a rumpled tramp resting in the shade while Mama's green pitcher of ice water tipped in his hand. E circled the back yard. There was no wild hammering from the shed while Mama _ knocked something together for one of God's poor wild things to rest in while it recovered from some calamity that would have killed it for sure, if Mama hadn't stepped in. We opened the back door, and there eating bread and milk at the table and staring wildly at us with red-rimmed eyes sat a girl we'd never seen before. She clutched a gray shawl at her throat while the perspiration ran in rivulets into her eyes. "She doesn't speak a word of English, poor girl. Her cough is terrible, but we'll fix that...." Mama was brewing herbs on the back of the stove. "Don't stare, children; we'll have to fix the bed on the back porch." She looked pleadingly at us, for it was the only 20 cool place to sleep in the summer. Marjorie helped Mama_ change the bed. Almy and I went back to look at the girl. Papa stood in the doorway. "What's this, Edith? What's this?" He swung Almy to his shoulder, and I snuggled inside his arm. "T can't get her to let go of the shawl, John. No matter what I do, she hangs on so to it. It's so hot. You do something, can you, dear?" Papa put Almy down, and I lost my nest under his arm. He made a sweeping bow and held out his hand for the shawl. The girl's large bluc eves brightened, and she giggled, ' 'Ja,' and handed her shawl to Papa, who hung it gingerly on the hooks by the back door. "Wonderful," Mama said delightedly, while Papa wiped the dampness from her forehead and kissed both her cyes. "Where did she come _ from, Edith?" Papa washed industriously in the basin. "IT thought I heard a knock, but no one was there. I felt something was wrong. Poor thing, she was going back through the field to the railroad track...." Mama lifted the yellow corn from the steaming kettle. "What if I had not found her...? Not a word of English... 2" Papa sat down to the table, and we bowed our heads. 'Where is this German girl on her way to, Edith?" Mother unrolled a crumpled envelope and paper from her pocket and handed it to Papa. "Mr. And Mrs. Herman Hergesheimer...." Papa laid down his work carefully. "Why, they sold out and moved away more than four months ago." Mama nodded gently. "No wonRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 der she's terrified. We'll have to trace them somehow for her." Papa leaned his head against his hand. "Couldn't someone clse have found her, Edith?" Mama lifted her head. Our neighbor, John. Her." Papa groaned, "Sometimes I wish I were your neighbor!" "She is We must help AMAY'S eyes widened and filled with tears which she quickly blinked away. Papa went around the table and put his arm around Mama, but she said everything was all right and began to d the table. It wasn't iil we were cating Mama's bottled peaches for dessert that I remembered the fourlayer wiggily cake. "Wie heissen Sie?" rupted my thoughts. Anna barely had time to tell us her name before she doubled up in a spasm of coughing. "Marjorie and I can get her to bed," Mama. Said quictly. "You must get Dr. Williams, John. This is no common cough." Dr. Williams responded to calls at our house with alacrty. Mama's hospitality included his favonte — homemade ice cream. But there was no dasher for us to lick on this visit. We crowded at the door while Dr. Williams peered into Anna's throat. "The membranc ls there, all right." He washed _ his hands carefully in the basin while Mama got Anna back to bed. "Tl ride back into town for antitoxin for all of you." Dr. Williams pulled down his vest and struggled with his coat. He avoided Papa's eyes and turned to pick up his black bag. Papa _inter- SUMMER'S GRACE "Antitoxin?"" Mama said in the doorway. "That German girl you've befricnded...." Id never heard Dr. Williams speak so gruffly. Not even once when Almy swallowed a bottle of pills in his office, and he put his finger down her throat to bring them back. She'd hung on with her teeth worse than Jake with Mama's slipper. Dr. Williams cleared his throat again, "She's got diphtheria, Edith." Quarantine became stifling. Mama slipped in and out of Anna's room, but that part of the house was forbidden to the rest of us. Sometimes we sneaked into the parlor and pulled back the lace curtain and examined the back of the cardboard sign that kept everyone away. It seemed cven the road at the end of the lane was avoided, and after the glory palled, we spent hours pitying ourselves as outcasts. Having our shoulders stuck with needles was of little moment if you couldn't describe the ordeal to anyone. "TI want Mama," Almy began to cry on the lawn. Marjorie hushed her, and Almy rubbed her eyes and dozed off with her hand under her cheek. "She must be hot. See how red her face is," I said to Marjorie. Marjorie laid her hand against Almy's round forehead where her brown hair had dampened into funny points. Almy grumbled and moaned in her sleep and pulled a fat knee toward her chest. "You better get Mama, Maudie." I jumped up the steps two at a time and ran into the kitchen. The whole house smelled like sickness. Mama was standing by the cupboard, and she looked at me with 21 asmile. "The worst is over, Maud. Run and tell Papa. Anna just ate a whole bow! Of soup." "Mama...." Her face was so tired and happy all together. "Mama, Marjorie wants you to come feel Almy. She's so hot, and all she wants to do is lic down." I couldn't stand to look at Mama, the happiness died out so quickly. It was like flying, she went so fast to Almy. I was sent for Papa in the pasture. Papa ran all the way back with me behind. I could hear the breath in his throat like an accompaniment to the swoosh-thud of his high heavy shoes. THREE nights in a row Dr. Wilhams came out in his brand new Ford car. Once I caught a glimpse of Almy held high on a pillow, her face dark from coughing. We lay under the sheets listening. Sometimes Mama _ lay down beside Almy, and Papa would watch. But the coughing would get bad, and then they both would get up. "Edith, Edith," Dr. Williams would say gruffly. "You have to get some rest, or youll die yourself." "T won't give her up," Mama said.: Anna wore Mama's wrapper and worked in our kitchen. She made bread and fried strips of ham for breakfast. It was Anna who noticed the first flag at the end of the lane. It was a stick with a white rag ticd to it. Marjorie and I brought back the basket beside it. That night we ate Mrs. Snell's best poundcake. Mama didn't want any dinner, but she took in the new rag doll to Almy. Almy smiled and went to sleep with it under her cheek. She 22 slept with that doll until she was better, and Papa had to burn everything. But it was that night when Mama hadn't felt like eating that she took sick with diphtheria. Anna helped, but Papa was like a scarecrow. His beard grew until it scared Almy and made her cry. Then he scraped it off with his ears cocked always toward Mama's room. The flag was there the next day and the next. One day we found a bundle of clean dish towels nicely embroidered, wrapped in brown paper; another, there were cookies in a shoe box and a bundle of clean rags. A little salt bag filled with dried apricots appeared, and often there were homemade loaves of bread and rolls. Once we found a new dressed chicken wrapped in many folds of newspaper. We carried it all home to Anna who accepted it and served it. Papa took in some of the gifts to Mama. A newly made apron, a fresh blue nightgown. But Mama would turn her head away and the tears would come. "I've brought this on us all, John.... It's my foolish doing...." Papa would close the door, but his voice carried through the transom above. "Nonsense. You were doing your Christian duty. Edith, Edith?" She had begun to choke. "My love, Edith. Heaven help us! My Edith!" We shut our doors and cried into the pillows. Almy was well enough to be carried to the kitchen by Anna. Her brown cheeks seemed pale, and she scolded us when we didn't get things for her promptly. "She won't be so cross when she gets her full strength back," Papa promised us, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 so we spoiled her and fetched her things and listened for Mama. HE summer was almost over before they took down the sign. Dr. Williams sat by Mama on the back porch and took her pulse. Papa had missed much time in the ficlds, but the neighbors had hauled in the hay and harvested the wheat. "You've got to get interested in things again, Edith. Accept the muracle of Almy and you being alive, not to exclude Anna, also." The tears began to run down Mama's cheeks. She pulled her blanket about her knees. I broke off a hollyhock by the back step and fastened the skirt on a stick doll for Almy. "Crying's natural, Edith. You're still mighty weak. But the sooner you can accept what's in the past and begin living in the future, then the strength will come back." Anna brought Mama her warm milk. And Mama shook her head, crying silently all the while. Anna got a spoon and fed the milk to Mama. The wind was cold, and there was a spattering of orange leaves already on the lawn. In the dark I put my arms around Papa and held him when he came to kiss us good night. "When will things be the same as before, Papa?'' I whispered to the dark. For a long time there was no sound in the room. 'Then Papa stirred on the edge of the bed. "I don't know, Maudie. Your Mama did a Christian deed, to her thinking, and the punishment exceeded all that a devil might imagine. She's lost touch with the rhythm of living, and we have to give her time, SUMMER'S GRACE I guess... He sighed and fell silent. I fell asleep before he left the room. Anna never did go to work for Herman Hergesheimer. "Nein, nein," she said vigorously. "Ich will bei ihr bleiben!" She would not leave Mama. Besides, there was Ludwig, Papa's hired man who was going to buy a small farm of his own. His cap was set for Anna, and if the time ever came when Mama didn't need her, she thought she would make do with Ludwig. But until that time came, he need not bother her. NNA made us aprons for school. Autumn was really here, then, and but one last day remained before the long wagon rides to school began. We walked around the yard feeling lonesome. Ludwig walked up to the back lawn and stretched out. We peered into his face. "Dosebleed...." he said, wiping at his face. We ran into the house and wet one of Mama's best dish towels. "Anna!" we shriecked. Mama lay on the couch in the kitchen that Papa had fixed for her. '"Anna's gone into town for more goods for Marjorie's dress. What is it?" 23 We told her about Ludwig and all the blood. She wrapped her shawl around her shoulders and followed us to the lawn. Ludwig looked very bloody and _ pitiful. "Give me the towel, Maud." Mama put the cold towel on his forehead and sent us to chip a piece of ice from the icebox. When we came back, Mama was scolding Ludwig. "So much blood, Ludwig. What is the cause of all this?" "It's bleeding from the heart maybe," said Ludwig. Mama gave him a sharp glance, and sent us in for more cloths though anyone could see the nosebleed was practically over. When we came back, Mama and Ludwig were talking about Anna. Mama kept saying, "But nobody told me a thing, not a thing." She invited Ludwig to dinner. "We'll have it late so you'll have plenty of time to go home and dress up." Ludwig smiled and smiled. "Tl make a wiggily cake for dinner,' Mama said as much to herself as to us. "You girls can do the fetching, and I'll do the stirring. That is," now she really looked at us, "if I haven't forgotten how." We smiled and smiled at her, just like Ludwig. > Deone R. Sutherland, Idaho Falls, Idaho, has had the privilege of growing up in a home where emphasis was placed upon good literature and good education. "I was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, and my parents are Linnie Fisher Robinson, a lovely poet, and George Cecil Robinson. I graduated from the University of Utah and taught English a year in high school and two years in the department of English at the University of Utah. My first story sales occurred in my early teens to the Improvement Era, and Professor Quivey's page in The Salt Lake Tribune, where I won a monthly prize. I won first prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1957. Some of my serials in the Magazine have included 'Dear Conquest,' 'Green Willows,' 'Heart's Bounty,' and 'Not to the Swift.' Besides Salt Lake, we have lived in Evanston, Illinois, and in San Francisco and Oakland, California, where I have been active in theater work and in Church activities. I am stake Relief Society literature class leader in the Hast Idaho Falls Stake at the present time. My husband is Dr. Harold Pratt Sutherland, aes practice in Idaho Falls. We have had four children, three of whom are iving." She Tlorthern States Mission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church [listorian NE Northern States Mission was organized in 1889. It contained within its boundaries the states of Illinois, lowa, Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin. 'The headquarters of the mission was established in Council Bluffs, Iowa, with John E. Booth as president. President Booth was succeeded in 1890 by Charles W. Stayner. President Stayner served until 1895, when he was succeeded by Joshua Reuben Clark (father of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.). President Clark was succeeded in 1896 by Samucl G. Spencer. President Spencer was succeeded in December 1896 by Louis A. Kelsch. Under the direction of President Kelsch, the headquarters of the mission was moved to Chicago in January 1897. In lgco the Manitoba Province of Canada was added to the Northern States Mission. Prior to this time, the State of Indiana had also been added, and, in 1925, Ohio became a part of the mission territory. President Kelsch served until 1901. Others who have succeeded him arc: Walter C. Lyman, 1901-2; Asahel H. Woodruff, 1902-4; German E. Ellsworth, 1904-19; Winslow Farr Smith, 1919-23; John H. Taylor, 1923- 29; Noah S. Pond, 1929-31. In 1930 there were 7,099 members in the Northern States Mission. President Pond presided until 1931, when he was succeeded by George From an Old Lithograph NAUVOO THE BEAUTIFUL From the Iowa Side of the Mississippi River Page 24 THE NORTHERN STATES MISSION 25 Ewing eeilotey New York FARM SCENE IN ROLLING WISCONSIN HILLS S. Romney. President Romney presided until December 1935, when he died suddenly of a heart attack at Rockford, Illinois, after a very successful mission. Presidents who have succeeded President Romney, until the present time are: Bryant S. Hinckley, 1935-39; Leo J. Muir, 1939-43; David I. Stoddard, 1943-46; Creed Haymond, 1946-49; Waldo M. Anderson, 1949-53; Isaac A. Smoot, 1953-57. President Smoot died in the mission home in Chicago of a heart attack, after a successful mission, on March 12, 1957. His successor was Richard C. Stratford, who presides at the present time. Chicago Stake was formed in the Northern States Mission in November 1936; Detroit Stake-was organized in. November 1952. The Great Lakes Mission was formed from the Northern States Mission in October 1949; it includes the states of Michigan, Indiana, and Ohio. On October 1, 1959, the membership of the Northern States Mission was 9,852; these members were located in fifty-nine branches. Fifty-nine Relief Society organizations, with 1145 members, were reported in December 1958. Vera C. Stratford presides over the Northern States Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, Buckingham Fountain, Chicago, Illinois, is a striking night photograph by Rupert Leach, from Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. See also "Recipes From the Northern States Mission," by Vera C. Stratford, page 34. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1900 P p,, J "For THE Ricuts oF THE WoMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL Nations" MEMORIAL SERVICES AT MOUNT VERNON: The one hundredth anniversary of the death of George Washington, which occurred December 14, 1799, was appropriately remembered.. Throughout the land. At Mount Vernon the scene was impressive.... President McKinley, accompanied by members of his Cabinet, attended the exercises and delivered an address. The procession that moved up the slope to the mausion consisted of the Third United States Cavalry band... The Grand Lodge of Virginia... And of the District of Columbia.... President McKinley reviewed the procession with uncovered head, and, as the last of it passed the mansion, the presidential party fell in line at the rear and marched to the tomb where Washington was first interred.... When the President finished his address twenty-one guns were fired by the United States steamship Sylph. While the guns from the war vessel were booming, the entire assembly sang "America." —Editorial MISS ANTHONY'S LETTER: In this, my eightieth year, I am filled with a great desire to urge all believers in the political enfranchisement of women to manifest that belicf in some material way. Will you not, as a New Year's pledge, promise to aid the Suffrage Association in some direct manner? No woman is so situated that she cannot do something.... The command to labor for the elevation of human kind is not upon a chosen few only, but upon every intelligent being.... —Susan B. Anthony TWO CITIES On the dusky edge of evening, stretched in shining peace it lies, City built of clouds and sunshine — wonder of the Western skies.... Darkness gathers, Eastward, Westward; stronger waxeth my desire, Reaching through celestial spaces, glittering as with rain of fire. To the city set with jasper, having twelve foundations fair, Flashing from their jeweled splendor every color soft and rare.... —Selected A WOMAN WHO INHERITED FIVE COPPER CLAIMS: Miss Abbie Eastman, of Phoenix, Ariz., inherited five copper claims three years ago, and has been working ever since in California and Arizona to earn the money required to hold them until they could be developed and sold. She has always been obliged to earn her own bread, but with the sight of a fortune before her she worked harder than ever. She persevered, and lately sold one | ane for $45,000.. —News Note A NEW DEPARTURE: Mrs. Admiral Dewey startled Washington society by announcing that women as well-as men would be welcome at her New Year's reception. This is the revival of a custom that was abolished in Cleveland's administration. —News Note Page 26 RS. OSWALD B. LORD of New York has been reappointed as an alternate representative to the United States delegation to the General Assembly of the United Nations. She is the only woman on the U. S. Delegation. JENNIFER VYVYAN, soprano, and Monica Sinclair, contralto, are English women who have achieved distinction for their singing in Handel's Messiah, under the direction of world-famous — Sir Thomas Beecham. 'They are both graduates of the Royal Academy of Music, and have sung at Covent Garden, Sadler's Wells, the Royal Opera House, and in many other opera houses in the British Isles and elsewhere. RS. CLAIRE FEJES, of Fairbanks, Alaska, mother of two children, who assists her husband Joseph Fejes in running a hobby and art supply shop, is a well-known artist of the Northland whose paintings have won acclaim in many parts of the United States and are now on display at the Women's City Club in New York City. Her water colors, oils, and sketches portray the majestic scenery and the Eskimo tribes in the regions of Kotzebue and Point Hope. Woman's Sphere Ramona VW'. Cannon LEONIE B. ADAMS, one of America's most honored poets, in November 1959, received the $5,000 fellowship award presented by the American Academy of Pocts for "distinguished poetic achievement." Author of several books of poetry, she has also won the Bollingen Poctry Award, the Harrictt Monroe Award, and the Shelley Memorial Award. ANY American women are taking advantage of the scholarships available for study abroad. Seventy-five thousand scholarships are offered to men and women for study in eighty-five countrics and territorics. ICOLE MAXWELL, a citizen of the United States, is a scicntific explorer in the jungles of South America. She has made nine trips into remote regions searching for medicinal plants which may be of great valuc in the treatment of disease. At present she is working for the Charles Pfizer Pharmaceutical Company, Inc. Her education was received at Ohio State Medical School and Harvard University. She is the founder of the Ecuadoran Institute of Geography and Ethnography, and is a Fellow of the London Geographical Society. Page 27 EDITORIAL cm VOL. 47 She Days of a WVoma ns Lt e The day is thine, the night also is thinc: thou hast prepared the light and the sun. 'Thou hast set all the borters of the earth: (Psalm 74:16-17). GAIN, with the coming of the New Year, we find ourselves contemplating and evaluating that period of time which is past, our present place in the life plan, and the days which are to come. For each day is like a jewel in its setting of cternity — and it has meaning far beyond the borders of its beginning and its end. Each day is "set in its intricate design of former days and future time, and never can one day be reckoned as an island in the sea of continuity. One of the greatest blessings of the gospel is the assurance it gives of our place in the everlasting sequence of our far-reaching privileges and responsibilities. With full hearts, we rejoice in the New Year, believing, "Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all the generations" (Psalm go:1). In this setting, we think of the days of a woman's life upon the earth — and afterwards — the roles in which she participates, her interests and her development in each succeeding phase of the periods of time which are given to her. First, she is a daughter in her mother's home; then, if she is blessed with a companion, she becomes a wife, a daughter-in-law, a mother; finally, she will be a motherin-law, and a grandmother. Through this cycle of days she will Page 28 thou hast made summer and winter also be a participant in the work of the Church and in community activitics. And through all of these experiences, a woman learns about life from the vantage point of each of her "seven ages." In the course of this development, she acquires a measure of wisdom, sympathy, serenity, and a realization of her destiny in the Heavenly Father's eternal plan. Each age yields to her experiences which gleam in splendor above all trials and disappointments, for it has been said of earth and earth life "The stones of it are the place of sapphires: and it hath dust of gold" (Job 28:6). The girl in her mother's home receives training and impressions that will determine the course of her life. She will always remember the shelter of the home walls, the lighted windows, her mother's face, the tireless hands sewing a dress for a gitl child, the table set for the evening meal, the prayers that united the family in love and _tesponsibility. And though partings inevitably came and illness, and, perhaps, hard times assailed the home, still there came to the daughter a strength of courage and a fecling of lifetime security that would companion her forever. The young wife in her new home might perhaps say to herself, this is a new unit in the kingdom of JANUARY 1960 NO. 1 EDITORIAL earth, and in the kingdom of the Heavenly Father. Here are two people, strangers in many ways, coming from different homes, to merge together, each one bringing the past to build into a new unit, with the aura of youth and strength — so the young wife builds. The wife and her mother-in-law, whatever may be the differences in personality, have much to bring them close together. 'They have a shared devotion to the son who is now a husband, and together they will love the grandchildren, enlarging the unit of the family with a new perspective and new companionship. To the young wife, the coming of a child seems to be a miracle. And so it is, for the Heavenly Father has given a spirit to tabernacle upon the carth, and the child, in his innocence, scems to be remembering his formcr home, even as lic explores the wonders of earth. The mother, then, secs places and people through young eyes, as if a new portrait were being designed upon a white canvas, all impressions webbed in wonder and beauty. The mother fecls herself a part of all ercation — a kinship with sunlight and flowers, and far habitations, having a wide love for children everywhere and a yearning to in- 29 crease the welfare and opportunities of all children. When a daughter or son marries, a woman again meets a stranger, certainly a stranger at first, and the circle of the family is at the same time diminished and_ enlarged. New adjustments come for older mothers, and there is a desire for greater understanding and for opportunities that will give wisdom and happiness in the circle of the growing family. One woman said, as her grandchildren grew like flowers around her, "Now I am living in the perennial garden, and I have learned to reccive with greater rejoicing the association with children, who are really the buds and blossoms of the world." This heightened sensitivity to companionship with young spirits seems to be onc of the greatest blessings realized by grandmothers, as they sce the cycle of life thus made strong and everlasting. Grandchildren bring gifts from the faraway country of childhood. Thus are the ages of a woman combined into a cycle of increasing wisdom, expanding sympathies, and a widened appreciation of the gift of life and time — the gift of years, and always the New Year, and the eternal horizon. —V. P. C. Roxana Farnsworth Hase Have you grown lesser since your hair is gray And strength somewhat diminished in your arms? Is that fine mind I always so admired Less keenly tuned with passing of youth's charms? Am [ to think that years have warped your vision 3ecause you slow a little in your stride? Ah, no! You are the ripened fruits of wisdom, I am the secker, ever at your side. Notes TO THE FIELD Reliof Society Assigned &vening Meeting of Sast Sunday in IMlarch; HE Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day, March 6, 1960, has again been assigned by the First Presidency for use by the Relief Society. A suggestive program for this meeting has been sent to the stakes in pamphlet form. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents confer with their bishops immediately to arrange for this meeting. It is suggested that the ward Relief Society chorister and organist confer with the ward president and carefully select from the ward music library the songs for this occasion which seem to be the most appropriate and the most inspirational. Wlcaed! Subscriptions Presented in April HI award subscriptions presented to Magaziie representatives for having obtained 75 per cent or more subscriptions to the Magazine in relation to their enrolled Relief Society members, are not awarded until after the stake Magazine representatives' annual reports have been audited. Award cards for these subscriptions for the year 1959 will be mailed to ward and stake Magazine representatives about April 1, 1960. Bound Volume of 1959 Mlagazines R ELIEF Society officers and members who wish to have their 1959 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 31 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1 Utah. (Sec advertisement on inside back cover. ) The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.50, leather $3.80, including the index. A limited number of the 1959 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relicf Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah, for $2 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and sinkes have one volume of the 1959 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relicf Society libraries. Page 30 _a Be Honest with Yourself 'Oh Say WVhat Ys ruth? HAT a wonderful 'world this would be if everybody believed and practiced the teachings of the Savior: Ye shall know the truth, -and-the: truth shall make you free. Lucky for you who, live in a land built on a belief in truth and justice. Not all people are, so fortunate. As children we are 'naturally honest. And we would likely so remain but for the bad exaniples, group pressures, or lack of effective moral teaching in our lives. Page 31 32 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 Should untruthfulness creep into our lives it is likely to come first in faint disguise: in exaggeration; in concealment of some pertinent facts when people have a right to believe that what we say is the whole truth and nothing but the truth; in pretending that we agree with somcone else's statement when he expresses an idea or an opinion which is contrary to our own; in refraining from speaking up in defense of a person or a cause when we know we ought to do so; in making promises which we do not intend to keep. Only after we have grown callous to some of these milder forms of indirect deceit are we likely to tell deliberate falschoods. Most people are innocent of intentional and outright deception. Young men and young women: how valiant are you to defend the truth? Do you stand up to the careless opinions and irresponsible claims which are so often expressed when young people engage in casual talk? How careful are you in expressing your own opinions and in sticking to facts in your own specch? If all people were strictly truthful and honest, righteousness would soon cover the earth — and heaven would not be far beyond! So, believe the truth, tell the truth, love the truth, live the truth. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF t What Gifts J Bring Ida Elaine James I forgot that you are thirty-two, Habit being a stubborn thing to break, And so, as always, I bring home to you Some trifle from the party... A mint, or cake. In long-gone days if I failed to secrete A treasure in my purse, I would not dare To meet your eager, outstretched hand, my sweet. Stronger than age is strong, this will to share! Forgive old age's tender foolishness For harboring bits I've learned along life's way, Expectant always of your welcoming yes, Your heart enfolding the gifts I bring today. But now, life's gems — my best — I am not sure How you will take; still, hearts are hard to cure. Prevent Crippling Diseases Basil O' Connor President, The National Foundation OU and the March of Dimes — that's the combination that produced the polio vaccine. 'That combination — you and the new March of Dimes — can do it again. 'Vhe new March of Dimes is tackling birth defects, arthritis, and polio. Medical surveys show that one out of sixteen American babies is born defective. You can do something to stop it. Arthritis is America's No. 1 crippling disease — the enemy of millions, both adults and children. Old and new epidemics of polio have left 50,000 in need cf March of Dimes care. The National Foundation, supported by the March of Dimes, leads in medical research to prevent crippling disease, in medical care to prevent disease crippling, and in professional education to train disease fighters. National Foundation scholarships train hands and minds to prevent the tragedy of crippling diseases. An army of volunteers will conduct the new March of Dimes in January 1960. They know the anguish that birth defects bring families; they know that arthritis and the rheumatic diseases strike millions, including children. They know that in 1959 polio erupted in terrifying epidemics and that polio still cripples. 'Vhey also know that a nationally co-ordinated research program, accompanied by patient aid and the training of more medical personnel, is the only hope of checking these three cripplers, the only way of bringing hope to their victims. Help prevent crippling diseases. Join the new March of Dimes. O> J Could Not Cry Gladys Hesser Burnham I could not cry the day you left me standing Unprepared for this, our last farewell. The world around was bursting forth with promise That life was sweet and spring about to swell. My only premonition of disaster Was weeping sky that filled the tulip's brim. I thought at once of sweet, thirst-quenching moisture That hastens growing buds along each limb. My mind was on this earthly resurrection Of flowing sap and flowering gardens gay. I could not sense the fact that you were leaving; Yet weeping skies are blue beyond the gray. Page 33 Recipes From the Northern States Tlission Submitted by Vera C. Stratford PripE OF Iowa CooxiEs 1 c. Shortening % tsp. Soda 1 c. Brown sugar % tsp. Salt 1 c. White sugar % ¢. Coconut, shredded 2 eggs 2 c. Rolled oats 1 tsp. Vanilla lc. Corn flakes 2 c. Flour % c. Nut meats Cream shortening and sugar together until light. Add eggs and beat until light and creamy. Add vanilla; sift four, soda, and salt together and mix in. Add coconut, oats, corn flakes, and nuts. Drop on greased cookie sheet and bake at 350° until lightly browned. Porppy-SEED CAKE 7 c. Poppy seeds P tsp. Aking powder 4 C. Ml 2 C. Mm 1% c. Sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla " c. Butter 3 egg whites 2 c. Flour Soak poppy seeds in the % cup milk overnight. Mix butter and sugar. Sift dry ingredients and add alternately to butter mixture with the % cup milk. Add vanilla and soaked poppy seeds. Fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake twenty-five minutes at 350°. Spread a custard filling, recipe below, between layers and ice with pink seven-minute frosting. Custard for Poppy-Seed Cake: % c. Sugar (brown or white) 2 tbsp. Flour, or more to make desired 1 c. Milk thickness 3 egg yolks 1 c. Nut meats, chopped Mix and cook in a double boiler, all ingredients, except nuts, until thick; cool, add nuts, and spread between layers of cake. PEPPERED BEEF 1 tbsp. Fat 1 c. Hot water 1 Ib. Roundsteak 2 tbsp. Cornstarch % tsp. Salt 4 tsp. Soy sauce pepper 1 chopped onion 1 crushed garlic clove 4 green peppers ~ % c. Celery, chopped ¥% c. Cold water 1 bouillon cube Cut meat in narrow inch-long strips and brown in fat. Add salt, pepper, garlic, enion, sliced peppers, and chopped celery. Dissolve bouillon cube in hot water and add to mixture. Cook until tender. Mix cornstarch, soy sauce, and cold water and add to meat mixture. Cook about two additional minutes. Serve with rice or boiled noodles. Page 34 RECIPES FROM THE NORTHERN STATES MISSION 35 SOUTHERN ILLINOIS BAKED BEANS 1 Ib. Dried Great Northern beans thirty slices bacon 1 medium-sized onion brown sugar water, as needed salt and pepper 1 bottle tomato catsup Boil beans in sufficient water to cover, salted to taste, until done, but not soft. In a baking dish, place a layer of beans, salted and peppered to taste, then a layer of thinly sliced onion. Sprinkle with brown sugar and dot with catsup. Cut bacon in short lengths and place on top of onions. Make second and third layers of the same. Cover with thin layer of brown sugar and remaining catsup and place long strips of bacon on top. Bake in 350° oven until bacon is browned. Cover, reduce heat to very low, and bake two and one-half additional hours. Add a little water, as needed, to make sure there is always enough moisture to bake without burning. ISTER SNELGROVE'S PINEAPPLE CHEESE SALAD S 1 pkg. Lemon jello 1 small can crushed pineapple 1 pkg. Hme jello "" c. Sugar 2 c. Hot water 1 c. Grated mild cheese juice from one lemon 1 pt. Whipping cream Dissolve jello in hot water and add lemon juice. Cool. Combine pineapple and sugar, then bring toa boil. Add to jello mixture when cool; add cheese. When almost starting to jell, fold in whipped cream. WISCONSIN BLUEBERRY MUFFINS 1% c. Flour % c. Milk 2% tsp. Baking powder 1 egg % tsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Fat "% C. Sugar blueberries, as desired Sift dry ingredients. Beat egg, add milk and fat. Add dry ingredients, stirring lightly. Fold in washed blueberries (as many as desired). Bake in greased muffin pan at 425° for 25 minutes. Corn-BELT CRACKER JACKS 1 Ib. Brown sugar "A tsp. Salt 1 c. White syrup "2 tsp. Soda % lb. Butter 8 qts. Popped corn Cook sugar and syrup until it almost burns (about 8 minutes), stirring constantly from the time it starts to boil. Melt butter and add with the salt and soda. Stir and pour over popped corn (more or less can be used depending on taste). Now pour out on table and press down with hands or form into balls. ELpER Coox's CrysTAL FRENCH Dressinc For Fruit SALAD "A Cc. Sugar " c. White vinegar 1 tsp. Celery seed 1 c. Salad oil "2 tsp. Salt 2 cloves garlic, minced 1 tsp. Dry mustard Combine sugar, celery seed, salt, mustard, and vinegar. Very slowly add the oil, beating constantly. 'The dressing becomes very thick as the oil is added. Add minced garlic clove. Chill well before serving. Mlore Precious Shan Riches Betty Lou Martin 66 ED, come here quick. Look W at the new living-room set that the Andrews are getting." Carolyn Hayes watched curiously out the window. "Honestly, they're always getting something new. Why only last month they got a new car, and the month before that...." Ted Hayes put his arm affectionately around his wife. "Now, dear, we're not interested in what the Andrews get new. After all, they don't have any children to buy for, and we have three to take care of. 'They can afford things like that." Carolyn turned dark, intent eyes upon Ted. "Really, Ted, I don't mean to be envious, but I can't help but admire the nice things that Barbara and Chris Andrews have. Why Barbara even has a_ dishwasher." "But just think, Mrs. Hayes, you have three dish wipers and one potential one. What more could you ask for?" Ted teased in his good natured way. Ted, with his clean-cut appearance, his blonde curly hair, and his appealing blue eyes, could always make Carolyn smile. He had a way about him that would make the world seem rosy and bright, even on a rainy day. "Td like to see the time that you or the children finish the job of wiping the dishes for me." Carolyn laughed. "At least, I know that you have good intentions." Carolyn finally got the twins, Jimmy and Jenny, ready for school. They had just walked out the door when the baby, Cathy, started to Page 36 cry. "Oh, Cathy, you're supposed to sleep right now so Mommy can get her washing done." Carolyn sighed. "I can see that this is going to be one of those days." After several unsuccessful attempts, Carolyn finally finished the washing, then she made the beds and did the breakfast dishes. She worked through the lunch hour, and by the time the nine-year-old twins came home from school, Carolyn was exhausted. "I really should iron a few of those pieces before I start dinner, but 'm just too tired." "Mother," Jimmy called from the living room. "Mrs. Andrews is here to see you." Oh, no, thought Carolyn, and I look so untidy. Barbara Andrews sat across from Carolyn and chatted to her about their new living-room set, and the trip that she and Chris planned to take to New York. Carolyn listened with excitement. If only she and Ted could take a trip like that, but they could never afford it. Besides, they wouldn't have anyone with whom to leave the children. "Oh, Barbara, it all sounds so wonderful. Why I've never hardly been out of the State, let alone to New York," Carolyn said. Barbara was her usual, wellgroomed self. "I am excited about it, Carolyn. Of course we always take a vacation every summer, Why, it just wouldn't seem night, if we didn't." Carolyn felt even more conspicuous in her soiled blue cotton dress, with her dark hair disheveled. MORE PRECIOUS THAN RICHES Barbara was trim and neat in a fresh cotton skirt and blouse, and her blonde hair was beautifully combed. "Well, I really must be running. ''m meeting Chris for dinner in town tonight, and then we're going to take in a show. Do come over and see my new furniture, Carolyn." HE thought of a show sounded relaxing to Carolyn, and when Ted came home, she suggested that they go "It's fine with me, honey," Ted replied. "We can all go to a drivein. As it turned out, Carolyn wished that they had stayed home. Cathy wouldn't go to sleep, and the twins kept bouncing around in the back seat of the car. Every few minutes they had to have some popcorn, and then some candy, and then — "a drink of water, please, Daddy." Carolyn did take note of the beautiful moon that night, and her thoughts went back to the days when she and Ted were courting. The next thing she remembered the show was over, and 'Ted was taking the speaker out of the car. "Ted, I've been to sleep; why didn't you awaken me?" Carolyn asked. "You were sleeping so peacefully that I just didn't have the heart." Ted winked at Carolyn. The next day started out the same way for Carolyn, and she didn't have a spare minute to visit with Barbara. Suddenly, it occurred to Carolyn that Cathy's second birthday came the end of the week. "We'll have to have a little family party," she mused. When the twins came home from school, Carolyn told them of her plans, and they eagerly helped her plan the occasion. 37 The night of the party finally arrived, and little Cathy was proud and happy. She laughed and talked and tried to blow out the candles on the cake which Carolyn had taken so much time decorating. Carolyn looked around at the happy, laughing faces of her little family, and she knew that every moment of exhausting work was worth it. What would she ever do without them? 'They were more precious than riches. Just then a knock came to the door, and when Carolyn answered it, Barbara stood before her. Barbara looked around at the gaily decorated table, at the cake with its two single candles and one to grow on, and at the brightly wrapped presents on the table. "Oh, I'm sorry, Carolyn, I didn't know that you were having a party. It's just that I...." There were tears in her eyes as she spoke. "TI get so lonesome when Chris isn't there. Oh, Carolyn, you have so very much to be thankful for." Carolyn thought with amazement, all this time I have been admiring her beautiful things, she has been wanting what I have. She took Barbara by the arm and led her into the dining room. "Tm so happy that you came, Barbara. You're just in time to have some cake and ice cream with us. Little Cathy will be delighted, too. She foves visitors." As Carolyn set a place for Barbara, she turned toward 'Ted and gave him a radiant smile that said, "Vhank you for all the happiness that we have together." Ted, in turn, wondered what he had done to deserve such a lovely, glowing smile from his beautiful wife, ReeEtA Cora Brown Jenkins, Gooding, Idaho, makes quilts, rugs, and many doilies, pot holders, dolls, and other items for home beautification and for gifts. She has given several quilts to her children and has made one for each of her seven grandchildren for their weddings. She pieced a quilt top for the Relief Society. Her beautiful and useful rugs have been items of much admiration at Relief Society bazaars. She cultivates a large vegetable garden and a lovely flower garden, and both of these provide gifts for family and friends. Mrs. Jenkins has been a Relief Society visiting teacher for forty-six years and has also served many years as an executive officer. She is mother to four children, grandmother to nineteen, and great-grandmother to seven. > Ruth to (Boaz Katherine F. Larsen Never for pity have I come to you, Though pity enough were perhaps my due. Nor for your largess do I entreat— Only that I might lie at your feet. Never have I stretched hands to receive Plums, grapes, and pomegranates — only believe I proffer to you sheer grain that I Have garnered under the unpiiying sky. Page 38 The New Day Hazel K. Todd CHAPTER 4 Synopsis: Lynn Marlow, a dress designer, who lives in Chicago and is engaged to David Talbot, returns to Springdale, her home town, to visit her Aunt Polly, and to find out if she has really forgotten her early love for Johnny Spencer. He had married a Southern girl and she had died, leaving two children. On her way to her aunt's home, Lynn meets Johnny's children, but she delays going to see Johnny. T was quite natural that her feet should turn to the willow path. Long ago, when the path was new, she had gone there to think. If she had done something wrong and Aunt Polly had reprimanded her, if she had quarreled with Johnny, or if anything had happened that wasn't right, she had come here in the willows and found her Balm of Gilead. Now she walked in the ferns and willow leaves until she came to the stump lying like a hound dog by the path. And she sat down on it and took off her shoes and dipped her feet into the cool water. In the leaves near something caught her eye. It was the pocket knife, the open blade shining up at her through the leaves. Her heart began a peculiar thumping. That knife belonged to Johnny's boy. He had given it to her to make the whistle that she had never finished. She picked it up thoughtfully. 'Then, reaching up, she snipped off the willow branch hanging low over her head. The blade slid quite easily through the tender limb, and in a short time she was bark from her pounding the whistle. It was funny how she could temember just the right things to do after so many years. Just how deep to make the groove, just where to cut the slit, and then the taste of the sap as she wet the bare whistle in her mouth to make the bark slide on easily. She was eager as a child as she put the whistle to her lips. It had always been fun to try a new whistle. There were so many pitches. It blew a high shrill note that made her start a little so that she looked squarely into the pair of eyes peeking furtively through the willow clump. She knew those eyes, too. She would never question them again. They were Johnny's eyes, in Johnny's son's face. E knew immediately that she had seen him, but he stayed defiantly in the willows. "I want my knife," he said. Lynn had regained her composure now. "Of course you may have it," she said "but you must come and get it." He came a few steps out of the willows, and Lynn looked behind him, expecting to see the little girl. "Where is your sister?" "None of your business," he said, without offering to come further. She raised her eyebrows. "I'm sorry. I didn't mean to make you angry." "What'd you run away for when you promised to make us a whistle?" Page 39 40 Oh, so that was it! "Tm sorry," she said again, "It was very foolish of me to run away. Would you believe me if I told you I was afraid of something when I ran away?" "There's nothing in these willows to get you," he said. He was still eyeing her up and down. "Oh, I'm sure of that," Lynn said very seriously. "But — well, if you had something that made you very, very unhappy and you lost it, and then suddenly found it, do you think you might run away before it hurt you all over again?" He puckered his forehead into a scowl. "You don't talk plain," he said. She laughed then. "I suppose I don't." She looked down into her hand at the whistle. "Did you hear my whistle?" "Sure, I heard it. I was standing right there. I watched you make it." "Oh, did you! I thought you just came out of nowhere." "That's silly. Nobody comes out of nowhere." She laughed again. "I guess they don't." He still stood in the same place. "Would you like the whistle?" He thought a minute. "I'll give it to Lindy," he said and came forward. Lindy! Johnny had named his little girl Lindy! Like a fast moving drama, there rushed before her a night along the willow path, with Johnny's arms around her. She could see vividly the flower in his buttonhole. She could even smell the violets in her hair. And sharp and clear a voice tender, sweet, "All our little girls we will name Lindy." She sat stupified while he took RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 the whistle she held in her hand. "I want my knife, too," he said. "Oh, of course. Excuse me." She reached for the knife that was lying on the stump beside her. "Does Lindy like whistles?" "Course she does." Lynn was quite calm now. "I suppose all boys and girls like whistles." "Lindy is asleep," Peter volunteered now, as though to make up for his rudeness awhile ago. "Who... Who stays with her when she's asleep?" Lynn was unconsciously twisting the leaves from a willow branch. "Sometimes I do. Sometimes she gets up and plays by herself." A slight frown knit her forehead. "How old is Lindy?" she asked. "She's four, and she knows a lot," he announced nonchalantly. Lynn looked at the boy thoughtfully. He talked like a grown-up. "How old are you, Peter?" she asked. "Nearly six. [Pll soon be as big as my dad," he said. "Do you and Lindy live alone, with your father?" "Course we do," Peter answered, "cause our mother died." He looked at her then as though there was a decision forming in his mind. "You can see our house from here," he said, pointing to it across the meadow. "Yes, I see," she said, following his finger. "Why don't you come and see it?" She caught her breath. And then David's words—"Promise me you will see Johnny," he had said. Lynn sighed. If she must see Johnny, perhaps she must also see his house. 'The house by THE NEW DAY the mill — wan't that part of it, too? "T — J think I would like to." They stood looking at each other. "Now?" she asked. "Sure." T was some far-fetched dream — walking down the path through the clover meadow with a_ boy whose eyes belonged to a lost love, to a house that by nghts was hers, where a little girl who might have been her baby lay asleep, whose leading footsteps brought her nearer and nearer to some knot of confused circumstances she could not face; and yet could not avoid. It was all crazy — some silly hallucination from which she must presently awaken. She didn't belong here anyway. She belonged with David on a warm green hillside. Her mind rambled wildly, inventing and entangling. The breeze was soft and sweet with scented clover bloom, or lilac or pussy willow or birds' songs, or chirping crickets or — on and on it went, manufacturing incoherent phrases of nonsense, like a jumbled picture puzzle where you searched endlessly without ever finding a piece that would fit. And all the times she had cried in the night, all the walks in the willow path, all the dress designs she had fashioned, all the rides with David through the forest preserves were all mixed together. "That's the monkey tree." Lynn came back from her confused mental soliloquy. Peter was pointing to a gnarled old juniper tree standing like a half-naked giant with fingers and toes stretching in all directions. "Monkey tree?" she repeated, 41 hardly knowing what she said. "Sure. My Dad calls it that because it would be such a good tree for monkeys. I play I'm a monkey when I climb it." Lynn laughed then, a_ little. "Does Lindy climb the tree, too?" It was a silly thing to ask. But everything was unreal anyway. "Aw, gee, no. Girls can't climb trees. Anyway, she's too little. She'd fall and break something." "Yes, of course," Lynn agreed. "The turkey nest is over that way on the other side of the strawberries. I'll show it to you after we see the house." YNN looked at the house then that sat at the top of the slope which ran down and lost itself in the millpond. It was a small white house with a sun porch and a path that curled round the hill like an invitation. 'There was a chimney, too, a rock chimney with stones laid just so in rows of red mortar. The roof, cool and green, spread wide eaves far enough to shade a summer afternoon to tranquility. And there was a window with a pink ruffled curtain. Lynn had an unquenchable desire to see inside the house. She wanted to know if there was a pink cupboard with blue teacups and a planter box where you could put bright geraniums. She hurried her footsteps toward the door, and stopped as suddenly. What will I do if Johnny is there? Even if I have promised that I must see him, would he want to see me? And anyway, this house belonged to a girl with dark hair from the South. The door opened slowly, and she looked down into the frightened 42 eyes of the little girl. The tot started as if she nught run and then she caught sight of Peter behind Lynn and ran crying to him and hanging on to his shirt. "Aw, shucks, Lindy, you don't have to be afraid. I asked her to come and see whcre we live." The child turned her head sideways and peered at Lynn through tear-filled eyes, and then she hid her face in the plaid shirt. "Look, Lindy," Peter said with big brother superiority, "she made you a whistle." Lindy unburied her face. In a second or two she reached her chubby hand forward for the whistle, which she held silently. "Blow it, dear," Lynn said, smiling. Hesitantly Lindy put the whistle to her lips, but she didn't blow it. She just looked from Peter to Lynn and back again. "Aw, why don't you blow it?" Peter said. Then she blew, and then loudly. "See, I told you it'd blow, said. Lynn looked from the little girl into the room. And it was filled with Johnny from the trophy on the mantel that he had won when he was captain of the basketball team to his slippers sitting by the fireplace. There was a planter box, too. But it had no geraniums in it. That would have to be from a woman. "T want a drink," Lindy said. "T'm thoisty.' Lynn brought herself back to the children. "T'll get you a drink." In the kitchen she found the pink weakly at first " Peter RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 cupboard and a row of blue plates and a shelf of spices and a line of blue teacups hanging on hooks. She took one down and filled it with water from the sink. "Here, Lindy," she said. Lindy took the cup and drank heartily. "Fank you," she said, and Lynn tried to swallow the lump in her throat. Impulsively she leaned down and lifted the little girl in her arms. "You are a darling," she said. "I am a buttonhook." "That's what Dad _ calls Peter explained. Lynn laughed and hugged the child. As she did so her eyes found the rocking chair by the fireplace, and a strange urge tugged at her. This is unreal, she thought, as she sat in the chair with the child in her lap. But everything is unreal. She began rocking back and forth while the little girl cuddled in her arms. The chair was turned toward the door, and she could see down the path that wound away into the junipers. And up the hill she could see Aunt Polly's. Aunt Polly was there making rhubarb pies. She looked at the child lying quietly in her arms. Then some faint sound or intuition broke the spell and she looked up. Johnny was staring at her. Johnny, with his wide gray eyes, one lock of his dark hair falling over his forehead. Even in the first split second she saw him, she knew the years had hung a weariness about him. He was standing there in the door, and she thought she could never forget his face. (To be continued) her," =e a 4 FROM THE FIELD | ( Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurcr All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. Sce regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes 'rom the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Daisy R. Romney WESTERN STATES MISSION, SCOTTSBLUFF (NEBRASKA) DISTRICT SPECIAL RELIEF SOCIETY WORK MEETING, July 1, 1959 District officers, seated, left to right, beginning with the third sister: Mamic Reading, social science class leader; Valoise Gundersen, I'irst Counselor; Jean Goodell, President; Winnie Wold, Second Counselor; Jean Norton, literature class leader. The sisters in the picture represent the following branches of the Scottsbluff District: Scottsbluff, Torrington, Lance Creek, Kimball, and Bridgeport. Daisy R. Romney, President, Western States Mission Relief Society, reports: "With the creation of the new Cheyenne Stake on July 1, 1959, four branch Relicf Socictics from the Western States Mission were included in the transfer to the stake. These branches include: Scottsbluff, Nebraska, with a membership of twenty-nine; Torrington, Wyoming, twenty-five; Lance Creek, Wyoming, seven; Greeley, Colorado, twenty-nine. Due to the devoted and efficient carrying out of the Relicf Socicty's. Planned program, these branches were well qualified for their admittance to the stake Relief Society." Page 43. 44 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 Photograph submitted by Ida A. Gallagher MURRAY STAKE (UTAIT) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, August 30, 1959 l'ront row, seated, left to right: Ruth Beckstead, organist; Clara Christian, chorister; Ida A. Gallagher, President, Murray Stake Relief Socicty. Second from the left on the second row, Rhea B. Nelson. First Counselor. Sister Gallagher reports: ""Vhis group has a total membership of eighty sisters. They also furnished music for the two-stake Relicf Society Convention held August 12th at the Murray Stake center, and at the Visiting Teachers Convention in May; also at both sessions of stake conference in August." Photograph submitted by Elva Ravsten SOUTHERN STATES MISSION, MISSION-WIDE RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION, August 18-19, 1959 Left to right: Elda Stafford, First Counselor in mission Relief Society presidency, and President of the North Alabama District; Elva Ravsten, President, Southern Statcs Mission Relicf Society; Crystal Burnett; Chrissie Kirk, literature class Icader; Bessic Guinn, President, South Carolina District; Roberta Washburn, visiting teacher message Icader; Violet Pattley, President, Miami District; Neva Sweat, social science class NOTES FROM THE FIELD 45 leader; Maggie Lee Smoke, theology class leader; Alice Smith, President, West Florida District; Mildred Barlow, President, Georgia-Ilorida District; Belva Morris, Second Counselor, Southern Statcs Mission Relief Socicty. Sister Ravsten reports: "'A two-day convention was held at the mission home, the first one to be held in the mission. Twelve sisters were present out of the fifteen that were scheduled to be there. A work meeting was conducted and cach of the sisters took back to her district several completed articles to demonstrate to her district. President Ravsten spoke to the sisters on the theme of the convention, "The Latter-day Saint Home.' A testimony meeting followed. Lesson demonstration and helps were given by the mission board members. Displayed in the picture are a few of the articles that were made by the sisters. Between the lessons lovely smorgasbord dinners were served to all present. New goals were set and new acquaintances made; for the first time the mission presidency had met together and the district Relief Society presidents had the opportunity to meet the counselors and board members."? A 4 3 ee Cee Se:, t 3 Photograph submitted by Wilma F. Turley SOUTHWEST INDIAN MISSION, FORT APACHE (ARIZONA) BRANCH PARTICIPATES IN MEMORIZING THE ARTICLES OF FAITH Left to right: May Altaha; Della Zagatah; Amelia Kane; Arlene Cook; Serena Altaha; Diane Frost; Lillian Kaytoggy; Mary Alekay; Edith Antonio; Bela Riley. Insert, Myrtle G. Blaisdell, Fort Apache Branch, Relief Society Supervisor. Wilma F. Turley, President, Southwest Indian Mission Relief Society, reports: "We are very proud of the work our missionaries are doing with the women of the mission. 'The Hopi sisters are natural Relief Society sisters. The Navajo, Apache, and others are doing well. In every branch we have many faithful sisters who keep us cncouraged, and we feel that our time is well spent. The sisters make quilts, bake bread, and sew articles of clothing for themselves and to sell in bazaars." In Memoriam Pres. Amy B. Lyman (Continued from page 5) Central Chorus. 'This has been a strength to Relef Society and brought happiness and development to thousands of Relief Socicty sisters whose sweet voices have inspired us and brought a spirit of worship into our meetings. The division of Rehef Society work with which Sister Lyman seems to be most intimately identified, however, in the minds of most people who know of her work, is the founding, in 1919, and the nurturing and development of the Relief Society Social Service and Child Welfare Department, under the presidency of Sister Emmeline B. Wells, and upon advice of President Joseph F. Smith. This department continues today an extremely important division of Relief Society work, offering to children and others standardized case work services which require license. Sister Lyman's work in the field of social welfare has not been confined to the Church. She has extended it nationally and even internationally. She credits her first interest in social work to a summer class in sociology which she took at the University of Chicago, at which time she also did volunteer social work with the Chicago Charities, which brought her into contact with Hull House, the famous Chicago settlement house established by one of the nation's great social workers, Jane Addams. She also took a special course, in 1917, in family welfare work in Colorado, which, she maintained, further stimulated her and created in her a strong desire to participate fully in social welfare, utilizing the highest standard of practices. She maintained that this schooling in Colorado provided her with basic preparation for her later work. With due respect to this, it is my personal opinion that Sister Lyman would have been a social worker and a good one, anyway, because of her love for and understanding of people and because of her innate desire to help her fellowmen, EF, have always considered Sister Lyman as a_ link which bound the present to the beginnings of Relief Society. She was called to the General Board during the presidency of Bathsheba W. Smith, who was the youngest among the eighteen original members, and the fourth General President of Relief Society. Sister Lyman often recalled visits to Pleasant Grove, when she was a child, of Sister Eliza R. Snow and Sister Zina D. H. Young. She was familiar with the character and work of these two great women leaders, the second and third Presidents of Relief Society. She served under the leadership of Sister Emmeline B. Wells, Clarissa S. Wéilliams, Louise Y. Robison, the fifth, sixth, and seventh General Presidents respectively. She herself became the eighth General President. Today, as the ninth General President, I wish to express my sincere appreciation for the opportunities and training which she gave me during the three years I acted as her Counselor in the General Presidency, and prior to that as Editor of The Relief Society Magazine and as 46 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 PRESIDENT AMY BROWN LYMAN a member of the General Board. I feel greatly indebted to her for all she did for me that has been so helpful to me in the position I now hold. This connection of Sister Lyman with all these leaders is of interest. It has made her a veritable treasure house of information. With her remarkable memory, inimitable speaking style, and her keen sense of humor, an hour with her, listening to her tell interesting, intimate, unrecorded bits in the history of Relief Society, was both informative and delightful. Sister Lyman loved history. A good record keeper and _ historian hersclf, she taught others of us the values and delights of these activities. Relief Society has benefited from this. As a Relief Socicty representative, Sister Lyman brought credit to the society through her activities in the National Council of Women of the United States. She was: recording secretary, auditor, and Third Vice President of the Council, and represented the Council three times as a delegate to the International Council of Women meetings—once in. Washington, D. C., once in Yugoslavia, and once in Scotland. At a recent National Council of Women biennial meeting held in New York City, a former president of the Council, Dr. Valeria H. Parker, spoke to me in high esteem of Mrs. Lyman's work in the Council and sent with me a message of love and appreciation to Sister Lyman. Her own years of presidency were war years, characterized by disturbed times. The work had to be conducted under difficult, trying, and exceptional circumstances. 'The 47 centennial observance, which fittingly came during her term of presidency, and into which she had put so much of her heart, had to be greatly curtailed. But, with characteristic courage, she met the situation. With wisdom, skill, and obedience to those presiding over her, she turned what might have been an extremely disappointing occasion to the sisters of the Church into one long to be remembered for its sweetness, simplicity, impressiveness, and enduring value. Sister Lyman has not confined her work to Relief Society. She has been interested in public affairs and has been a civic leader of distinction among women. Among her important civic activities was membership in the Utah State House of Representatives. She served on many local and State welfare boards, notably the Utah State 'Training School. She was on the Governor's committee of five to select a site for this institution and served on its board for many years. She was one of nine persons appointed as a committee on the organization of the Utah State Conference of Social Work. It was my privilege to be with her at the recent annual meeting of this organization when she was honored for her great work in behalf of the organization, as well as for her contributions to social work, generally, throughout the State. Sister Lyman traveled widely, spreading her influence wherever she went. From 1936- 1935 she presided over the women's organizations of the European Mission. She referred to this work "as a joy, a satisfaction, and an_ inspiration throughout." It is to be expected that a person 48 of Sister Lyman's abilities and scope of activities would receive special honors. Among many such honors which came to her were the Bngham Young Unversity Distinguished Alumnus Award and the election by the Salt Lake City Council of Women to its Hall of Fame. As I knew Sister Lyman (and I believe I knew her well) she could be described very much as she described her own mother — "forceful, dynamic, and efficient; wise, far-seeing, and of good judgment. She was a woman's woman." She was a good speaker and wrote with a gifted pen. Her messages were always well organized and presented with clarity and conviction. Her autobiography "In Retrospect" delightfully preserves her own history and gives interesting accounts of incidents related to the history of Relief Society. She was an intellectual woman — a smart woman I would say — a prodigious worker, a good teacher, a great leader, and a choice friend. And I would add that she was a very pretty woman with a rare personal charm. In her autobiography, there is inscribed on the flyleaf her simple and sincere testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel and its meaning in her life. It reads: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 I am grateful for the Gospel and especially for my testimony of its truthfulness. This testimony has been my anchor and my stay, my satisfaction in time of joy and gladness, my comfort in time of sorrow and discouragement. Sister Lyman's admirers are legion. In many parts of the world today women are noting her passing and mourn with us. Her friendship and life will be a cherished memory. In the book of Revelation we are told:... Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth: Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labours; and their works do follow them (Revelation 14:13). Sister Lyman's work will follow her. May her family be blessed through their beautiful memories of her abundant and useful life. May the love she has shown them and their own tender, loving ministrations to her return to bless and comfort them. I can think of no sweeter ending to this life for a mother than to leave it enfolded in the arms of her only daughter. This was Sister Lyman's privilege and Margaret's blessing. May her loved ones be sustained in their hour of sorrow and always in the knowledge that she lives eternally. ——_—_=_——_ LESSON DEPARTMENT a Sheology—the Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 23—A Trial of Faith Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 35, 39, and 40) For Tuesday, April 5, 1960 Objective: To understand that only those who live the gospel will reccive cternal life. HI. Persons to whom the revelations comprising this lesson were addressed were formerly ministers in the "Christian" clergy. One of these we were introduced to in the last lesson. Sidney Rigdon, Forerunner Sidney Rigdon was at one time in the Reformed Baptist Church and later one of the leaders in the "Disciples of Christ" Church in Ohio, from which so many converts caic, beginning in 1830. When Sidney Rigdon and Edward Partridge, also a former member of the latter organization and a convert to the gospel of Jesus Christ, visited the Prophet Joseph Smith in December 1830, a revelation was received in which some interesting thoughts are given concerning Brother Rigdon. Behold, verily, verily, I say unto my servant Sidney, I have looked upon thee and thy works. I have heard thy prayers, and prepared thee for a greater work. Thou art blessed, for thou shalt do grcat things. Behold thou wast sent forth, even as John, to prepare the way before me, and before Elijah which should come, and thou knewest it not. Thou didst baptize by water unto repentance, but they received not the Holy Ghost; But now I give unto thee a commandment, that thou shalt baptize by water, and they shall receive the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, even as the apostles of old (D & C 35:3-6). As this revelation points out, there was a considerable difference between the work performed by Sidney Rigdon as one who was not a member of the true Church of Jesus Christ and the service to which he was being called. Although he baptized with water unto repentance, that baptism was not effective for salvation; for "... They received not the Holy Ghost...." It is necesPage 49 50 sary for salvation that one receive both baptisms, water and_ spirit, which, in reality, are only one baptism. (See John 3:5; Eph. 4:5.) When Nephi, by vision, learned the reasons for Jesus' being baptized and the necessity of teaching the Nephites (and us) the place of baptism in the plan of salvation, he counseled: Wherefore, do the things which I have told you I have seen that your Lord and your Redeemer should do; for, for this cause have they been shown unto me, that ye might know the gate by which ye should enter. For the gate by which ve should enter is repentance and baptism by water; and then cometh a remission of your sins by fire and by the Holy Ghost. (Italics, by author.) And then are ye in this straight and narrow path which leads to eternal life; yea, ye have entered in by the gate... (2 Nephi 31:17-18). In order for one to receive the remission of sins, it is essential that he receive the baptism of the Holy Ghost as well as water baptism. Preparation for Gospel Restoration In view of the Lord's statement that Sidney Rigdon was as John the Baptist in preparing for a greater work, may we consider that there were many others, who, at different periods, also prepared the way for the establishment of the true gospel on the earth? As Latter-day Saints we believe that when the time came for the restoration of the gospel in its fulness, everything was in readiness. The Lord had preserved this land of America that it might be the place where his latter-day work would be established. Book of Mormon prophets had seen in vision the time when this land "choice above all other lands" was being prepared. (See 2 Nephi 1:3-9; 10:10-14, 109; Ether 13:1-6.) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 In Nephi's vision, the "man among the Gentiles" believed by us to be Columbus, "... Who was separated from the seed of my brethren by the many waters..." (2 Nephi 13:12), was wrought upon by the Spirit of God to perform his mission of discovery. Other Gentiles were also to come to this land out of captivity, until a mighty Nation founded upon principles of freedom would be raised up under the proyidence of God. (See 1 Nephi 13:13-10.) In the meantime, other leaders were performing a work of preparation — a preparation of the minds of men whose descendants would benefit from their noble labors. The discovery of the printing press with the removal of the shackles of ignorance was a slow process, but, in time, it brought about conditions which permitted men to think for themselves. Religiously, men benefited from these improved conditions, but the gospel of Jesus Christ was not restored until full preparation had been made. President John Taylor places before us the attitude of Latter-day Saints in some of these matRENE, Who are we? The children of our Heavenly Father. Who are the world, as we sometimes denominate those that are not of our Church? The children of our Heavenly Father.... Now outside the Gospel, outside of revelation, outside of any special communication from the Lord, all men, more or less, everywhere have certain claims upon their Heavenly Father, who is said to be the God and Father of the spirits of all flesh... And whenever and wherever there was no knowledge of life and immortality there was no Gospel. But outside of that there have been many good influences abroad in the world. Many LESSON: DEPARTMENT men in the different ages, who, in the midst of wickedness and corruption, have tried to stop the current of evil, have placed themselves in the catalogue of reformers.... The many reformers that existed in former ages have been men many of whom have been sincerely desirous to do the will of God, and to carry out His purposes, so far as they knew them. And then there are thousands and tens of thousands of honorable men living today in this nation, and other nations, who are honest and upright and virtuous, and who esteem correct principles and seck to be governed by them, so far as they know them.. Men may be desirous to do right; they may be good, honorable and conscientious; and then when we come to the judgment pertaining to these things we are told that all men will be judged according to the deeds done in the body, and according to the light and intelligence which thev possessed. I will take, for instance, the position of the reformers, going no further back than Luther and Melancthon; and then you may come to Calvin, Knox, Whitfield, Wesley, Fletcher, and many others; men who have becn desirous in their day to benefit their fellow-men; who have proclaimed against vice, and advocated the practice of virtue, uprightness and the fear of God. But we all, who have contemplated these subjects, know that those men never did restore the Gospel as it was taught by our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ; neither did they see or comprehend alike in biblical matters; they groped, as it were, in the dark with a portion of the Spirit of God. They sought to benefit their fellow-man but not having that union with God that the Gospel imparts, they were unable to arrive at just conclusions pertaining to those matters. Hence one introduced and taught one principle, and another introduced and taught another; and they were split up and divided, and the spirit of antagonism was found at times among them and with all their desires to do good, they did not, and could not restore the Gospel of the Son of God, and none among them were able to say, Thus saith the Lord. And that is the condition of the religious world to-day... (Journal of Discourses 23:309-371). 51 A Minister Makes a Covenant As we now turn our attention to another clergyman, James Covill, (See D & C 39), who had served in the Baptist ministry for about forty vears, we are informed by the Prophet Joseph Smith that he came to him "... And covenanted with the Lord that he would obey any command that the Lord would give to him through me, as His servant J." (D. H. C. 12143). Sons and Daughters of God Several times in revelations we have studied, the Savior has made known the way we may become his sons and daughters. For example, Section 34 begins with "My son Orson..." and later, after giving the reasons for this introduction, states: '"..,. Wherefore you are my son" (D & C 34:3). Why was this recent convert to the Church so addressed? Why was James Covill, a nonmember, told that Jesus Christ is the light and life of the world and that, in the meridian of time (the time of the earthly ministry of Jesus), Jesus was not received? But to as many as received me, gave I power to become my sons and even so will J give unto as many as will receive me, power to become my sons. And verily, verily, I say unto you, he that recciveth my gospel receiveth me; and he that receiveth not my gospel receiveth not me (D & C 39:4-5). The answer is the same for everyone who qualifies in the same way that Brother Pratt qualified, or as you have qualified as a daughter of the Lord. All who accept "the only true and living church upon the face of the earth" become sons or daughters of the "Lord God." — Jesus Christ, as your Redeemer, "'so loved 52 the world that he gave his own life, that as many as would bclicve might become the sons of God" (D & C 34:3). Christ is our Redeemer. Redemption means deliverance by means of ransom. There is a deliverance from guilt. (Eph. 1:7; Col. 1:14); from the power and dominance of sin, through the sanctifying influence of the Holy Spirit (1 Peter 1:18); and from death through the resurrection (Rom. 8:23). There is, finally, a deliverance from all evil (Eph. 1:14; 4:30; 1 Cor. 1:30; Titus 2:14). All this is the work of Christ, through obedience to the gospel (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Revised Edition, page 177). Jesus is our Savior when we accept him in the waters of baptism and by confirmation of the Holy Ghost. This is what James Covill is told as a nonmember. (See D & C 39:4-6.) Jesus' atonement for individual exaltation is of no force until the person completes his repentance through the ordinances of the gospel. (See'D & C 29:17; 42:1.) As we become the sons and daughters of Jesus, so also, he becomes our Father. (See Lesson 20, October 1959 issue of The Relief Society Magazine for discussion on this point. ) Rich Rewards Promised James Covill, the clergyman, was informed that the Lord had looked upon him and his works and, at that time, his heart was right before him. (Sec D & C 39:7-8.) There had been times in the past, however, when the, things of the world had brought sorrow into Mr. Covill's life. Notice the important fact made known in verse 6 that if this man would accept Jesus as his Savior, the Holy Ghost, which he had not received, would give him the "peaceable things of the kingdom." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 It would seem from the circumstances which brought this clergyman to the Prophet, that he was not at peace. There were unanswered questions and_ difficulties which had not been resolved in his mind. In applying this idea to us who are members of the kingdom, how may we reccive peace of mind? A function of the Holy Ghost is to give to the daughter of Jesus Christ a sense of security, peace, and joy. This satisfaction comes by having the influence of the Holy Spirit through living the laws of the gospel, just as James Covill was promised ""... A blessing so great as you never have known" (D & C 39:10) by his adherence to the same laws. A greater work in teaching the fulness of the gospel than the work in which he had formerly engaged was before Covill, predicated upon his obedience. His contribution would be to assist in moving the kingdom forward that, eventually, Zion might come. (See D & C 39:11-13.) How many of us have before us this objective? Do our works make such contributions? Our forefathers were gathered from out of the world that they might eventually receive eternal life. Mr. Covill was promised that he could participate in this great undertaking of gathering Israel from the nations to "... Be gathered unto me [Jesus] in time and in eternity" (D & C 39:22). Those who are gathered are to look forth for the signs of the Lord's coming. As we continue steadfast in his work, our knowledge and testimony of him will increase. (See D & C 39:23.) The Rejection of a Covenant Notwithstanding that great blessings were promised James Covill LESSON DEPARTMENT upon his acceptance of the true gospel, he did not have sufficient faith in the Redeemer to accept his counsel. 'The day of his deliverance from the sorrows of the world was at hand (D & C 39:10), provided he would be obedient. But Covill returned to his former principles and people, and of him the Lord said: Behold, verily I say unto you, that the heart of my servant James Covill was right before me, for he covenanted with me that he would obey my word. And he received the word with gladness, but straightway Satan tempted him; and the fear of persecution and the cares of the world caused him to reject the word. Wherefore he broke my covenant, and it remaineth with me to do with him as seemeth me good. Amen (D & C 40:1-3). James Covill was a covenant breaker. It is apparent that his former weaknesses gained ascendancy over the gladness which came into his heart, and he succumbed to fear. It was a fear of persecution and the cares of the world. Unmindful of the beatitude of promised blessings to those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake (for their reward was to be an inheritance in the kingdom of heaven), Covill's actions were not motivated to this extent. (See Mt. 5:10-12.) The fear that he might not be able to provide for himself temporally, also was a factor in his rejection of the gospel Blessings Predicated Upon Obedience Judgment of all such individuals is in the hands of the Lord. There have been many in the world who have come to the threshold of the kingdom of God but who have succumbed to similar fears. Concerning such an one who was in the 53 same profession as James Covill, we have the comment of President Joseph F. Smith. An ordained minister in the "English Church" for fifty-five years wrote to his Latterday Saint relative that: I preach three sermons cvery weck and execute other ministerial duties, but I never preach anything contrary to the doctrines of "Mormonism," not designedly but necessarily, because I sce the fundamentals of Holy Scripture are the same as those restored by what pcople call "Mormonism." He then posed this question: What is to become of such as me, who believes this about you, and yet are ticd and bound by circumstances such as mine? The President of the Church wrote: In answer to the question, "What is to become of such as me?" let it be said that every person will receive his just reward for the good he may do and for his every act. But Ict it be remembered that all blessings which we shall reccive, cither here or hereafter, must come to us as a result of our obedience to the laws of God upon which these blessings are predicated. Our friend will not be forgotten for the kindness he has extended to the work and the servants of the Lord, but will be remembered of Him and rewarded for his faith and for every good deed and word. But there are many blessings that result from obcying the ordinances of the gospel, and acknowledging the priesthood authorized by the Father and restored to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, that cannot be obtained, until the person is willing to comply with the ordinances and keep the commandments revealed in our day for the salvation of mankind. 'The true searcher will see and understand this truth and act upon it, either in this world or in the world to come, and not until then, of course, may he claim all the blessings. The earlier he accepts, the earlier will he obtain the blessings, and if he neglects to accept the laws, in this world, know- 54 ing them to be true, it is reasonable to suppose that disadvantages will result that will cause him deep regret (Improvement Era, November 1912, pp. 71-72). Unto Whom Much Is Given Much Is Required One is reminded of the truth given by the Lord when he said that ".,. Unto whom much is given much is required..." (D & C 82:3) and as greater light is made known and as one sins against that light, greater condemnation results. 'This thought is pertinent: Ye call upon my name for revelations, and I give them unto you; and inasmuch as ye keep not my sayings, which I give unto you, ye become transgressors; and justice and judgment are the penalty which is affixed unto my law. Therefore, what I say unto one I say unto all: Watch, for the adversary spreadeth his dominions, and darkness reigneth (D & C 82:4-5). In accordance with this thought, how many who have entered the kingdom of God have found that they were not deeply rooted in gospel teachings and faith in the Redeemer so that they succumbed to the fears of the world? Are any of us as the seeds in the parable of the sower where the word of God has not taken sufficient root, and "the care of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word," and seeds become barren? Or, on the other hand, are seeds sown on the "good ground" which beareth the fruit of the gospel in our lives? (See Mt. 13:18-23.) How many of us may fall away from the principles of the gospel because of fear of persecution? In the early part of the dispensation persecution was many times physRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 ical. 'Today, however, it may be, as it was then also, the tauntings of associates or "friends." The use of names having strong unChristian implications or inferences of overzealousness may be examples of a type of persecution which has mental or psychological effect. In common expression it may be expressed as "Don't be fanatical about your religion!" or "Why be so straight-laced?" Aside from the usual meaning of inflicting loss and injury, persecution means to harass, to pursue with persistent solicitations or to annoy. Additional Items From Section 35 Beginning with verse 7 of Section 35, we learn that by faith great things are to be manifest in the latter days, including the working of miracles. (See D & C 35:7-11.) In harmony with what has alveady been given in this lesson, the Lord ae known that those who do "good" i his sight, are "... Those who are ready to receive the fulness of my gospel..." (D & C 35:12) and that those who constitute the "... Poor and the meek..." (D re 35:15) of the earth " shall have the pe preached unto them, and they shall be looking forth for the time of my coming, for it is nigh at hand" (D & C 35:15). (See D & C 35:12-18.) The faithful members of the kingdom of God will make contributions to the building of that kingdom and eventually "Zion shall rejoice upon the hills," probably having reference to the home of the saints in the West. (See D & C 35:19-24.) By the power of God, latter-day Israel will be saved in the Lord's kingdom, and all who belong to the LESSON DEPARTMENT Savior should lift up their hearts and be glad. (See D & C 35:25-27.) Questions for Discussion 1. What seems to be unusual about the revelation concerning Sidney Rigdon's activities? How does it fit into the Latter-day Saint understanding of the Lord's orn in the last days? Why is it necessary for one to be baptized with water and the Holy Ghost? 22 3. How did the work of the reformers help prepare for the restoration of the gospel? 4. From what are we delivered through our acceptance of Jesus as our Redeemer? 5- Tell the story of James Covill. 6. What comment did President Joseph F, Smith make concerning those who reject the gospel? 7. What is the application of Section 82:3 to this lesson? Uisiting Cseacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 23—"Govern Your House in Meekness, and Be Steadfast" (D & C 31:9) Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, April 7, 1960 Objective: The virtues of meekness and steadfastness applied in our lives and homes will result in an influence for good. HIS message focuses attention upon two virtues which can be employed with remarkable effect in developing our own characters and in guiding and directing the activities of others. 'These two virtues are meekness and steadfastness. Meekness is a quality frequently mentioned in the scriptures and described as a most desirable human trait. In fact, it is one of the few qualities which Jesus attributed unto himself. He said, "... For Iam meek and lowly in heart..." (Mt. 11:29). Meekness is sometimes confused with docility and lack of courage. Still, Moses, whom history proves to have been a man of strong character and outstanding courage, was described as ''... Very meek, above all the men which were upon the face of the earth" (Num. 12:3). Actually the term meekness means, mild of temper, long-suffering, gentle, kind. Open-mindedness and teachableness are both facets of meekness. With these attributes it is easy to understand why the Savior declared, "Blessed are the meck: for they shall inherit the earth" (Mt. 5:5). Steadfastness denotes firmness, self - control, consistency, and staunchness. 'Those who are steadfast exhibit unfaltering determination in the face of adversity. Helen Adams Keller is one of the truly great women of all time. Much of her remarkable stature was. Achieved through the application of the virtues of meckness and _ stead- 56 fastness both in her own development and through the efforts of her outstanding teacher. Due to a serious illness, Miss Keller lost her senses of sight and hearing before she was two years of age. Her parents, seeking to lighten the burden of her tragedy, sought the assistance of an able teacher, Mrs. Ann Sullivan Macy. 'This teacher applied the true meaning of meekness and steadfastness in educating and guiding the child. Through the application of these attributes a miracle was virtually performed. In a very few years Miss Keller learned to read braille, to write, and to acquire the difficult ability to speak without hearing. By the time she reached her teens, Miss Keller was as well educated as any normal child of her age. In due time, she graduated with honors from Radcliffe College and has since devoted her life to working with the blind and deaf of the world. In RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 order to attain the high eminence which she now enjoys, Miss Keller, together with her great teacher Mrs. Macy, has consistently employed meckness, steadfastness, optimism, and faith. Through exercising these virtues, Helen Keller has inspired, stimulated, and encouraged millions of people in all walks of life throughout the world. If we would become a power for good and lead and direct our children and friends in a loving, helpful way, we must govern our homes and lives in meekness. We must strive to be steadfast and consistent in the application of right principles in all our activities. In our association with others, in and outside of the home, we should follow the admonition of the Savior, who said: No power or influence can or ought to be maintained... Only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and mceekness, and by love unfeigned (D & C 121:41). A. O's Work IT leeting—Physical Safety Factors le 4 ' \] ve in the Home A Se. (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Mecting) Discussion 7—Food Care and Preservation Charlotte A. Larsen For Tuesday, April A 2, 1960 Objective: To show the importance of safe food care and proper preservation of stored food to healthful living. Historical Consideration ROM the very earliest of times man has been concerned with preservation of his food so that he might save the excess of the prosperous years for the famine of the lean years. He found that certain foods could be dried and saved for long periods of time. Later, he discovered that certain foods and LESSON DEPARTMENT chemicals were helpful in the preservation of other foods, such as sugar, vinegar, and salt. The adulteration of food dangerous to personal health caused laws to be passed which protect practically every type of foodstuff. In 1906, the United States passed the first Federal Food and Drug Control Act. In 1938 a much stronger Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act was passed. 'The Government maintains large laboratories where foods are tested before they are sold. The kind and amount of coloring matter, and the kind and amount of preservatives are rigidly fixed by the Food and Drug Administration. Also, the law requires that when important ingredients, such as vitamins, minerals, and butter fat from oP, are removed from foods it must be clearly stated on the package. In general, the State and Federal laws against harmful adulteration are standard, so that the general public is well protected from dishonest practices. Preservation of Food and Proper Canning Procedures Foods may be preserved by canning, smoking, salting, drying, freezing, cooking, sugaring, and adding chemicals. Most of these methods of food preservation can be carried out in the home. However, preservation of food by adding chemicals can be very dangerous and harmful, and should not be attempted by the average householder. Almost all food can be preserved without danger when clean, sound, unblemished fresh produce is selected, prepared, and canned according to instructions found in an authoritative manual. Any homecanned product or any canned item purchased at a store showing any 57 signs of gas formation, such as bulging lids and ends of cans, should be destroyed or returned to the store. The term food poisoning is usually restricted to an attack of acute intestinal upset due to the bacterial infection of food or drink. The prevention of food poisoning must be concerned with the entire handling of the food from the time it is obtained to its consumption. Only inspected meats and pasturized dairy products should be used. All meat should be thoroughly cooked before it is eaten. If food is not to be eaten immediately after cooking, it should be placed in a refrigerator or ice box. Otherwise, organisms, if present in the warm food, will have an excellent opportunity to multiply. 'The protection of custard and cream fillings and combination meat dishes (meat pics, etc.) requires the greatest care and vigilance. The organisms which produce toxin are present everywhere; therefore, this type of food should be kept carefully refrigerated. The consumption of any animal food in the raw condition is. Attended by a certain amount of risk, particularly milk, cream, and meat. Botulism is caused by a toxin and is not an infection. 'The causative organism multiplies in the food before it is consumed and produces a powerful, soluble toxin which gives rise to the disease. Nearly all cases of botulism have been caused bv eating food that has not been completely preserved. It is important to remember that non-acid foods are particularly dangerous. 'These include all vegetables (except tomatoes and rhubarb) meat, fish, poul-. Try and animal products. In most cases where the foods have particu- larly and noticeably spoiled, the cans are bulged, and there are numerous gas bubbles, and the food smells rancid. Never, under any circumstances should one eat any canned food which has any of these symptoms. No reported cases of botulism have occurred in commercially canned food since 1925. However, cases are reported fron food that has been processed in the home. Therefore, extreme care must be taken in the process of home canning. Destroy any food taken from a jar with a bulging or corroded lid. General Consideration If any sickness or upset stomach occurs when contaminated food is suspected, a doctor should be consulted immediately, and the suspected food should not be destroyed until the doctor sces it. He may want a sample of it for a culture. Questions 1. Why does pork need particular attention in the cooking? 2. What are some of the signs of improperly processed foods? Oo iterature—America's Literature — A, New Nation Speaks Lesson 15—The Federalists (and the Great Transition) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 24-32) For 'Tuesday, April 19, 1960 Objective: To make preliminary acquaintance with the Federalistic concepts of man and government as written by Timothy Dwight and Alexander Hamilton. HEN the shooting of the American Revolution ended in 1781, the war of words which, in the decades preceding the Revolution, had crescendoed into battle, now continued unabated, and grew even louder and hotter. During the latter part of the eighteenth century the pamphleteer and the orator largely shaped the thinking of the colonics, and out of these fierce controversies came new patterns of thought and government. Before the war the issue was between Tory and Rebel. Thomas Paine, Patrick Henry, Samuel Adams, James Otis, John Dickinson, and many _ less prominent writers defended the right of the colomies to separate, while such 'Tories as Samuel Seabury courageously answered them blow for blow, and the Anglican minister Jonathan Boucher preached loyalty to England and fear of mob-rule with such sincerity that he began his weekly sermon only after first laying a loaded horse pistol on either side of his pulpit. We must remember that well over a third of the colonists remained loyal to England duriag the war, a majority outwardly sympathizing 58 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT with the rebels while secretly hoping for a British victory. During the early years of the Rebellion, tens of thousands of them fled to Canada, the West Indies, and Mother England. Need for More Perfect Union The Articles of Confederation, drafted by the Continental Congress in 1776, at the outset of the war, had bound all colonies together, yet robbed no colony of its sovereign powers. Once winning the war no longer consumed their energics, it became increasingly evident that a new form of government would have to be worked out. In general, the new Nation's only identity lay in its being separate from Britain. Until well into the nineteenth century, the great issues to be faced and solved centered about the government's responsibilities to its people: Should the government favor rural agriculture or urban commerce and_ finance? Should property rule, or should the mass of people? Which government was to dominate, state or Federal? How far should revolution go, not only in government but in social patterns, in arts, culture, and in morals? With a pattern of successful revolution behind them, how was the momentum of revolution to be stopped? Waving repudiated Mother England, should she now be followed in anything? If so, in what, and how far? Politically, the wobbling country achieved identity by forming one of our two greatest documents: The Constitution. But even after the necessary nine states ratified it very reluctantly within the two years following 1787, it still had to be interpreted, a process which continues. 59 But even while these central political and economic issucs were paramount, a creative unity-out-ofdiversity process molded the Constitution into the enduring standard of measurement and justice which continues to radiate throughout every phase of the national character. By contrast, the beginnings in the arts during the same period, before 1800, were so imitative and weak as to be of little consequence: however, the fact that beginings were made is significant. MlIusic and drama continued to follow English patterns, although Royal Tyler's The Contrast, which appeared in 1787 as a direct imitation of Sheridan's The School for Scandal, contained native American characters and setting which still make it readable. 'Tyler soon became a lawyer, leaving leadership to Wil liam Dunlap, the father of drama in America, who devoted his life to the stage by translating, producing, and writing such dramas as his Andre (1798), based on a Revolutionary War theme. The novels followed directly Samuc] Richardson's pattern of sentiment and seduction as established in his highly successful Pamela, all heavily moralizing. The Power of Sympathy, written in 1789, is accepted as the first American nov cl, although Susanna Haswell Rowson's Charlotte Temple (1791) with its setting both in England and Amcerica, was far more popular, being reprinted as late as 1930. Likewise, the poetry of the Connecticut or Hartford Wits, centering about Yale College, was unashamedly imitative of English models, both during and after the war. But, roughly, until 1800, the Americans were compara- 60 tively happy with their imitations; it was the endless tauntings of sophisticated English critics reminding them that they had produced "aye ing of their own which rubbed salt into this opening cultural and social wound. Federalists Versus Republicans Although the Federalist and Republican political parties were formed in the decades following the Revolutionary War, their opposing philosophies had existed at least a hundred years previous, and with some modification their same beliefs and alignment of forces have continued to the present. Within Washington's first cabinet were the leaders of the two factions, young Alexander Hamilton, who was to lead the Federalists, and Thomas Jefferson, the Republicans (today's Democrats). Short of openly opposing each other publicly, they did all they could to halt each other's influence, since each feared the other's policies. In 1791 Jefferson and James Madison, representatives of the Virginia planters and their agrarian aristocracy, allied themselves with Irishman George Clinton's 'Tammany faction of New York to oppose the wealthy shipping and financial aristocracy of New York Citv and Boston, who became the Federalists. Conversely, it was Hamilton's big-city lawyers and moneyed men who had advocated adoption of the Constitution in 1787, and the coon-skin-cap frontiersmen and farmers who feared it, and ratified it so reluctantly. The French Revolution of 1789 was a burning issue throughout the colonies, and created a widening social and economic gap between RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 the two parties. Seeing the French peasants executing their wealthy land-holding aristocrats and seizing their property, the Federalists were aghast, and more than all else feared a similar unleashing of rabble democracy in their own streets. In the elections of 1800, they attempted to defeat Jefferson by relating him to Tom Paine and the local French disciples of "Liberty, Equality, Fraternity." As we have seen, they succeeded in making 'Tom Paine into a boogeyman, but the backwoods vote elected Jefferson nevertheless. While Hamilton and his followers were openly pro-British, Jefferson and his followers defied them by wearing the red French cockades in their hats, and rejoicing at every victory of the "rabble" in France, believing as did Paine, that they were carrying on the second chapter in the world revolution which their own revolution had begun. While President George Washington was so disturbed at the increasing enmity between these two factions that at the end of his first term he wished to resign, it should be pointed out that the strength of the Constitution, as of the Nation ever since, has lain in these factions opposing and, therefore, balancing each other. 'The French people destroyed the opposition against whom they revolted; Napoleon followed. In contrast, the United States permitted both to speak and grow strong; and the great system is the result. But to understand these general principles in terms of people, we should see them at work in two prominent Federalists: 'Timothy Dwight and Alexander Hamilton, and, in the next lesson, in Thomas Jefferson. LESSON DEPARTMENT Courtesy Yale University Art Gallery TIMOTHY DWIGHT From a Painting by John Trumbull Timothy Dwight (1752-1817) A grandson 'of Jonathan Edw ards, Ih imothy Dwight entered Yale at age thirtcen, became a tutor there, and he inspired the troops with his sermons and war songs, the most notable being "Columbia." He was a chaplain during the Revolution, and in 1783, at age thirty-one, he moved to Greenfield, Connecticut, where for twelve years he was minister, community leader, and director of the co-educational school he established. For the last twentythree years of his life he was president of Yale, where he was a great teacher and leader of Calvinism, defending the faith against all at. Tackers. A lifelong Federalist, he attempted to introduce English literature 61 into the curriculum of Yale while still a student, thus furnishing the imitiative for the literary group known as the Connecticut Wits. Of the three most prominent members, John Trumbull and Dwight remained Federalists, while Joel Barlow followed Paine and _ Jefferson in his personal philosophy. Dwight's Conquest of Canaan, an epic in eleven volumes, written in 1785, when he was thirty-three, was heavily imitative of English models. Designed to be the first American epic, it was so filled with pretentious language and elaborate descriptions of thunderstorms that his companion wit, John 'Trumbull, suggested it should be equipped with lightning rods. A careful observer of the rural countryside, Dwight's Travels in New-England and New York provides a keen commentary on the social and economic contemporary scene, and has greater enduring value than his verse. His Greenfield Hill was a long poem modeled after Goldsmith's "Descrted Village." In addition to describing the lovely scenery and rural virtucs, which Dwight greatly loved, it eulogizes the virtues of his Federalistic-Calvinistic culture: simplicity and plainness in manners and morals, thrift and industry, and belief in the sustaining power of property personally owned and cared for. In this "western village" where: Prudence eves her hoard with watchful care And robes of thrift and neatness, all things wear.... The evils of European monarchy are absent: the poor are fed, villages are not sold to buy royal gowns, and: No griping landlord here alarms the door 62 To halve, for rent, the poor man's little store. Vhe hymn of praise which Timothy Dwight fashions for his home town strongly predicts Whittier's Snowbound in his confidence in the enduring rural virtues: Sweet-smiling village! Loveliest of the hills! How green thy groves! Glassy rills! With what new joy, I walk thy verdant streets! How often pause, to breathe thy gale of sweets; To mark thy well-built walls! Thy budding fields And every charm, that rural nature yields; And every joy to Competence allied, And every good, that Virtue gains from Pride! How pure thy Several New England clergymen had previously defined the confiscation of church and lands by the French as the cause of the present "triumph of infidelity" in their own midst. 'Timothy Dwight wrote "The Duty of Americans, at the Present Crisis," to warn against the evil French influences then threatening the new Nation, and urged Americans to defend church and country. In his fiery charges of anarchy, lawlessness, immorality, and atheism against the very group which Jefferson and his mass followers openly supported, Dwight exemplifies those conservative aristocrats who, consciously or otherwise, feared a potential uprising and usurpation of control by the poor and the uneducated. In his love for things as they were — love of God, country, education, and morality as defined and defended by patriots, gentlemen, and Christians, he gave much support to the Federalist political cause, clergyman though he was. But to understand RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 ALEXANDER HAMILTON From a Contemporary Etching more forcefully who the Federalists were and what thcy were trying to do, we must meet their central personality—the brilliant realist who was their unquestioned torchbearcr: Alexander Hamilton. American nationalism owes more to Hamilton than any other men except Washington and Marshall. Alexander Hamulton's Life (1757- 1804) Hamilton was the son of a wealthy planter in the West Indies. He early showed the brilliance and ambition which predicted his mature prominence. Business muisfortunes caused his father's bankruptcy, and his mother died in 1768. Knowing that he must make his own way, and desiring to exccl, he entered King's College (now Columbia) in 1774, and a year later he wrote two influential pamphlets on colonial politics which made him LESSON DEPARTMENT known among New York's political leaders. In 1776, when the war broke out, he organized an artillery company and was awarded its captaincy, but within the year was appointed to Washington's staff, where he played a key role. Later, he secured a field command and won distinction at Yorktown. In 1780 he married the daughter of General Philip Schuyler of the distinguished New York family by whom he had seven children. After the war he was admitted to the bar, and when but twenty-five was chosen a delegate to Congress. At twenty-nine he was appointed a delegate to the Annapolis Convention and Jater to the Federal Convention at Philadelphia which had been charged with the responsibility of revising the Articles of Confederation. In the same year he began publishing a series of essays in New York papers which were designed to motivate the wealthy and professional classes to support the new Constitution. Although James Madison and John Jay also contributed, it was Hamilton who conceived the series of essays known as The [ederalist, and much more than half its contents were Hamilton's. 'These essays are acknowledged to be the clearest, strongest exposition of the theory of American Constitutional law. In 1798, the year the Constitution was finally ratified, Hamilton was appointed Secretary of the Treasury, a position he held until his resignation six years later. It was during this period that he established the national bank, and many money policies which characterize the national economy to the present 63 day. In 1800 he watched in bitterness while his opponent, 'Thomas Jefferson, was elected President. Four years later he was killed in a duel with Aaron Burr. Hamilton's Federalism Because one may see his picture ovaled on a ten-dollar bill, it becomes easy to think of Alexander Hamilton predominantly as an econonust or a financier. Although he had an evident genius for administration, and his monetary principles proved themselves so sound that his successors who had most criticized them adopted them with scarcely any changes, Hamilton's great lifelong goal was to build the struggling Nation into a permanent oneness so strong and balanced that it would never break apart. Just as Thomas Paine appeared at precisely the right moment to persuade the colonists that their destiny was separation rather than rebellion, so it was Hamilton's fondest dream to create a strong nationalism or federation of the many states into one at the time when nationalism meant nothing. Everything he did furthered this end. He favored capitalism and the establishment of a national bank because it would unite the colonies together more firmly. For the same reason, he opposed _Jefferson's _ agricultural principles: they gave too much selfdetermination over too scattered an area, thus weakening the central governing power. He strongly advocated government supports and subsidies to American manufacturers for the same reason: such a policy would enhance the Nation's united versatility, and not make it solely dependent on agriculture. The Federalist Hamilton was too much a man of affairs ever to consider himself a literary person. He took pride in writing but little for the public press, feeling it beneath him, yet like Franklin and Jefferson, he made his way in life largely through his use of words. His style is not affected or individualistic, but as one mught expect from a lawyer, it is clear, condensed, carefully organized, and entirely confident of cvery assertion. From these qualities come The Federalist's literary excellence. Too sincere ever to deal with trivial or anything less than the whole truth of what the guiding principles of the new Nation must be, if it was to survive, these papers contain the brilliant, creative thinking in the realm of Constitutional law which places them in the first rank of such writings, along with those of Aristotle and Montesquieu. No commentary on this basic document has deserved or received more honor, nor through constant reference has proved itself more indispensable than these writings. Hamilton's fervent belief that government should reflect the wishes of aristocratic owners of property saved the Nation from the excesses of liberalism which characterized the repercussions following the Revolution in France. He _ believed that property was tangible reward to those of superior talent, and that "the power which holds the pursestrings absolutely, must rule." And while in the first of The Federalist papers he admits that the established class of aristocrats will do everything possible to prevent a decrease in their established power and wealth, one cannot know whether their motives are blameless or selfish, for as Hamilton reminds us:. We are not always sure that those who advocate the truth are influenced by purer principles than their antagonists. Ambition, avarice, personal animosity, party opposition, and many other motives not more laudable than these, are apt to operate as well upon those who support as those who oppose the right side of a question.... Nor can we cure heresy by persecution, nor gain followers by fire or sword, or by angry words. Wisely he points out how often those who ostensibly work for common folk often are driven inwardly by jealousy or selfishness:. An enlightened zeal for the energy and efficiency of government will be stigmatized as the offspring of a temper fond of despotic power and hostile to the principles of liberty. An over-scrupulous jealousy of danger to the rights of the people, which is more commonly the fault of the head than of the heart, will be represented as mere pretence and artifice, the stale bait for popularity at the expense of the public good. It will be forgotten, on the one hand, that jealousy is the usual concomitant of love, and that the noble enthusiasm of liberty is apt to be infected with a spirit of narrow and illiberal distrust. On the other hand, it will be equally forgotten that the vigor of government is essential to the security of liberty; that, in the contemplation of a sound and wellinformed judgment, their interest can never be separated; and that a dangerous ambition more often lurks behind the specious mask of zeal for mghts of the people than under the forbidding appearance of zeal for the firmness and cfficiency of government. History will teach us that the former has been found a much more certain road to the introduction of despotism than the latter, and that of those men who have overturned the liberties of republics, the greatest number have begun their career by paying an obsequious court to the people; commencing demagogues, and ending tyrants. 64 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT The above quotation represents Hamilton fairly, both in the power of his style and for his ideas contained therein. By looking realistically at man, by finding good in him despite his weaknesses, by acknowledging the Constitution to be a compromise, but a compromise heading in the right direction; by clarifying how checks and balances under the Constitution counter and thus strengthen each other; and by convincing the aristocratic classes that the Constitution safeguarded them from excesses and encroachments, Alexander Hamilton made his unique contribution both to America's literature and to his great legal structure in whose superstructure the peace and future of the Nation has always rested. And if 65 one can achieve the ideal of the Constitutional Convention, which pledged itself to deal in principles, not in men, then he and the Federalist faction, which for so long he spearheaded, deserve man's gratitude for their firm stand on principle as they believed it—principle which has been woven into the heart of the American structure. Thoughts for Discussion 1. During the last decade of the eighteenth century, why was the French Revolution so vital an issue? 2. In what way did Timothy Dwight give added power to the Federalist cause? 3. How could anyone who distrusted the judgment of the common people ever make a contribution of any value to American institutions of Government? 4. In The Federalist Hamilton was trying to convince whom of what? Social Science—Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 6—Creative and Spiritual Living — Pathways to Peace — Part 1 Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, April 26, 1960 Objective: To explore the ways in which creative living can add to the abundance and richness of life. Frontiers of the Modern World The Geographical Frontier. Recorded history reveals that certain segments of mankind in all ages, past and present, have lived on various kinds of frontiers. In early modern history and among more primitive groups, there were those who were courageous and adventurous and sought to explore beyond the confines of their own tribal area or community. From this early beginning we have had a long succession of explorers, such as Marco Polo, Lief Ericson, Christopher Columbus, Magellan, Lewis and Clark, Admiral Richard E. Byrd, and many others who all went beyond the confines or borders of their towns, communities, or na- tions, in an effort to provide more information about the geographical make-up and nature of the world in which they lived. 'Today we are living in an era in which man, still adventurous, is seeking more understanding about the physical world in which he lives, as well as desiring to explore the space beyond. When some of the earlier explorers returned home bearing the fruits of amazing discoveries, men had to accommodate themselves to a new world. However, accommodating oneself to a new world comes hard for some people, for the old and familiar ways tend to become secure and beloved. When Columbus came home there were those whose immediate impulse was to cast him into chains, but, in spite of the resistance and unwillingness of some of his contemporaries to accept his discoveries, the march of progress was on; the world changed and men had to adjust to it. Today we have become more accustomed to explorations of the physical world and take for granted that many almost unbelievable discoveries regarding space will occur in our generation. 'The march of progress continues, and we must learn to accommodate ourselves to the changes in our lives which will inevitably result from these discoveries. Social and Political Frontiers. There have been those among us through history who have lived on the frontiers of social and political advancement. Besides the despots and tyrants who have subjugated people and ruled in order to achieve their own selfish whims, we have had many courageous and outstanding statesmen who have made immeasurable contributions to mankind. 'Through their efforts to find a more effective way of creating an environment for man in which he might find opportunity for selfexpression and obtain security for himself and his family, he has been freed from many of the fears and struggles for survival. Achievements in this direction have enabled us to visualize the day when the table will be set for all who want to eat; a day when the human race will form a unified community and no longer live as separate entities. But advances do not come easily. There are always resisters to change, with their immature minds and feelings of fear and insecurity. Some stood on the rim of a crowd around Socrates, took note of what sounded like subversive utterances, and reported them to the authorities. And this same type of individual continues to function in this resistive capacity today. The Scientific Frontier. Looking at the explorations on the frontier of knowledge and science, we can see Galileo, after dropping his two unequal weights from the Leaning Tower of Pisa (when, contrary to the official views, each reached the ground at the identical moment) being accused of being in league with the devil and threatened with death if he did not deny the truth which he had discovered. We can see the advances of medical science throttled for many centuries after the discoveries of Hippocrates, because the human body was considered too sacred to be studied in a scientific manner. But man's thirst for knowledge and his desire to find a way to "subdue the earth" has led him to great 66 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT accomplishments. His imagination has made him remarkable among created things, and that imagination has carried him far beyond the reach of his working hands. The Spiritual Frontier. A_ historical look at the spiritual frontier reveals that many great spiritual leaders were rejected in their day. Yet what a debt the world owes to such individuals as Buddha, Confucious, Gandhi, and others. Those living on the spiritual frontier have probably been among the more diligent in seeking to commune with God. And God, through his Son, Jesus Christ, and through his love, kindness, and generosity, has revealed to us many of his goals for man and has, through his prophets, tried to provide a way in which we could live creatively, abundantly, peacefully, with one 'another. As we stand back and take a look at the world of today and marvel at the great achievements in many fields, man can view his accomplishments and truly say, it is good. But, looking at himself, what can he say? Has he come closer to the realization of another dream of mankind, that of the perfection of man? Of man loving his neighbors, doing justice, speaking the truth, and realizing that which he potentially is, a son of God? Raising the question is embarrassing since the answer is so painfully clear. While we have created wonderful things, we have failed to make of ourselves beings for whom these great accomplishments would seem worthwhile. If we look at the world todav, we realize that ours is not a life of brotherhood, happiness, contentment, but, rather, one of spiritual chaos and bewilderment. We are prone to ignore the shad- 67 ows of uneasiness, anxiety, and confusion which seldom, if ever, leave men. Charting a True Course In this unsettled sea of human perplexities, yearnings, and disappointments, it may pay high dividends for us to pause and eliminate from our minds our immediate demands and schemes for livelihood and personal pleasure, in order that we may chart a course which will lead us to a port wherein we will likely find the goals and values providing eternal satisfaction and happiness. As part of the process of charting this course, it is suggested that we follow the admonition of Socrates when he said, "Know thyself," and the admonition of President McKay when he suggested that we "... Talk with self in a serious sort of way.' Self-understanding is a prerequisite to good mental health and understanding of other people. This is important because we are required to relate ourselves to other people and to the conditions of the world in which we live. We then must have an understanding of how these forces affect us and our relationships with others. And as we come to know ourselves and others, we free ourselves to experience more of the potential within us, to achieve creative, harmonious relationships with other people. As we are able to listen, to grasp what other persons are saying, we remove many of the major hostilities of life; we raise the psychological "iron curtain" which may have been _ lowered between us, and find that many misunderstandings of life have disappeared. 'Thus freed form mis- 68 CHORAL MUSIC for RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUSES ( ) Come Ye Blessed of My Father—Madsen.20 ( ) Go Ye Forth With My Word—Madsen...25 ( ) Incline Your Ear— Wilkes 0.0... 29 ( ) Lord, Hear Our Prayer—Verdi........ 20 ( ) Lord's Prayer— Gates 0... Eeeeeeeeeeeee 20 ( ) Music—Marsden.....20 ( ) My Redeemer Lives —GatesS 0....20 ( ) O Lovely Land, America—Madsen...20 ( ) Open Our Eyes— Macfarlane............-- 25 Send Forth Thy Spirit—Schuetky...... 20 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. City & State (1 On Approval [J] Charge O Money Enclased Te 15 E. Ist South 145 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVOe! Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 understandings, fears, prejudices, and hostilities which frequently shackle us, we are ready to move along our course which we are charting, which now opens up for us new horizons for creative living. Expressing the Creative Powers Within Us Christ said, "I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly" (John 10:10). President McKay, in discussing the life of the intellect and of the spirit, stated that the intellectual pursuits help men:... To live completely and abundantly; and in the living to serve—scrve their fellow men! He lives most who sees or hears, '"«... Tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, Sermons in stones and good in everything." Shakespeare, As You Like It, Act IT, Se. 1, 1. 16-17 He lives most who sees beyond these trees, these stones, and these running brooks, and sees God and goodness in it all, who sees an overruling Providence in all this world and recognizes God's children as brothers and sisters, in every one of whom there is something good. Ever striving to lift the man up out of the sensual world into the realm of true religion (McKay, Davin O., Gospel Ideals, page 148). Creative living is living freely in a world in which one is at peace with oneself. Expressions of creativity are not limited to producing a masterpiece of art or literature or music; neither are they limited to the creative expression in dance or other physical activity. Any one of us can have the door of creativity opened up for us, if we put forth the effort. It may be a new idea, a new thought, a new way of doing LESSON DEPARTMENT a somewhat menial task, a particular way in which we teach a class, give a two-and-one-half minute talk, or entertain our friends in our home. It may be the unique way in which we help a child discover something new or solve a problem; it may be an everyday occurrence in which we bring joy and happiness to others through our particular way of interacting with them. Harry Overstreet suggests that much creativity is experienced through the channel of religion: In its very essence religion is "a dedication of the entire self to the pursuit of ideal values."" In this sense religion is the most persistently and widely creative of all the enterprises of life. It is life forever looking beyond values already achieved and forever enlisting itself in behalf of values still to be achieved (OverSTREET, Harry A.: The Great Enterprise, page 198, W. W. Norton & Company, Inc., used by permission). The religion of Christianity, in general, and of the Latter-day Saints, in particular, encourages the individual to live beyond mediocrity and dullness, as man on his way to perfection seeks to qualify himself for Godhood. Appraising Our Valucs Some individuals have found themselves in positions of leadership or unique situations which encouraged or forced them to see the world and its problems from a broad point of view; to look at the "whole picture." Perhaps the rest of us could benefit from the experience of such individuals. Henry Cabot Lodge said: If there is one thing which I have learned as a result of four years at the United Nations it is that the sense of justice is very much the same in every man. Regardless of whether he comes from Asia, 69 SPRING TOUR Mesa, St. George and Los Angeles. Leaves in March 1960. HAWAII TOUR Tour leaving June 1960. MEXICAN TOUR February 1960 and June 1960. Also student tour in June 1960. Visit Book of Mormon places. GUATEMALA Book of Mormon Archeological Sites Tour leaving August 1960. HILL CUMORAH Tour leaving July 1960. For itinerary write or phone ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phone: EM 3-5229 Africa, Europe, or America, he has very much the same idea of fair play as his fellow man, who may come from a country ten thousand miles away.... The future of the world depends on the extent to which we can base international rclations on that sense of justice and fair play which lives in every human heart (Think, June 1957, page 22). Mary Hawkins, editor of the Journal of Home Economics, reporting on the Ninth International Congress on Home Economics, held in College Park, Maryland, July 1958, stated: With other members of the international permanent council of the federation. A program of importance was developed. But even more than that there was a readiness, a fluidity, a possibility of achievement made ready for the character of the Congress. And a character did unfold. It had many sides, but the most inspiring and 70 the most awesome was its universality. We saw that "one world" is no longer just a concept; it is a reality. It operates in the lives of everyday people, not just among statesmcn and internationalists. It can bring women in religious habits across an occan and women in saris halfway around the world to meet together, to find a common denominator of values, and to draw comfort from each other's experiences. It batters against the language barrier and reconciles differences in color, nationality, and occupation. With our minds, we have known that this new character was abroad in the world; we know it now in our hearts and remembered handshakes. We know it in cool Finnish melodies sung on a sticky, southern night. We saw it in cach person's realization that he or she had something to give to the Congress (Hawkins, Mary, "This Is Our World," Journal of Home Economics, Vol. 50, No. 8, October 1958, page 611, used by permission). These two individuals as a result of their positions and experiences have been able to see "one world" in the making. 'They have been able to see the contributions which mature, creative living can make. Another experience in life which brings values into sharp focus is the anticipation of death. Mrs. Hazel Beck Andre's account of "My Last Wonderful Days" provides guidance and inspiration not only for those who anticipate death within a few wecks or days, but for anyone who wishes to live creatively throughout life, realizing that death will ultimately come to him. After telling of her feelings in learning of her condition, the adjustments which she and her husband made, and the manner in which they tried to help their children face the inevitable, she summarizes her philosophy by saying: I have no regrets—my life has been rich RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1960 and full, and I have loved every minute of it. But if I were to live it over, I would take more time for savoring of beauty—sunrises; opening crabapple_ blossoms... The delighted surprised look on a tiny girl's face as she pets a kitty for the first time. I would eliminate enough outside activities so that I could be always the serene core of my home—for the triumph of serenity has crystallized for me and my family in these last days. There would be more time for family and for close personal friends. I would get closer to pcople faster. When death is imminent, we open our hearts quickly and wide. How much more Christian love there would be if we didn't wait for death to release our reserves! I would live each day as if it were my last one, as I am doing now (ANpRgE, Haze Beck, '""My Last Wonderful Days," Farm Journal, July 1956, used by permission). Can we take lessons from such experiences to help us reappraise our values in an effort to discover if we are living creatively? Are we experiencing the potential within us? Are we making the contributions in services to others that we might make. Are we contributing to the peace of the world by being aware of the needs of individuals around the world and conditions in which they live, and being aware of the implications which our own interpersonal relationships have as they influence other people? Can our scope and understandings be enlarged in order that we may embrace the following prayer uttered by a fellow American, Benjamin Franklin, when he said: God grant that not only the love of liberty but a thorough knowledge of the rights of man may pervade all the nations of the earth, so that a philosopher may set his foot anywhere on its surface and say, "This is my country." LESSON DEPARTMENT Thoughts for Discussion 1. In what way do you participate on the "frontiers" discussed? 2. Are you a supporter of explorations on these various frontiers or are you a resister? 3. What specifically have you done and are you doing to chart a course toward eternal values? Have your efforts been vague and abstract or are they practical and useful? 4. What steps can you take to become more creative? 5. Have you appraised your values recently? Are you putting first things first? 6. If you knew you had only two wecks left to live, would you alter your daily activities and ways of behaving? If so, in what ways? Also, if so, wouldn't it be well to do it now while there is still time? Supplementary References CurIsTIANSEN, ELRay L.: "The Need for Charity," The Improvement Era, June 1956, page 434.. McKay, Davin O.: "A Summation and a Blessing," The Improvement Era, June 1958, pp. 464-465. > Birthday Congratulations Ninety-seven Mrs. CHARLOTTE JANE WEBB NEILSON Lethbridge, Canada Ninety-six Mrs. Ciara FisHer SAMUELS San Leandro, California Ninety-three Mrs. Marie SORENSEN JENSEN Shelley, Idaho Mrs. Sina C. H. Mortensen Mesa, Arizona Mrs. ELLEN Larson SmiTH Mesa, Arizona Ninety-one Miss Grace Minor St. Petersburg, Florida Mrs. JOSEPHINE SORENSON Salt Lake City, Utah 71 Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT PIANOS Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built THE WORLD'S FINEST Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Musi¢ Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH \ O 36) D-DD 0D) ED CD > 0 (ea 0 em 0% Hawauan Tour Leaving in January and February. RE () ERD () RAD () ERD () ERD () RD () ED Europe 1960 Reservations made anywhere in the world, chartered tours or individual. Margaret Lund SD RD (RD () ED (ED () RMD (SAD (ED (GRD () ED (SND () RED RD ()-cm- (ae 9 Tours 4708 Holladay Blvd. Salt Lake City, Utah Phones: CR 7-6851 IN 6-2909 $0) 0a) aD 0D 0D) 0 -e etd From lear and Star President Fisher and I visited a Toc-H Club (a world-wide women's service club, I believe) — President had been asked to speak. We took a number of magazincs with us, but The Relief Society Magazine really impressed the women. They said it is what they are striving for. 'They were amazcd at the scope of our work.... One little woman, a member of the Church, eighty-three years old, who reads very well, has been bedfast in a hospital for six years. She looks forward to our visits and to the Magazine. She says the trouble is the nurses borrow the Magazines before she finishes. Who knows where they might do the most good? —Holly W. Fisher President South African Mission Relief Society Mowbray, South Africa The Magazine certainly is a blessing to all our family, and we enjoy all the articles and storics. 'The recipes are especially interesting. I am the theology teacher in our branch and have enjoyed using the Icsson materia] in the Magazine and find that very good lessons can be prepared by use of the Magazine and the standard works of the Church. Elder Doxey has done a marvelous job in writing these lessons. —Bernice Kentner North Platte, Nebraska I was thrilled when I read in the October Magazine (Sixty Years Ago, page 656) the account of the Relief Society being organized in St. John, Kansas, July 8, 1899. I was a seventeen-year-old girl living there at that time and well remember that ice cream social and the delicious ice cream. We girls did not quilt, but we helped sew carpet rags and make those comforts. Sister Breckenridge was a lovely lady. All the family are dead now except her daughter Mary. She has just made an extended visit to St. John from her home in Spanish Fork, Utah. Those good old times were the happiest days of my life. —Georgia C. Carr Hattiesburg, Mississippi Page 72 I feel I must write and thank you for the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. I am not able to get to my branch, Georges Lane, Lewisham, London, as I live at Birchington. I read the Magazine and am able to keep up with the lessons, and they help me so much in my lonely evenings. A small group of Relief Society sisters occasionally come to visit me for the day, and an American, Sister McGee, from California, visited me often. But now many of the American lads and their wives are gone away, and many of the big houses are empty now, where your lads and their wives lived, and their children attended our schools. I have met many young missionary lads, as well as servicemen, when I lived at Spur Road, Orpington, Kent, when my husband was alive. I was so fortunate that Sister McGee gave me an invitation to go with her and her husband to the dedication of our beautiful London Temple. When I caught the first glimpse of that spire rising into the sky, I knew for a surety it was the temple of God. Now I must say how sorry I am not to have written sooner to thank you for the wonderful Magazine. —Lily N. Jordan Birchington, England I enjoy the Magazine very much, as do also my family, especially my husband. We think the stories are very good and also the poetry. I have not been without the Magazine in my home since I was first married, some eighteen years ago. —Dorothy M. Loveland Burley, Idaho We have lived in many parts of the world, and I have always thought that the place we were living in at the time was the best place in all the Church in which to live, that the members were kinder, more loving, that the spirit was sweeter. I find that Ames is now the best place to be. Thank you for the wonderful messages you continue to send us in The Relief Society Magazine. It ls a privilege to be counted among the members of such an organization. —Virginia Cott Ames, Iowa GET FULL HOUSEPOWER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. E@ BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles oS 150 to 300 mites 300 to 600 miles 45 600 to 1000 miles 54 1000 to 1400 miles 0.000. 64 1400 to 1800 miles... 76 Over 1800 miles Wo....87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 > Vida Fox Clawson Travel Center Dear Friend: interested in HAWAII, remember we have If you are tours going every month. Our 1960 EUROPEAN folders are now ready and will be gladly sent to you upon request. Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: DA 8-0303 Beginning and advanced classes Type Aayour letters, minutes, reports, start soon, genealogy sheets, etc. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main — EM 3-2765 Salt Lake City, Utah 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah ae | MP W-M P 7--223-22291 DEC 60 New and Revised Edition 1. Brigham Young, the Man and His Work Preston Nibley Newly revised in this LDS classic that reveals the intimate life story of the great Mormon colonizer and leader, Brigham Young, with special stress placed on his teachings as reflected in his sermons and letters. $435 2. Teen Dating and Marriage Mark E. Petersen In October Conference, 1959, Elder Petersen spoke in_ straight-from-theshoulder language on ithe parents' responsibility in helping youth achieve a lasting and successful marriage. No parent, Sunday School leader, or other leaders in various Church Auxiliaries will want to miss reading this forceful $400 Deseret = Book (Co. 44 East South Temple -- Salt Lake City Utah Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) I have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed 6........... A for encircled (numbered) books: | 2 Name Address Residents of Utah include 21/,% sales tax. I rr — ee ela | City. Zone........ State... Neeeeeeesseeneeeeeen ij * in Danner s | LIL, Uae iN (()) Clue il YC Hour of Waiting Lael W. Hill Still through the brittle hours persist Like dark-sweet petals fragment-fallen Your summer words. Oh, still there twist And cling among the winter stalks The loosened moments blown and given To haunting wind. In whiteness walks Remembering, and gathers there Companioning too briefly spoken A love ago. Yet gently where The heart's root waits through withered hours, Green voices will again be risen And over snow, the breath of flowers. The Cover: The Northwestern States Mission Home, Portland, Oregon Photograph by James W. Allen Submitted by Effie K. Driggs Frontispiece: West Virginia Landscape in Winter Luoma Photos Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From lear and Sar I would like to say thanks to you for such a splendid little Magazine, which ls greatly appreciated here in good old Australia. 'The Relief Society to me is like a giant army of wonderful women always ready to be of service at any time. The sisters at our Bankstown Branch have been particularly good to me, and through them I am reminded of scriptures found in Galatians 6:2 — "Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfil the law of Christ." This passage, I feel, goes hand in hand with "Charity Never Faileth." I congratulate you on the really lovely covers. How thrilling it would be one day to see as a cover one of the scenes of our beautiful countryside or beaches. —Bette M. Calman Bankstown Branch N. S. W., Australia Fditorial Note: Photographs of the lovely Australian scenery (in two colors) were presented as cover pictures and as illustrations inside the Magazine for FebTuary 1956 and August 1957. ~-- And speaking of goodness — I am delighted with the subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. We have no magazines here, and just a couple of wecks ago I was trying to decide what magazine we could enjoy and still be useful. I had decided it would be The Relief Society Magazine, and thought I would treat myself for Christmas! But typical Mom — you beat me to it. Please know that I shall enjoy it completely and will use it as I go to Relief Society here. I also plan to save each issue. Many, many thanks. —From a letter written by Elaine Reiser Alder, Eugene, Oregon, to her mother, Elizabeth B. Reiser in Salt Lake City, Utah. I wish to tell you how much I have enjoyed the Magazine. I do not know which I enjoy most, the poems, lessons, or short stories, or the editorials. They are all so interesting and faith-inspiring. —Cecile Wright Dixon, California Page 74 I was delighted to discover another of Grace Ingles Frost's poems in the November issue of The Relief Society Magazine, "Days," page 735. I enjoy her poems so very much and always clip them for my scrapbook. —Ruth T. Willams Provo, Utah I must write and thank you for my Relief Society Magazine, and also tell you how much I enjoy it. I have many dear friends in the Church, and my family connections go back to 1848 here in Merthyr 'Tydfil, when my grandmother's and grandfather's brothers became interested in the Church.... My very dear friends are Mr. And Mrs. Robert H. Booth of Springville, Utah, with whom I am in regular correspondence. Latter-day Saint mussionarics always have and always will be sure of a welcome at 39 Upper Thomas Street. —Mrs. Sydney Carbin Merthyr Tydfil South Wales, Britain The December 1959 cover is another piece of superb art as was the last December cover. And I did enjoy seeing another beautiful poem by Vesta P. Crawford, with its fine line 'Dividers of the stars and keepers of the spheres." And then there were Iris Schow and Maude O. Cook, with their lively, moving verses for us to enjoy. —Dorothy J. Roberts Salt Lake City, Utah I must take a moment to tell you of my appreciation for The Relief Society Magazme. I give credit to my home ward of Freedom, Wyoming, for the gift subscription they send me each year. I find very good reading and many helpful articles that aid me in my missionary work here in Western Canada. I espccially enjoy the theology lessons and their stressing of Church doctrine. —Elder Juel Haderlie Edmonton, Canada THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - = = = =. - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond Elsa T. Peterson Edith S. Elliott Christine H. Robinson Annie M. Ellsworth Irene B. Woodford Florence J. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Leone G. Layton Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron Elizabeth B. Winters Blanche B. Stodderd Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt LaRue H. Rosell Evon W. Peterson Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Jennie R. Scott Aleine M. Young Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawtord General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 47 FEBRUARY 1960 NO. 2 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES The Responsibility of Relief Society Officers in the Salvation of Relief Society Members 2... Eee; Mark E. Petersen 76 Relief Society and the Church Welfare Program a aeHenry D. Taylor 81 The Northwestern States Mission o.... EcecescscccsssescesecesseceeesccsessecesssenecesseseceeecesreeaseeeceesPreston R. Nibley 86 "Oh Say, What Is Truth?' eee eeeseeceeeceeeeeneccc " 98 FICTIO Grandpa's Red Suspenders — Second Prize Story o... Ec. CeeeccsscsecsesceeceesecseeseeeeesneeesMyrtle M. Dean 88 Only the Essentials.... Sae Frances C. Yost 102 The New Day — Chapter 3 inceeccccccccssecssssnsesceescceeneceessecesstccescaeceesecsesensensesssennesseseeeeesenensHazel K. Todd 106 From Near and Far Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere oon. Cee cence ceeeceeececeeeeceeeeeeee an. Editorial: Greatness From Righteous Endurance 200... Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 0. Birthday Congratulations 2... Cee eccceceeeseseceeseeseeeees Recipes From the Northwestern States Mission oo... Ecceeeeeeeeeteetesereeeeedfie K. Driggs 99 Tin Time for Gertrude Lacy... 105 PNOVCIOCCTC eee Celia Luce 143 Visiting Teacher Messages — 'Be Faithful Unto the End, and Lo, I Am With You*' SS...... Christine H. Robinson 125 Work Meeting — Simple First Aid Helps ottecccsescseccee i Charlotte A. Larsen 127 Literature ~ Thomas Jefferson (1743-1826) oo. CceescsssesssssssssssssssessessssesessssersevesesssenssseessBriant S. Jacobs 129 Social Science — Creative and Spiritual Living — Pathways to Peace — i Blaine M. Porter 137 POETRY Hour of Waiting — Frontispiece cece ccccccccccccccecceececeseeseees. Wae Lael W. Hill 73 Letter From a Missionary TOM A MiSSIOMOTY ooaeeccccssssssevui-ssssorssvovsomvorernrvnsene x Mabel Jones Gabbott 85 Solace in Prayer. Rowena Jensen Bills 97 a - setseeteeeeeeee---Maude Rubin 101 Winter Garden... A... 2... Ia AEva Willes Wangsgaard 128 Star Words. W.... A.. Dorothy J. Roberts 136 noes Christie Lund Coles 144 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year: foreign, $2.00 a year; 20ce a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts wil! Be retained for six months only, The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 75 Kindness ionic eeeecceceeeeeeseeseescneeeeecveeeeeeeeee Theology — The Great T Am once eeeccece cc ccccccecsecescseeseessessectsssesseresssees berta Revisited 22... Clecessesceesceceteecereesceseeseee secssteceseseeeesseeeeesecetsatsseeeerseeeseaeeelGa Isaacson 105 Roy W. Doxey 119 seeecseeteeeenteeeeeeeeeeeseeeHelen Kimball Orgill 110 The Responsibility of Relief Society Officers in the Salvation of Relief Society Members (Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Relief Soctety Conference, October 7, 1959) Elder Mark E. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve would like to join, my sisters, with President Joseph Fielding Smith, in expressing gratitude and appreciation to you for all that you do. It is indeed an inspiring experience to note the remarkable things being done by the Relief Society sisters throughout the Church. My appreciation for you and your program increases day by day. 'The more I see of your work, the more I marvel at it, the more I feel indeed the Lord is inspiring you and strengthening you to fulfill a great need. With President Smith, I express deep gratitude to the Lord for the remarkable leadership which you have. We feel so impressed with Sister Spafford and her counselors and the splendid work that they are doing, the great devotion they demonstrate. We are thankful for this wonderful General Board, and we would like to say to you from the stakes how grateful we are for the remarkable work which you do. You surely have our prayers, our faith, our confidence, and we hope that the Lord will continue with you always. I cannot go on without expressing appreciation for this Singing Mothers group from the Nephi area and to Sister Hoyt for her diPage 76 rection. I would like to say to Sister Hoyt and all of the sisters how much I appreciated this last number in particular, the composition of Sister Hoyt. I am sure it will be sung throughout the Church by Singing Mother choruses. I express appreciation to President Smith for the privilege of working with him in serving as an advisor to your wonderful organization. It is always a great inspiration to me to be associated with him. I have been an admirer of him since I was a little boy. Ever since I became old enough to begin to read serious things, I have been deeply impressed by his remarkable works, and I still enjoy them, and I am lifted up always when I have the opportunity of listening to him speak. I am thankful this morning that he has spoken as he has concerning the importance of the gospel in the lives of the women in the Church and the manner in which they can be of assistance in saving the souls of the people with whom they come in contact. It is along this line that I would like to speak briefly this morning also. When Paul wrote to the saints of his day, he set forth some of the great principles involved in being saved in the kingdom of heaven. In one instance you recall he said:... Tam not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto salvation... (Romans 1:16). That scripture has been quoted often and effectively. The gospel is the power of God unto salvation. On another occasion, speaking of means by which we become converted to the gospel so that it may save us, Paul said:... Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach, except they be sent?... (Romans 10:13-15). At still another time, you remember that Paul explained that officers are placed in the Church, For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ... (Ephesians 4:12). ET us put these three scriptures together and look at them as a group. It is the gospel which saves. Salvation comes through conversion to the gospel. Conversion comes through hearing the word of the Lord. Hearing the word of the Lord comes through a preacher or a teacher. A teacher cannot teach properly unless authorized to do so. The teacher is so authorized by the officers of the Church. The duties of the officers are to conduct the work of the ministry, perfect the saints, and edify them in connection with their program. We can readily see, then, that the officers of the Church are the pivotal, central figures upon whom rests the responsibility for the entire work. When the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society and outlined its aims and objectives, he gave the sisters more than the responsibility of caring for needy people and more than provoking the brethren to good works. He laid upon them the responsibility of helping to bring about the salvation of their members. He said: "The Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls" (Relief Society Minutes, June 9, 1842). He added that the sisters are to correct the morals and strengthen the virtues of the community, a thing which could be done only through proper obedience to the gospel, based upon a correct understanding of its principles. One of the chief responsibilities of the Relief Society, then, is properly to instruct its own members so that they may achieve that understanding. Now whose responsibility is it to provide this instruction? Is it the duty of the class leader alone, she who gives the lesson? It is in part her responsibility, but it is not exclusively hers. Who shates it with the instructor? The officers, of course, because they preside over all of the Relief Society, class work included, and are as much responsible for good class work as they are for good work meetings and for proper visits in the homes. They cannot lay this entire responsibility upon the instructors, because they preside over the instructors and over the whole group. They must see that the entire organization functions smoothly. THE RESPONSIBILITY OF RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS 77 W E have two great fields of gospel education. One of them is the home, the other is the Church, with its various organizations. But the home needs the direction of the Church so that family life will accomplish what the Lord expects of it. Where can parents receive this training and instruction? From the leaders and organizations of the Church, of course. You, who are here assembled, are the leaders of the women of the Relief Society. You must lead, and by your examples you must teach. From your own experience as well as from the teachings of our Pricsthood leaders, you can give to the women of the Church the help they need in learning how to build good homes and good family life. As leaders, your own homes, in a sense, are the laboratories in which to prove out the best methods of family life and to develop proper examples for others. We must remember that a major part of good family life, of successful and exemplary home activity, is to teach and live the gospel in the home. 'The gospel must be taught there objectively. It must be lived consistently and steadily and regularly. Otherwise, the lesson is lost. Mothers, generally, do most of the teaching in most of the homes; therefore, these mothers need good preparation for that teaching. Where do they get it? In part, from their own personal studies and reading, of course; but also from observing how you, the leaders, teach by your own personal examples and, then also, from the lessons they learn in your classwork. Since I wish to limit my remarks largely to class instruction, I desire to emphasize here the importance of its effect upon the home. Your class instruction can influence the homes of all who come to your meetings. Mothers can, and will be impressed by the classwork if it is well done. 'The impression mothers receive there can sway the entire attitude of the home, and so mold the habits and customs of the home that family life therein may approach the ideal. Class instruction can be that effective. It can be that important. It should be that well done. Now how can we best serve the needs of these mothers through our own class instruction? Good classwork is dependent upon three important factors: first, a wise selection of the individual who is to serve as the instructor; second, the choice of proper lesson material; and third, effective presentation of that material. Now let us review these three points in the light of our responsibility as presidents and other officers of the Relief Society. Consider first the proper sclection of the class instructors. Whose responsibility is it to choose these teachers? The presidency's, of course. N making these selections, the presidency will have in mind the main qualifications of teachers for their organizations. What are some of them? First and foremost, a good testimony of the gospel. 'The teacher herself must be converted, otherwise, how can she convert others? It takes fire to kindle fire. It takes faith to build faith. Second, the teacher must be orthodox in her views with respect to the gospel. If she is not, she 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 will spread her wayward views like a contagion among the class members. Third, her own living habits must be in harmony with the principles of the gospel. What we do often resounds so loudly in the ears of other people that they cannot hear what we say. Fourth, ability to teach. You notice that I put this point in fourth place, although it is an essential quality. Teachers should possess some teaching skill, but if that skill is missing, then what? If something is to be sacrificed, it is better to sacrifice skill than faith. It is better to sacrifice skill than orthodoxy. It is better to sacrifice skill than an example of good living. Skill may be acquired. There are many teaching helps these days. There is much assistance available in the form of teacher training. Stake board members are willing to help ward instructors. There are also skilled teachers in every stake who, as neighbors, would willingly give private help to a ward Relief Society instructor, if requested to do so. In a spirit of neighborliness, Latter-day Saint professional teachers, if asked, would help an unskilled woman to prepare her lessons, give expert assistance in the selection of visual-aid material, and otherwise assist, if asked. The difficulty in this matter is that so many of our instructors are embarrassed to ask for this kind of help, although they need not be. Officers of the organizations, knowing this situation, could themselves arrange for such aid and in that manner improve the lesson work and make it more effective in the ward. And then there is the part an officer herself may take during the actual class period. By wisely participating she may help to guide class discussions, making certain of obtaining good results. 'This must be done, of course, in a way to avoid taking the lead of the class out of the hands of the instructor, but if wisdom is used it can be a strength to the instructor. FTER the selection of the teacher for the class and before she begins her work, the officers of the ward should sit down and have an understanding with her. 'They should discuss the text material and make it clear in the beginning what material is to be used and what objectives are to be reached in the instruction. Merely handing a book to an instructor is not enough. If a ward officer expects a certain type of performance from an instructor, certainly the instructor is entitled to know in the beginning what is expected of her. A frank and friendly discussion at the outset can avoid many difficulties later on. The next point is the proper presentation of the material. Here is where stake board people can give invaluable help. Here is where we see the great importance of good stake board workers. 'Through visits in the wards and through leadership meetings, they can provide good help and suggestions to ward instructors. Leadership meetings themselves must be teacher-training sessions for the assistance of these ward instructors. Again, this comes back to the responsibility of the officers of the Relief Society. Stake Relief Society presidencies must be so wise in their selection of board members that they will have in mind each need THE RESPONSIBILITY OF RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS 79 of the workers in the wards who come for assistance. Stake Relicf Society presidencies should not choose board members merely because they are nice and lovely persons, fun to be around. Board members must be chosen for their ability to fulfill a particular assignment on the board. Their impact upon the workers in the ward must be given first consideration. 'Their visits to wards must be constructive and_ profitable. Their leadership meeting departments must be stimulating. Too often ward members come away from leadership meetings feeling that their attendance there has becn a waste of time, that they have received nothing from the discussion. When such reactions occur, it is of major importance to the stake presidency of the Relief Society, who are duty bound to see to it that ward people get the maximum of help from their leadership meeting departments. If the stake board member is not making the department profitable, the presidency should correct the situation, OARD members must be keenly conscious of the importance of adequate preparation on their own part. When they conduct their departments in leadership meeting they must be so well prepared that all coming to the department will be edified and stimulated. If board members do not know how to conduct good departments, they must learn how. Thev can ask their stake Relief Society presidencies, and they can ask the General Board. Since the ward people come expecting help from the stake, the stake officers should be willing to seek all the assistance necessary. They must be prepared. 'There is no substitute for preparation. You see, Relief Society officers, how great is the responsibility resting upon you with respect to your leadership meetings; with respect to instruction in the wards; and to the operation of the whole program? Yours is a responsibility of detail. Although we delegate much of our work, we, as officers, must be so well informed on all of our departments that we can give adequate and intelligent and well-advised direction to those who labor under us. Preparation and constant attention are the watchwords of the officers themselves. You cannot properly direct your organizations if you are not working closely with them. You cannot operate your work by remote control. Neither can you run a good organization if you do not understand the program in detail. The work of saving souls is so important that we cannot spare any preparation or effort in our assignments. You see the chain of relationship between our work as officers and the saving of souls? Salvation comes by conversion. Conversion requires proper instruction. Proper instruction depends to a large extent upon the directional work of the officers of the organization. So you, the officers, are basically responsible. The Lord surely had this in mind when he said: Wherefore, now let every one learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence.. He that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand (D & C 107:99, 100). That we may be found worthy to stand is my humble prayer in Jesus' name, Amen. 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 Relief Society and the Church Welfare Program Elder Henry D. Taylor Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Managing Director of the General Church Welfare Committee (Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, Departmental Meeting, Thursday Afternoon, October 8, 1959) consider it a great honor to be invited to participate in this Relief Society conference. I have the greatest admiration and respect for your organization and the good you have accomplished and are now achieving. We are mindful of your noteworthy contributions and support of the Church Welfare Program, and express gratitude and appreciation for your excellent labors. We express particular thanks to the General Board for the emphasis they have placed on the employment and work phases of the Program in the past two conventions. You women are important in our lives and give us encouragement and strength. Without you we would make little progress. One morning the King and Queen left the palace in London. As they drove in their carriage, enthusiastic subjects lined the streets and cheered. One loyal man shouted out: "Hurrah for King George the Fifth." A nearby companion added: "Yes, and three cheers for Queen Mary, the other four-fifths." I have been invited to speak to you leaders about the Welfare Plan, and to point out some of the ways in which the sisters can help in the Program. The full Welfare Plan is operative only in the stakes. "In the missions welfare work is generally limited to an effort to teach members how to solve their local problems and provide for their own needs" (Welfare Plan — Handbook of Instructions, page 5). In establishing the Welfare Plan in 1936, the First Presidency outlined the basic and fundamental principles in these words: Our primary purpose was to set up, in so far as it might be possible, a system under which the curse of idleness would be done away with, the evils of a dole abolished, and independence, industry, thrift and self-respect be once more established amongst our people. The aim of the Church is to help the people to help themselves. Work is to be re-enthroned as the ruling principle of the lives of our Church membership (Ibid., page 1). The phases of the welfare activities may be divided into five divisions: Planning Production Distribution Rehabilitation Prevention VIBRWN The time allotted to me will permit but a brief outline of these phases. I can present only a skeleton, relying upon you to furnish some meat for the bones. Paae 81 HE key figure in the Welfare Plan is the bishop. By the word of the Lord, the sole mandate to care for and the sole discretion in caring for the poor of the Church is lodged in the bishop. It is his duty and his only to determine to whom, when, how and hew much shall be given to any member of his ward from Church funds and as ward help. 'This is his high and solemn obligation, imposed by the Lord himself. Whoever and whatever the help he calls in to assist him perform his service, he is still responsible (Ibid., page 6). Well might we raise the question: "Where is the place of Relief Society in Church Welfare?" The Welfare Handbook answers this question, and I quote: "Since the earliest days of the Church the Relief Society has been and still is the bishop's chief help in administering to the needs of those in distress" (Ibid., page 22). And why is this true? Shortly after your society was organized, the Prophet Joseph Smith said to the sisters: This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures, it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your previleges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates (Ibid., page 23. See also D. H. C. Iv, page 605.) This observation is then made in -the Handbook: "With this background, the Relief Society has been irained and prepared to handle certain phases of welfare work better than any other agency." Planning The immediate objectives of Church Welfare are to: 1. Place in gainful employment those who are able to work. 2. Provide employment within the Welfare Program, in so far as possible, for those who cannot be placed in gainful employment. 3. Acquire the means with which to supply the needy, for whom the Church assumes responsibility, with the necessities of life. 4. Supply such needy with the means of living, each "according to his family, according to his circumstances, and his wants and needs."... This is to be done not as a dole, but rather in recognition of faithful service in the past and a present willingness to accept the program and labor in it to the extent of his ability (Welfare Plan — Handbook of Instructions, pp. 4-5). To achieve these objectives trequires much prayerful preparation and thoughtful planning. Welfare meetings are held at regular intervals on ward, stake, and regional levels where ways and means are discussed for reaching these noble goals. Your attendance at these meetings is important. During the year 1958, Relief Society presidents at the ward level attended eightyfour per cent of the weekly welfare meetings held. Employment counselors' attendance was but seventythree per cent, and work directors', only sixty-six per cent. You sisters have the responsibility of becoming Church-trained social workers, developing and displaying a spirit of love, understanding, and discernment. These planning meetings can help you in learning not 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 only your specific duties, but give a knowledge of the over-all program in all its phases. Production To fill the bishops' storehouses with the commodities and clothing necessary to care for the needy requires the united efforts of all ablebodied persons. You sisters have contributed nobly to this effort through your sewing activities, unselfish work in the canneries and the fields, and through other types of devoted labor on Church Welfare production projects. The responsibility for recruiting this labor rests with the work directors. At the end of 1958, there had been acquired 569 owned permanent welfare projects throughout the Church, with another seventyseven leased projects. 'These projects were operated so successfully that a major part of the budget for last year was produced on them. During the year 1958, there were 84,356 of you sisters who participated on the projects, contributing 667,390 hours of labor. Distribution To discover those in need requires constant vigilance. The visiting teachers can render a valuable service by being alert and reporting any in need to the Relief Society president, who will then advise the bishop. The bishop has at his disposal the commodities in the storehouse as well as the fast offering funds. The Relief Society president will make investigation and determine the needs of the family in distress upon request of the bishop. She prepares the orders on the storebishops' storehouses. House for the bishop's signature. The bishop only has the authority to issue an order. Relief Society presidents should acquaint themselves with items that are in the storehouse, and recommend and urge the use of available commodities that will give good balance and diet, so that the health of families will be protected and safeguarded. A constant review should be made of the needs of persons being assisted as their circumstances may change from time to time. An analysis of the orders issued in the first six months of 1959 would indicate that fifty-seven per cent are being so issued without a visit from the Relief Society president. We commend you sisters on the excellent work you have done in providing clothing for the storehouses. We are assured that we now have the finest stock of sizes and styles with excellent workmanship. There are now in the Church 133 In the year 1958, there were 87,596 members of the Church assisted. As a tribute to the Relief Society presidents, our storehouses were used more last year than in any previous year. You stake Relief Society presidents can assume the responsibility for seeing that clothing inventories are maintained which are adequate and desirable. [LD SfRIBUTION in the Welfare Plan contemplates more than just assisting with the "loaves and fishes." The Savior said: "Man shall not live by bread alone..." (Mt. 4:4). There is a spiritual aspect that RELIEF SOCIETY AND THE CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM 83 must not be overlooked. To the Lord all things are spiritual, for he has said: 'Wherefore, verily I say unto you that all things unto me are spiritual, and not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal" (D&C2 James Russell Lowell in his "Vision of Sir Launfal," represented the Savior as uttering these words: Not what we give, but what we share, The gift without the giver is bare; Who gives himself with his alms feeds three, Himself, his hungering neighbor, and me. You sisters can give encouragement, sympathy, and inspiration where needed, and can certainly be responsible for a great spiritual uplift in the lives of those needing such assistance. Rehabilitation "The aim of the Church is to help the people to help themselves." The employment phase of the Program has been designed to help secure employment and _ positions for those desirous of obtaining gainful cmployment. It is the responsibility of the employment counselor to be aware of and acquainted with job opportunities where such _persons may be placed. During the vear 1958, there were 4,058 unemployment occurrences reported. 'I'wo thousand nine hundred eighty-five or seventy-four per cent of these were placed in gainful employment. "Work is to be re-enthroned as the ruling principle of the lives of our Church membership." 'Those receiving welfare assistance are expected to work to the extent of their abilities. 'There must be no dole. It is the responsibility of the work director to provide these work opportunities. A list of such opportunities prepared in advance would be helpful. In 1958, 4,345 sisters worked 175,332 hours for assistance received. Prevention "Church Welfare accepts as fundamental truth the proposition that the responsibility for one's economic maintenance rests (1) upon himself, (2) upon his family, and (3) upon the Church, if he is a faithful member thereof." The ward Relief Society president can teach many things that one can do himself to provide economic independence, making it unnecessary to call upon relatives or the Church. He must plan ahead. The old proverb is true: "A stitch in time saves nine." Follow the counsel of the brethren, and secure at least one year's supply of food, clothing, and fuel, where practical. Accumulate sufficient savings to provide for times of emergency. Home canning and group canning are helpful in acquiring a supply of foodstuffs. You women, generally, handle the family finances as well as managing the household. Encourage your family to live within its income. Don't let "Momma's yearnings exceed Poppa's_ earnings." Avoid debt. We are advised that vou have had lessons dealing with thrift management. Relief Society employment counselors can encourage your daughters to secure all the education they can. Learn a profession or trade. 'This is an age of specialization. Those who are trained and skilled have access to 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 more job opportunities than the unskilled. On December 10, 1856, Brigham Young and his Counselor, Heber C. Kimball, issued an epistle from the First Presidency to the saints. Jedediah M. Grant, the other Counselor, had passed away the week before. This instruction was given to the women: Mothers in Israel, you also are called upon to bring up your daughters to pursue some useful avocation for a sustenance, that when they shall become the wives of the elders of Israel, who are frequently called upon missions, or to devote their time and attention to the things of the Kingdom, they may be able to sustain themselves and their offspring. 'Teach them to sew, spin and weave; to cultivate vegetables as well as flowers; to make soap as well as cakes and preserves; to spin, color and weave and knit, as well as embroidery; to milk, make butter and cheese, and work in the kitchen, as in the parlor. Thus will you and your daughters show yourselves approved, and prove helpmeets in very deed, not only in the domestic relations, but in building up the Kingdom also (Nistey, Preston: Brigham Young — The Man and His Work, page 265). The Welfare Plan has noble objectives. It accepts the doctrine that "it is more blessed to give than to receive"; also accepting the responsibility that we are "our brothers keeper." The Welfare Plan is the "Gospel in Action." I bear you my testimony that the Welfare Plan is a divinely inspired plan in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Letter From a Missionary Mabel Jones Gabbott The letter came today; the postman smiled As if he knew how much it meant to me; I scanned the date and postmark hurriedly, Just like a child I fairly tore the envelope apart And then I could not wait. And read it through. Each closely lettered word Smiled up at me. Somehow my eyes were blurred, But I could read the message with my heart. A bit of paper, scratched upon with pen, And yet it was a vibrant living thing; So simply said, "I'm well; don't worry." Then "With all my love." It made the whole day sing. So might the saints at Ephesus have waited Hungrily the word from Paul — like this, belated. RELIEF SOCIETY AND THE CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM 85 She Morth western States Nlission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE Northwestern States Mission, which comprised the states of Oregon, Washington, and Northern and Central Idaho, was organized under the direction of the First Presidency, in July 1897. George C. Parkinson, President of Oneida Stake, was selected as the first president of the mission. 'The first missionaries called to labor with President Parkinson were Lewis S. Pond, Denmark Jensen, Thomas Preston, George Z. Lamb, Gaston Braley, and James R. Smurthwaite. In June 1898, Montana was added to the Northwestern States Mission, and the president of that mission, Franklin $. Bramwell, was made president of the combined missions, succeeding President Parkinson. In 1901 the Union Stake was organized in eastern Oregon and President Bramwell was selected as president of the stake. He served also as president of the mission until 1902, when he was succeeded by Nephi Pratt. President Pratt moved the headquarters of the mission to Portland, Oregon, where it has remained since that time. "President Pratt was succeeded in 1909 by Melvin J. Ballard. During President Ballard's presidency, British Columbia and Alaska were added to the Northwestern States Mission and the first missionaries were sent to Alaska. President Ballard served until 1919 when he was made a member of the Council of the Twelve. Presidents who have served since that Courtesy Pacific Northern Airlines, Inc. Submitted by Effie K. Driggs AERIAL VIEW OF JUNEAU, ALASKA Mt. Juneau and Mt. Roberts in the Background Page 86 THE NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION 87 s % eR pei ee $ Courtesy Union Pacific Railroad Submitted by Effie K. Driggs MT. HOOD, OREGON, WITH ORCHARD BLOSSOMS IN THE FOREGROUND time are: Heber C. Iverson, 1919-23; Brigham S. Young, 1923-27; William R. Sloan, 1927-34; Joseph Quinney Jr., 1934-37; Preston Nibley, 1937-40; Nicholas G. Smith, 1940-42; Delsa Bennion, 1942-44; Samuel E. Bringhurst, 1944-47; Joel Richards, 1947-50; James A. McMutrrin, 1950-55; Douglas H. Driggs, 1955-60; Franklin D. Richards, 1960 —. During the presidency of Preston Nibley, the first branch of the Church was organized in Alaska, at Fairbanks, in July 1938. Since the organization of the Northwestern States Mission in 16897, twenty stakes have been organized within its original borders. At the end of October 1959, there were 9,272 members of the Church in the Northwestern States Mission, located in forty-two branches. Baptism of converts during the first ten months of the year numbered 768. Forty-four Relief Society organizations, with 986 members were reported in December 1958. Effie K. Driggs presided over the Northwestern States Mission Relief Society from 1955 until January 1960. Helen K. Richards is the new president. Note: The cover for this Magazine "Mission Homc," Portland, Oregon, is reproduced from a color transparency by James W. Allen and was submitted by Effie K. Driggs. Sce also "Recipes From the Northwestern States Mission," by Sister Driggs on page 99. Second Prize Story Annual Reliof Society Short Story Contest Grandpa's Red Suspenders Myrtle M. Dean T was near the middle of May, when Grandpa Foster came to stay at Brookside, with his son James and his family. Janie would always remember the time, for it was so near her eighteenth birthday. She had planned a big birthday party. She had made a list of all of her young friends, the most special one being Stan Dalby, who was just home from college. Janie was anxious to make a good impression on Stan this summer. Janie's heart sank low when her mother said, "You will have to give up your party, Janie. Now grandpa is here, the noisy crowd will disturb him. He has been ill you know." "But, Mom, grandfather will be in his room. We won't make that much noise." Janie could hardly believe that her mother was serious. "YT told your father that all the family would have to give up their own normal life and pleasures, if grandpa came here to live," janie's mother continued. It seemed to Janie now that her mother was forcing them all to play the martyr. Anne Foster had agreed to grandfather's coming so grudgingly. Janie had heard her mother say, "I'm only a daughter-inlaw, and he has two daughters. It seems that they should be glad to care for him." There had been many conferences over the matter, before Grandpa Foster came. There were five children and all agreed that something Page 88 MYRTLE M. DEAN must be done about Father. After all their discussions, James, the oldest son, decided it was his duty to see that his father was taken care of "Lovingly," he had said to the others. Grandma Foster had died last year, just before Thanksgiving time. Usually all the families went down to Grandpa Foster's farm for Thanksgiving dinner, but last year they all went to their grandmother's funeral. Grandpa had protested so vigorously against leaving his home then that they left him down at the farm. The grandchildren had gone to visit him often. Then this spring he had had a bad case of influenza. That was when the family decided something must be done. GRANDPA'S RED SUSPENDERS As James Foster stopped at the front of the house with his father, the family all came out to greet him as cheerfully as they could. Bill and the two younger children, Jimmy and Beth, ran out to the car to help bring in his things. Janie and her mother stood waiting on the porch. There were a small suitcase and several paper bags full of his things. Then Bill and Jimmy came along behind the others carrying a little, old-fashioned trunk. "Perhaps we had better put that trunk downstairs in the storeroom," Anne Foster said. Grandpa Foster's face became anxious, and he spoke up promptly, "Td like awful well to keep the trunk close by me, in my room. The things in there are mostly keepsakes of Grandma's and mine." His face was very scrious, and he followed closely as they carried his things to his room. THE room was clean and comfortable. 'There was a radio, and in a corner of the room, a fine TV set. Near his bed was a small table where he could eat his meals, if he wished. His eves teared, and his hands trembled a little when he spoke. "Tm real grateful for all your kindness." For a moment then he was silent before he spoke more firmly, "It is foolish though — real foolish, that a man can't stay in his home and not trouble folks. A flu bug hit me, but I'd soon have been as good as ever, and could look after myself." "Now, Father," James Foster said, "'you are too independent. I want my boys and girls to know you better. And your farm is in good hands. Sam Carson has it 89 rented and will keep things in good shape. You must not worry." James tried to pacify his father. Janie thought that her grandfather kept to his room too much. Was it because he didn't want to trouble the family, or that he liked to be left alone? She wondered. His appetite seemed to lag more each day. Grandpa isn't happy here, she thought, and she wondered sometimes if her mother might have planned the comforts of Grandfather's room to keep him away from her family. Each evening Janie took in a tasty meal to her grandpa's room. It seemed that he sent most of it back on the tray. "Grandfather, you eat so little. What would you like? Can't I fix you something?" Janie asked one evening, when he seemed _ paler, and even more quiet than usual. At first he hesitated, then a smile crossed his face as he said, "Janie, do you remember eating bread and milk, with honey and jam and fresh butter, down on the farm with Grandma and me, for supper?" "Oh, Grandpa, I can never forget how good it was. It was so much fun to eat with you and grandmother. Her good homemade bread. I can taste it now. Let me try baking some tomorrow and we will eat it here together," Janie said kindly. HE late afternoon sun shone softly into the window, making the room cozy and bright. Janie and her grandfather sat together enjoying the fresh baked bread that she had brought, to eat with milk and honey. As her grandpa ate he talked of the days on the farm with grandma, when they had first gone there together. How wonderful their love must have been, Janie thought. Sitting here listening to her grandpa's voice so full of happy remembrance, she wondered how it would be to have someone love her as grandpa had loved his wife. She thought of Stan Dalby, of her plans for the summer which included him. She thought, too, of the birthday party which she had counted on, and must not have on account of grandpa. "Oh, Grandpa, why couldn't you have waited to come until after my party?" she said to herself. She realized now that Stan had not even met her grandfather, and she wondered what he would think of him. This old man with such homey ways, and he had always lived on a farm. 'There was another thing that always worried the family. Grandfather Foster had a pair of bright red suspenders and a tie to match, which he had won down at the county fair, years ago. He always put them on for special occasions. There had been no place for him to wear them here at Brookside. There would probably be none. He would have to keep them stored away in his trunk of memories. "Pm afraid that you children are bothering Grandfather too much lately," Mrs. Foster warned them. They had begun to visit him to hear his stories, and followed him on his morning walks. "Grandpa knows the names of all the birds, and just where to find their nests," young Jimmy said. "Mother, I think he enjoys having somebody to talk to. He doesn't seem to mind," Janie told her. A few days later Bill surprised Janie by saying that his mother was letting him have an Explorer fireside at their house the next Wednesday evening "Mother says it will be more of a meeting, with a speaker, than a noisy party. I've asked Bob Hansen to come and talk to us. You know he has traveled a lot and tells of such interesting things." Bill was enthusiastic. "Oh, but Bill, all those noisy boys. That will be just as bad as though I had my party, and Mother made me give that up," Janie spoke solemnly. "T thought I'd ask Stan Dalby to come and give us a couple of his songs." Bill smiled slyly at her. "Would you agree to come down when we need you and accompany him?" Janie's face flushed with pleasure. "You are a swell brother... Sometimes," she added. "Do you suppose that we could slip in a bit of guitar strumming, and maybe a game or two for good measure?" Bill asked mischievously. "You would never get by Mom with that, Billy boy," Janie told him. T was almost six o'clock on Wednesday that Bill came to Janie with a sober face. "Our fireside is off. Will you phone Stan and tell him he won't need to come and sing? [ll call the boys. Bob Hansen just called. His little brother got hit by a car, and they have to tush him to a hospital. They think it isn't too serious, but they can't tell until they take X-rays, and go over him thoroughly.' Janie looked as crestfallen as her brother. She had counted on seeing Stan, and playing for his songs. "Tm real sorry, Bill,' she said quietly. 90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 GRANDPA'S RED SUSPENDERS "Things have been so dead around here lately, and now for this to happen." Baill spoke disconsolately. "Well, P'd better get on the phone and tell the guvs. It is too late to get another speaker now." They sat there for a moment together, their heads bent thoughtfully. "It seems that since Grandpa came, all we hear from Mama, is — vou can't do this — or you can't do that — I hate it," Bill finished bitterly. "But Grandpa wouldn't want it that way, I'm sure he wouldn't," Janie said, then suddenly her face brightened. "I have a wonderful idea, Bill. Don't call and say the fireside is off." "Well, tell it. Don't keep me in suspense." Bill's face was puzzled. "Grandpa Foster...." "Grandpa Foster — what? Of all the bright ideas," Bill said disgustedly. "Listen, Bill, Grandpa can tell the most cxciting things. Stories of true happenings. The boys will love it. Really he has such a sweet way of telling things." Janie spoke earnestly. "The fellows won't want to sit and hear Grandfather talk about himself," Bill said, still skeptical. "Please try it, Bill. Grandfather will love it. It will do him ever so much good, too," Janie said. "What about Mother? What is she going to say?" "We won't ask Mother. We will ask Grandpa," Janie laughed. "What if Grandpa wears his red tie and suspenders? J'll bet he is just dying for a chance to put them on." Bill spoke, still reluctant to agree, "T suppose he will wear them, and 91 also tell the story of going to the county fair, and winning them by throwing the most balls into a china pig's open mouth to do so. The boys will love that, too,' Janie coaxed. "Will you ask him to talk, then, Jamie?" "If you do it yourself, it will be more official. It's your affair, you know." Janie left her brother still pondering the subject, but she felt sure her suggestion would work out. WO hours later she heard the noise from twenty boys as they came in with boyish greetings. A little later she heard her grandfather going down the stairs to the playroom. She wanted to peck to see what he was wearing, but refrained. I will see soon enough if I play for Stan to sing, she thought. Stan came up to the living room to escort her down to accompany him. She was glad when he said, "Janie, ''m so glad I got to come and hear your Grandfather talk. He has had such wonderful experiences. Not only exciting, but so faith promoting. It is so fine for the boys to hear such stories." Janie knew that all the others had enjoyed her grandpa, too, for their faces were full of interest as he still held them busily in conversation. She saw that she was just in time to hear him telling the event of his winning the red tie and galluses, as he called them. He opened his coat and displayed them proudly. The boys all laughed uproariously. "Grandfather, I'm glad that you could be our speaker for our fireside. Especially since it turned out that Bob Hansen's little brother was not hurt seriously. You sure went over with the guys," Bill told him. Janie thought, how fine for the old and the young to become acquainted. We can do so much for each other. Few days later as she went to her grandfather's room she saw him sitting by the little old trunk he had brought with him. The lid was open, and some of the things he had lifted out and placed beside him on his bed. His face was sad, and Janie knew that he was pining for Grandma Foster. She hesitated, and was about to turn away, when he saw her. "Come in, Janie dear," he said. She stood by his side, and he told her of many of the things that belonged to Grandma. A little silk lace shawl that she had worn to keep warm on chilly evenings, he had given her for her seventieth birthday. A faded bouquet of pressed violets. "I gathered these from the woods," he said. "She loved violets in the early springtime." Janie saw the love in his eyes as he spoke of grandma. She bent down and kissed his cheek. "Grandpa, that lovely dress. It looks as if it belonged to a young girl." "Janie, this is the dress that your Grandma wore to her birthday party the night that I told her I loved her. The night that I asked her to be my wife. She was just eighteen then. She was young and beautiful, but of course I was a bit older." Just eighteen, Janie thought. I will be eighteen, and I can't have a party. "Janie, do you know, you look so much like your Grandma when she was your age, that when you came to the door. Just now, I could almost believe it was she." "Am I? I do hope I can be as lovely a woman as she," Janie said. "Do you remember that your birthday comes the same day as Grandma's? The twenty-fourth of May? Why bless you, that is day after tomorrow." "Yes, I do remember, and [ will be eighteen," Janie answered a bit solemnly. She was silent for quite awhile. She was thinking, how nice if I could have a party. I wonder if Stan would find me as nice and beautiful as Grandpa did Grandinother. Janie was almost startled when her grandpa spoke. "Janie, why don't we have a birthday party? [ll bet it would be as nice as Grandma's. There is plenty of room downstairs for fun and dancing," he said, and there were little smile wrinkles breaking all over his face. "Oh, but Grandpa..." Janie said, thinking of her mother and her forbidding a party on account of Grandpa. On account of Grandpa — and here it was Grandpa who was suggesting it. "Tll buy the birthday cake. It will be a big one with white frosting and pink roses, just like the cake that Grandma had," he said. His eyes were shining and his voice was full of enthusiasm. "I wondered what I was going to do with all this money." He jingled the few silver coins he had in his pocket. Janie threw her arms about his neck. "Grandpa, I love you so much. I would love having a party." "You had better get busy with your invitation list, and get on the telephone," he said. ANIE didn't tell him that she had made her list weeks ago, and had put it away because there 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 GRANDPA'S RED SUSPENDERS was to be no party. She ran to her mother. "Mother, I don't have to give up my party. Grandfather wants me to have it. He is going to buy a lovely cake for my birthday." Janie was breathless with excitement. "But, Janie..." her mother bean, "first there was the fireside, then the children bothering him for stories and tagging along on his walks. Now you ask for your arty." "Mother, please don't stop us. Grandfather remembered it was Grandma's birthday, too, on the twenty-fourth of May. It will be a happy time for him." "Maybe you are right. Grandpa has seemed much better since he has been doing things with the family. I guess your father was right about bringing him here to live. You have all been so willing to sacrifice and do things for one another. And Grandpa is doing wonders for our family. The children love his stories." Anne Foster looked very serious as she made this confession. "I am sure you are right, Mother. We gave Grandpa a comfortable room, and shut him up to enjoy it, mostly to keep him out of our way. What he really needed was to be one of us, a part of our family. He needed love, to help fill his loss of 93 Grandma." Janie put her arm about her mother, feeling grateful that her mother understood. There were telephone calls — calls in and out, that crowded the party line. Janie's guests were all invited. "Get out your guitar, Billy boy," she told her brother. "Grandfather and I are giving a party. You can strum to your heart's content. There will be singing and dancing and all the fun anyone can want. I'll bet Grandpa will think you can sing as well as Ricky Nelson," Janie laughed. Stan and Janie stood by the piano talking happily when Grandpa entered with the huge birthday cake. He carried it, and ceremoniously placed it on a table at the end of the room. It was a surprise to all except Janie and her mother. Everyone at the party exclaimed with ohs and ahs, and gathered to admire its pink and white loveliness. "It's for my best girl," Grandpa Foster said mischievously. Janie thought that her grandfather's smile was the best part of it all. It spread all over his face. He wore his bright red tie and suspenders, and Janie hoped that after she had danced with Stan, the first waltz, that Grandpa and she would dance the old-fashioned polka. Myrtle M. Dean, Provo, Utah, who is already well known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine, tells us that she loves to write, but her home and her family are her chief interests: "I had my first story published in The Relief Society Magazine in 1925 Then, for many years, I was occupied with my young family and with Church duties, and so did very little writing. In 1948 I was awarded third prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, and in 1949, I placed second. Since that time I have published several stories. I enjoy writing and divide my spare moments with genealogical research and writing family histories and short story writing. My husband is Charles E. Dean, and we have five children. One son is in charge of the electric computer and also teaches at Brigham Young University. Our four daughters are all married. We have nineteen grandchildren, including twin granddaughters. Our families are our clicf interest," ° Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1900 "For tur Ricuts or THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RiGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL NaTIons"' THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES: At this crisis (choosing a Congressional representative from Utah) in the affairs of the state it seems that every man and woman, and especially heads of families, should stand for the principles embodied in the good old Constitution and Declaration of Independence, formulated by our forefathers under divine inspiration... And whatsoever others may do who disregard the Constitution or trample it under foot, the Latter-day Saints above all people should maintain their integrity to it and manifest to the world that intense love of freedom and conscience and the true spirit of liberty that was the crowning virtue of our Pilgrim fathers, and which eventually must be the touchstone of human liberty. For all who love their country. —Editorial A LAW OF NATURE: Every life needs some diversity. Many mothers, homeworkers, are apt to allow their time and their minds to be entirely occupied with the one, all-absorbing theme: to run too exclusively in the one, never ending channel. Thus they injure, instead of gaining best results for their dearest purposes in life.... A square rod of native prairie will give a dozen varicties of grass.... This law of diversity in nature is a good law to develop in our homes. We want good, wholesome food all the year round, "but we want variety. And as with our physical natures, so also with the mental and spiritual parts of our beings. —L. L. Greene Richards WE'LL TAKE A RIDE We call for a soft cushioned carriage, A phaeton, barouche or coupe, Ashamed of the style of our fathers, Ashamed of the wagon and sleigh.... Our grandchildren — Ah, they will circle, Like birds, to and fro in the skies; Will play with the fangs of lightning And laugh when earth trembles and sighs; They never need "wait for the wagon," Nor ever be left by the car, But, mounting like eagles or angels, May challenge the specdiest star. —Isabel Darling RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN SAN LUIS STAKE: The Relief Society conference of the San Luis Stake was held in Sanford, Conejos Co., Colorado, on November 10, 1899, President Cornelia Mortensen presiding.... Sister M. Sellers, of Manassa, Sister P. E. Cullers, of Mountain View, Sister M. E. Hamil, of Morgan, and Sister. M. A. Berthelsen, of Sanford, all gave reports of their respective wards.... By request a special prayer was offered... In behalf of the sick and afflicted among us.... Sister Dollie Russell, of Antonito, spoke a short time upon the duties of sisters in the Relicf Society.... Sister Margaret Haskell, of Manassa, said, "I feel to bear my testimony that the spirit of God is with us. I believe a spirit of reformation is among the Latter-day Saints. God has spoken from heaven, and His work is established on earth.. —Mary F. Crowther, Stake Secretary, R. S. Page 94 H EPHZIBAH MENUHIN, §as accompanist, once again appeared in concert with her famous brother Yehudi Menuhin, at Carnegie Hall in New York City in November 1959. A child prodigy like her brother, Hepzibah received early acclaim for her remarkable power and perception as a pianist. After her marriage she went to live on a 24,000 acre sheep ranch in Australia, returning to Europe and America occasionally for brief concert appearances. Since 1954 she has lived in London, but had not appeared in the United States for twelve years before her 1959 concert. ILLIAN BARREL has been appointed Director of Public Relations for the Israel Government Tourist Office. She was formerly on the staff of the Consulate General of Israel in New York City. She has served as radio script writer and editor for the Voice of America, has worked on several committees for displaced persons in her own country, and has acted as publicity director for the Council of Democracy of Israel. BIRGIT NILSSON, Swedish soprano, recently sang the role of Isolde in "Tristram and Isolde" at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York City. Her voice was Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon rated by critics as the finest since Kirsten Flagstad sang the same role twenty years ago. They said her voice was "charged with power and exaltation." MY LaFOLLETTE JOHNSON has written a delightful history of "The White House and _ Its Thirty-two Families," (published by McGraw - Hill, New York) with a "kind, serene, uncritical, non-partisan" point of view. All the First Ladies are presented, complete with children, guests, servants, and pets; and all the Presidents, with their problems, their cabinets, their worldshaking decisions. 'The book is illustrated with many excellent photographs. TELLA SHEA and LOU BARRETT, sisters, both elderly widows, are still running the unique Shea and Barrett Gift Shop in Eureka, Utah, which has been their career for more than thirty years. Almost an "institution" in the famous mining town, the sisters have outfitted hundreds of brides and babies over the years, and have kept their store well stocked with women's and children's clothing and handmade articles for the home. Many of the articles are made by Mrs. Shea and Mrs. Barrett, and others are stocked on an exchange basis. Page 95 IT ORIAL <9 VOL. 47 Greatness From Righteous &ndurance HROUGHOUT the earth the peoples recognize and venerate men for great and enduring attributes and accomplishments. <A Latter-day Saint knows by the words of Abraham that noble and good men were known to the Heavenly Father in the spirit world before they were clothed with mortal bodies: Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones; And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my tulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good; and he said unto me: Abraham, thou art one of them; thou wast chosen before thou wast born (Abraham 3:22-23). Among these "noble and great ones" one would perhaps designate two men whose birthdays are celebrated in the month of February — George Washington and Abraham Lincoln — the former instrumental in winning freedom for and establishing the Nation under whose government the gospel could be restored; and the other holding that Nation indivisible as one in which the gospel could grow strong to spread over the earth. Washington was born in affluence and reared among educated men; Lincoln was born in poverty amid backwoods country, yet the Lord gave to both Page 96 trials and experiences which fitted them to be his tools in fulfilling his purposes — for both were prayerful men seeking the guidance of the Lord. In modern times it has become the vogue to search out real or imagined weaknesses in men of great accomplishments; but the writings of such critics, themselves not great, will grow dim and vanish, while the illustrious deeds of noble men will shine with increasing intensity and serve as _ beckoning lights to those who would emulate their greatness. It is proper to respect and admire fellow mortals who forward the lot of mankind and to commemorate their great accomplishments. Especially today when children, through modern media in their own homes, may read of and see and hear evil actions portrayed, it would seem necessary for mothers to teach their children wherein true greatness lies and impress upon them that life is not a primrose path but a continual struggle to preserve one's righteousness and _ integrity. It is essential to show children that every great man had to withstand and overcome temptations, endure tribulations, and adhere to right. A case in point are the lives of Abraham Lincoln and Stephen A. Douglas. Greatness came to Lincoln and disappointment and heartbreak to Douglas. It is noteworthy that Lincoln never raised his hand FEBRUARY 1960 NO. 2 EDITORIAL against the saints. His moderation toward a misunderstood and maligned people is in sharp contrast to the lying accusation, in 1857, of Douglas against the saints in Utah, as he sought political preference by accusing them "of all crimes known to the penal code." This action brought down on his head the fulfillment of the prophecy made to him by the Prophet Joseph in 1843, and Douglas was defeated for the presidency. Greatness came to Lincoln as the result of choosing the right and living by the truth, and failure to Douglas through his self-interest and hypocrisy. Accumulated minor evils grow in one, if unchecked, to tip the scales, in a crisis, away from righteousness, while daily self-discipline and the overcoming of selfishness will tip the scales to righteousness: George Washington refused a crown; Abraham Lincoln did not compromise 97 with truth; the Prophet Joseph Smith gave his life for the truth. Each one passed through disappointments, sorrows, trials and suffering. Even the Savior learned "... Obedience by the things which he suffered" (Hebrews 5:8). If repeatedly to the attention of her children a mother brings such facts, they will be strengthened and encouraged to resist temptations. While children may not fully appreciate the need for suffering the cares and sorrows of mortal life, stil] that mother who points out to them the mastery of the sufferings and temptations while indicating to them the accomplishments of great men, will guide them to the realization that the triumph of a soul in righteousness comes as the result of aspirations, self-discipline, and wise decisions in conformity with a noble goal. —M. C. S. F Solace in Prayer Rowena Jensen Bills I closed my book, then closed my eyes in prayer. Tonight my heart would linger in this room Where shadows of today would blend with gloom And follow when my footsteps reached the stairs. Oh, that I might recapture for this bare And empty soul some rapture from the loom Of yesterdays; memories lifting doom, Transcending out beyond this midnight air, God knows my heart and knows my need for rest. My prayers alone will comfort, end my quest, My search for answer far beyond the scheme Of mind. Enduring strength through faith—the stream Of life — will come and flowering pastures green Will speak of all eternal life unseen. 'Oh Say, WVhat Js Sruth?" HE day-by-day living of an honest and truthful life of personal integrity can be guided and blessed by a knowledge and a realization of life's eternal purposes. A friend once asked a Latter-day Saint woman why she so often referred to the teachings of her parents and the attitudes and beliefs of her ancestors, saying that it was better to consider only the present day, without reference or thought to the past or the future. The woman's answer explained her belief in eternal continuity. For the gospel has given us a knowledge and understanding of the fulness of the plan of salvation and our place in the ancestral lineage. 'This allpervading truth tells us that we are not living for one day alone, or even for the earthly existence. From the time of Adam there were teachings upon the earth which illuminated with purpose and grandeur the lives of the people who served the living God. The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his works of old. I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, or ever the earth was. When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were no fountains abounding with water. Before the mountains were settled, before the hills was I brought forth.... When he prepared the heavens I was there: when he set a compass upon the face cf the depth: When he established the clouds above.... Then I was by him, as one brought up with him: and I was daily his delight, rejoicing always before him... (Proverbs 8:22-30). If we had not this great and everlasting truth to guide our lives — this knowledge of the Father's Page 98 courts on high, where we communed with our heavenly parents — this knowledge of our privilege of returning, in eternity, to our former home — if we did not have this glorious blessing of truth, we might be indeed as one on a journey through a dark and forested landscape. We might see only the immediate surroundings and have no knowledge of the origin of our path or of its destination. How could we feel as much strength and serenity and hope and faith if we had knowledge of our present circumstances only? "Oh say, what is truth? "Tis the last and the first, for the limits of time it steps o'er." All of the most sacred events of earth life are given a deeper and a more tender meaning, because the light of truth glows upon them. Recipes rom the Tlorthwestern States ITlission Submitted by Effie K. Driggs Missionary CONFERENCE MEAT Loar 5 quarts meat 1 quart bread crumbs % c¢. Salt 5 beaten eggs 1% c. Ground onion 3 c. Milk 1 pt. Wheaties 3 cans tomato sauce 1 pt. Crumbled shredded wheat Mix all ingredients together. Bake in 9" x 12" pyrex pans at 325° F. For one hour. This recipe serves 45. Frozen Fruit SALAD 1 can (small) diced fruit cubes 2 tbsp. Mayonnaise 1 can (small) crushed pincapple sweet pickle juice "% ¢c. Nuts "% pt. Whipping cream slightly sweetened 1 small pkg. Philadelphia cream cheese cake coloring — red or green Allow cream cheese to stand at room temperature until soft. Cream with spoon, adding mayonnaise. When creamy and smooth, add enough pickle juice to make of consistency of thick cream soup. Drain fruit cubes and add crushed pineapple with its juice. Add part of chopped nuts, saving rest for top. Whip cream and sweeten it slightly, adding enough cake coloring to make it light green or pink. When cream is sufficiently stiff to stand by itself, but not buttery, fold it into the cheese and fruit mixture gently, but thoroughly. Place in freezing tray and let stand overnight, if possible. (When frozen, you may remove it from tray, wrap it in foil securely and place in your freezer to keep indefinitely, but it will not taste good if left in freezer tray uncovered for more than two days). The salad may be decorated with chopped nuts and cherries, or you may make roses of cherry rings, with green pepper stems. Freeze the decorations with the salad. Two-Hour Rotts 2 yeast cakes 4% c. Flour "2 ¢. Water (slightly warm) 1 tsp. Salt 2 eggs, beaten well 4 tbsp. Sugar 1% c. Scalded milk (cooled) Mix all the dry ingredients together and the liquids together. Combine and stir with a spoon, until blended. Let rise — roll out, and cut. Dip in butter. Make into Parker House Rolls. Bake at 400° F. For 10 to 15 minutes. Iruir CAKE 2 Ibs. Pitted dates (5 cups) 1 ¢c. Flour (sifted) 1 Ib. Brazil nuts, whole (3 cups) " tsp. Salt 1 c. Maraschino cherries, drained 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Mixed candied fruit 4 well-beaten eggs 1 c. Sugar Place all fruit in bowl. Sift dry ingredients. Sprinkle over fruit and mivy lightly. Add well-beaten eggs. Stir until all are lightly coated. Place in two pyrex loaf pans or four small tin pans, which have been lined with two thicknesses of brown paper. Bake 1% hours at 300° F. In small pans or 1 hour and 45 minutes in larger pans. Page 99 Expers' CuoiceE — PINE 1 c. Crushed pineapple ¥ ¢. Sugar 1 large lemon (juice) envelopes gelatin 5 Boil crushed pineapple, lemon juice, and sugar for five minutes. EF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 APPLE CHEESE SALAD % c. Cold water 1 ¢c. Boiling water 1 c. Grated cheese (mild) % pt. Cream (whipped) Soak gelatin in cold water. Add 1 cup boiling water. When this begins to thicken, add crushed pineapple mixture. (whipped). Let stand in refrigerator. Last, fold in 1 cup mild grated cheese and % pint heavy cream Serve with mayonnaise diluted with cream, topped with mint, cherry, or parsley. Best Brown BEANS c. Dry pinto beans ham hocks or two slices of ham c. Diced onions c. Diced celery Rr Ww Cook beans with ham hocks or diced ham. Celery, tomato sauce, and tomato soup. ALASKA APRICO no. 2/3 can peeled apricots or equivalent of cooked dried apricots Ib. Vanilla wafers c. Powdered sugar ty Mash apricots. Mix sugar, eggs, and butter. 1 can tomato sauce 1 can tomato soup salt, pepper, and vegetable salt to taste When almost done, add diced onions, T DeEuicut 5 pea eggs, well beaten % c. Butter 1 pt. Whipped cream 1 c. Chopped pecans Blend well. Va Place the wafer crumbs in bottom of pan, add the egg mixture — add a layer of mashed apricots, followed by a layer of whipped cream. Stand over night in refrigerator. Serves 12. OREGON 1 qt. Pineapple juice 1 qt. Ginger ale Add the other half of the wafer crumbs. Let Frzz 1 qt. Sherbet, either lime or pineapple 1 qt. Vanilla ice cream Blend all together with a beater and serve in punch cups. CENTENNIAL PUNCH c. Sugar qts. Water lemons oranges VW ld NY ft be Boil water and sugar 8 minutes. Cool. Hour or longer, on ice. Add ginger ale and s qt. Grape juice or cranberry juice smal] can crushed pineapple c. Pineapple juice qts. Ginger ale NY FY Add fruit juices and fruit. Let stand one erve. WASHINGTON CRAB SALAD pkgs. Lemon jello c. Boiling water tbsp. Vinegar WW by % tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Grated onion % c. Cottage cheese 100 RELI ¥% Yb. Fresh crab meat "% c, chopped green pepper 1 c. Chopped celery % ¢. Mayonnaise 2 tsp. Pimento Add boiling water to lemon jello. When it begins to thicken slightly, add all other ingredients. Place in refrigerator and cool until firm. Ipano QuicK Cookies 1% c. Condensed milk (approximately ) or butterscotch chips 7 ¢. Chopped nuts (more if desired) Crumble crackers into a bowl and add chips and milk. Blend until the crackers are moist. Bake in 325° oven until done, about ten to fifteen minutes. Cut in squares and serve. Pear PRESERVES 12 Cc. Sugar 2 chopped oranges 10 c. Diced pears 1 no. 2 can pineapple, diced blanched almonds, if desired Let pears and sugar stand over night. In the morning, bring to boil, add pectin, chopped oranges, pineapple, cherries, and almonds. Cook until thick, or according to instructions on pectin bottle. ¢ With Nothing in Fis Hands Maude Rubm My morning, endless acreage of pleasure, Was hedged by uncles. They were my boundaries, my fences, my horizon. My Uncle Walter bringing candy— (Crackle of paper, narrow stripes of red and green). My Uncle Tim had hard strong arms, Orange freckles on his wrists. He brought baseballs and marbles; fishing line. But quiet as a sleeping wind, The tallest, Patrick, came With nothing in his hand... No gift; But stories on his lips: Tales of a dog called Toby; of a farm, Another acreage of morning, hedged by other uncles.... Then stories done, a game of mumble-the-peg! RECIPES FROM THE NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION 30 square graham crackers 1 bottle pectin 101 1 ¢. Semi-sweet chocolate chips 1 bottle maraschino cherries with juice Only the Essentials Frances C. Yost OUNG Mike Palmer had carried his bride over the threshold of the old Miller place. The house was run-down and had been vacant for several months, but the rent was cheap, and that was important, when you were just starting marned hie. "Karen, I guess you're going to find out that you have to do without a lot of things that you're used to," Mike Palmer said, as he made a fire for her in the old coal and wood range. "You're going to miss cooking with electricity and doing dishes with a dishwasher, and having an automatic washer and dryer for your laundry. Honestly, I feel sorry for you. It's sort of like pionecring in the year 1960." "Pye thought of all those things, Mike, but I still have you, and I feel your love and this old coal stove will keep me warm. I have my two hands for washing dishes, and, well, I won't have to scrub clothes on a washboard like the pioneers, because there is our own conventional washer you bought at the secondhand store." Karen laughed softly. "It's going to be fun." "You're a good sport, I'll say that for you. But I want you to remember I just don't have money to burn as your father has." "Oh, Mike, Daddy doesn't have money to burn. Why he's really very careful with his money.' "Most people are that have money. That is if they have gotten ahead in this world. And _ believe me, Karen, I mean to be successful Page 102 like your father and some other men I admire. So, I'm going to start out by being careful about little things. I want vou to budget all your spending and trim off all the nonessential buying. If it's something we can't get along without, why, fine, buy it. But if it's something we can jolly well manage without, why pass it up and...." "Yes, I know, Mike. Only the essentials. I'm going to be very careful. You watch." "Tm sure you will be. Bye for now. Your ambitious husband is going out into the world and make a few honest dollars." Mike laughed, and raised her chin for his kiss. Alone, Karen surveyed the old house. There were curtains in the living room, but they were faded and full of holes. She would buy some pretty flowered cretonne and make drapes for the windows. Karen found just what she wanted, flowered cretonne, in the yardage department, which was much more economical than drapery cloth. She sewed every moment while Mike was gone all week. 'Then Fnday morning she hung the new drapes. Why, they made all the difference in the world to the whole house. She could hardly wait for Mike to come home and see them. HEN Mike walked in the door he had eyes only for Karen. He gathered her into his arms and kissed her tenderly. 'Then he raised his head and saw the drapes. At first his face registered surprise, and ONLY THE ESSENTIALS pleasure. Then, as if he had appraised their value in terms of money, his face hardened. "Mike, I know what you're thinking. You like the looks of the drapes, but you don't think we can afford them." "That's right, Karen. I believe we could have managed with those net curtains which were already here in the house. You remember what I said, only the essentials." Karen felt hurt. Sometime she would tell him how economical the cloth had been, and that she had sewed every stitch herself, not hired them made by a professional draper. It wasn't just spending the money for the drapes. It was Mike she was worried about. What type of man had she married? She had known him so well, but she hadn't known this financial side of him. Was Mike really close? Karen somehow abhorred tightness in a person. She surely didn't want to be married to a man who inspected the potato peelings to sce if they were thick or thin. During the evening Mike commented a time or two that he really liked the drapes, and that they made the whole house more beautiful, and that perhaps her judgment had been right about going ahead and buying them. OW that the drapes were hung, and the entire house had been polished, Karen had time on her hands. She dropped into the little rocker she and Mike had purchased at the secondhand store, the same time as the stove. She wished she had something interesting to read. She wondered if The Relief Society Magazine for the month was out yet. It would be nice to subscribe 103 for the Magazine, have it delivered to her home each month. But Mike would probably class it among the luxuries, as he had the drapes. "Maybe our budget doesn't allow for subscribing for the Magazine," Karen jumped up excitedly, "but, by golly, I'm not going to miss a single copy. I'm going right this minute over to Mike's mother and borrow her Magazine." What had Shakespeare _ said: "Neither a borrower, nor a lender be." "Well, in spite of what he said, I'm going borrowing, and I hope Mother Palmer is a cheerful lender. The Relief Society Magazine should be passed around to enjoy it." "Of course you can take the Magazine, Karen,' Mrs. Palmer said cheerfully. "But if you haven't had time to read it..." Karen hesitated. "IT can read it when you are finished. You go right ahead. I have these few peaches to make preserves of today, and oh, Karen, get a sack from the drawer and take some of these peaches home with you. There's a jar of fresh cream in the frig you can have. Mike just loves peaches and cream." "Oh, thank you, Mother Palmer. This will answer my dessert problem for our supper, and we'll have peaches on our cereal for breakfast." Karen left the house with the sack of peaches in one hand, a jar of cream in the other, and The Relief Society Magazine tucked under her arm. Karen curled up in the rocker and enjoyed the afternoon with the Magazine. "Why there are a dozen poems, and each one is a treasure. And three nice stories, besides the serial. 'There are three worthwhile articles, and in the features for the home are recipes and sewing hints, and bits of wisdom." AREN closed the little Magazine and held it almost lovingly to her. Why this Magazine could not be classed as a luxury. A single issue cost even less than twenty cents, and where could you get so much for your money? But Mike had said nothing but essentials. She guessed she would just have to figure on borrowing Mente: Palmer's Magazine for awhile. "Well, it's time to start supper." What would she fix? There were recipes in the Magazine. She opened it again. "How about a fluffy lemon chiffon pie?" Karen checked the ingredients. "T have everything to make it, luckily, but I have the fresh peaches Mike's mother gave me. No need for dessert. Oh, here's a main dish that sounds interesting and nourishing, macaroni loaf. It has cheese and hard-boiled eggs. I'll make this, and with a green salad, and some raisin cookies and the peaches and cream, such a meal should please any hard-working man." Karen was busy for the next two hours, and she was complimenting herself on baking the cookies in the coal stove and not burning a single one, when Mike came through the door. "How's my pretty little wife?" He kissed her lovingly. "Just fine, Mr. Palmer, and your supper is almost ready. Want to sit in the living room while I finish? It's a little warm in here." Karen wiped her brow. It was warm cooking on a coal stove, but soon it would be chilly weather and the same warmth would be inviting. Mike, tired from the day's work, dropped into the little rocker where Karen had been, and picked up the Magazine on the nearby table. He started reading. "Dinner, Mike," Karen called invitingly. "Come and get it." "T've become interested in a story. Say, where did you get that little Magazine?" "Oh, that's The Relief Socicty Magazine. I borrowed it from your mother." "You mean that Magazine's been in my home, and I've never noticed it before?" "Perhaps you didn't take time to read it, but it was there." Karen laughed. "Did you read it before you were married, Karen." "Never missed an issue. Fact is, it's my favorite Magazine, Mike." "Karen, it's a Magazine we should have in our home. You better make out a check tomorrow and send for a year's subscription." Karen felt something warm inside her. Why, Mike wasn't tight as she had imagined at all. She guessed about the hardest thing about being a bride was to get used to spending someone else's money. Especially a new husband's, when he didn't have any more than when he was courting and living with his folks, and not maintaining a house. Yes, it was true, she would have to make sacrifices, go without things she was used to as Mike had pointed out that first day, go without things she had taken 'for granted in her parents' home. But they would be able to have and enjoy the important things of life, like The Relief Socicty Magazine. She could hardly wait for. The postman to deliver her first copy. 104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 Sin Sime for Gertrude Lacy [* is tin time in Jewel, Oregon, where Gertrude Lacy, a Relief Society sister, has snipped and clipped with her magic sheers through a heap of discarded tin cans, and wrought miracles. Can you imagine an ordinary tomato can, stripped of its gaudy paper cover and emptied of its vitamin-laden contents, appearing again on your writing desk as a bouquet of pansies? Or a baby food can lighting on your lapel, looking like a real live butterfly? Mrs. Lacy has fashioned spiders, each spinning a web of its own. There are dolls and doll furniture, even covered wagons, complete with oxen, shovels, water buckets, and the usual pioneer gear. Her daisies, dogwood, and tulips know no season, neither do they fade nor tarnish, but glow and glisten year after year. One of the most charming results of her search for new designs for discarded tin material is a blend of modern and Victorian motifs. Using the same circular background which formed the foundation for her Christmas ornaments, she applied flowers cut from tin and painted them with transparent-colored laquers. The result is a wreath with a frilled, nosegay look which can be used as a decorative accent at any season of the year. These gay wreaths may be hung on the wall or placed flat on a table as a centerpiece. Her jewelry is another tin-craft highlight with a new approach; most anyone seeing one of her green necklaces invariably exclaims, "It's absolutely precious." Sister Lacy will be the first to assure you that the Relief Society work meeting program did much to interest her in handicraft and its possibilities. Recently she spoke on "Tinning Your Way to Beauty," at the Northwestern States Mission Relief Society Convention. Here she displayed many of her attractive creations and gave a demonstration with this inexpensive, inexhaustible metal. > Kindness There is no grandeur like the shape of kindness. — Ida Isaacson Page 105 The New Day Hazel K. Todd CHAPTER 5 Synopsis: Lynn Marlow, a dress designer, who lives in Chicago and is engaged to David Talbot, returns to Springdale, her home town, to visit her Aunt Polly and to find out if she has really forgotten her early love for Johnny Spencer. Johnny had married a Southern girl and she had died, leaving two children. Lynn meets the children, and finally goes to Johnny's home to see him. S Lynn watched, Johnny's face became whiter. His lips moved to say her name, but there was no sound. She didn't know when the child slid from her lap. But, presently, she was hugging her father's legs, and he was resting his hand on her head. But his eyes were still on Lynn, and there were tears in them. Then she stood up, shaking. 'The first shock had passed. This couldn't be Johnny. This was some strange, unknown person she had never seen before. "Johnny," she said in a voice that didn't belong to her. "Johnny... I...." She floundered for words, but the mght ones, if there were any, were lost. "Why... Why did you come?" She looked from his drawn face to his shaking hand on the little girl's head. 'a ial...' "T asked her to come 'cause she made Lindy a whistle." Peter was looking curiously at his father. Lindy blew the whistle shrilly. Johnny leaned down and picked Page 106 the little girl up in his arms. But he never took his eyes from Lynn. "If you came out of curiosity," he said, "maybe you have been satisfed." His words stung her vaguely. But it was not so much his words, but something else about him that made her feel so faraway. 'True, they were the same eyes, the same lock of hair falling over his forehead, but he was not the Johnny who had clung so tightly to her memory. "Peter," he said, still watching Lynn, "you shouldn't ask strangers into the house." No, it was not the Johnny she knew at all. A strange calmness was taking possession of Lynn. All the pent-up anxiety she had felt with anticipation of meeting him seemed to melt and run away leaving her quite clear to think. She sorrowed for him standing there — this Johnny who had doodled on the margins of her yearbook, this Johnny with whom she had chased water skaters. But this man standing before her, aloof and faraway, was not that same Johnny. He was a man grown bitter and withdrawn, so distant from her that she felt she could never reach him. "Please," she said, "I didn't come to annoy you. I — I came because I wanted to see you. I...." "You never seemed very anxious to see me in the years past," he said tersely. THE NEW DAY 'Johnny, I want to help you. Ae "T don't need your help, yours, or anybody else's," he said. "But Johnny, you can't...." "Will you please go and leave us alone!" His face was drawn and his hands were trembling. He looked old and tired. He will kill himself and ruin his children's lives, she thought. But there ls nothing I can do. "Tm sorry," she said. "I will go." YNWN started toward the door. As she did so, she caught Peter's gaze, puckered in a scowl. "You didn't see the turkey nest," he said accusingly. Lynn paused involuntarily. Lindy whimpered in her father's arms so that, without looking at her, Johnny slid her to the floor. To Lynn's surprise, the little girl came running to cling to her skirt, sobbing. She forgot Johnny standing there accusing her. She leaned and picked the child up and nestled the golden head against her shoulder. And then she remembered Johnny. He was crying, crying as though he were a little boy. When she looked at him he turned and went into the kitchen without saying anything. She stood, holding the child, filled with conflicting emotions, of pity to the extent that she almost wanted to run after him, and of a desire to run away from it all. It was easier to run. She loosened the child's arms from her neck and stood her on the floor. And then she said to the scowling boy, "I'm sorry I don't 107 have time to sce the turkey nest. I must go." She walked rapidly down the path, feeling weak and confused and almost guilty for running away. This one thing she knew. It stood out vivid and clear above the confusion. She wanted David. She wanted his calm serenity, his mature wisdom. Now she knew why he had put her off when she wanted him to come with her, why he wanted her to sce Johnny without him. She had to find out for herself. Funny how time could fly so quickly. In that few minutes she had looked into Johnny's face, she had come to know what must be an eternal truth — you can never quite go back. You must go on and on and on. 'The willow path, the house by the mill, the sodas, and the boy she had played with as a girl and loved as a teenager, was a lovely experience in the past. But she had grown older now, with new experiences and new needs. And it was the new needs that cried out to her. "Oh, David," she whispered, "I love you! I do love you! My house by the mill is a house on a hill!" In her turmoiled thinking, she had paid no heed to the way she went, and now she suddenly realized that she had been following the path winding round the hill and had suddenly come to a dead end in a secluded nook, with a willow bench built snugly in the rocks and foliage. 'Thoughtfully she moved to it to sit on its rustic seat. And then she suddenly gasped in astonishment. Carved in fancy lettering like the doodles on the margins of a book was the name Lindy Marlow! Johnny had made this bencli to her memory. She looked up aghast at the thought. 'There was an opening in the tree branches. Like a window it was, and silhouetted in the window was Aunt Polly's house. Johnny had sat there to think of her! She stood still, staring at the name. Since she had looked into Johnny's face, it was as though she had been snapping the threads one by one from some tangled dream, and now suddenly she had completely broken the last strand, so that it all became very clear. How foolish they had both been, striving to hold back the fleeting past that no one could stay. Someone must help Johnny! YNN sat thoughtfully on the edge of the rustic seat. Aunt Polly had wanted to get her to come home. Not alone because she wanted to see her. She and Mr. Jensen had been trying to help Johnny. Did they hope she could be reconciled with him? Lynn straightened up, suddenly. Perhaps she owed Johnny this. After all, it was, in a way, her fault — a man grown morose and bitter, two motherless children. She hesitated in her thinking. Was it so much her fault that she must take the place of the dark-haired Southern girl! But he had sent her away. Besides, she didn't love Johnny any more. 'That love belonged back on a green hillside to David. There must be a fairer way for everyone. She had a great longing for David. A sudden impulse to find a phone and call him possessed her. She stocd up quickly, and then she sat down again. She couldn't call David, not yet. Not until she had released Johnny from the hold she had over him. But how, when he refused to talk to her? Johnny was a stranger to her now. Someone had to help her, someone who knew this new silent and bitter Johnny. She paused again in her thinking. Johnny still went to the drug store. Of course! Mr. Jensen would know more about him than anyone else. Maybe there was some way he could help her. She rose from the bench without looking back, and went down the hill through the clover blooms. Mr. Jensen's face lighted up when he saw her. "Lindy," he said, "it's wonderful to have you here again." "Could we sit somewhere?" Lynn asked. He led her toward hers and Johnny's table. "Oh, please," she said, "let's sit somewhere else." They sat at the opposite table. "How is Aunt Polly?" he asked. She looked at him calmly. "Aunt Polly is very well. I have seen Johnny." "So you have seen Johnny, then?" he asked a little wearily. "Yes, I have seen Johnny and his children. What do you think I can do?" He looked at her with deliberation. "T had thought you could either marry him or release him from the memory he holds of you." She looked at him through a mist of tears. "I can't marry him, Mr. Jensen," she said. "I don't love him any more. I wasn't sure until I| saw him." He looked at her and nodded his head slowly. "At least we have solved that part of it. You sec, it was 108 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 THE NEW DAY necessary to make sure you were marrying the right man, too." Lynn looked down at her ring and back into his face. "I love David very much," she said. "T am sure you do," he said and patted her hand. "What — what will happen to Johnny?" Lynn asked. "He will spoil his life and his children's." "You must wake him up, Lindy. Wake him up from that old dream, just as you woke yourself up. He seems to cling to it since he lost his wife." "But how? He doesn't even want to see me. He ordered me out of his house." "T don't know how, Lindy. You see, you have someone else. Johnny doesn't." "He has his children." "Which is not quite the same. But it might be a way." yar night Lynn's sleep was filled with troubled dreams. She awoke early with a great longing for David. And why not? After all, why should she try to help Johnny? Especially when he refused to be helped. Could she help it if he built seats to her memory, if he named his children after her, if he chose to be a recluse! How unfair had he been to his wife? If she called David he would come immediately, and she could go away and forget Johnny and his unhappy life. She slipped out of bed quickly with a feeling of relief. Wishing to avoid the disappointment in Aunt Polly's face when she was leaving, Lynn waited until Aunt Polly had slipped through the kitchen door with her basket and old straw hat to gather asparagus. As Lynn reached the receiver from 109 the wall phone, her heart pounded frightfully. How wonderful it would be to hear David's voice. "Long Distance, please," she said to the inquiry. And then a sound at the door made her turn half guiltily, expecting to see Aunt Polly. But it was not Aunt Polly. It was Johnny's children. She stared, unbelieving, at Peter with a Marine cap sitting jauntily on the back of his head, and Lindy with a huge bow made from a piece of cloth tucked in her golden curls. "Peter!" she said aghast, "What are you doing here?" She became aware of a small voice coming from the telephone receiver she held in her hand. Only half realizing what she did, she hung it back on the hook. Then she collected her wits. "That is — I mean, did you come to visit Aunt Polly?" "We came to get you to see the turkey nest," the boy announced. "The turkey nest?" "Sure. You didn't see it yesterday." There were no words in her to match this boy. He took her breath away. Under different circumstances it might even be humorous. Here she stood helpless before a very important little boy and a tiny girl, decked out to make the best impression, demanding that she come and view a turkey nest. She half laughed an odd sort of laugh and dropped into the needlepoint rocker there. © "What 'ya laughin' at?" Peter demanded sternly. Again she felt inadequate. "I'm — Im sorry. I didn't mean to laugh. 'That is, J mean I shall be glad to sce the turkey nest!" There seemed nothing else to say. "Well, come on, then." Keeping hold of Lindy's hand, Peter turned and started through the door. HERE was nothing to do but follow his commands. But how could seeing a turkey nest possibly help to solve anything? And if she ran into Johnny what could she say that would do any good, especially when she felt sure he wouldn't even listen to her? And besides, she was becoming conscious of a new worry. The children had_ seized eagerly onto the friendship she had offered them to fill a need that had been denied them. It would already be difficult to break away, without carrying the friendship further. Peter turned to see if she was following. "Come on. We have to see it before dinner, 'cause Lindy has to go to sleep after dinner." She began fumbling in her purse. Peter was scowling impatiently. "Well, why don't you come?" "Could I please write a note to Aunt Polly?" Lynn asked much the same as she would have asked permission from someone who _ had jurisdiction over her. "Well, hurry up," Peter answered grudgingly, and watched her closely while she scribbled a few hurried words. She folded the paper and stood it against the cookie jar where she was sure Aunt Polly would see it. (To be continued) Alberta Revisited Helen Kimball Orgill The longing came to visit haunts of long ago, To view again the well-remembered past, and so I journeyed far and heard the feather-throated lark, Take up Alberta's note of spring the surest mark. I saw the garden's green, clothes swinging in the sun, Small lakes all flashing blue till day is done; And beading wheat of golden store for days to be, The grassy hills and fields as far as eye could see. I saw the Big Chief Mountain, so substantial, high, And snow-capped Rockies bright against the sky. I well remembered rainless land and, after toil, We chafed to be expecting much of parching soil. But, oh, the tender memories beyond compare, When falling rain brought joy from deep despair. But greater than the fruitage of the fields of grain, Is love remembered and sweet friendship's golden chain. With pleasure now I view the winding path we trod, When shadows of the day hid not our faith in God. Today I feel deep peace that drives away my fears, And strength has come that is not born of sheltered years. 110 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 FROM THE FIELD Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through: stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Vield" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY. ACTIVITIES ee 2 Photograph submitted by Anna C. Merrill WEST CENTRAL STATES MISSION, BILLINGS (MONTANA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETIES PRESENT "MEET THE WOMEN OF THE NEW WORLD" AT THE CLOSING SOCIAL, May 1959 Seated in front, left to right: Esther Prigmore as Mary Rowlandson; Bertha Smith as Margaret Winthrop; Jeanne Stoddard and her seven children as Anne Bradstreet and her children. Standing, left to right: Leota Bolingbroke as "the Voice of History"; Beyrle Esplin as Mrs. Noyes; Dorothy Knight as Sarah Pierrepont; Shirley Brown as Anne Hutchinson; Esther McArthur as Sarah Kimball Knight; Joann Schneiter as Pocahontas. Anna C, Merrill, President, West Central States Mission Relief Society, reports: "The three Billings Branch Relief Societies combined their efforts for their closing social in May. Under the direction of the three literature class leaders: Dorothy Knight, Leota Bolingbroke, and Esther McArthur, a pageant was presented entitled 'Mect the Women of the New World.' " Page 11] 112 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 Bike Photograph submitted by Mina Giles WASATCH STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR THE AFTERNOON SESSION OF STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, August 30, 1959 Front row, left to right: Mina Giles, President, Wasatch Stake Relief Society; Thelma Wootton, First Counselor; DeEsta Jordan, Secretary-Treasurer; Marjoria Provost, chorister; Ethel Watson, organist. There are sixty-four members in this chorus, representing all twelve wards of Wasatch Stake. Photograph submitted by Grace C. Gamble ONEIDA STAKE (IDAHO) MOTHER AND FIVE DAUGHTERS WHO HAVE SERVED AS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS Seated, Reda Ricks Allen, who was president of Riverheights Ward Relief Society, Mount Logan Stake, 1946-51. Sister Allen is the mother of eleven living children, seven daughters and four sons. Three have served on missions; one is now a bishop. Standing, daughters who have served or who are now serving as ward Relicf Society presidents, left to mght: Dorothy A. Miles, President, Banida Ward, Oneida Stake 1948-53; Opal A. Georgeson, President, Pocatello Second Ward Relief Society, Pocatello Stake 1949-54; Irene A. Young, President, Thatcher Ward Relief Society, Portneuf Stake 1952-55, now a member of the Portneuf Stake Relief Society Board; Margaret V. Allen, President, First Ward, Idaho Stake, 1955-57; Eunice A. Lindblom, appointed in August 1959 as president of Balboa Ward Relief Society, San Francisco Stake. Grace C. Gamble is president of Oneida Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 113 Photograph submitted by Cleona W. Hedenstrom OGDEN STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY, DEAF BRANCH SINGING MOTHERS Left to right: Marie Allen, work meeting leader; Ruby Smith, chorister; Beth Jensen, President; Phyllis Penman, social science class leader; Berdean Christenson, Second Counselor. Fawn Woodward and Cleo Peterson were absent when the picture was taken. Cleona W. Hedenstrom, President, Ogden Stake Relief Society, reports: "The singing of this group of sisters is conducted by Beth Jensen in sign language. The Ogden Stake Relief Society Board deem it a privilege to have the honor of working with these outstanding sisters." This Deaf Branch Relief Society was organized four years ago. It has an enrollment of twenty-nine members as of November 1959. NAMPA STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE DEPARTMENT PRESENTS OUTSTANDING PROGRAM AT STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY LEADERSHIP MEETING, September 1959 Alta Fuhriman, President, Nampa Stake Relief Society, reports an outstanding program presented at the September Relief Society Leadership Meeting under the direction of Ida Cafferty, stake Magazine representative. A song "Relief Society Magazine," written especially for the occasion by Agnes Frank, was sung as an introduction to the program. "Previous to the mecting," Sister Fuhriman reports, "Sister Cafferty had_a tape recording made of talks given by women from eleven wards, in which they made comments and gave their views, summarizing the benefits which they had received from the Magazine. Sister Cafferty took a colored slide picture of each participant, and showed the pictures on a screen, while she played the recordings. 'To complete the program, she showed a picture of our stake president and our high council advisor, who also made comments and recommendations to subscribe to the Magazine. 'The program was enthusiastically received, and I believe it will help in increased subscriptions and "? Use. 114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 Photograph submitted by Clara S. Roberts SOUTH SEVIER STAKE (UTAH), CENTRAL WARD FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT DINNER, March 17, 1959 Front row, seated, left to right: Florence Staples; Vilate Anderson; Clara Staples; Stena Anderson. Standing, left to right: Rosalee Marble, present President; Berneice Anderson; Helen Gray; Montez Christiansen; Pearl Ence; Alice Christensen. Sister Marble reports: "Our presidency paid tribute to each of the nine former presidents at a dinner on March 17th, at which time all members of the stake Relief Society presidency and their partners were invited to join us. The program was very inspiring, with a history given of our ward Relicf Society from its organization in 1874. The feature attraction of the evening was a small golden tree decorated with the pictures of the sisters who have been presidents of the ward Relief Society since its organization." Clara S. Roberts is president of South Sevier Stake Relief Society. WASHINGTON STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, WASHINGTON, D. C., May 24, 1959 Marcia C. Steele, President, Washington Stake Relief Society, fourth from the right on the first row; Lucile R. Smith, First Counselor, second from the right on NOTES FROM THE FIELD 5 the third row; Laura G. Snow, Second Counselor, seventh from the left on the second row; Mary Stimpson, stake Magazine representative, second from the left on the second row; Zina Willey, visiting teacher message leader, fifth from the left on the second row; Alfarette Liddle, work meeting leader, third from the mght on the third row; Rose Blana, theology class leader, first on the right on the third row; Verna Sanford, literature class leader, sixth from the left on the third row; Dorothy McDonnel, organist, fifth from the left on the third row; Ellen N. Barnes, chorister, center front, holding baton. Sister Steele reports: ''Sister Ellen N. Barnes, chorister, and Sister Dorothy McDonnel, organist, are giving outstanding service in directing our Singing Mothers. They are tireless in their efforts to give the individual wards aid and suggestions. Music and the appreciation of it have increased many fold through their efforts. "This chorus has sung at the Washington Stake spring quarterly conference for the past three years. The chorus is composed of sisters from thirteen Relief Societies in the Washington Stake." sae Photograph submitted by Phoebe H. Norton TAYLOR STAKE (CANADA) NEW RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE BOARD Front row, seated, left to right: Beth H. Toomer, Secretary; Avilda B. Harker, First Counselor; Phoebe H. Norton, President; Lillian H. Taylor, Second Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: LaDean P. Thomson, literature class leader; Mildred B. Harker, visiting teacher message leader; Ruth R. Rice, work meeting leader; Ruth S. Hovey, Magazine representative; Jehzell M. Harker, social science class leader; Lois D. Blumell, theology class leader; Inez WW. Gibb, chorister. Tena T. Sabey, organist, was not present when this picture was taken, 116 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 t 2a; Phe 'Photograph submitted by Ada K. Sneddon RENO STAKE (NEVADA) PRESENTS DRAMATIZATION "LEGACY" AT NOVEMBER 1959 LEADERSHIP MEETING Standing, front, left to right: Velda Ronnow; Louise L. Bell, Stake Education Counsclor. Second row, left to right: Claire Richards, soloist; Lora Allen, stake chorister; Celia Kecle; Bonnie Taylor; Irvin Schelin, stake Relief Society advisor; Ethel M. Ball, stake literature class leader; Carla Johnson; Veone Hastings. Back row, left to mght: Jo Ann Stewart; Joyce Young; Ann Garrett, stake organist. Ada K. Sneddon, President, Reno Stake Relief Society, reports: "The program 'Legacy' has created greater interest in the literature lessons. Four wards are represented in the picture." rN al Photograph submitted by Eleanor Nielsen BEN LOMOND STAKE (OGDEN, UTAIT) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY — OGDEN AREA LEADERSHIP WEEK, June 24, 1959 Bettv Tatton (fourth from the left on the front row), Maxine McAllister (sixth from the Iceft), and Colleen Cummings (first at the nght on the front row), each was aat the piano, in turn. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 7 Eleanor Nielsen, President, Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society, stands second from the left on the second row; First Counselor Mildred Cragun stands at the left rear, Evelyn Hull, Second Counselor, is third from the left in the second row. Wanda Chatelain, director of the chorus, stands at the right in the top row. Sister Nielsen reports: ""The eighty-five members of the Ben Lomond Stake Singing Mothers felt very honored at being asked to sing at the devotional services of the first Brigham Young University — Ogden Area Leadership Week held in the new Ogden Tabernacle, June 24, 1959." Photograph submitted by Alyce B. Glade BOISE STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS, OCTOBER 17, 1959, PORTRAYAL OF MEMBERS OF THE FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to right: Belle Carlton as Emma H. Smith; Eva Patten as Sarah M. Cleveland; Julia Kirby as Martha Knight; Ruby Smidt as Bathsheba W. Smith; Violet Wappctt as Desdemona Fulmer, Ruth Fisher as Elizabeth Jones; Lauraine Williams as Eliza R. Snow; Evelyn Harrell as Sophia Robinson; Gladys Marsh as Sophia R. Marks: Lydia Crist as Phebe M. Wheeler. Second row, left to right: Verna Hansen as Elvira A. Coles; Mellisa Ward as a Ann W hitney; Alice Davies as Philinda Merrick; Grace Miley as Phebe Ann awkes Back row, left to right: Grace Hopkins as Sarah M, Kimball; Marian Kowallis as Margaret A. Cook; Irene Hayes as Sophia Packard; Naomi Eller as Leonora Taylor. Alyce B. Glade, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: ""The members of the original Relicf Society organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith were portrayed by eighteen members of the Boise Stake for a most successful Visiting Teachers Convention. The convention program was directed by Clara Anderson, stake visiting teacher message leader, assisted by the Stake Relief Society Presidency: Alyce B. Glade, Zola Jeppson, and Eugenia Carver." 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 Photograph submitted by Effie K. Driggs NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY AT WORK DEPARTMENT DISPLAY, ANNUAL MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE, PORTLAND, OREGON, May 2d and 3d, 1959 Left to right: Calysta Stratford, Education Counselor; Effie K. Driggs, President; Sonoma Y. Toolson, Work Director Counselor. Sister Driggs reports: '""The picture was taken at one of the many displays in the work department. 'This display represents part of the ideas suggested and made by the mission Relief Society presidency. Included are: sock clowns to match Christmas boots; yarn octopuses wearing straw hats, flowered bonnets, and 'beanies,' all for Christmas giving; Christmas stockings and red-nosed reindecr. Also, there were recovered quilts, new appliqued quilts made from flour sacks, quilts tied with bright yarn and with blanket-stitched edges; suits and dresses from old suits and coats; closet storage boxes from grocery cartons, attractively covered with leftover wallpaper. 'There were smart aprons for all occasions, inexpensive guest towels made from linen yardage, and attractive clothes for children made from used suits. "It was work meeting, and the presidency, wearing their aprons, greeted the sisters ready for a model work meeting. 'The theme of this work meeting was 'Help direct the 1959-60 traffic to better homemaking ideas.' "Included in the one hundred thirty women attending the conference were all district presidencies and several officers from each branch of the mission, including two from faraway Alaska. 'The Sunday sessions were spiritual and informative. Compassionate service, the visiting teacher program, The Relief Society Magazine, and the lessons for the coming year were all featured with valuable helps given for each district and branch. 'The goals for the conference were designed to aid the sisters towards self-improvement, greater accomplishments, and a higher level of spirituality in their homes and in the Relief Society organizations." Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 24—The Great | Am Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 36, 37, and 38) For Tuesday, May 3, 1960 Objective: To understand the position of Jesus in the plan of salvation and of his concern for his saints. HE revelation (D & C, Section 38), which will command our attention principally in this lesson, was given at the beginning of the year 1831. The Church had been organized for about nine months. It was a year during which a large number of revelations were received for the development of the growing kingdom of God. Many commandments during this period were given for the temporal as well as for the spiritual welfare of the saints. The Great I Am Section 38 opens with some important truths regarding the Savior. Other books of scripture give affirmation of those truths, but this revelation provides us with a clear understanding of Jesus' position in the plan of salvation before his mortal birth. Thus saith the Lord your God, even Jesus Christ, the Great I Am, Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the same which looked upon the wide expanse of eternity, and all the seraphic hosts of heaven, before the world was made; The same which knoweth all things, for all things are present before mine eyes; I am the same which spake, and the world was made, and all things came by me. I am the same which have taken the Zion of Enoch into mine own bosom; and verily, I say, even as many as have believed in my name, for I am Christ, and in mine own name, by the virtue of the blood which I have spilt, have I pleaded before the Father for them (D & C 38:1-4). In verse one we find the title to this lesson — The Great I Am. This title or name of the Christ is related in meaning to Jehova, a name which the Jews regarded as sacred to the extent of not saying it. They substituted the Hebrew name Adonai (Ad-o-ni), meaning "the Lord." The use of the title 1 Am is found Page 119 in other scriptures and is definitely associated with Jesus in this and other revelations. (See D & C 29:1; 39:1.) Certain Jews at the time of the Master criticized him and declared themselves to be of Abraham's lineage, and thereby believed themselves preferred above others. 'The Savior used this expressive statement in declaring his divine calling: "... Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I am" (John 8:58). In effect, the Lord was saying that before Abraham was, he was Jehova, or the Being that gave revelation to the prophets. Seraphic Hosts In this revelation (Section 38), the Redeemer is said to have surveyed the wide expanse of eternity and also to have seen "... The seraphic hosts of heaven, before the world was made" (D & C 38:1). Those who compose the seraphic hosts are seraphs or angels, without wings, however, for when wings or flying is associated with such personages, the language is symbolic and conveys the meaning of the power of motion. Jesus as Creator As one continues to read this revelation, he is immediately impressed with the additional point that Jesus is truly the creator of this earth and that all things come by him. (See D & C 38:3.) His work with the children of men in this world has not been confined to what we sometimes call the New Testament or meridian period, but, from the very beginning, he is the Lord of the Old Testament dispensations. Notice how verse 4 points this up: I am the same which have taken the Zion of Enoch into mine own bosom; and verily, I say, even as many as have believed in my name, for I am Christ, and in mine own name, by the virtue of the blood which I have spilt, have I pleaded before the Father for them (D & C 38:4). For those who obediently follow the Master's way of life, the full benefits of his atonement are available, while, on the other hand, those who become hardened in their lives must look forward to a "... Judgment of the great day, which shall come at the end of the earth" (D & C 38:5). In the meantime, however, the hardened or "wicked" unrepentant remain in chains of darkness in the spirit world. (See D & C 38:6; and Alma 4o0:11-14.) The same Jesus who was born in the meridian of time gave commandments and revelations to the prophets of the Old Testament. The Book of Mormon brings out clearly that it was Jesus Christ who spoke to the prophets before the time of his birth into mortality. (See I Nephi 19:10; 3 Nephi 11:10, 14.) Important in this regard are the words of the resurrected Jesus to the Nephites as recorded in 3 Nephi 15:5, 10. God Is Perfect That God is perfect is acclaimed in scripture. (See Mt. 5:48; D& C 93:21, 26.) Revelation 38 makes known concerning the Lord's knowledge of all things. The same which knoweth all things, for all things are present before mine eyes (D & C 38:2). In Section 88, verse 41, the Lord also makes known his characteristic of being all-knowing. 120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT From the Lectures on Faith, prepared for use in the School of Elders, during the winter of 1834- 35, there are some meaningful passages concerning the perfection of God in all things. 'These two quotations are important:... God is the only supreme governor and independent being in whom all fulness and perfection dwell; who is omnipotent [all-powerful], omnipresent [everywhere present] and omniscient [all-knowing]; without beginning of days or end of life; and that in him every good gift and every good principle dwell..... Without the knowledge of all things, God would not be able to save any portion of his creatures, for it is by treason of the knowledge which he has of all things, from the beginning to the end, that enables him to give that understanding to his creatures by which they are made partakers of eternal life and if it were not for the idea existing in the minds of men that God had all knowledge it would be impossible for them to exercise faith in him (Lectures on Faith, Lecture 2, paragraph 2; Lecture 4, paragraph 11). God is not relatively perfect, but his perfection is absolute. Latterday Saints have recognized that our knowledge of the Lord and our relationship to him are known by what he has revealed on these matters. Men may believe ideas which are not in the revealed word of God, but these notions are but the products of their own thinking and not from him who knoweth all things. (See 2 Nephi 9:20, 28-29.) The Latter-day Saint finds in modern revelations great comfort, strength, and a security such as that experienced by Ammon of The Book of Mormon, as related in Alma 26:35-36. "T Am in Your Midst" Continuing in Section 38, we learn: 121 But behold, verily, verily, I say unto you that mine eyes are upon you. I am in your midst and ye cannot see me; But the day soon cometh that ye shall see me, and know that I am; for the veil of darkness shall soon be rent, and he that is not purified shall not abide the day (D & C 38:7-8). Here again, the Lord gives further assurance to his saints that there is reason to rejoice for "I am in your midst and ye cannot see me." As one remains true to the faith, the Spirit whispers to his soul that this is the work of God, and that he is directing it through his appointed servants. He has not always made himself visibly manifest, but the time will come when he shall withdraw the veil separating himself from us, and we shall then behold him. 'The comforting assurance that he is with his Church and people abounds in the soul of every true Latter-day Saint. One may be reminded of the vision of the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Kirtland Temple in 1836,-when he said: I saw the Twelve Apostles of the Lamb, who are now upon the earth, who hold the keys of this last ministry, in foreign lands, standing together in a circle, much fatigued, with their clothes tattered and feet swollen, with their eyes cast downward, and Jesus standing in their midst, and they did not behold Him. The Savior looked upon them and wept (D. H. C. Il:381.) As with them, so today the Savior is continuing to direct his Church on the earth. When the Lord at his coming shall be seen, it is said that the purified will abide that day. Those who have accepted the Savior as their Redeemer are declared in this revelation to be "clean." As to the world at large, the powers of dark- ness prevail upon the earth because of the great apostasy which will bring destruction to the tares, or the wicked. (See D & C 38:10-12.) Notwithstanding the saints are "clean," there are those among them who are not taking full advantage of their privileges in receiving greater blessings. Although the Lord is mindful of their weaknesses, he will extend his mercy to them. (See D & C 38:14.) Section 37 In this short revelation given in December of the year 1830, the Lord makes known that the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon were to discontinue their present activities in "translating" or revising the Bible until they go to the Ohio valley. The membership of the Church was commanded also to "assemble together at the Ohio." 'This is the first time that a place of gathering was indicated for the Church as a whole. We have already learned of the growth of the kingdom in that area. (See Lesson 22.) A Promise of the Future Returning to Section 38, we learn that the Lord reveals his intentions concerning the temporal welfare of the saints. It is evident that not only the Prophet Joseph Smith but the poor among the saints had prayed for the time when the condition of those in need might be improved. Taking cognizance of their condition, the revelation reads: And for your salvation I give unto you a commandment, for I have heard your prayers, and the poor have complained before me, and the rich have I made, and all flesh is mine, and I am no respecter of persons. And I have made the earth rich, and behold it is my footstool, wherefore, again I will stand upon it. And I hold forth and deign to give unto you greater riches, even a land of promise, a land flowing with milk and honey, upon which there shall be no curse when the Lord cometh; And I will give it unto you for the land of your inheritance, if you seek it with all your hearts (D & C 38:16-19). What are the promises of the Lord to his people who cry unto him for relief from a lack of the things of this earth? The day will come, when the Lord stands upon the earth, that his people shall inherit it and receive all of the bounteous blessings that the earth will provide. By what means will these blessings come to the saints? Here is a commentary upon this question: God's design was to give to His gathered people great riches, even a land of promise, "upon which there shall be no curse [of destitution] when the Lord cometh." The Lord promises to give His Saints such a land, if they will seek it with all their hearts. It cannot be obtained except through diligent, God-directed effort (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 204). Notice in verse 20 how the promised land is to be:.. For the inheritance of your children forever, while the earth shall stand, and ye shall possess it again in eternity, no more to pass away (D & C 38:20). Were the saints to wait until some long period ahead for the relief of the poor among them? No, certain members of the Church in the New York area were to "look to the poor and the needy, and administer to their relief that they shall not suffer.' (See D & C 38:34-35.) 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT The commandment had gone forth that the members were to go to the Ohio, where the law of the Lord would be given his people. (See D & C 38:32.) The keeping of this law would bring great spiritual blessings as well as temporal. It is the Lord's purpose to provide for his saints in his own way and not after the manner of the world. An explanation of that law of the Lord is spoken of in the revelations to be studied in this course of study. There are yet great blessings to be received by the Lord's people. As we return to a study of the future as envisioned in this revelation, it is apparent that there were questions among the members in 1831 concerning the laws of the land, and what the saints might expect. When the Savior comes to inaugurate his reign, he shall be the ruler of the earth, and then men shall truly be free. But, verily I say unto you that in time ye shall have no king nor ruler, for I will be your king and w atch over you. Wherefore, hear my voice and follow me, and you shall be a free people, and ye shall have no laws but my laws when I come, for I am your lawgiver, and what can stay my hand? (D & C 38:21-22). From the Great I Am, who is our Creator and Redeemer, we are asked the question (38:22): "What can stay my hand?" The voice of the Spirit to each Latter-day Saint verifies the all-perfection of God and his designs for his people. The answer to this question is given in many scriptures. (See D & C 76:3; 121:33; Mt. 24:35.) Be One in Purpose and Action Following the assurance that the time will come when a righteous reign of law will begin with the sec- 123 ond coming of Christ, the Lord informs us that each person is to esteem his brother as himself and to "... Practice virtue and holiness before me" (D & C 38:24). When men so esteem their brothers, then they will have come, in a_ large measure, to the objective of the accomplishment of the Lord's purposes by following this important truth: "... I say unto you, be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine" (D & C 38:27). Unity in faith and oneness in action have been the objectives of the Church in all dispensations. The necessity for unity in The Church of Jesus Christ is strongly expressed in Jesus' words as he prayed to the Father that his apostles might "be one, as we are." Furthermore, it was his desire that all those who would believe on him:. May be one; as thou, Father, are in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us: that the world may believe 'that thou hast sent me (John 17:21). As the saints of this dispensation become unified in the building up of the kingdom of God upon the earth, to which they are committed, then the world will more readily believe in the Christ and in the restoration of the gospel. Are not people attracted to the standard of righteousness by the fruits of the gospel as they are observed in the lives of the members of the Church? This was the prophetic understanding of Ezekiel who saw the gathering of Israel in our dispensation, and who saw that the unbeliever should "... Know that I am the Lord, saith the Lord God, when I shall be sanctified in you before their eyes" (Ezekiel 36:23). (Italics are the author's.) (See Ezekiel 36:21-24.) So important is the need for unity among the members of the Priesthood of the Church and also the other members, that President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Of the First Presidency has often admonished the Church to come more fully to a oneness of action. We are all bound together as one, and insofar as we fail, as individuals, to carry on the work which we are supposed to do, we are to that extent hindering the carrying on of the work of the Lord and to that extent we are responsible for the lack of fulness of growth that may occur on account of our failure (One Hundred Twenty-First Semi-Annual Conference, September 29, 30, and October 1, 1950, page 171). The Civil War Consistent with 'he theme of this revelation regarding the Lord's concern for his people, another important part of the future is called to their attention. The first intimation of the coming American Civil War is indicated in this manner: Ye hear of wars in far countries, and you say that there will soon be great wars in far countries, but ye know not the hearts of men in your own land. I tell you these things because of your prayers; wherefore, treasure up wisdom in your bosoms, lest the wickedness of men reveal these things unto you by their wickedness, in a manner which shall speak in your ears with a voice louder than that which shall shake the earth; but if ye are prepared ye shall not fear (D & C 38:29-30). Important in understanding this portent of things to come is this comment from the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 208: In the United States the opinion prevailed that internal troubles, such as those from which France, Belgium, Poland, and some other countries suffered, could not arise in the great Republic. The people generally did not know what was in the hearts of men, but the Lord knew, and He gave in this paragraph, the first mtimation that there would be civil war in the United States... If they [the saints] were wise, they would prepare themselves by gathering to one place. As a matter of fact the Saints did, in due time, go to the valleys of the Rocky Mountains, and in those impregnable "chambers" they were effectively secluded 'for a little moment, until the indignation be overpast" (Isa. 26:20). Seek the Riches of Eternity After the Lord counseled his people to care for the needs of the poor (D & C 38:35), reference is made to the time when his servants will be endowed with power from on high and sent forth to the nations. (See D & C 38:38.) Not many years later, when the Church was assembled in Ohio, a great Pentecostal feast was enjoyed at the dedication of the Kirtland Temple and manifold blessings accrued to the Church membership therefrom. (See D & CG, Section 110.) Significantly, this revelation draws to an end with the admonition that:.. If ye seek the riches which it is the will of the Father to give unto you, ye shall be the richest of all people, for ye shall have the riches of eternity; and it must needs be that the riches of the earth are mine to give; but beware of pride, lest ye become as the Nephites of old (D & C 38:39).: This stern reminder of the Nephite period and the destruction of their civilization and people is one to be remembered. Examples of the results of pride and other evils as emphasized by Nephite historians who sawthem either in vision or who witnessed the destructions are worthy of careful consideration. (See 2 Nephi 26:10; 3 Nephi 6:15; Moroni 8:27.) 124 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT To the Relief Society sisters who dedicate so much of their time and effort to the assistance of those in need, the words of Jacob will give encouragement to continue and further to assure their own eternal welfare. Think of your brethren like unto yourselves, and be familiar with all and free with your substance, that they may be rich like unto you. But before ye seek for riches, seek ye for the kingdom of God. And after ye have obtained a hope in Christ ye shall obtain riches, if ye seek them; and ye will seek them for the intent to do good — to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick and the afflicted (Jacob 2:17-19). Section 36 The short revelation numbered thirty-six was addressed to Edward Partridge, who later became "a bishop to the Church." (See D & C, Section 41.) It was during the month of December 1830, that he was baptized. In this revelation he is called to preach the gospel boldly. (See D & C 41:1, 3.) By his receiving the Holy Ghost, Brother Parttidge was to be taught "the peace- 125 able things of the kingdom" (D & C 36:2). As a missionary is called to. Bring people to repentance, so this recent convert to the Church was to speak peace to the souls of men who would thus be rescued from the evils of the world (See D & C 36:6.) We have in this revelation the first indication that temples werc to: be constructed in this dispensation. The Lord says, "... I will suddenly come to my temple" (D & C 36:8). Edward Partridge was present in the Kirtland Temple when the Savior accepted it as his own. (See D & C,. Section 110.) Questions for Discussion 1. What evidence do we have for the fact that Jesus of the New Testament is the same Being who gave revelation to the prophets of the Old Testament? 2. What assurance do we find in this lesson that the Lord is with his Church today? 3. What indication is there in this lesson that the Lord recognized the prayers. Of his saints? In what way? 4. According to this lesson, what blessings will come to the faithful saints when. The Savior comes? 5. Of what necessity is it for Latter-day Saints to be unified in purpose and action? Visiting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 24—"Be Faithful Unto the End, and Lo, | Am With You...." (D & C 31:13). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, May 5, 1960 Objective: Only by enduring to the end can we be with our Father in heaven and' hope to reap his choicest blessings. T is a rule of life that each of us, along with joy, success, and accomplishment, must meet his share of trials, troubles, disappointments, and temptations. One of the reasons we are put on this earth is for us to learn how to stand firm and strong against these buffetings. At no time should we boast we are saved. As long as we live we are subject to the possible temptations of Satan. This is a fundamental part of the great plan of salvation. Neither can we at any time hope to sit back and rest upon past successes and achievements. We either progress and grow or we slip backwards. The Lord hopes we will live joyously, courageously, and enthuslasticaliy all the days of our lives. We are promised, if we do this, we shall receive rich, eternal blessings. In The Book of Mormon, King Benjamin says:.. If they hold out faithful to the end they are received into heaven... For the Lord God hath spoken it (Mosiah 2:41). The Lamb declared: "... If they endure unto the end they shall be lifted up at the last day... (I Nephi 13:37). As we ponder this message, "Be faithful unto the end, and lo, I am with you..." let us remember that "... These words are not of man... But of me, even Jesus Christ, your Redeemer, by the will of the Father" (D & C 31:13). It is an encouraging fact that the Lord gives us no commandment nor admonition which is beyond our ability to obey. 'The commandment "to be faithful unto the end" may, at first glance, seem to be an extremely severe one. We know our own weaknesses and the ease with which we can succumb to them. Furthermore, of course, we never know under what circumstances or when our own end will come. How then can we be constantly faithful? President Grant gives us an explicit answer. He said, "Let us all do the will of our Father in Heaven today, and we will then be prepared for the duty of tomorrow, and for the eternities to come" Theme, 1943-44). Being faithful unto the end consists simply in meeting each day's problems and temptations constructively and righteously as they come. One of the beautiful and encouraging aspects of life's experiences is that each problem met and surmounted strengthens us to meet the next. If we approach them intelligently, all of life's experiences, good or bad, can serve as stepping stones to a stronger, more stalwart character. Many of the influences which divert us from constant faithfulness are not the big problems but life's little temptations. In the western part of the United States stands a forest of trees which, for centuries, have withstood the rigors of winds and storms. Today, despite their stalwart heights and sturdy roots, they are slowly but surely dying. Minute worms have worked their way under the bark and into the hearts of the trees. 'These little termites are killing trees which for centuries have withstood mighty storms. So it is with life, often it is the little temptations which enter into our souls and weaken our resistance. Some of these destroying influences consist of such things as greed, falsehood, deception, shortness of temper, arrogance, fault-finding, slander, and intolerance. If we guard against these little weaknesses and meet each problem honestly, courageously, as it comes, recognizing that none of us can see the end from the beginning, then the Savior has assured us that he will be with us and will help us to endure to the end. He has promised: "Be faithful unto the end, and lo, Iam with you...." (MIA 126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 Work I leeting—Physical Safety Factors in the Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 8—Simple First Aid Helps Charlotte A. Larsen For Tuesday, May 10, 1960 Objective: To show how the knowledge of first aid can be valuable in helping onesclf and family in cases of emergencies. IRST aid is defined as the immediate and temporary care given the victim of an accident or sudden illness until the services of a physician can be obtained. All adults should have some training or knowledge of first aid in order to be prepared for any such emergency. First aid is more than a dressing or a splint. It commences with the calming effect, of one who knows what to do, upon the stricken person. He must know what not to do as well as what to do. Thus he avoids the errors so commonly made through well-meant but misguided efforts, knowing that any of these first aid measures should not be overdone, knowing that if they are overdone they may turn out to be more harmful than helpful, and knowing that the moving of injured parts should be kept to a minimum. Burns Prevention of burns is more satisfactory than treatment, especially since burns are the largest cause of accidental death among small children and one of the most important causes of death among children up to fifteen years of age. A severe or extensive burn should be seen at once by a physician. If shock is present, treat it first. Keep the injured person lying down with his head low, wrap him in blankets and keep him warm. If he is conscious, give him small drinks of water frequently. Poisoning When a person swallows poison one is faced with a need for immediate action. Call a doctor. If you know what the poison is, tell him, and ask him what you should do until he arrives. Remember two important things: 1. Dilute the poison with fluids. 2. In many cases it is expedient to induce vomiting quickly. Give four to seven glasses of either lukewarm salty water, sodawater, baking soda solution, several teaspoonfuls to a half glass of water, or plain lukewarm water to the patient. After the victim has drunk several glasses of the solution in quick succession, vomiting may be induced by using a finger in the back of the throat. Repeat the diluting and washing out process, if it appears that poison still remains in the stomach. Then give the anPage 127 tidote for the poison if known. (Do not try to induce vomiting in cases of swallowing alkali, lye, or acid. ) Broken Bones Unless it is absolutely necessary to move a person with a broken bone, don't do anything except apply an ice bag to the injured part to relieve pain, until professional help arrives. If the injured person must be moved, keep him lying down flat; move him on a wide board, such as an ironing board or door. Broken bones in hand, arm, or shoulder should be supported by a sling. 'Wounds Most wounds heal quickly if they are cared for properly, but wounds can become extremely serious if infection develops. Most infections result from neglect of simple injuries, such as small cuts or scratches. Remember, get immediate first aid for all wounds, no matter how slight they may seem. First Aid Kits Every home should have a first aid kit, and the knowledge of how to use it. There is a unit-type kit, which has a complete assortment of first aid materials put up in standard packages. Each unit package contains one or more individual dressings, each dressing complete in itself, and sealed in a sterile wrapper. All liquids for treating injuries are put up in individual, sealed glass ampoules, and consequently cannot deteriorate. There are no bottles to spill or break. Illustrations and instructions for the use of the contents are on the front of each package. The contents are clearly indicated on the top side in bold type. Unit refills are easy to obtain. Relief Society members have always been encouraged to know how to care for illness and emergencies in their homes. A knowledge of some first aid principles is a necessary part of caring for one's family. Questions 1. What is the definition of first aid? 2. Explain the value of a first aid course. 3. Discuss, the necessity of having first aid kits available. Win ter G. A rden Eva Willes Wangsgaard Hillocks of white In the cold garden where Rose-tuffled petals Once scented the air. Foliage of crystal Where hummingbird wings Jeweled altheas To sate hungerings. With icicle poniards Tall white soldiers stalk Forbidding all comers The unbroken walk. 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 Lf iterature—America's Literature — A New Nation Speaks Lesson 16—Thomas fevrenson (1743-1826) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 149-154) For Tuesday, May 17, 1960 Objective: To understand and appreciate Jefferson's contribution to the American way of Life. Jefferson's Influence on His Contemporaries A movement so vast as the founding of a new Nation can never be the work of any one man; on the other hand, neither is it a communal movement, rising spontaneously, anonymously into existence. Being aware that cach man in his own time makes his unique contribution, if one were to work from the outside of the Revolutionary movement toward its center, removing first those men least indispensable, a strong case might be made that the last man to go might be Thomas Jefferson. The War for Independence was a liberalizing culmination of modern man's belief in his own ability under God to perfect himself and his governing institutions to heights never before attained; it was one of the greatest ventures in faith throughout recorded history. All peoples of the world have marveled at the courage and sincerity of purpose of the signers of the Declaration of Independence who wrote: "with a firm reliance on the protection of divine Providence, we mutually pledge to each other our Lives, our Fortunes, and our sacred Honour." It is particularly for Americans to realize that the American Revolution was the first revolution. More than any other, its aspirations were higher, its accomplishments have been more enduring than those following. And its credo, the great words which molded all factions into one greatness of purpose, and which afterward have been carved in stone to carry the torch of the departed Founding Fathers to later generations—these words came not so much from Jefferson's pen as from his heart and head. Jefferson was supremely qualified to write the Declaration of Independence. _ Its phrases are immortal because in writing it he has translated into living words eternal principles. And this, his greatest literary achieve-- ment, is entirely consistent with the entire pattern of his life, as proved by his formative impact on his contemporaries during the first fifty years of the young Nation's existence when patterns were being formed, a tone established, a direction pointed, which have ever since characterized the American national. Personality. Jefferson's Life Encircled within Jefferson's perPage 12% Paul's Sieind THOMAS JEFFERSON sonal seal was his motto, "Rebellion to tyrants is obedience to God." His origins prepared him for such a motto; his maturity became its realization. Born in Albemarle County, Virginia, he had had bred in his bones the love of freedom and individuality which have always characterized rural, agricultural life. At age seventeen he entered William and Mary College, was admitted to the bar at age twenty-four, and was a gentleman farmer in 1775 when he was chosen a delepaie™ to the Continental Congress. After writing the Declaration of Independence in 1776, he became a member of the Virginia Assembly and, in 1779, was elected Governor of Virginia. From that date until his retirement to Monticello, his country estate near Charlottesville, Virgimia, in 1809 at age sixty-six, most of his energies were divided among his many public offices and the role he liked best: that of a gentleman farmer. He was a member of Congress, minister to France, Secretary of State, Vice-President of the United States, and President from 1801 to 1809. Yet so large and liberal a man was he that the offices he held were secondary to his thought, both in his own mind as in ours. Jefferson died at Monticello on July 4, 1826, the fiftieth anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence. Ten days before his death he wrote a letter to Roger C. Weightman declining an invitation to attend anniversary commemorative exercises. An excerpt from his letter reveals love of liberty still to be his dominant passion, and the world-wide fulfillment of the Declaration of Independence his greatest hope: May the Declaration of Independence be to the world... The signal of arousing men to burst the chains under which monkish ignorance and superstition had persuaded them to bind themselves, and to assume the blessings and security of self-government. That form which we have substituted, restores the free right to the unbounded exercise of reason and freedom of opinion. All eyes are opened, or are opening, to the rights of man.... The mass of mankind has not been born with saddles on their backs, nor a favored few booted and spurred, ready to ride them legitimately, by the grace of God. How consistently Jefferson followed the words of his motto, "I have sworn upon the altar of God eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man." This can be seen also from his tombstone, carved with the three accomplishments for which he wished to be remembered. 'Two of these accomplishments were statements which he wrote in defense of frecdom; the third was the establish- 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT ment of a university which directly reflected his image, since, as the architect, he drew every window and fireplace; as the landscape gardener he placed every tree and bush; he pushed the bill creating the University through the Virginia State Legislature, then handpicked the faculty and the student body, the courses to be taught as well as the books in the library—all dedicated to his concept of education's role in creating a free society. His tombstone reads: Thomas Jefferson Author Of the Declaration of American Independence of The Statute of Virginia For Religious Freedom, and Father of the University of Virginia The Versatile Jefferson Strongly resembling his older contemporary and _ good friend, Benjamin Franklin, Jefferson was interested in almost all phases of life around him. He invented an ingenious dumb-waiter and weathermeasuring device for Monticello, of which he was the architect, and which set the fashion of the classic Greek column which became so prominent in Southern mansions. He dearly loved music. As one of his Negro slaves recalled when interviewed in 1840, Jefferson owned three "fiddles," and more often than not played at least a half hour following the evening meal, as well as in the afternoon. And never did the Negro see him riding or walking out-of-doors unless he was singing. In his fields of alfalfa and tobacco he was happiest, believing in the balancing, restorative qualities of nature. He introduced many new seeds 131 into America, was one of the first to practice systematic crop rotation, and carried on a voluminous correspondence in both Europe and America on agricultural as well as scientific topics. A skilled mathematician, he employed calculus as a daily tool. He made a pioneer anthropological study of the Indian to prove him not inferior to European races, and did the same for plants and animals, filling his Paris apartment with animal skeletons to prove American bison, bear, and deer larger than their European counterparts. He was a_ lifelong friend to science, his vast personal library—which he sold to his country after the destruction of the Library of Congress by the British in 1814 — contained many scientific writings. It contained also many selections from the classical writers, for daily, as time permitted, Jefferson read Greek and Latin. In addition he had a good knowledge of French, Spanish, Italian, and AngloSaxon. His personal correspondence was so large that in the present decade it is being published for the first time, at the rate of two oversize volumes each year. When completed in the 1960's, his published papers will comprise one of the largest collections of personal writings in existence. Jefferson's need for friends never ceased. Even though he was to eat alone, his table was never set for fewer than eight. He did as much as any man to shape the beautiful tradition of the Southern gentleman. Being incapable of believing in man's "irresistible corruption," he believed that self-love, the great corrupter of man's virtue, can be controlled, even largely eliminated, through education of the natural good which Jefferson passionately believed lay within every man's breast. In his own words: I believe sincerely in the general existence of a moral instinct. I think it the brightest gem with which the human character is studded, and the want of it more degrading than the most hideous of bodily deformities.... Nature hath implanted in our breasts a love of others, a sense of duty to them, a moral instinct, in short, which prompts us irresistibly to feel and to succor their distresses. To his dear friend, Dr. Benjamin Rush, he wrote his personal list of the virtues in descending order of importance: 1. Good humor; 2. Integritvy; 3. Industry; 4. Interest in science. In a letter to his grandson he defined "politeness as good humor; it covers the natural want of it, and ends by rendering habitual a substitute nearly equivalent to the real virtue." But more precious even than endeavoring to make life pleasant for others was his esteem for honor and morality, for him the supreme personal virtues: Give up money, give up fame, give up science, give up the earth itself and all it contains, rather than do an immoral act.... Never suppose that in any possible situation or under any circumstances it is best for vou to do a dishonorable thing, however slightly so it may appear to you. So deeply ingrained was_ Jefferson's esteem for man as man that he always bowed to everyone he met, including his freed Negro slaves on his own estate. When his grandson refused to bow as Jefferson himself exchanged bows with a Negro, Jefferson waited a moment until the grandson had fully absorbed the contrasting behaviors, then said to him softly, "Do you permit a Negro to be more of a gentleman than yourself?" He hated and feared slavery, since he could not envision how slaveholders could ever endow their children with the proper esteem for the divinity of the human soul. He made certain that the influential Northwest Ordinance of 1787, which shaped the policy for colonizing the vast Ohio Valley, stipulated that education was to be compulsory and that no slavery was to be permitted. Thinking of slavery, he wrote in his Notes on Virginia, "I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just." The Aristocratic Jefferson Jefferson's friend Thomas Paine was in Europe when he wrote The Rights of Man, a book which so rashly attacked the British government that it caused Paine endless pain, even in America. One might summarize Jefferson's contribution by saying that in our new Nation he championed the rights of man as Paine might have done. When in the five years preceding Jefferson's election to the Presidency, in 1800, the Federalists became so fearful of all change and criticism that they passed the Alien and Sedition Acts which empowered them to imprison anyone who belittled the administration, it was Jefferson and Madison who drafted the Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions, which reaffirmed the basic concept of the Constitution, namely, that government must ever be based on the will of the governed, and that without the right to speak freely that will is denied. He saw the Sedition Act "as an experiment on the American mind to see how far it will bear an avowed violation of the Constitution," and believed that had not these laws been repealed, the Fed- 132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT eralists' next step would have been to declare the President a lifelong office, dressed with royal title. This form of aristocracy Jefferson felt to be artificial, entrenched though he found it to be in the minds of his countrymen, who seemed to have forgotten the ideals of the Revolution two decades earlier. Wrote Jefferson, "The Revolution of 1800 was as real a revolution in the principles of our government as that of 1776 was in its form." Despite Federalist accusations that Jefferson was imbued with the diabolical French philosophies of reason, immorality, atheism, and confiscation of property, he was elected President in 1800; his concept of natural aristocracy thus became dominant through the eight years following. He believed that form of government best "which provides the most effectually for a pure election of these natural aristoi into the offices of government." While he never believed in electing mob leaders or ignorant or irresponsible men, he believed fervently that his "natural aristocracy" would triumph and the future of the Nation thus be secured if his two great conditions were fulfilled: government on the local level, and education of the people. Every government degenerates when trusted to the rulers of the people alone. "The people themselves, therefore, are its only safe depositories." To protect themselves, then, the people must be instructed. First Jefferson would have them know who they were. Persuaded that "the good sense of the people will always be found to be the best army,' ' Jefferson dedicated his life to his faith in the comsoon afterward to be ad-- 133 mon man as few other Americans have ever done, save perhaps Lincoln and Whitman. Writing in later life to his friend John Adams, he defined an artificial aristocracy or aristoi as one "founded on wealth and birth, without either virtue or talents." He ever deserves our esteem as the great champion of natural aristocracy: The grounds of this are virtue and talents. Formerly, bodily powers gave place among the aristoi. But since the invention of gunpowder has armed the weak as well as the strong with missile death, bodily strength, like beauty, good humor, politeness and other accomplishments, has become but an auxiliary ground for distinction.... The natural aristocracy I consider as the most precious gift of nature, for the instruction, the trusts, and government of society (Text, page 152). This definition of man Jefferson could never dream of questioning, just as he never questioned that "all men are created equal." Without any qualification he really believed that the people themselves, when enlightened through education, freedom of press, and freedom of worship, are the only source of wise government. As he wrote to du Pont de Nemours: We both love the people, but you love them as infants whom you are afraid to trust without nurses, and I as adults whom I freely leave to self-government. But Jefferson also was wise enough to know that if ever the masses of people become indifferent to the processes of government, almost instantly those who govern them will become wolves. Preliminary to the people's freedom of choice, Jefferson emphasized three vital preliminary freedoms: freedom of the press, freedom of education, and freedom of religion. Jefferson was entirely free of any self-righteousness, so fully did he believe that, though the people might be misled for a time, soon they and they alone define truth. No one could give truth a greater chance to prove itself than did Jefferson when he said: The wise know too well their own weakness to assume infallibility; and he who knows most knows how little he knows. In order that truth might constantly be redefined by each succeeding generation, freedom of the press was for Jefferson absolutely necessary. As President of the United States no one save perhaps Lincoln received greater abuse in the public press than did Jefferson. This he bore with serenity, making no attempt to silence his attackers. As stated in his second Inaugural Address on March 4, 1805, he was permitting an experiment to be made to prove whether "freedom of discussion, unaided by power, is not sufficient for the protection of truth." This sentiment merely amplifies one of the grandest sentences Jefferson ever uttered, as phrased in his first Inaugural Address: If there be any among us who would wish to dissolve this Union, or to change its republican form, Jet them stand undisturbed as monuments of the safety with which error of opinion may be tolerated, where reason is left free to combat it. To Jefferson, so long as man's mind is free, he is worthy of complete trust. Knowledge of his conviction on this score makes his attitude toward newspapers somewhat more understandable and rational, as stated in a letter written in 1787: The basis of our government being the opinion of the people, the very first object should be to keep that right; and were it left to me to decide whether we should have a government without newspapers, or newspapers without a government, I should not hesitate a moment to prefer the latter. But I should mean that every man should receive those papers, and be capable of reading them.... Cherish, therefore, the spirit of our people, and keep alive their intention. We have already received some insight into his great belief in education by his creation, almost singlehanded, of the University of Virginia. Yet, if we are to gain true perspective into his spirit, we should say, in fairness, that it is impossible to overemphasize the importance of education in Jefferson's code of values. In his own words: Every government degenerates when trusted to rulers of the people alone. The people themselves, therefore, are its only safe depositories. And to render them safe, their minds must be improved.... The influence over government must be shared among all the people. Jefferson drew up a bill for the establishment of public libraries, but schools were of first importance. His system of holding annual competitive examinations within cach borough or county, with winners in each state receiving tuition-free scholarships to the state university, is being practiced for the first time in our own generation, as secn in the national competitions for high school graduates. But perhaps his greatest battle in education was to free it entirely from domination of the state church, which Jefferson spoke of as "the severest contest in which I have ever been engaged." The evil which he combatted seems to us inconceivably remote, yet it still exists in many European and other countries of the world. 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT For example, were you a Catholic or a Lutheran in present-day Germany, in addition to paying your income tax once a year, you would also pay your church tax. But the money would be paid, not to your church, but to the government, which in turn subsidizes the minister of your chosen faith. Jefferson could not agree that forced payment under government supervision to any church, was consistent with the intention of the Declaration of Independence. Framed in 1777, his Virginia Statute of Religious Liberty is the most famous single document in the history of American religious freedom. 'lhe purpose of this bill was to separate forever church and state and church and school; thus it was he who kept the United States from ever having an "official" or national religion. Although this bill was not passed until 1786, almost ten years after Jefferson first wrote it, Jefferson felt it to be one of the major documents ever to come from his pen. 'The first sentence gives us its direction and tone: Whereas Almighty God hath created the mind free; that all attempts to influence it by temporal punishments or burthens, or by civil incapacitation only to beget habits of hypocrisy and meanness, are a departure from the plan of the Holy author of our religion.... Thus in religion, in freedom of the press, in social and aristocratic titles, it was Jefferson who was ever fighting to make certain that the gulf between the theory and practice of the Nation, as stated in the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, was never allowed to widen sufficiently to endanger those principles which he and the 135 Founding Fathers had held most dear. The Declaration of Independence Who reads a book on July 4th? Few do; everyone should. What better time, what better way to renew rapport with the Founding Fathers than to read aloud each Independence Day at least the beginning and ending paragraphs of that greatest national literature, the Declaration of Independence? Such a solemn, annual ritual seems to exemplify mature patriotism at its best, particularly if done within family groups. Although this most famous document in American history was produced by a committee of five appointed by the Continental Congress, with but few minor changes, the organization and phrasing are Jefferson's. His great achievement was that he was so entirely at one with the will of the group that he knew what was in their hearts; then he phrases this statement of those emerging beliefs in a condensed statement of immortal clarity, simplicity, and eloquence: We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness. That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed,—That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness (Text, page 150). Since Jefferson's wording was acfo) cepted by the entire Congress, he was as successful in speaking for those gentlemen of principle and courage as he has been for succeeding generations. Indeed, this is the source of its strength: through Jefferson's words all of us find expression for our commonly shared convictions as to what we are, and what rights and privileges we grant to each other as members of the same great Nation. It should be pointed out that not until these very words of the Declaration of Independence had been written, accepted, and circulated, did Jefferson's revolutionary ideas become crystallized. Then the Declaration began to cause reaction and stimulation among those for whom it spoke. Jefferson expressed in a letter written in 1825, scarcely more than a year preceding his death, this point concerning the origin of the Declaration: There was but one opinion on this side of the water. All American whigs thought alike on these subjects. When forced, therefore, to resort to arms for redress, an appeal to the tribunal of the world was deemed proper for our justification. This was the object of the Declaration of Independence.... Neither aiming at the originality of principle or sentiment, nor yet copied from any particular previous writing, it was intended to be an expression of the American mind, and to give to that expression the proper tone and spirit called for by the occasion. So near to the hearts of the American people are the results of this Declaration that it is almost impossible to judge it objectively; yet time has done this for them. It is easy to conjecture that someone else could have phrased it equally as well; perhaps this is so. Yet until someone else composes a more memorable statement of the great and commonly accepted American belief, a considerable debt to 'Thomas Jefferson must be acknowledged both for his great words and for his life of principle and integrity out of which they came. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What elements of the Enlightenment are exemplified in Jefferson's life and character? 2. Do you feel he exemplifies his own definition of aristocracy? 3. For Jefferson why was education of such importance? 4. In your own estimation, what was Jefferson's principal contribution to the Declaration of Independence? —<—_- Si tar Words Dorothy J. Roberts If the dart of bitterness Has pierced the layered bark of silence To the living center, pour The Savior's words over the wound. Here in the midnight silence, let His syllables mend the tissue's bruise, Till the wound becomes scar, the scar Becomes healed and at length forgotten. 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 Social Science Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 7—Creative and Spiritual Living — Pathways to Peace — Part Il Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, May 24, 1960 Objective: 'To explore the ways in which creative and spiritual living can contribute toward building a world of peace and good will toward men. The Quest for Peace in Society HE need for world peace is obvious. No matter how gloomy the picture may appear at times, one optimistic fact exists—each one of us can make a contribution toward world peace and good will toward men. It is important, however, that we actively assume responsibility for putting our own house in order. What the world needs is individuals who are living a practical religion, who are living applied Christianity. We need not only pray, "Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven" (Mt. 6:10), but individually to work and strive to create the kind of world in which these conditions may prevail. Pertinent to this thought, Charles Wagner, author of The Simple Life, makes this comment: Each person's base of operation is the field of his immediate duty; neglect this field, and all you undertake at a distance is compromised. First, then, be of your own country, your own city, your own home, your own church, your own workshop; then, if you can, set out from this to go beyond it. That is the plain and natural order... (McKay, Davin O.:: Gospel Ideals, page 292). This implies that if religion is to make a contribution in our quest for peace, it must not only be a subjective feeling, but also an expression of that feeling manifested in human associations and social relations. Knowing a thing or merely feeling an assurance of the truth is not sufficient. ""... To him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin" (James 4:17). Christ invited us to follow in his steps in order that we might have life more abundantly. Those individuals who experience satisfaction and happiness by living creatively, by serving their fellow men, individuals who are dedicated to the creation of a still better world for everyone, are traveling the course which we charted toward a better world. President McKay said: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, accepting Christ as the revelation of God to man, believes that Jesus in his life and teachings reveals a standard of personal living and of social relations, which, if fully embodied in individual lives and in human institutions, would not only ameliorate the present ills of society but also bring happiness and peace to mankind. If it be urged that during the past two thousand years so-called Christian nations have failed to achieve such a goal, we answer that all failure to do so may be found in the fact that they have failed to apply the principles and teachings of true Christianity (McKay, Davin O.: Gospel Ideals, page 97). We believe firmly that the basis upon Page 137 138 Fo oe ee a DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Lst South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. Name Address City & State Books for the Church Pianist ) Church Pianist— Stults......22.....--ccccecsee0 1.50 ) Eighteen Hymn Transcriptions— Kohlmann............-.------ 85 ) Famous Sacred Songs—Peery.............- 1.25 ) Melodies For Church and Home—Shelley.... 1.00 ) More Concert Transcriptions of Favorite Hymns—Kohlmann.. 1.00 ) Piano Hymn Voluntaries—Lorenz.......... 1.50 ) Piano Transcriptions of Your Favorite Hymns—FParsons...... 1.25 ) Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Schaum...85 ) Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Stickles.. 1.25 ) Saered Piano Album for Home and Church—Gahm.......... 1.50 ) Sacred. Piano Solos— Rettenberg............22.... 1.00 } Sabbath Day Music— Randolph.................--. 1.50 ) Sunday Piano Music —Boston ou... 1.25 ) Tranquil Hours— Presser.............-220000--- 1.50 ) Twenty-Four Voluntaries—Stickles.......... 1.50 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank 00 On Approval O) Charge {] Money Enclosed mo Ist South # Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 which world peace may be permanently obtained is not by sowing seeds of distrust and suspicion in people's minds; not by engendering enmity and hatred in human hearts; not by individuals or nations arrogating to themselves the claim of possessing all wisdom or the only culture worth having; not by war with resulting suffering and death from submarines, poison gas, or explosions of nuclear bombs. No! The peace that will be permanent must be founded upon the principles of righteousness as taught and exemplificd by the Prince of Peace, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, "For there is none other name under heaven among men, whereby we must be saved" (McKay, LLEWELYN R.: Home Memones of President David O. McKay, page 233). Needed—Better Human Relations The key to world peace will more likely be found in better human relations than in establishing more laws or issuing more commandments. We have learned through centuries of experience that a commandment alone does not make a person love another. We _ have learned that if a person is filled with hate and anger and hostilities, the passing of a law does not remove the hate, anger, and hostility. Attempts to command and legislate kindness, mercy, and love appear to have essentially failed. It would seem that the development of such traits and characteristics will result from living in healthy conditions which nurture their growth from an inner desire within the individual. If sincere men and women the world over could unite in an earnest effort to supplant feelings of selfishness, hatred, suspicion, and greed with feelings of kindness, mercy, and justice, and service to others, then leaders would think more of men than of the success of a system; and they would thereby promote the peace and happiness of mankind. LESSON DEPARTMENT There is no road to universal peace which does not lead into the hearts of humanity. This was clearly stated in an editorial in the Deseret News: What this world needs, and needs most desperately, is better human relationships. Or to use a more common if more misunderstood term, better public relations.... Human relations? There was a man who was the greatest master of human relations the world has ever known. His greatness had many facets. Not the least among them was a superhuman capacity to mect each problem on the level of the troubled person—and to solve it. Thus, faced with a woman in sin, he spoke of the person without sin casting the first stone. [aced with a rich young ruler who had everything except the most precious gift of all, he counseled him to become as a little child. Faced with men who wanted to sit at the right and left hand of God, he taught them humility. Faced with a wavering, over-impetuous man whom he needed to lead his people, he taught him steadfastness and faith. Today's world needs such human relations as that. We will never equal the work and teachings of the Carpenter from Nazareth, of course. But we do have a great potential in this field ("Which Way to Peace,' Editorial, Deseret News - Salt Lake Telegram, February 1, 1958). Let us hope that some day soon all human beings will realize the importance and benefits of improving our human relations with one another. When and if that time comes, we could anticipate a condition in which the Savior's prayer would be in the hearts of all people—"That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in ise.. (john 17:21). Love, The Greatest Thing in the World Jesus, having man's future in mind, said nineteen centuries ago, 139 Vida Fox Clawson Travel Center Dear Friend: If you are interested in HAWAII, remember we have tours going every month. Our 1960 EUROPEAN folders are now ready and will be gladly sent to you upon request. Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: DA 8-0303 Vol LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah "A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another..." (John 13:34). 'Today scientists of human behavior have arrived at the conclusion that love is the greatest medicine and provides the most hope for achieving a world of peace and a condition in which man can live and maintain good mental health. A modern scientist has stated what might be termed an important spiritual question of today, "Tlow can we encourage love and diminish hate"? (Karl Menninger, Love Against Hate, page 5). This quotation extends itself as a challenge to those who can move beyond their own concerns to affirm love and brotherhood as the central realities of existence. We then come closer to living the philosophy expressed by Christ that "... He that loseth his life for my sake shall find it" (Mt. 10:39), for then we have concerned ourselves with how to save others and in the process we save ourselves. Having been instructed that the two greatest commandments are to love God and to love our fellow men and that the greatest thing in the world is love, we would do well to learn as much as we can about the phenomenon of love, and how we can incorporate it in our lives. We give lip service to the importance of love, but many of us know very little about what it really means or how we develop the ability to love. Modern scientific evidence suggests that love does not occur by chance, but rather develops through certain kinds of experiences. Love is an achievement — quite a rare and important achievement. Many people believe that nothing is easier than to love; but, on the contrary, while every human being has a potential capacity for loving, its realization is one of the most difficult achievements. Jesus prescribed, perhaps, the best medicine for many of our present ills of today when he said, "... Love thine enemies..." (Mt. 5:44). As difficult as this challenge may seem, it is imminently practical. It ls essential for our health and wellbeing that we eliminate from our minds the poison of hate. The clinical experience of psychiatry demonstrates that, actually, we cannot oppose our enemies effectively when we hate them. Hate shackles our powers, but when we love our enemies as people who, like us, have their unique humanhood — then we are able, strongly and effectively, to oppose them when they become misguided, sick, or hate-laden. Menninger, in discussing what we might do in order to experience greater happiness in our personal lives and peace in society, points out that before that day comes we shall have learned more about ourselves, that we shall have achieved a great deal of self-understanding, that we shall have revised our ways of living and our ways of working to insure more joy in our work. In essence, we shall have become accomplished in the creative life. He concludes his book by saying: We shall have accorded to love the preeminence which it deserves in our scale of values; we shall seek it and proclaim it as the highest virtue and the greatest boon. We shall not be ashamed to have "suffered much extremity for love," in the full realization that love is the medicine for the sickness of the world, a prescription often given, too rarely taken. We shall have realigned our faith in God to include more faith in human beings, and extended our identifications to include more brothers, more sisters, more sons 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT and daughters, in a vastly wider family concept.... This goal is not unattainable in spite of past errors and present vicissitudes. For we have the courage to hope and the power to love. And for all the evil within us, we cannot escape the will to live. From that springs our determination to better our lot. By the use of our intelligence and our knowledge, we can use the slave of science for the promotion of human happiness. Speed the day! (From Love Against Hate, copyright 1942, by Karl Menninger and Jeanetta Lyle Menninger, pp. 293-294. Reprinted by permission of Harcourt, Brace and Company, Inc.). Another scientist of today, discussing the urgency and _ necessity for developing loving personalities, states: If man is to be able to love, he must be put in his supreme place. The economic machine must serve him, rather than he serve it. He must be able to share experience, to share work, rather than, at best, share in profits. Society must be organized in such a way that man's social, loving nature is not separated from his social existence but becomes one with it. It is true, as I have tried to show, that love is the only sane and satisfactory answer to the problem of human existence, then any society which excludes, relatively, the development of love, must in the long run perish of its own contradiction with the basic necessities of human nature. Indeed, to speak of love is not "preaching,'"' for the simple treason that it means to speak of the ultimate and real need in every human being. That this need has been obscured does not mean that it does not exist. To analyze the nature of love is to discover its general absence today and to criticize the social conditions which are responsible for this absence. To have faith in the possibility of love as a social and not only exceptional-individual phenomenon, is a tational faith based on the insight into the very nature of man (Fromm, Eric: The Art of Loving, page 133, Harper & Brothers, publishers. Used by permission). From the earliest spiritual leaders 141 to modern-day scientists, those living on the spiritual frontier have been and are telling us that the greatest thing in the world is love. If we are to make this meaningful, we must realize that the power to love does not come full-grown into our lives. It does not come by mere admonition nor by logical, verbal proof of its importance. To promote love among men requires that we do more than talk about it, that we actually promote situations and create atmospheres in which love will spontaneously flourish without being admonished to do so. It must form a very core of our lives as we attempt to live and practice a religion of love. The Peace of Christ The peace of Christ does not come by seeking the superficial things of life, neither does it come except as it springs from the individual's heart.... Centered in the heart also are the enemies to peace—avarice, ambition, envy, anger, and pride. These and other vices which bring misery into the world must be eradicated before permanent peace is assured. 'There shall have to be felt in the hearts of men more consideration for others—there shall have to be manifested around the coming peace table at least a little of the Christ spirit—do unto others. As you would have others do unto you (McKay, Davin O.: Gospel Ideals, pp. 39, 298). The challenge and task obviously rest upon the shoulders of each of us. We cannot expect the leaders of nations or delegates sitting around a peace table to solve the problems. Of a complex and confused world. It will take all of us working diligently together to create a world of peace-loving people, to. Develop within ourselves the skill, the capacity, the desire to live harmoniously and creatively with one another, to love: 142 OOOO OO OKOOYXSLDD ZIM'S Established 1932 The BEST in handicraft supplies ANYWHERE! VV Lowest Prices! V Newest Ideas! V_ Largest Stocks! V Most Variety! ALUMINUM TRAYS— Complete etching supplies —tier handles, etc. EASTER SUPPLIES— Styrofoam balls, eggs, sheets, Chenilles, Novelty Ideas, Supplies for Memorial Day FOAM AND TOTE BAGS— Largest Stocks — Lowest Prices MOSAIC SUPPLIES— Many inexpensive, projects FLOWER SUPPLIES— All leaves and centers — Wood Fibre—new low price Plant Plastic and molds for all flowers JEWELRY SUPPLIES, SHELLS, DOLLS TO DRESS, BEESWAX, CANDLES, BASKETRY, FABRIC PAINTS, CRAFT BOOKS, COPPER TOOLING, BOUTIQUE MATERIALS, COPPER ENAMELING, POPSICLE STICKS — EVERYTHING IN HANDICRAFTS! SEND FOR OUR FREE CATALOG To help you plan your Spring Handicrafts Wholesale to Dealers Discounts to Groups ZIM'S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah DADA MAAN A AMA ASAD easy RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1960 DADA AO OKO OSD God and to love our fellow men, to create within our homes the kind of environment which will produce loving personalities in our children. This means we must search for selfunderstanding, for inner peace, contentment, serenity, while, at the same time, maintaining sufficient feclings of dissatisfaction that we have a propelling drive and urge to improve the life situation. Summary Living spiritually in the nuclear age represents a real challenge to all of us. It should be obvious by now that spiritual living cannot be accomplished by immature, unthinking persons, but rather that the application of the teachings of Christ is directly related to the degree of emotional and religious maturity which we possess. It is quite probable that if we achieve success in our efforts toward becoming more mature that spiritual and creative living and therefore a world of peace will come almost automatically. If through more mature behavior and thinking we are able to create an environment within our homes for our children to become mentally healthy, creative, spiritually minded individuals, then we should turn out of our homes the kind of individuals who can bring about many of the goals which we have been discussing in this series of lessons during the past few months. Perhaps then the peace of the world will at last come from the peace of the family and the extension of that peace to families of all nations. Thus may come to pass the fulfillment of the dream of all the ages expressed through Abraham, "... And in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed" (Genesis 12:3). LESSON DEPARTMENT Thoughts for Discussion 1, What specific contributions can you make toward "Better Human Relations''? 2. What can you do to "encourage love and diminish hate''?. As you consider the conditions which exist in the world today, is your own home in order? A. Where do you place your values? B. What goals or standards, ideals or purposes, do you emphasize when decisions are made? 4. How do your feelings toward other people show through your daily tasks and the ways you carry them out? A. What proportion of the feelings so transmitted are warm, happy feelings? B. How many are little, bitter, resentful feelings? 5. What do you contribute to relationships? Do you "love things and use people' when it should be the other way around? Supplementary References Brown, Hugh B.: "The Seventh Beatitude," The Instructor, October 1956, pp. Ete) >. Brown, Hugh B.: "Who Is My Neighbor,' The Instructor, October 1958, pp. 296-297. Lindbergh, Anne Morrow: Gift From the Sea, Pantheon Books, Inc., New York, 1955. Mead, Margaret: "Raising Children Who'll Reach for the Moon," Parents Magazine, Vol. 32, No. 10, (October 1957), PP. 44, 182-184. Anchor Celia Luce WHEN a ship is ready to put out to sea, the first thing that is done is to pull up the anchor. The anchor holds the ship in the harbor, or, if it should teach the open sea with the anchor dragging, it forms a weight that keeps the ship from making any real progress. My bad habits are like an anchor dragging at the wrong times. They hold me back and keep me from making any real progress. Instead of blaming the stormy weather for my slow speed ahead, I had better go to work on my bad habits, pull up anchor, and be free to surge forward. 143 060 em 0 em 0 0-0 0 0 0 0 ele Hawauan Tour Leaving in February Europe 1960 Reservations made anywhere in the world, chartered tours or individual SD (>< (>< €) <> () <D ()-< ( >< () <0) DD ( ) ED ( ) D { (D> ¢ ) <D { <)> () < { )-< ¢ ) <( ) < () < () D-DD) 0 ED- (>: Margaret Lund Tours 4708 Holladay Blvd. Salt Lake City, Utah Phones: CR 7-6851 IN 6-2909 ED (RED (ED () ED () ED () ED () -<()- OD () <D-( o e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 35 150 to 300 miles.. A 300 to 600 miles.. 600 to 1000 miles.. 1000 to 1400 miles Oc 1400 to 1800 miles 0. 4 Over 1800 miles Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah 0 >) a 1-0-0 0 EP OGD (1 EED-(19 Birthday Congratulations Ninety-six Mrs. CATHERINE JONES ERICKSON Monroe, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Racue. T B. BALLANTYNE Logan, Utah Mrs. Mary JANE SMART WEBSTER Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. LaVinia Ricsy Carp Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Evetyn Cox MorFrittT Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Laura MINNIE Simmons Gary Preston, Idaho Mrs. Arice Gowans Tooele, Utah Mrs. Matitpa NEson TATE Pomona, California Mrs. Mary Ann Batry SMITH Randolph, Utah Mrs. ELEANOR SPENCER JENSEN Sandy, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. AcNES ANN Gisson TRUMP Bountiful, Utah Mrs. AMY TERESSA LEAVITT RICHARDSON Mesa, Arizona Mrs. AMANDA SEGO SMITH Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Mary CaroLinE Mortensen CROWTHER Manassa, Colorado Mrs. Herren Larson SMITH Mesa, Arizona Page 144 Mrs. Nancy SMITH Mesa, Arizona Mrs. FLORENCE JANE ALEXANDER CurTIS Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. BELLE BARTON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Carrie Victoria Boyp STEWART Safford, Arizona Ninety Mrs. Lypia ADALINE THORNTON DUFFIN Portland, Oregon Mrs. Diana EvizasetH MERRITT BLEAZARD Salt Lake City, Utah What Can £ Give You? Christie Lund Coles What can I give you, Child, Against the intruding years? What will keep each moment bright To withstand the tears? I can give you laughter.... It will not be enough — I can give you courage For when the road is rough, I can give you words of faith For when the night is long; And for the songless moment, I can give you song. I can give you promise Of guidance from above; And always, always, always I can give you love. With a Song in Her Heart The life story of Florence Jepperson Madsen Grace Hildy Croft A moving document on the life of Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, from her childhood home in the Rockies to the eastern music centers where she was acclaimed one of the nation's greatest singers. And finally a beloved teacher and conductor. Over fifty illustrations. 3.95 New and Revised Edition The Naked Communist W. Cleon Skousen An additional chapter is now included in this incredible story of Communism, discussing the significance of Nikita Khrushchev's visit to the United States. 4.95 lnre | DESERET BOOK COMPANY | | 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah | | Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) 1 have an |! Account. Please charge for encircled (numbered) books: 1 2! | NOMe@ once eeeccceceesecssssccscesecescceccseseseseeescscessesseeesaseseseesscssessesscssesssessesaesseseesereussssssessssesseees! Address. O..... E.... Essccceececceseceecececeececeesececenscecessecaccaceecescecceccecesceccercacesseeeesceccesneeceeceecenseeeeeseeeesess | | | CO eccosc00s cco ee Zone........ So] (- YOU Provided? LDS families have been urged repeatedly to store up food, clothing, and other supplies for time of possible need. This counsel is good. Wise family heads also store up dollars against future needs. And the best way for most families to do this is through /ife insurance. By invest- _ing a few dollars each month in life insurance premiums, you can immediately create a very sizable financial estate that will provide for the future needs of your family if they should some day be deprived of your regular income. Can you think of any better or more economical way to provide this "substitute salary" that your family some day may need? If not, then mail the. Coupon below, or call your Beneficial agent — soon fA variety of new Beneficial Life Insurance plans offers greater benefits at less cost than ever before. ' re a Dept. R260 ° " Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Beneficial Building Salt Lake City, Utah Please send information about the following plans — with no obligation, of course. ( Commercial Whole Life * £2) Other Name... Street or R. F. D. It ae. Creer ernvaccsamtummnerre rere 21000 ICR, ont CACC tonrner rere tana HI L= i BENEFICIAL LIFE. Srsurance Virgil H. Smith, Pres. R Co "yp iny Salt Lake City, Utah am (D Planned Futures (Family Benefactor Plan Cup of Si atth Margery S. Stewart I know people like cherry boughs, who, Smitten by snow, retain a beauty Written in starkness, black and white Reality of suffering. Dark in pain they endure, Shaken but unquailing, Forsaken by all but sparrows... Vulnerable.... Stripped by the lightning's Whim, seared trunk, shattered Limb, yet year after year they Draw from remembering roots Gallantly, Up to the farthest tip the liquid Cup of their faith. Past All time of bearing They bring forth Fruit from triumph of blossoms, Mute trumpets of glory. Let me be like them In my own storms... All roots of my Being waiting for the recurrence, Seeing beyond tempest, sustenance From his sure, unfailing springs. The Cover: A Southern Mansion in Spring, With Dogwood in Bloom Courtesy Chamber of Commerce, Atlanta, Georgia Submitted by Lucile W. Bunker Frontispiece: Springtime Blossoms Luoma Photos Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From llear and Sar It is so comfortable and enjoyable reading The Relief Socicty Magazine. I love it, and especially the lessons. 'They have increased and strengthened my testimony. —Ilo Robbins Evans Canyon, British Columbia Canada After forty-three years of continuous treading of The Relief Society Magazine I think I should add my bit of praise and thankfulness for so wonderful a publication — and it gets better all the time. It would be hard to single out one particular part as the best, as I take great joy in reading the Magazine from cover to cover. 'The editorials are especially fine and the clean, refreshing stories are always good. I loved Leola Seely Anderson's "The Miracle Mile" in the December 1959 issue. Thanks for the wonderful message from our beloved General Presidency of Relief Society, im January. It is inspiring. —Lora H. 'Thompson Malta, Idaho I am a missionary in the Southern Far East Mission ficld, and I would like to congratulate the Relief Society on receiving the Simpson-Lee Paper Company Award for the December 1958 cover of the Magazine (sce December 1959, page 805). I wish to express my thanks for the lovely Magazine, and the beautiful covers.... The stories are wonderful, and the poems are good. I love the whole Magazine. —Esther Julia Smith Southern Far East Mission I have been reading the Magazine since I was a young girl in my mother's home. The stories and articles are all interesting, and I especially enjoy the recipes and homemaker's articles. I had the privilege of knowing Grace Ingles Frost and have always felt it a treat to have known one who can express the beauties of the world around us as ably as she does. I especially enjoyed her poem "The Edge of Summer" (September 1959). —Mrs. Ann B. Porter La Puente, California Page 146 Since I found The Relief Society Magazine at the library in our branch, I have read as many copies of the Magazine as possible. Even though I have to look up the English-Japanese dictionary here and there, I am deeply moved by many articles that my unknown sisters wrote with the faith. I always find at least a story in the Magazine that I cannot read through without tears, deeply impressed. Nowadays I am busy reading the Magazines of the back numbers.... I dared to take up my pen to write to you, fecling that T must tell you how much I am thankful for The Relief Society Magazine. —Seiko Takeda Tokyo, Japan Just an expression of gratitude for this ever-helpful, exciting little Magazine, which I appreciate more and more as the years pass by. And now that I help to sell it (as a representative), my interest and enthusiasm have increased. As we start a new decade and look back on the past one, I am reminded that ten years ago I wasn't a subscriber, nor did I know of the Magazine, nor was I a Latter-day Saint. What I might have been missing all these years if I had not come as a stranger to a Latter-day Saint community.... I am still thrilled to be a member of the Church, a member of my ward, and a member of Relief Society. —Norma M. ZoBell Raymond, Alberta Canada The Relief Society Magazine, with its beautiful covers, its just-right size, and interesting variety of contents. Is very dear to me. The lesson material gives us a second chance to go to school when we really appreciate it more. So many inspirational articles, beautiful and fitting poetry, and stories that bring tears and smiles, are all uplifting to our souls. I was especially impressed with the story "The Bishop's Wife," by Sylvia Probst Young, in April 1959, and also the poem "To Benjamin Franklin," by Elsie MeKinnon Strachan, in the July issue. Thanks for all of it. —Irene Andrus Sunland, California THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford <= = - - - Marianne C. Sharp Louise W. Madsen Hulda Parker Anna B. Hart Josie B. Ba; Edith S. Elliott Christine H. Robinson Florence J. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Leone G. Layton Mildred B. Eyring Blanche B. Stodderd Charlotte A. Larsen Evon W. Peterson Edith P. Backman Aleine M. Young Winniefred S. Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE President First Counselor - Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Elna P. Haymond Elsa T. Peterson Annie M. Ellsworth Irene B. Woodford Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Mary V. Cameron Elizabeth B. Winters Afton W. Hunt LaRue H. Rosell Wealtha $. Mendenhall Jennie R. Scott Pearle M. Olsen Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford NO. 3 Editor Associate Editor General Manager VOL. 47 MARCH 1960 Conten ts SPECIAL FEATURES Beauty in the Home Christine H. Robinson Spiritual Living — Pathway to Peace Blaine M. Porter The Southern States Mission. Preston R. Nibley weenTheodore V. Houser Mabel Harmer Muriel Wilson The Fishbite Story — Third Prize Story Dorothy Clapp Robinson Place for Everything aCharmaine Kohler Offerings of the Heart.. AFrances C. Yost With a Song in My Heart aMabel Law Atkinson The New Day — Chapter 6 Hazel K. Todd Woman's Sphere 2.... EceeeeecececeneeeteecccececeeccecececeeesssssecessseseesavanseeeseensesssssnstesenesesenenescoseeeRamona W. Cannon 173 Louise W. Madsen Relief Societies for 1959 sna.. N 176 Hulda Parker FEATURES FOR THE HO Recipes From the Southern States Mission ME Lucile W. Bunker Maude N. Howard Whys, Wherefores, and Fun With Green Plants........ Dreams: Celia Luce A Peppermint-Stick Party.. Helen §S. Williams A Quick Fade-Out oiocecceccceceecssesseccsescesseecssesnesecsssssasectesssettesstseeestesescsoseeeeetee eeeSylvia Pezoldt 204 POETRY... Margery S. Stewart Rain Song: a _ Maude Rubin 150 Miraculous AGVemt o.. Cecceccceececssesssuecseesseteevssneetteteetetesi setteeIda Elaine James 175 This 1 KrOW o.. Necosssscccessscsstececcescecesssessussusssaesotesoeesieetestetteees eeeMabel Jones Gabbott 196 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance, The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 147 From Near and Far Sixty Years Ago oocee. Eecececeesecceeceecececececeeeeseeeeeeseseseeess Index for 1959 Relief Society Magazine Available Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue oes Kathryn A. Carne — Artist, Nurse, Homemaker occ ccccc cee cee eet sete ss Reward of Obedience Cup of Faith—Frontispiece Ble bird nn ec eeeseccsecceecseecsecateeneecccessessesseesseesvsseesesescess March Time.. MO rnin one aeeceeeseeeseceeesesneceneeciesneecsvesunsneesneenissiteestiiettesse etter eee Hilltop Dawn Bubbles... SYOIEWNG) | —rereereecree coe one eI 146 a 172 178 185.. 196 Flora J. Isgreen 207 i Eva Willes Wangsgaard 163 Enola Chamberlin 171. Zara Sabin 188 SrEthel Jacobson 207 Christie Lund Coles 208 Nancy W. Wilcox 208 Beauty in the Home Christine H. Robinson Member, General Board of Relief Society (Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 7, 1959) ECENTLY, a national magazine featured an unusual family that lives in an unusual place. This family makes its home at the bottom of a steep canyon on the winding Snake River. Here, without many of the common household conveniences to which all of us are accustomed, including electricity, the parents have reared eleven children. We are told that theirs is a happier, more satisfying life than that of most conventional householders. In this secluded canyon, the parents and children depend upon each other for companionship, and upon a_ colorful wilderness for enjoyment and recreation. One of the children remarked, ""As for television, who needs that when one lives in an enchanted canyon?" I am not personally acquainted with the members of this family nor the circumstances under which they have built their unusual home. Furthermore, I am sure that not all of us could or would want to live in an isolated canyon. Yet, I am impressed with the fact that without many of the physical home conveniences, which we feel are so necessary to our own happiness, this family, apparently, has built much beauty into its home. I am sure all of us strive to make our homes places of beauty. Many of us search long and hard to find Page 148 just the right piece of furniture, the right accessories and color scheme, to achieve this beauty. Surely, the physical beauty of a home is important to our comfort and wellbeing. Still, another type of beauty is far more essential. 'This beauty is an atmosphere, a climate, the spirit of the home, the attitude of its inhabitants one toward the other. At first glance these may seem intangibles, but, actually, they are as real and as accessible as the smile on your face, the friendly light in your eyes, the kind words on your lips, and the expression of love and understanding in your heart. 'This is the type of beauty which you may not be able to touch or to describe, but you can feel and sense it the very moment you enter a home The beauty of which I speak is well within the reach of everyone. It can be found in the humblest cottage, in the tiniest apartment, as well as in a palatial home. And, as with most great things in life, it is free for the asking. We can buy palatial homes and extravagant furnishings, but we cannot give silver or gold for peace or happiness. We can pay for pleasures and luxuries, but we cannot buy love. Still, many of us are prone to think of beauty only in its objective, physical state. Yet, the wise men of the ages, who have attempt- BEAUTY IN THE HOME ed to define and analyze beauty, all agree that its spiritual aspects are of paramount importance. Socrates, Aristotle, Plato, and Aquinas, all describe beauty as synonymous with truth, goodness, harmony, unity, and tranquility. These are values well within the reach of all of us and, through their application, we can bring a feeling of serenity, peace, and rest into our homes. In a home where this type of beauty is present, jealousy, fear, and insecurity are banished and replaced with settled courage, faith, and trust. Think back with me into the early experiences in your home life. What are the pleasant things that come first to your mind? Are they the big things associated with material possessions, or are they the simple, little, heart-warming things, such as the fragrance of newly baked bread, the feeling of "togetherness" as you met daily around the kitchen or dining table, the spiritual uplift of family prayers, the memory of loving friends stopping in for a chat and a piece of grandmother's wonderful apple pie? Do you remember the little acts of thoughtfulness and kindness your mother _performed each day — the smile on her face, and the fact that she was always there to mend a_ bruised knee or a broken heart? 'Today, in our busy schedules, are we providing these types of surroundings and these memories for our children? 'These are the so-called intangible qualities which are so important, if we would have real and lasting beauty. In our homes. LL of us need beauty to make our lives complete. And we all have that beauty within us, though 149 we express it in different ways. The poet expresses it in words; the artist uses canvas and colors; the sculptor, stone. The mother expresses it in the tender love for her child. Each one of us in our everyday contact with one another can express the beauty within us. We can mingle with one another in a spirit of consideration and thoughtfulness. We can be gentle, patient, and courteous. We can govern our actions with a kindly regard for others. We can radiate cheerfulness wherever we go. For cheerfulness, also, is an expression of beauty, and it will reflect in the attitude of cveryone we meet, just as surcly as a beautiful flower drooping over the edge of a pond reflects in the water. A few days ago a friend of mine told me how her six-year-old brought her back abruptly to reality and the importance of cheerfulness. It was one of those busy, frustrating mornings, and my friend was hurrying through her work with what must have been a grim expression on her face, when she noticed her daughter looking at her intently. Finally the little girl said: "I was just thinking, Mama, how pretty your face is when you smilc." In the home where spiritual beauty is stressed you will find kindness, for kindness dwells in each member's heart. You will find goodhumored tolerance of others, because forgiveness is practiced. You will find courtesy, for people who have formed the habit of being kind, loving, and patient are naturally courteous. Like many of you, I was blessed in having a wise grandmother who was also a fine cook. She brought many choice recipes with her from 150 the "old country." One day she was sharing a recipe with a friend and, aftcr telling her to take so many cups of this and tablespoons of that,.. 6" grandmother finished with, "But remember, Carrie, if the soup is to be a success, you must also add a gencrous amount of grace." 'To me, a young child, this seemed very strange. I hadn't seen any cans on our cupboard = shelves marked 44 > grace," and I told grandmother so. I shall always remember her reply. "My dear, no matter what you do in life, whether it's making Danish soup, singing a lullaby, or writing a book, if you would know the true flavor of living, you must give genRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 erously of yourself, of your sweet spirit, of your love. You must add grace." Let us add grace to our lives. And let us remember that lasting, permanent beauty in our hearts and in our homes is made up of encouraging words, loving deeds, sympathy expressed, heartaches healed, a kiss, a smile, a song which makes us feel light-hearted, free, and glad. These are tried links which, when bound together, make a golden chain of beauty around our door. May we all strive to gain such beauty in our souls and in our homes is my humble prayer. Q Rain Song Maude Rubin The robin sings to the springtime rain Long before there is breath of rain, Long before there is hint of warmth; When every ridge and every roof Gives visible proof Of winter. Visible? When the night Is white? Yet can the heart see rain So does the robin sing to the rain, Asking again That her slender fingers braid the willow, Drip crystal jewels to bead the yellow Forsythia.. Drape a fringe of glittering fires On telephone wires, Prisms of light before the sun Warms earth sufficiently to prove that done Is winter rule. World of winter Oh, truly myth is a When robin-song is a silver splinter To pierce the clouds, To sift the rain. Shird Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest The Fishbite Story Dorothy Clapp Robinson DOROTHY CLAPP ROBINSON APA said there would not be enough potatoes to last until Thanksgiving, if Mama didn't quit digging them as fast as they reached the size of a marble. "Then Emmy would starve." His voice sounded the way it does when he wants you to think he is cross. I was cross. He knows my name is Emma Loretta and I am not a baby to be called "Emmy." Mama didn't answer. She just went on tieing her bonnet strings. Then she picked up an old kitchen fork and a pan and went out. Janie and I followed but were sent back for our bonnets. Mama wouldn't Iet us dig. She said Janie was too small, and she was afraid I would break the roots of the potato vines. Our city lot was planted to all potatoes this year. All except where the barn and the chicken coop are. Oh, yes, and the gooseberry and currant patch and the regular garden. Mama would go along the row and scratch carefully until she found a potato big enough to cook. Then she would break it carefully away, put it in the pan, then pat the ground around the vine again. She was not digging them for us to eat. I should say not. Every last potato was going to Eastdale. Same with the carrots and turnips and the beet greens. She had thinned them so many times Papa said next time he would broadcast the seed. There had been no rain in Eastdale, and the dab of water stored in the little reservoir above town had been used on pastures before the gardens were planted. I wished we didn't have water. 'Then I wouldn't have to pull weeds. Sunday was conference in Manassa. Mama said she wasn't going. She was taking the garden truck to Eastdale. Any other time Papa would have said "Wait until Monday," but this time he didn't. I loved going to Eastdale after we got there. We left real early and when we passed through La Cerritos no one was up except the old man with the Page 151 152 sheep. We had to wait while his dog hurricd them across the little bridge over the creck. I was a little afraid of him. He had no tecth and something was wrong with his upper lip. He smiled and_ said "Buenos Dias." Mama nodded but didn't say anything, but then she never does. I was hungry and wanted to stop and eat our picnic, but Mama said no we just had breakfast. "Goodness golly..." Janie said. "There is no such word as goodness golly," I corrected her. "Goodness gwacious. Breakfast was a long time." Mama didn't answer her either. What a road. The buggy jerked from one big chuckhole to another. Janie clung to Mama and I clung to the seat. "See the cat-tules," Janie cried when we turned cast. "Say cither cattails or tules," I told her, "but not cat-tules." HE meadows were soft green and cattails were growing in water alongside the road. We could see devil-bugs and mosquitoes skittering along on top of the water. "Why don't they have their own potatoes?" I meant the people in Eastdale. "Their seed didn't come up." "Why didn't they plant some more, or buy grub from the store in Manassa?" "They spent their moncy on seed, and seed won't germinate in dry soil." "What does that mean?" "It means they need rain." "Papa said tomorrow they pray for rain at conference." Janie thought we didn't know that. "Well," I looked up at the big, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 bright sky, "there have to be big clouds before it can rain." "Uhb-uh," Janie — contradicted. "Once was a cloud big as a man's hand and it rained. My Sunday School teacher said so." "That was a long time ago and it doesn't count." Then I thought of something. "If it rains will Willie come alive?" Willie was our baby brother who was buried in Eastdale. Mama turned so she could see in my eyes. "What in the world are you talking about?" "The Fishbite," Janie said. "She means Tishbite. You know, Elijah, in the Bible. He made it rain and he made the widow's son come alive. 'Course, you are not a widow but I hope it is Willie." Mama went back to her driving. "Anyway," I said it real loud, "a cloud big as a man's hand wouldn't fill a dishpan." I guess dishpan reminded us and we looked back. The space between the seats was filled with garden truck covered with wet gunny sacks. There was butter, too, for besides churning all our cream, Mama had borrowed two pounds from Mrs. Whitney. "Could I have a handful of peas?" I asked. "Certainly not." I knew I couldn't but might as well ask. "I am hungry." Pretty soon I asked, "Don't they have a teeny-weeny bit?" Of food, I meant. "They have very little. What would they eat when they have no garden?" "Candy." I thought Mama was going to spat me but she didn't. Janie and I laughed and laughed. Finally we came to a big ditch THE FISHBITE STORY that crossed the road. Mama unhitched the team and let them drink. Then they browsed on the grass along the fence while we ate our picnic. Soon after starting again we ran into broken hills with rabbit-brush and greasewood between. Then suddenly I saw the bridge over the Rio Grande. I could not see the river for it was down in the canyon. There were three mud huts back a piece from the rim. Papa said once there had been a trading post here. A Mexican lived in one of the huts and his dogs ran snarling and barking at us. HE bridge was high and black, and it was real scary when the horses' clop-clop sounded on the boards. I closed my eyes and didn't move. I didn't want to look down at the water. It was too far down, but I knew it was green and mpply. "If I fall it will take a whole year to hit the water." I opened my eyes and Janie was leaning over trying to see the water. I pushed her back against Mama and held tight to her. "No, sir," I told her. "It wouldn't take more than a day." Then I heard Mama take a long breath and I knew we were off the bridge. We rode through more rocks and boulders and then we came to the sand hills. The sun was oven-hot and we drank and drank from Mama's waterbag. I wanted to eat but Mama said no. Then the next thing I knew Janie and I were both waking up and Mama was sitting between us. We were on the last hill above Eastdale. "Look," Mama cried, "there isn't 153 a green leaf anywhere." She sounded real worried. The sand crunched under our wheels. I could see a million diamonds sparkling in the sand, but Mama wouldn't let me get any. She said it was just mica. We went down into the creek bottoms that used to be meadows, then up on a little bench and down it again to Miller's place. Hattie and Albert ran to meet us when their mother opened the gate. After we helped unload we each had a slice of bread and butter left from our picnic. 'Then we ran out to play. I liked having no water. The ditch bottom was covered with soft white sand that squashed between our toes. The willows along the ditchbanks looked like queer feather dusters. 'The cows had eaten the leaves and bark up as far as they could reach. Brown dusters, Of course. When Sister Miller called that it was time to go for the cows we all went to the herd corral. Pete Moser had been herding that day and he had the cows there ahead of us. They were bawling and pushing against the bars. 'They were nothing but rough hide over bones. Their bags looked like they had already been milked. Pete was dusty and tired and his lips were cracked. Maybe no water would not be much fun after all. E didn't have to drive the Miller cows home. 'They just about ran, especially the last block, and their bags flopped back and forth spilling some of the milk they did have. Elmer, Hattie's married brother, was at the well when we caught up with the cows. He 154 drew watcr in a bucket from the well and poured it in a trough for them, but they still wanted more when he quit. "Water is getting mighty low," I heard him tell his mother. "The bucket came up half full each time." We had some of our new peas and potatoes for supper. After their first helping I saw Hattie and Albert look at their mother. Her lips went tighter together, but she gave each of us a small helping. She wanted Mama to eat more but Mama said no thanks she wasn't hungry. JI was about to ask for more, but I looked at Mama and changed my mind. I took back my wish about no water. I didn't know why it had to be boss of everything. When we had family prayers that night Sister Miller prayed for rain. I didn't know her voice could be so soft. I got a prickly feeling all over and then before I knew I was saying the words right along with her. I wanted every place in the world to have plenty of water so every child could have more than one potato for supper. We prayed for rain again the next morning, but so far it hadn't done any good. 'The sun was just as hot and the ground just as dry as ever. Hattie and I drove the cows to the herd corral. Frank Hesse was taking the herd out today and his little brother, Jim, was helping get them started. Jim didn't look hungry. "We had potatoes and gravy for breakfast," he boasted. "Don't be smart," Hattie told him. "We gave you the potatoes." "No, sir, it was...." I swallowed hard so I would not say the next words. When Mama gives something she does not say who shall have part of it. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 But we didn't have potatoes and gravy for breakfast. We had nothing. "We are all fasting," Sister Miller said. 'Then she saw our faces. "It is the least we can do. People over the stake are fasting and praying for rain. 'The food they don't eat will be sent to us." "But we already gave our share," I told Mama. "Emma," her voice made me catch my breath, "you have given nothing until you have done without yourself." I wasn't sure what else that meant but it sure meant no breakfast. Instead of Sunday School, they had testimony meeting, and it wasn't even the day for it. It was a very good meeting, but they all talked about water. They started out by singing "Did You Think to Pray?" Everyone told about his many blessings. Old Grandpa Hesse said the people hadn't been living right, and this was their punishment. Elmer, who was conducting, for the Bishop was at conference, said we were being tried, and if we proved faithful the Lord would still bless us. I thought Grandpa Hesse might be right. Anyway Elijah made the rain not come because the people were wicked. I sure hoped if the people were wicked, they would not have to wait three years for rain. That is a long time to be hungry. WHEN I came out of the little log meetinghouse the sun nearly blinded me and the gravel in the yard was hot through my shoes. Everyone looked to the sky, but there wasn't even a baby's handsized cloud. I was about to die by THE FISHBITE STORY the time dinner was ready. Mama and Sister Miller didn't eat. I heard Mama say she would bring more food next week. "For goodness sake,' I said, chewing fast on my bread and butter, "we want some left for ourselves." Something happened to Sister Miller's face, and right quick I was full up. I asked forgiveness in a hurry, and when no one was looking I put my bread on Hattie's plate. Later, our mamas said they were going to the graveyard and did we want to go along. It was on a knoll that was the driest and lonesomest place I had ever seen. Even the sand lilies were dead. 'There were seven graves and two of them were ours. I couldn't remember our big brother, but I could remember what a sweet cuddly baby Willie had been. I held Janie's hand tight. I looked at Mama. She never crics out loud but her face made me swallow hard. I looked around for something to do. One of the graves had a hole in it. I looked all around the sky and kept looking. 'There wasn't a sign of a cloud so I guessed a coyote had dug it, and we could fill a coyote hole. The grave belonged to some people from 'Taos. We started by carrying dirt in our hands. That was too slow. If I used my bonnet Mama would notice mighty fast, so I decided to use my dress. Pretty soon we were all using our dresses. Albert scooped the dirt and we took turns having our laps filled. The dirt was so fine it scooped easy, but we sure looked a mess when we had finished and we were all choked for a drink. Then Mama noticed. 155 "That Emma," she told everyone, "can think of more mischief. Next time, voung lady, you will be left at home." "But, Mama," Janie said, "if the Fishbite was going to bring somcone alive we didn't want it to be that one." Sister Muller didn't understand what Janie meant, but she said water was getting scarce for washing, even. I didn't hear what else she said, for just then a big whirl of wind flew by and filled our cyes and noses with dust. By the time we were through spluttering and coughing, we were all shivering. Right in this hot weather, only it wasn't hot any more. Then the carth tore apart with a crack that made us jump. We looked toward Ute Mountain. We could not sce the mountain, for a storm of dust was coming our way like mad. 'Thunder crackled again and lightning split the sky. Beyond it came mountains and mountains of clouds. "Oh," Sister Miller said, and it sounded like a prayer. Held my breath, watching. If this was the end of the world all these graves should come alive. I grabbed Janie as a big drop of water hit me right on the nose. I started to say, "It is raining," but all the faces were being pelted. Sister Miller started to shake, and Mama set her down on a flat tombstone. "It can't be,' she said over and over. But even Janie could see it was, and we were getting wet. 'The dust on our hands and dresses had turned to mud. "Run, all of you," Mama called, and we ran. I held Janie's hand, and Hattie held Albert's, and we 156 nearly ran their legs off. Going to the graveyard hadn't been far, but coming back was a long way. 'The rain came harder and. Faster and thunder cracked like a mad dog at our heels. We stood around in the kitchen but kept getting colder so we went into the bedroom and changed our clothes. When Mama and Sister Miller came they were walking like they were going to church. Their bonnets looked like draggled chicken feathers. They didn't even scold us for making tracks all over the scrubbed board floor. After they had changed their clothes they set supper on. 'The rain was still coming down in sheets and every time Sister Miller looked she offered us more to eat. For once I really had enough. The cows came home by themselves long before milking time. Sister Miller was talking about lighting the lamp when the meetinghouse bell began to ring. 'The way it rang it said for us to go there. Mama said she would put the children to bed, but Sister Miller said no they must go. So we went to the meetinghouse again. We ran and we wore coats, but we were nearly soaked by the time we got there. Elmer had a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 fire in the big stove and was lighting the extra lamps. We held our coats close to the stove so they could dry. All they did was steam. When everyone was there Elmer said it was fitting that we give thanks for this life-saving rain. Grandpa Hesse said it would have to rain more than this to save the country. From all over the room people whispered, "It will. It will." And it did. Then we all sang "Now Let Us Rejoice." — Sister Miller really pumped the squeaky old organ and the voices rose in a mighty chorus. I had heard that somewhere. It rained so long and so hard we didn't get home until Wednesday. HEN Papa was digging potatoes that fall Janie and I got plenty tired picking them up. "There are too many,' I grumbled. "Thank your mother for that," Papa said, "All the cultivating she did with that fork brought a heavy crop." Mama was helping. Now she straightened and said, "No. It was the Fishbite." My mouth dropped open and I stared. Then I saw Papa give her his special look, and she smiled as she does sometimes. Dorothy Clapp Robinson, Boise, Idaho, is well-known to readers of the Magazine, having w ritten many short stories and serials. Contest winner in 1954," Mrs. Robinson tells us, twenty-five. "Since being a Relief Society Short Story "my grandchildren have increased to Our son Philemon has returned from presiding over the Finnish Mission; our daughter has come back from Germany, where her husband was stationed as a serviceman, if I count myself. Present. "J was born in Eastdale, Colorado. In Old Mexico. And our other twin has twins, which makes three sets for the family, My husband, P. B. Robinson, Sr., I have served in all the women's auxiliaries of the Church on a ward and stake level, except Primary, but including teacher training and genealogy. Ent I am teaching the theology course in Relief Society. Four We had a reunion last summer, with all members of our family Was reared At presI am a charter member of the Idaho Writers League, and have had one book published, and sixteen serials, as well as many short stories and articles." Spiritual Living - Pathway to Peace Elder Blaine M. Porter Professor and Chairman of Human Development and Family Relationships, Bngham Young University (Address Delivered at Departmental Meeting, Annual General Relicf Society Conference, October 8, 1959) An Era of Confusion and Insecurity HIS is the nuclear age and 4 living in a nuclear age forces us to deal with many challenges. Even though we have many luxuries and comforts of living which our grandparents did not even dream of, I'm sure that our task of adjusting to and meeting the challenges which face us far surmounts the kinds of problems which our grandparents faced. These are confusing times. The daily headlines carrying evidences of fear and anxiety in high places fill us with this same fear and anxiety. The large black banners of war, strikes, atom and hydrogen bomb experiments, and guided missiles multiply this confusion. Radio and television programs discussing these problems, often in a passionate and pessimistic manner, arouse feelings of uneasiness and confusion in our youth and in ourselves. Parents are confused; teachers are perplexed; Congressmen and statesmen disagree, and military personnel argue as to the size of the armed forces and need for mobilization. Authority, in many respects, including religion, is being questioned, and old ways of life are being replaced with new ones or unfamiliar ones. 'The advancement of the jet age, which is making of countries which were history and geography book fantasylands of yesterday, our next-door neighbors of today, is adding new challenges in human relations. An Era of Great Potentiality Concomitant with this confusion and anxiety are the potential accomplishments for good in the foreseeable future which could result from the remarkable developments in the physical sciences. If the peace of the world can be kept, if we are able to develop sufficient skill in getting along with one another, both within our communities and in the world at large, it is quite probable that the last half of the twentieth century will record the greatest material changes in the history of our civilization. If we are able, creatively, to handle the problems which face us and to be somewhat philosophical about the unfinished world in which we live, we can quite honestly say that we are now living in the most exciting era of all times. 'The remarkable advancements which potentially exist in the peaceful use of nuclear energy are legion. This is an age, too, in which the advances made in nutrition, health education, and medicine, are not only making it possible for men to live longer, but, at the same time, have removed many of our most dreaded diseases and appear to be on the threshold of conquering numerous others. Page 157 158 Balancing the Scales The accomplishments in the physical sciences are so remarkable in comparison with advances in other areas of living that the scales are out of balance. We have sent atomic submarines underneath the ice cap covering the region surrounding the North Pole, satellites circling the earth and traveling to the moon, and have conquered many of our feared diseases. 'The advancements in the area of travel and communication have altered our lives in many ways. If we are to put these many accomplishments to use for the betterment of mankind, rather than its destruction, we must balance the scales with the attributes of maturity, love, and spirituality. Today, increasing numbers of people are beginning to understand that the fundamental problem of the human race is to learn how to live together in peace and harmony. No matter how many rockets we launch to the moon nor how many scientific instruments the rockets carrv, they still cannot teach us much about human development and behavior. Guided missiles or hydrogen bombs do not pick themselves up in one city and drop themselves on another city. Such destructive actions occur only through the motivations and directions of human beings. As long as we have Ieaders of nations who are characterized by immaturity, jealousy, greed, and hostility, we will continue to live in an anxious age threatened by the fear of suffering and destruction. Challenge to Develop Harmonious Human Relationship The challenges which lie before RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 us are clear. Advances in the physical sciences must be balanced with achievements in the social order and understanding of human behavior. We must change our way of thinking; we must change our way of feeling. Instead of hating, fighting, and crushing one another, we must seek to build our lives upon the principles of righteousness as taught and exemplified by our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. These challenges may not be easy for some because of the attraction which the glitter and ease of following other paths may have. The gospel of Jesus Christ beckons us to follow the high road wherein we dedicate ourselves to the eternal values of noble and righteous living. Anything less than this may mean the decline, if not the destruction, of our civilization, and it obviously will result in a Iess abundant life than is potentially within cach of us. Need for Emotional Maturity The significant problem at hand is: Can we meet the challenge? If we are to meet successfully the challenges and responsibilities of living meaningfully and spiritually in a nuclear age, it is essential that we develop a clear understanding of emotional and rcligious maturity and that we exert every effort toward increasing the degree and quality of our maturity in these aspects and in nurturing its growth in our children. An individual grows and develops in many diffcrent ways from the time of conception through infancy, childhood, adolescence, adulthood, and, in some respects, as long as he lives. In fact, we may be correct in speculating that dev cloping emotional maturity is an eternal process. De- SPIRITUAL LIVING — PATHWAY TO PEACE termining whether or not an individual is appropriately mature for his age is not a quick or easy job; however, there are certain traits which seem to represent maturity that should be helpful to us. As we attempt to evaluate our own emotional maturity, we must be as objective and honest as possible. The Role of Emotional Maturity The role of a mature adult living in a nuclear age can never be one of passive and uncritical acceptance. It must be a role in which we participate in creative and objective evaluations of the many new forces, alternatives, and decisions which we surely must face. The mature adult is one who thinks, meditates, values, tries to foresce consequences, and is actively confronting life and trying to do what needs to be done to improve life. The mature person is not afraid of life; rather he actively seeks to face it on as many fronts as his capacities and limitations permit, to live as an effective person in a rapidly changing society of today. The mature person must have graduated from home and school with an awareness of what will be expected of him by society. He should have successfully developed from the stage of thinking, "Please help me," to "I can take care of myself," to "Please let me help you." There is an urgency for a mature leadership in our society and communities. A mature person, because he understands himself and others, is better prepared to meet the tasks of everyday life with more confidence and is, therefore, more capable of wisely and intelligently leading others. Emotional maturity is essential to 159 the Latter-day Saint concept of progression, for certainly this is one of the ways in which eternal growth and development have the potential to occur. Many of the challenges of the gospel of Jesus Christ require the characteristics of an emotionally mature person in order to accomplish them successfully. Without taking the time to cite numerous scriptural quotations, let us recognize that one cannot possess the skill and ability genuinely to love, forgive, be concerned about the welfare and well-being of others, without being appropriately mature for one's age. If we are to live the teachings of Christ and be prepared for leadership in our society, as well as in the kingdom of God, it is important that we make a concerted effort toward increasing our emotional maturity. We cannot become emotionally mature all at once. We advance toward it little by little. Each step we take in this direction will lead us and our fellow men from a world in which there is considerable chaos and confusion toward a_ world characterized by those clements which will make up the kingdom of heaven on earth. Need for Religious Maturity In addition to exerting our efforts diligently toward achieving more emotional maturity is the serious need of growing toward greater religious maturity. The true gospel of Jesus Christ is not a religion consisting of essentially juvenile formulations, but rather a religion which encourages the individual to develop all the characteristically human powers within him. When Jesus of Nazareth said, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father 160 which is in heaven is perfect," he was extending an invitation to maturity. Religious maturity is built not only upon belief (faith), but also upon behavior (works). It is directly related to, if not dependent upon, the parallel development of emotional maturity. Certainly such characteristics or attributes as acceptance of self and others, adaptability and flexibility, orientation to environment, an integrated philosophy of life, acceptance of responsibilities, and knowledge must be present in order for the religious maturing process to occur. Traits of Religious Maturity 1. Knowledge and awareness of "the abundant life." 'The religiously mature person must assume responsibility for gaining all the knowledge he possibly can regarding the context of the abundant life as taught and exemplified by the Savior. He sees it as a growing process and recognizes that progression in the direction of achieving the abundant life comes through diligent study, reflective thinking, and communion with the Creator. 2. Spiritual freedom. If the individual is to be encouraged or even permitted to experience the potentialities within him for spiritual living and religious maturity, he must have an environment in which he can exercise his freedom of the soul. A social environment which seeks to enforce conformity of thinking and which is highly critical of spiritual exploration would appear to discourage the freedom which God intended men to have. 3. Growth toward wholeness. 'The spiritual life is a balanced life in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 which one docs not overdo some phases of living to the serious neglect of others. Life for the religiously mature person consists of growth toward wholeness. Perhaps this is what Paul had in mind when he said: When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things (First Corinthians 13:11). The religiously mature adult is developing a comprehensive philosophy of life which provides coherence to the world about him and enables him to make his life harmonious with it. 4. Practical (dynamic) application of religious belicfs. 'The gospel which Christ taught is a religion of doing, a religion of positive action. The religiously mature person within the framework of Christianity must, of necessity, be involved in a life of dynamic action. The religiously mature person is not only concerned with his awareness of religious teachings, but he is genuinely concerned with devecloping the skills to apply them. 5. Che sense of glory in life. The religiously mature person recognizes that glories surround him. He stands in reverent amazement of the many elements which constitute the universe and life that are beyond his own comprehension — beyond his own accomplishment. Reverence for life inevitably results in humility — a hallmark of the religiously mature person. With this kind of approach to living, an individual is able to sce beneath the surface — see beyond the horizons. He has the ability to sense the inwardness of things. And, SPIRITUAL LIVING — PATHWAY TO PEACE likewise, the religiously mature individual senses the inwardness of people. He sees the potentialities within them and constantly seeks to move toward the goal of helping himself and other people. He seeks as Socrates prayed: "Make me beautiful in the inward soul and may the inward and the outward be as one." The abundant life might be interpreted as consisting mainly of loving God, loving oneself, and loving one's fellow men. 6. Acting in faith. The religiously mature person acts in faith, and because of his faith, he has an optimistic view of the future. Faith not only serves as a dynamic force to impel us on to greater things, but it can serve, also, as an anchor which can help provide a feeling of security much needed in the rapidly changing and complex world of today. 'The importance of faith along with love was pointed out when we were told: "And if you have not faith, hope, and charity, you can do nothing" (D & C 18:19). The Role of Religious Maturity The demands of living spiritually in any age, but particularly in this nuclear age, require the _ traits, characteristics, and qualities of religious and emotional maturity. As man has developed the almost unbelievable mechanical advances which may permit him to destroy himself, the ability to love and to forgive becomes even more essential than in the past. Our own personal development should be of vital concern to all of us. Paul told us, in essence, that no matter how many: other things we have, that without love in our hearts and in our lives, we are "as sounding brass, 161 or a tinkling cymbal" — we are nothing. If we are to maintain good mental health and achieve a feeling of personal satisfaction and security, we must counteract the unrest and anxiety which exist in the world with knowledge and awareness of the abundant life. We must insure the conditions which will permit freedom of the soul in order that independently we can make the best of our lives. Our planetal awareness in the nuclear age emphasizes the importance of growth toward wholeness in order that we may develop an attitude of outreach and inclusiveness. Our skills of applying and practicing our religious beliefs must be perfected so that faith will be matched with works. If we can develop a sense of glory in life, a reverence for life, perhaps we will seek to nurture and enhance life rather than destroy it. Then, acting in faith, we can exert our every effort toward achieving good works and toward improving the life situation. The Powerful Influence of the Home The home is one of the most powerful influences affecting the development of emotional and religious maturity. The degree and quality of emotional and religious maturity which are developed in the home are closely related to what is expressed in the behavior of parents. During the early years, the home plays a most significant role in determining whether or not one is helped to lay away childish ways of reacting and encouraged to develop new and more mature ways of thinking and behaving. We cannot become mature all 162 at once. We advance toward it little by little. We are yet imperfect human beings on our way toward perfection, but each step that we take ourselves and help our children take, leads us closer to the fulfillment of living the gospel of Jesus Chnist. A great responsibility falls upon the home to produce loving personalities, individuals with feeling of respect and value for mankind, and skills of putting into practice Christian ideals and teachings. Our world can only be as effectively safe and secure as are the homes that constitute it. Walking the Spiritual Road Our challenge, then, is to find a way in which parents can join hands with each other and with their children to travel the spiritual road. The spiritual road has Christ as its ideal, not the gratification of the physical, for he that will save his life, yielding to the first gratification of a seeming need, would lose his life, lose his happiness, lose the pleasure of living at this present time. If he would seek the real purpose of life, the individual must live for something higher than self. He hears the Savior's voice saying, "T am the way, the truth, and the life..." (John 14:6). The Quest for Peace in Society The need for world peace is obvious. No matter how gloomy the picture may appear at times, one optimistic fact exists — each one of us can make a contribution toward achieving world peace and good will toward men. It is important, however, that we actively assume responsibility for putting our own house in order. What the world RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 needs is individuals who are living a practical religion, who are living applied Christianity. We need not only pray "Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven," but, individually, to work and strive to create the kind of world in which these conditions may prevail. This implies that if religion is to make a contribution in our quest for peace, it must not only be a subjective feeling, but also an expression of that feeling manifested in human associations and _ social relations. Knowing a _ thing or merely feeling an assurance of the truth is not sufficient. "To him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin" (James 4:17). Service to Others Christ invited us to follow in his steps in order that we might have life more abundantly. One very tangible way in which we can make a contribution toward others and toward our own personal development is by serying our fellow men. Most all of us daily, regardless of our age, could find opportunities to serve someone older than we are; someone who may be crippled or handicapped in some way; by giving encouragement to someone who is discouraged or depressed; or by making life more interesting and satisfying for any of the persons with whom we associate. Those individuals who experience satisfaction and happiness by living creatively, by serving their fellow men — individuals who are dedicated to the creation of a still better world for everyone, are traveling the course which we are charting toward a better world. Jesus, having man's future in SPIRITUAL LIVING — PATHWAY TO PEACE mind, said, nineteen centuries ago, "A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another" (John 13:34). 'Today, scientists of human behavior have arrived at the conclusion that love is the greatest medicine and provides the most hope for achieving a world of peace and a condition in which man can live and maintain good mental health. We have learned through centuries of experience that a commandment alone does not make a person love another. We_ have learned that if a person is filled with hate and anger and hostility, attempts to command and legislate kindness and mercy and love appear to have essentially failed. 'The development of such traits and characteristics will result from. Living in healthy conditions which nurture and promote feelings of love that spontaneously flow from within the individual. If sincere men and women the world over could unite in an earnest effort to supplant feelings of sclfishness, hatred, suspicion, and greed, with feelings of kindness, mercy, justice, and service to others, then leaders would think more of men than of the success of a system, and they would thereby promote the peace and happiness of mankind. 'There is no road to universal peace which does not lead into the hearts of humanity The challenge and task of follow- 163 ing the pathway to peace obviously rest upon the shoulders of each of us. It will take all of us working diligently together to create a world of peace-loving people, to develop within ourselves the skill, the capacity, the desire to live harmoniously, creatively with one another, to love the Lord, to love oneself, to love one's neighbor, to love one's enemies, to create within our homes the kind of environment which will produce loving personalities in our children. This means we must search for self-understanding, for inner peace, contentment, serenity, while, at the same time, maintaining sufficient feelings of dissatisfaction that we have the propelling drive and urge to improve the life situation. We must realize that the power to love does not come full-grown into our lives. It does not come by mere admonition, nor by logical, verbal proof of its importance. To promote love among men requires that we do more than talk about it, that we actually promote situations and create atmospheres in which love will spontaneously flourish without being admonished to do so. It must form a very core of our lives as we attempt to live and practice a religion of love. Not by seeking the superficial things of life, but rather as love springs from the individual's heart will we find the peace of Christ. Bluebird Eva Willes Wangsgaard I tried to capture April weather, Spin song of fragrance lilacs bore. But a poet wearing a bright blue feather Sang all that I knew to sing and more. She Southan States Tlisston Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian NE of the first missionaries to labor in the states which later were included in the Southern States Mission, was Wilford Woodruff who, as early as 1834, traveled through and held mectings in Arkansas, Tennessee, and Kentucky. Converts were baptized and several small branches of the Church were established. In 1839 Jedediah M. Grant began missionary work in Virginia. Other elders followed, but it was not until 1875 that the Southern States Mission was organized, with Henry G. Boyle as president. 'The States included in the new mission were Tennessce, Arkansas, Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, and Virginia. As the work of the mission increased, a number of adjoining States were added, including Ohio, North and South Carolina, Kentucky, Maryland, Texas, Louisiana, and Florida. The headquarters of the Southern States Mission was first established in Nashville, Tennessee. It was later changed to Chattanooga, Tennessec, then to Atlanta, Georgia. Presidents of the mission who served from the time of its organization until 1933 were: Henry G. Boyle, 1875-78; John Morgan, 1878-83; Brigham H. Robcrts, 1883-84; William Spry, 1888-91; J. Golden Kimball, 1891-94; Courtesy Atlanta Chamber of Commerce Submitted by Lucile W. Bunker THE SUWANNEE RIVER, GEORGIA AND FLORIDA Page 164 THE SOUTHERN STATES MISSION 165 ae es epniehe Courtesy Atlanta Chamber of Commerce Submitted by Lucile W. Bunker DOGWOOD IN BLOOM, ATLANTA, GEORGIA Ehas S. Kimball, 1894-98; Ben E. Rich, 1898-1902; Ephraim H. Nye, 1902-03; Ben E. Rich, 1903-08; Charles A. Callis, 1908-33. After serving twenty-five years as president of the Southern Statcs Mission, Charles A. Callis was ordained a member of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, on October 14, 1933. Mission presidents who have served since President Callis are: LeGrand Richards, 1933-37; Merrill D. Clayson, 1937-40; William P. Whitaker, 1940-43; Heber Mecks, 1943-48; Albert Choules, 1948-52; Pcter J. Ricks, 1952-55; Berkeley L. Bunker, 1955-59; J. Byron Ravsten, 1959—. The borders of the Southern States Mission have been changed several times since its organization. The Mission now embraces the States of Georgia, Mississippi, Alabama, Florida, and South Carolina. Stakes that have becn organized from the Southern States Mission are: Florida, January 1947; South Carolina, October 1947; Atlanta, May 1957; Orlando, February 1958; and 'Tampa, August 1959. At the end of November 1959, there were 12,554 members of the Church in this Mission, located in seventy branches. Sixty-four Relief Society organizations, with 1276 members, were reported in December 1959. Lucile W. Bunker is former president of the Southern States Mission Relief Society. The new president is Elva Stella Ravsten. Note: The cover for this Magazine "A Southern Mansion With Dogwood in Bloom," is used by Courtesy of the Atlanta, Georgia, Chamber of Commerce, and was submitted by Lucile W. Bunker. See also "Recipes From the Southern States Mission," by Sister Bunker, on page 179. A Place for Everything Charmaine Kohler EBRA awoke suddenly, as she did each morning, plans for the day running through her head. 'Today she wanted to wash the kitchen windows, straighten the cupboard shelves, and give the utility room a good cleaning. After that, there might be time to do that stack of mending before Dan came home from work. Debra prided herself on her neatas-a-pin home. She knew her neighbors remarked on how she kept it that way with two small atompowered boys and a husband to clean up after. Her formula was "a place for everything, and everything in its place," and she followed this formula to the letter. Her thoughts were interrupted when two little blonde heads peeked around the door. Ronnie, age four, and Greggie, age two, skipped smiling to the bedside, both talking at once. "Good morning, Mommie!" Ronnie flashed his dimples and_proceeded to dig Dan out from beneath the covers. "'Morning, Mommie." Greggie always managed to sound like his big brother's echo. Everything Ronnie said Greggie would repeat as best he could, which sometimes wasn't too clear. Debra smiled quickly at her wiggling sons, as she reached for her housecoat and slippers. 'The boys would have "Daddy Polar Bear" up soon, so she might as well take advantage of the opportunity and get breakfast started. When Dan left Page 166 for work at nine, she hoped to be all ready to start cleaning. Greggie soon joined her in the kitchen and demanded his usual seat on the counter top. Here he could watch every fascinating move as flour and eggs blended with milk and shortening to make the hot cakes he loved. "Me help?" "Not this morning, honey. Mommie wants to hurry." Debra poured out a cup of dried milk and set it down on the counter. "Ronnie! Hot cakes!" Greggie eagerly relayed the good news. "Hot cakes!" The answering shout from the bathroom and the quick dash for the kitchen were evidence of another little boy's breakfast favorite. "May I help?" Ronnie asked hopefully. "Not today. I have to hurry." Debra turned back to her bowl just in time to see Greggie leaning over the cup of powdered milk, his mouth puckered, ready to blow. "Oh, no, Greggie!" she gasped. Too late. A cloud of powdered milk crystals flew up above the little blonde head and drifted lazily down to settle on floor, cupboard — and little blonde head. Debra firmly picked up Greggie and plunked him into his high chair to await breakfast. Ronnie made a fast get-away to the living room. When his mother walked that fast he knew from experience that it was time to move on. Breakfast followed the usual pattern. Debra was silent, thinking A PLACE FOR EVERYTHING over her day's work. Dan ate quickly, glancing occasionally at the clock. Greggie and Ronnie kept up a constant chatter. "Tm going to clean up my plate first. I'll beat you, Greggie!" "Beat you, Ronnie." "Huh-uh!" Ronnie argued. "Uh-huh!" "Hey, Mommie," Ronnie asked for his mother's attention. "Yes?" "Tf my head was in my tummy I bet it could see what this milk is doing down there." "Hurry and eat your breakfast, Ron." Debra had no time this morning to become involved in one of her son's wild imaginings. At nine o'clock Debra kissed Dan goodby and sent the boys to the back yard to play. Now if only they would occupy themselves for a few hours so she could get down to business. Debra quickly stacked the breakfast dishes and filled the sink with sudsy water. Just as she was scouring the last frying pan, she heard Ronnie calling excitedly from beneath her kitchen window. "Mommie — Mommie! Come quick!" "Quick!" echoed Greggie. "What is it?" Debra called through the windows, imagining at least a broken arm or a bloody gash. "Greggie found a spotted bug. Come see him, "See 'im," Greggie chanted. Debra had no intention of taking the extra time or steps involved to see the spotted bug. She knew the boys would forget about it soon. Twelve o'clock arrived quickly as Debra busily cleaned. Dutifully, but with regret, she laid down her 167 window polishing cloth and called the boys in to lunch. "Lunchtime, boys. Empty the sand from your cuffs before you come in." The sandbox and Debra waged a constant battle. The gritty sand could make a shiny, freshly waxed floor rough like concrete in a short time. Debra quickly made peanut butter sandwiches and tall glasses of chocolate milk, then scooped large helpings of gelatin salad onto two plates. "What's new with you, Mother?" Ronnie came strolling into the kitchen. Debra glanced quickly at her oldest son and smiled. Now where had he picked up that remark? "New you, Mommie?' Greggie chirped. "Not much, wash your hands. Boys. Hurry and Lunch is ready." OW many times a day did she say "hurry" and "quick," Debra wondered. How many thousands of things were there to lure little boys' minds from what you told them to do? How many pebbles to examine? How many butterflies to chase? How many questions to answer? Sometimes a twitch of conscience warned Debra to be more patient. She knew she should take time to answer more questions thoroughly and explore more of nature's wonders with her sons, but the days never seemed to be long enough to get everything done. There was always a washing to do, an ironing, or baking. If she ever really slowed down, surely her household would disintegrate before her eyes within two days. Finally, after two dozen requests 168 of "Eat your lunch, boys," the last drop of ice cream disappeared from the bottom of their bowls and Debra whisked them off to bed for naps. She always looked forward to this time of day, for now she could really fly around without spending so much time going to the window to check on the boys at play. Just as she was closing their bedroom door, Ronnie called out. Impatiently, Debra opened the door. "It is nap time. Now go to sleep and do not call me again!" Debra spoke sharper and louder than she intended. "Just one word, please." Ronnie held up one small finger to make his request sound as reasonable as possible and looked zt his mother with large, serious eyes. "Word, p'eese?'" Greggie spoke softly as he peeked at Debra with one eye closed. "All right. What is so important just now?" Debra relented. "Mommie, you know that sad tree we saw at Grandma's? Why was it so sad? Didn't it have any playmates?" "Cree any p'aymates?" Greggie echoed worriedly. Sad tree? Debra was puzzled. What in the world was a sad tree? "T guess not, hon. Now have a good nap." Debra returned to her polishing cloth, then suddenly she understood. Of course! The weeping willow tree. I must remember to explain about the names of different trees when Ron awakens from his nap, she decided. HREE o'clock came. The kitchen windows shone, the utility room gleamed, and Debra was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 efficiently reorganizing cupboard shelves. 'To make the simple task less monotonous her favorite record was spinning on the hi-fi and strains of "Oh, ''m So Lonely" were drifting through the air. "Oh, I'm so lonely since he said goodbye..." Debra crooned under her breath. "Mother!" Ronnie's voice from behind startled Debra so that she nearly fell from the stool on which she was perched. Lost in her task and the music, she hadn't heard her son's bare footsteps. "You frightened me. Have a good nap?" "Yes, I had a good nap," giggled Ronnie, tickled because he had scared Debra. "Good nap." Greggie nodded his head so vigorously that his whole body jiggled. "Fine. Run get your shoes and jeans and you can ride tricycles awhile." "Okay!" Greggie had just mastered the art of tricycle riding and enthusiastically ran to find his missing clothes. "Mother, if you find that man, I'll be his playmate." Ronnie was standing very still with a thoughtful scowl on his face. "What man? What are you talking about?" Now what, Debra Did you wondered. "That man singing... 'lonely him," Ronnie answered seriously. "That is just a pretend song, honey. He's not really lonely. Now run get your clothes. Greggie! What are you doing? Hurry, darling." Debra climbed down from the stool and went to see what was delaying her youngest. A PLACE FOR EVERYTHING Greggie was stretched out fulllength on his stomach, chin resting on the floor, while one finger poked experimentally and with caution at the retreating end of a big black beetle. "Oh, darling, leave that thing alone. He may bite,' Debra warned. "He bite?" Greggie, round-eyed and fascinated, did not retreat one step. Debra scooped the beetle onto a magazine and threw him out the window. "Come on, Greg. Mommie will put your shoes on. Don't you want to go outdoors?" "Don' wanu, wan'nu', wan'nu'!" Greggie thrust out his chin, his eyes shot sparks, and he dared Debra to give him any argument. "Now stop that right now. Hurry up and go play so that I can finish those cupboards. You're just wasting time." EBRA could feel her anger rising. Why did Greggic have to give her trouble now? Ile did look cute when he was angry, though. She wanted to pick him up, cuddle and tease him awhile, but she just didn't have time now. Instead, she picked him up and carried him, small arms and legs churning, to a chair where she forcibly dressed him. "Now ride your tryke and stay out of the strect." With one last scowl over his shoulder, Greggie peddled off down the sidewalk. "Ronnie, are you going out?" Now what is he doing? Debra wondered. Ronnie had rediscovered a gun he had received for Christmas a year ago. He had also dug a dart for the gun from the clutter of his toy box. 169 The suction-cup head for the dart was missing, but maybe it would shoot. He would try, anyway. "Watch me shoot that zebra, Mother." Zing! Crash! Before Debra could even open her mouth to stop him, a dozen picces of the ill-fated zebra's hind quarters scattered and_ slid across the end table and floor. Ronnie stood motionless — bigeyed and amazed. He'd hit it! What a good shot! He didn't think Mother would agree with him, and he eyed her cautiously. Debra looked at the shattcred zebra sadly. It wasn't the first of her zebra collection to be broken, but it was the first to be broken in too many picces to be repaired. "You know better than to shoot that gun in the house. Now go outdoors and play before I spank you." Debra went for the broom as Ronnie made his escape. He had been expecting a spanking and considered himself lucky to get by so easily. Ten minutes later Ronnic was back at Debra's side, a child's book clutched in his hand. "Will you read to me?" he asked hopefully. "Not now, maybe later. I have a lot to do before Daddy gets home from work. Run back outdoors and play." "IT bet you just won't ever read," Ronnie muttered, as he sadly shuffled out. By five o'clock Debra had finished all the day's tasks she had allotted herself that morning in bed. All, that is, except the mending. She decided to work on that while she watched television with Dan that evening. Dan had told her often that he didn't want her working 170 around the house while he was home in the evening. After the hustlebustle of the drugstore all day, Dan looked forward to a relaxed evening surrounded by his family. Sometimes they rough-housed, the room shaking, while "Daddy Polar Bear" and his "cubs" rolled growling over and over each other across the floor. Other times Dan would sit on the davenport, a son under each arm, reading fairy tales. Debra also looked forward to their evenings together, but if her work for the day had not been completed, she found it hard to relax. Even when physically tired, Debra's mind would start planning tomorrow's chores. HAT night when Dan closed the storybook, Debra reached for the boys' pajamas. "Bedtime, fellows," Dan said as he tugged Greggie's shoes off. "Let's see who beats undressed." While the contest noisily proceeded, Debra went to the boys' room. She opened a window, closed the blinds, and turned down the covers on the twin beds. 'Then, ready for the "going-to-bed ceremony," she waited. The "going-to-bed ceremony" had started a year ago when Greggie, just one year old, had been given a "big bed." The ceremony consisted of prayers, the eeny-meeny-mineymoe game, a final drink of water, and a goodnight kiss. Only after the completion of this ceremony would the boys lie down and go to sleep. Debra had tried to leave out a part or two to hurry up the routine at times, but the protests were always so vigorous that she had given up. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 Greggie and Ronnie skipped into the room in their identical blue sleepers, resembling two innocent blonde angels, and knelt, cach by his own bed, for prayers. "Heavenly Father..." Ronnie began. "Hebbenly Fa'her," Greggie echoed. "Bless Mommy and Daddy, Greggie and me. "An' me,' " Greggic mumbled. "Help Uncle Rod on his mission...." Ronnie continued. "Help Umple Rod...." "Help Grandpa feel better," nie added. "Gran'pa beller.... "Help us be good boys...." "Good boys. 'Men." Greggie finished his prayer and climbed onto his bed, clutching his beloved fuzzy kitten. Debra raised her head and waited for Ronnie to bounce up. He remained kneeling, head bowed, hands clasped. "And help Mommie have lots more time so she can play with us. Amen." Debra stiffened. Ronnie's final request to Heavenly Father was not part of his usual prayer. He had never added anything before. Why had he said such a thing? Debra knew why. How many times today, and before today, had she told the boys, "Not now— later." "I don't have time right now." "Some other time. I'm ina hurry." "Don't waste time." "Hurry and eat." "Run wash your hands." How many times had she ignored their questions and requests when what they were really asking for was her company? Ron-? A PLACE FOR EVERYTHING EBRA didn't like the way she was seeing herself — the way Ronnie and Greggie must see her. "Eeny, meemie! Eeeny, meemie, Mommie!" Greggie shouted impatiently. Greggie squealed and helplessly struggled as Debra gathered him up, tossed him onto the bed, and drew the sheet up to his chin. Ronnie soon succumbed, and after tucking him in, Debra went to the bathroom for their "ceremonial drink." What had she been doing, she wondered, robbing her sons? 'That was an ugly word, but true. Her own best childhood memories were of the hours her mother had read to her, the talks they had had, and the doll clothes they'd sewed together. She never remembered her mother ever telling her that there wasn't time or that she was too busy. Her mother's house was always clean, too — cven with seven children frolicking through it. "Mother, you forgot our drink," Ronnie called indignantly. "Coming," Debra replied, and hastily filled two cups and carried 171 them to the thirsty boys. When drinks were finished, Debra leaned down to kiss them good night. "Good-night, darling," she murmured to Ronnic. "Have a good sleep because we have a big day ahead tomorrow. How would you hike to go for a walk by the river?" "Sure, can we?" Ronnie was doubtful. "Of course, we can," Debra smiled, "and we'll see how many kinds of bugs, trees, and colored rocks we can find." "Mc! Rocks, crees, bugs!' Greggie shouted, sitting up straight in bed. "You, too, honey."" Debra smiled. "You have a good sleep, too. Goodnight." Debra paused outside their closed door, her heart full of love. It would not be casy to break her habit of constant, nervous cleaning, but she could, and would — starting now. As she went to join Dan in the living room, a voice (perhaps her conscience, peaceful at last) sighed through her thoughts... "and a little child shall lead them." t March Sime Enola Chamberlin March time came to the world today, Came with the wind-whipped applique Of the shadows of new leaves on the ground; Came with the heart uplifting sound Of a meadowlark calling, came with the fecl Of pussywillows like satin chenille. March time came to valley and hill; Came with a yellow daffodil; With north flown robins again on the wing — Came with a boy with a ball of string, With a care-free heart and a purple kite, With scuffed old shoes and eyes alight, With the wind and sky at his command Holding the universe in his hand. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1900 "For rue Ricurs or Tus Women or ZION AND THE Ricurs or THE WOMEN or Ati Nations" VISIT TO MEXICO: About 5 o'clock p. M., on the 21st of October, we arrived at Dublan, where there was a joyful meeting with my daughter. At Dublan there is an excellent site for a large city, the only drawback being the scarcity of water late in the season.... The latter part of October I went to Juarez, about cightcen miles distant. We were kindly treated by the Saints and hospitably entertained at the homes of Presidents A. W. Ivins and Henry Eyring, Bishop Joseph Bentley and others, and met with many friends, among them Sister Elizabeth Snow, who is spending the winter with her daughter in this delightful climate.. On Thursday I returned to Dublan with Sister "Mary P. Eynng, the president of the Relief Society of Juarez Stake, and met with the Relief Society of Dublan. Many excellent testimonies were borne of the Gospel... —Ann C, Woodbury THE LAKES OF THE WASATCH: Whether in the delicate profusion of the Spring's flowery extravagance, or clothed in the deep, rich green of Summer's foliage, in the gorgeous wealth of Autumnal colors, or buricd beneath the snowy silence of Winter, the Wasatch mountains are beautiful, sublime, inspiring; and high up lying in open dells between vast walls, where the carth is intense with insect life and flowery growth, are fairy lakes of mystic depths, held fast in the rugged cradles of these mountain ridges.... —M. A. J. Lambert GOD'S LOVE Could we with ink the ocean fill, Were all the earth of parchment made, Were every single stick a quill, And every man a scribe by trade, To write the love of God above Would drain the ocean dry, Nor could the scroll contain the whole Though stretched from sky to sky. —Selected THE SEVENTEENTH OF MARCH: On Saturday, March 17, it will be fiftyeight years since the Relief Society (which has now attained such magnificent proportions) was organized in the City of Nauvoo, Illinois. We speak of it as having been organized by President Joseph Smith.... He foresaw and foretold many things concerning it which have since come to pass.... What it may do in the great future, to which we look with such earnest hopefulness, remains for us who still live and labor, and the younger women who will enlist in the work, to determine by diligence and enterprise along the lines of higher and nobler aspirations and culture, than the world has yet attained. Therefore, it seems fitting indeed to celebrate the day when such a movement was $ inaugurated, and to make it a day memorable in the minds of all who are within reach.... One suggestion might be made... That particular respect be shown to the veteran workers in the cause; and that mention be made in some one of the addresses or speeches, of the great advantage the Society has given to its faithful members, and in promoting and inculcating correct principles of life.. —Editorial Page 172 MB:. JOHN (Barbara) EISENHOWER accompanied her fathcr-in-law, President Dwight D. Eisenhower, in December, on his historic cleven-nation tour to Italy, Turkey, Pakistan, Afghanistan, India, Iran, Greece, France, Tunisia, Spain, and Morocco. The President's wife did not make the journey on account of her health. MB::. LOUISE LAKE is a Latter-day Saint woman from Salt Lake City who became completely paralyzed from polio. Through faith, determination, and therapy, she has regained the use of her body to be able to move around with the aid of hand crutches. Mrs. Lake was nationally recognized as the "Handicapped Person of the Year" in 1958, and has now been named to the national President's Committee for the Employment of the Handicapped. She was also named to the planning committee of the International Society for the Welfare of Cripples. Mrs. Lake has also helped to design clothes for the handicapped, many with zippers and buttons placed for special uses. MB: Anne Wheaton is Associate White House Press Secretary and a very busy woman. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ARAH DIBAH, beautiful twenty-one year old Iranian commoner, became the third wife of Mohammed Reza Shah _ Pahlevi, Shah of Iran, in Tehran, on December twenty-first. 'The Shah has divorced two wives because of lack of a male heir to the throne. IRIAM ASSY, an Arab and a Christian, has been given a special award and recognition by the Israel Ministry of Health for "dedicated and superior nursing care" given at the Malben Hospital near Nahariya in Northern Israel. Miss Assy received a medical dictionary and a biography of Eve Curie, each inscribed by the hospital's director. After the award ceremony Miss Assy received a heartwarming welcome in her native village of Kfar Yasif. HELEN LEE, a native of Knoxville, Kentucky, is head of the design department of Alyssa Originals, Inc., and a partner in the firm which does a multi-million dollar business each year in designing and manufacturing clothes for girls. She and her staff of fourteen turn out forty dress designs each week — clothes noted for their "clegant simplicity." Miss Lee also designs a coat collection and all the children's patterns for a large pattern company. Page 173 QD EDITORIAL c~O VOL. 47 She Refining Influence of Reliof Society F all the refining influences that come into the lives of those who strive to uplift themselves, that of the gospel of Jesus Christ is preeminent. The gospel illumines one's mind and soul, and frees one's life from dullness and earthiness. A knowledge of the divinity of the Savior lends a touch of the sublime to life in this world. A desire for eternal exaltation gives purpose to efforts to overcome weaknesses, to cleanse from impurities, and to rise above that which is coarse and vulgar. Knowing the gospel helps one know the spiritual form that underlies everything. One cannot be truly refined if he is deficient in spirituality. Relief Society brings the refining influence of the gospel of Jesus Christ to its members. Relief Society furnishes inspiration which has impelled action on the part of the sisters to learn and live the commandments of our Heavenly Father. One great purpose for its organization, and a constant direction from the prophets, is to teach the gospel — to build testimonies. Refinement is not merely concern for one's own spiritual and cultural advancement. It embodies all that is gentle, considerate, and uplifting, and embraces consideration for and service to others. 'The author Galesworthy once described a friend as a person having true refinement because he couldn't help thinking of others no matter what he did. Thoughtfulness of the needs of Page 174 one's fellow men and service to them cnlarges the soul. Compassion is tenderness, understanding, sympathy, and fellowship in fecling which leads to alleviating want and distress; all are emotions and actions which enrich one's own life. President McKay has defined the essence of true culture as being consideration for others. Selflessness is an attribute of character the truly refined person possesses. Relief Society throughout its long history has ever been mindful of serving God through serving his children. Members of Relief Socicty make its motto "Charity never faileth," a living reality in constant striving to be of living service. 'This great, world-wide sisterhood gives each member opportunities to serve in the name of the Society and encourages individual sisters to develop habits of kindliness in themselves. Relief Society responds as wholeheartedly today to the need for its myriad services as it did in the beginning. Intellectual devclopment is one facet of the many faceted jewel of refinement. The various aspects of culture are a refining influence and their study an cnriching experience. An understanding of the great and beautiful arts brings breadth of vision, guidance in meeting life's challenges, and an cmotional response which promotes learning. What one feels deeply greatly affects learning. Education and intcllectual pursuits add to the storehouse of knowledge MARCH 1960 NO. 3 EDITORIAL upon which one can dream to live more abundantly. Relief Society brings culture and beauty into the lives of its members and their families in its educational program. It helps create and keep alive the desire for progression, the constant goal of ever-increasing knowledge. A discriminating study of literature increases one's ability to choose wisely those things which will contribute to mental and spiritual growth. Appreciation of good music is another cultural feature Relief Society fosters, both as a means of providing for participation in worshiping and learning, and in increasing understanding of a refining art to add depth and richness to life. Gracious living is conducive to rehnement. 'The opposite is also true. Refinement is conducive to gracious living. 'The spirit of the home in which one resides influences the process by which refinement is achieved. The love, the discipline, and the teachings of parents 175 are the foundation of lives beautifully lived. Such basic things as selfcontrol, unselfishness, and self-mastery are traits of character that lead to spiritual and emotional maturity. This maturity is a refining influence that shapes purposeful lives. Relief Society helps to build within its members the resources for gracious living. All phascs of homemaking are taught: from making homes more beautiful by creative handwork, to fundamentals of a well-ordered home economically managed, through the activities which spiritualize the home. The continuing education that mothers receive in Relief Society serves to increase the happiness, serenity, and joyousness of family life. The refining influence of Relief Society has reached thousands of lives in the one hundred eighteen years since 1842. Our Heavenly Father has truly provided an organization for his daughters which guides, assists, and uplifts them. —L. W. M. Nliraculous Advent Ida Elaine James So long the shoulders of our joy have borne The burden of the snow; so long the lost Bloom of an earlier ecstasy has worn Only the bitter mantle of the frost: If, through the casements of the heart, we see At last dark acres travail to the bud, The earth turn gold and coral, and the tree Plume to the ascent of white mounting blood: Oh, give a tolerant hearing once again To such spring words as winter hearts indite, Who see, on blossomed hillsides of old pain, Beauty come singing, with a face of light. Notes TO THE FIELD Organizations and Reorganizations of Stake and? Lission Relief Societies for 1959 NEW ORGANIZATIONS Stakes American River Cheyenne Clearfield Denver West East Idaho Falls Granite Park Huntington Park Indianapolis Mojave Pocatello (new) Sandy Tampa Torrance West Covina Whittier Winder Yakima Missions Andes Brazilian South South German Stakes Ashley Blaine Boise Bonneville Cache Cannon Covina Denver Page 176 Formerly Part of Appointed President Date Appointed North Sacramento Stake Denver Stake North Davis Stake Denver Stake Idaho Falls Stake South Salt Lake Stake South Los Angeles Stake Great Lakes Mission Bakersfield Stake West Pocatello Stake Mount Jordan Stake Orlando Stake Redondo Stake Covina Stake East Los Angeles Stake Mill Creek Stake Richland Stake Formerly Part of Lois S. Fife Amy E. Willis Afton C. Higley Della H. Teeter Bertha Hansen Melvina U. Dust Laura R. Shimp Hazel M. Brinson Ora Kidd Emily S. Romish Wanda L. Gull Inez Edwards Kathryn L. Squire Lyle H. Facer Rea W. Jorgenson Dorothy F. Bolander Adele Willden Appointed President December 6, 1959 July 7, 1959 Apmil 12, 1959 July 5, 1959 June 14, 1959 February 23, 1959 April 19, 1959 May 17, 1959 August 16, 1959 April 19, 1959 April 12, 1959 October 25, 1959 May 3, 1959 May 3, 1959 April 26, 1959 January 25, 1959 June 1, 1959 Date Appointed Argentine and Uruguay Brazilian West German Fawn H. Sharp Ida M. Sorenson Verda C. Buehner REORGANIZATIONS Released President President Appointed September 25, 1959 August 24, 4959 September 12, 1959 Date Appointed Melba H. Tullis Melba Thorne Edna S. Millar Cora S. Jenkins Pearl A. Heaton Eva H. Stevenson Lyle H. Facer Della H. Teeter Mazie S. Christensen Elizabeth C. Adamson Alyce B. Glade Ruby A. Robbins Pearl R. Haddock Janet S. Schmidt Doris Lee Ilah K. Smith January 25, 1959 October 2, 1959 June 28, 1959 September 1, 1959 May 25, 1959 June 21, 1959 May 3, 1959 July 12, 1959 NOTES TO THE FIELD Stakes Emery Grand Coulee Hayward Hillside Hyrum Kearns North Lake View Logan Lyman Midvale Monterey Bay Nevada North Box Elder North Davis North Sacramento Oquitrh Orange County Orlando Palo Alto Portland Portneuf Redondo Rigby Riverdale Santa Ana Santa Monica Smithfield South Los Angeles South Sevier St. Louis University West Pocatello West Utah Missions Australian Canadian Central American Central Atlantic States Danish Eastern States French New England New England North German Northern California Southern Far East Southern States Swedish Swiss-Austrian Tongan Released President President Appointed 177 Date Appointed Merle B. Johansen Jane M. Larsen Myrtle A. Davidson Lucille S. Condie Rhoda Thorpe Joyce S. Jensen Katherine Child Gwen J. Miner Elease E. Rollins Celeste D. Millerberg LaVee Haws Christie L. Haynes June I. Hunsaker LaVora S. Wood Lois S. I'ife Laura M. Wilkin Alline Hatch Vela E. Milton Ruby M. Dobbins Jennie R. Scott Emeline W. Marley Kathryn L. Squire Hope S. Beus Isabell C. Ellison Mariom A. Woodhouse Hilda Goucher Vera R. Cantwell Laura R. Shimp Faye K. Niclson Lorene Tidlund Fanny S. Kienitz Emily S. Romish Loleta W. Dixon Released President Rena Grange Lanore S. Bowen Vera S. Crockett Genevieve F. Wight Berenece B. Darley Clarice M. Woolley LaRue L. Schoenfeld Nellie G. Quinney Ada W. Eyre Marguerite G. Wright Louise H. Johnson Margery M. Tate Nina H. Beecher Verna C. Holt Kerma D. Jensen LaPrele S. Brown Mary S. Grasteit Paula I*. Hawkins Nell M. Benson Ann M. Merrill Fern T. Hartvigsen Ruth Witty Ruth Millet Myr] S. Stewart Bessie L. Brockbank Elva D. Cusworth Treta R. Hymas Alta C. Davis Clara S. Roberts Mardean P. Stcinmetz Annie M. Ballantyne Margaret L. Jones Esther M. Moulton President Appointed March 15, 1959 April 26, 1959 September 27, 1959 January 12, 1959 June 28, 1959 January 22, 1959 June 21, 1959 May 17, 1959 September 27, 1959 May 10, 1959 September 27, 1959 September 20, 1959 August 10, 1959 January 25, 1959 December 10, 1959 August 27, 1959 December 13, 1959 November 15, 1959 August 13, 1959 January 26, 1959 February 1, 1959 May 3, 1959 July 19, 1959 September 27, 1959 May 16, 1959 September 20, 1959 September 27, 1959 April 20, 1959 May 17, 1959 June 7, 1959 August 23, 1959 April 19, 1959 December 13, 1959, Date Appointed Irene T. Erckson Leah H. Lewis Gladys K. Wagner Lovell W. Smith Ora H. Petersen Florence S. Jacobsen Alice C. Christensen Margaret R. Jackson Laura P. Brossard Edythe C. Robbins Hazel S. Love Luana C. Heaton Lucile W. Bunker Ruth T. Oscarson LaVelle D. Curtis Sylvia R. Stone Edith J. Moore Frances B. Monson Edith B. Hancock Catharine W. Aposhian Florence B. 'Thorup Olive L. Smith Laura P. Brossard Laura P. Brossard May F. Carr Velma W. Fetzer Leta C. Pugh Barbara C. Taylor Elva S. Ravsten Ellen S. Omer Jennie W. Erekson LaVera W. Coombs January 23, 1959 April 14, 1959 March 4, 1959 February 18, 1959 October 13, 1959 January 22, 1959 November 23, 1959 July 2, 1959 November 12, 1959 November 19, 1959 November 13, 1959 June 16, 1959 April 16, 1959 November 16, 1959 August 8, 1959 May 20, 1959 178 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 Index for 1959 Relief Society Mlagazine Available OPIES of the 1959 index of The Relief Society Magazine are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Strect, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. The price is twenty cents, including postage. Relief Socicty officers and members who wish to have their 1959 issues of The Relicf Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertisement on page 209.) 'The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.50, leather $3.80, including the index. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1959 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. She American Red Cross and Lis Campaign for lembers and Funds Theodore V. Houser Volunteer National Chairman for Members and Funds HE, Red Cross volunteer is a respected symbol of the American's traditional concern for his brother's well-being. The story of the Red Cross begins with its volunteers. Internationally, the organization was founded by volunteers. It was brought to this country by volunteer leadership. Here in America, the Red Cross took deep root because the tradition of neighbors volunteering to help one another and their communities is part of our national and spiritual heritage.... The past year found the American Red Cross not only carrying on its more familiar responsibilities — those of disaster relief, training in first aid, swimming, lifesaving, and home nursing, providing blood for the sick and injured, and helping servicemen, veterans, and their families — but also mobilizing to meet other challenging situations.... Although the Congressional charter under which the Red Cross operates imposes specific duties and responsibilities upon the organization, it receives its financial support solely from the voluntary contributions of the American people. At this time, when the American Red Cross holds its annual campaign to enlist our active participation, and, in many communities, our financial support of its Nation-wide and world-wide activities, its achievements warrant our continued support. It is fitting that all of us join in supporting the Red Cross in its annual campaign for members and funds, being conducted throughout the month of March, to secure the volunteers and the money needed to carry on its important work. Recipes From the Southern States IT lisston Submitted by Lucile W. Bunker Derrv-Soutn Corn Brean 1 c. Corn meal "% tsp. Soda % c. White flour 1 egg 1 tsp. Baking powder buttermilk 1 tsp. Salt % c. Shortening Melt shortening in nine-inch square baking pan and set aside. Mix all other ingredients together except the buttermilk, then pour enough buttermilk in to make the mixture thin enough to pour into a greased baking pan. Beat in the melted shortening last, then pour into greased pan. Bake at 500 degrees F. Until brown. Serves six to eight. SouTHERN FRIED CHICKEN Cut chicken in pieces for frying, sprinkle with salt, and then let stand a few minutes and then roll in flour. Heat enough shortening in an iron skillet to half cover the chicken, but do not drop into the grease until it is smoking. Now drop in pieces of chicken and cook uncovered until browned on one side. 'Turn and cook on the other side until brown. Cover with a lid and cook on low heat a few minutes more, about twenty-minutes in all, then remove from the grease and drain on paper towels a few minutes. Do not let it stand on the paper towels long, or the grease will re-enter the chicken. This gives a tender, juicy, crisp Southern fricd chicken. Sweet Potato SOUFFLE 4 large sweet potatoes 1 tsp. Mixed spices 3 eggs, beaten light "% tsp. Cach of nutmeg, cinnamon, 1 c. Milk (approximately ) and cloves sugar to taste Boil sweet potatoes, pecl, and mash until smooth. Add sugar to taste, (slightly sweet), and the lightly beaten eggs and spices. Add milk enough to resemble thick custard. Pour all into a greased baking dish and bake at 400 degrees for thirty minutes or until it is sect like a custard. Serves four to six. Variations: One of the following may be added: raisins, coconut, pineapple. Fold in before baking. Po' Boy Puppinc 14 slices white bread 1 ¢. Sugar 1 c. Seedless raisins 6 cggs, beaten 1 box (4 oz.) shredded coconut 1 can (14% oz.) evaporated milk Y% c. Butter or butter substitute Cut bread into one-inch pieces; place in greased thirteen by nine by two inch pan. Sprinkle first the raisins, then coconut over bread. Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs; blend. Stir in milk. Pour mixture over coconut layer. Bake at 4oo° I. For twenty minutes. Serve warm with lemon sauce. Yield, ten to twelve portions. Instead of sauce, try sprinkling chocolate chips over the top when the pudding is done and returning it to the oven just five minutes to soften the chips. Page 179 180 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 Turnip GREENS 3 lbs. Turnip greens "2 tsp. Salt % c. Water 4 slices salt pork 1 tsp. Sugar Wash and drain the greens. Place in large kettle with the water, sugar, and salt. Drop in the pork and boil until tender. Serve immediately. Grits 1 Cc. Grits 1 tsp. Salt 4 ¢. Boiling water 1 tbsp. Butter Pour grits into boiling salted water and stir until water returns to a boil. Lower the flame and let simmer slowly for one hour, stirring frequently. When ready to serve, add butter and beat well for a few minutes. BLACKBERRY COBBLER 2 cans (8% oz.) blackberries 1 recipe pastry topping 7 Cc. Sugar 1 egg white 1 tbsp. Butter or butter substitute sugar Combine blackberries, sugar, and shortening; heat until shortening is melted. Pour into cight inch square pan. Roll pastry dough on floured surface into a square slightly smaller than pan. Arrange on top of berries; cut steam vents. Brush topping with egg white; sprinkle with sugar. Bake at 400 degrees I'. For twenty-five to thirty minutes. Yield four to five portions. Pastry Toppinc 1 c. Sifted flour 1 egg yolk dash of salt 2 tbsp. Water '% c. Butter or butter substitute Sift flour with salt, cut in shortening; add egg yolk and watcr; stir until dough is formed. Sweet Potato Pie 2 c. Sweet potatoes, boiled *% c. Milk % stick butter "2 tsp. Nutmeg (or to suit taste) 6 egg yolks 6 egg whites (meringue) 1 ¢c. Sugar (or less, to suit taste) sugar Boil vellow yams till tender, peel, mash, and put through a sieve, if they are stringy. While yams are hot, mash the butter in with them so it will melt. Beat egg yolks and sugar together and mix with the potatoes. Add milk and nutmeg, adding extra sugar, if desired, to taste. No other flavoring is used. Mix all together well and pour into uncooked pic shell which has been brushed with melted butter. Bake until filling is firm and crust brown. Add meringue made from egg whites and _ sugar. Return to the oven till topping is golden brown, or serve with whipped cream, instead of meringue. Sufficient for two pies. Bake at 350 degrees F. For thirty-five to forty minutes. Hal Rumel AZALEA CYCLAMEN CHRYSANTHEMUM SMALL POTS — VIOLA Whys, Wherefores, and Fun With Green Plants Maude N. Howard ERE, simply stated, is basic information to dispel the myths, to inform you concerning the whys and wherefores of healthy house plants how to light, water, feed, pot, and multiply them. One of the joys of indoor gardening is that it is never out of season. House plants, with glossy green foliage or bright-colored blooms, can keep memories of spring and summer alive, no matter what the calendar may say or how the cold winds blow. Plants are ornaments for the room you live in. You increase your pleasure by selecting and placing plants where they will be tasteful room accents, often the finishing touch that completes an effective decorating plan. Whatever you want done decoratively, there are plants that will help you to do it. The choices are many. Depending on the size and style of the particular room, its colors, the space available, you will consider whether you want to mass a number of plants in one impressive group, or spotlight a single plant in the strategic location that makes it a focus of interest. Some plants have shiny foliage, others have a velvet or furry finish. There are different shaped leaves, and greens go from palest chartreuse to almost black-green tones. For the most pleasing effect it is well to remember to mix texture, shape, and color of plants to make your group interesting. Page 181 182 A window garden is the answer for rooms in need of color, and nothing is a more effective color cure in winter months than a window garden full of bright, blooming plants. Poinsettias, azaleas, chrysanthemums, and cyclamen plants keep longer than most plants, but even these will not last forever. Others, such as African violets and everblooming begonias, will thrive through all twelve months of the year undcr average home conditions. Also, you can force your own crop of spring flowering bulbs for a succession of colorful bloom indoors. An casy way to extend the impressiveness of a few flowering plants is to combine them with your faithful foliage performers. When you buy flower plants always choose the ones with buds so they will last. It takes lots of moisture for a plant to produce blooms, so be sure to water faithIf you let the fully while in bud. Hal Rumel GRAPE VINE IVY RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 plant get completcly dry at this time, flower buds may be damaged so severely they will never open. In bitter wintcr weather, move plants away from the window at night, if there is danger of frosting when the house temperature drops. The most successful window garden will be the one that is planned to suit the plants it includes in regard to light, temperature, and water. If you have a suitable south window, you can grow almost any house plant. Always use the most attractive containers you can find, and_preserve a polished look by regularly wiping foliage. The luxury look comes easily and quickly to your rooms when you invest in suitable plants of larger size. Or, if time is not important, you can start with young ones and enjoy them as they grow. VY prospers in bright light, but not direct sun; it must have a well-drained soil, and the soil must never be allowed to become severcly dry. Ivy is beautiful combined with geraniums, especially for kitchen decor. Grow ivy in water in a dark green vase that disguises the roots. Ivy is pretty in a_ basket allowing the ivy to trail over the handle. Wicker bread _ baskcts serve as appropriate plant containers in the kitchen. The pickaback plant ranks with the hardier plants. A major attraction is its curious habit of putting out new plants at the base of old leaves, thus its popular name. Grow this plant in bright light and a moist soil. Grape ivy, another hardy plant, requires a light and _ well-drained soil, always allowing surface soil to Hal Rumel PHILODENDRON PERTUSUM (Cut Leaf) become dry before adding water, it tolerates low light and humidity better than common ivies. Monstera philodendron is a favorite of decorators because of its sophisticated appearance. 'The several varieties of monstera require brighter light than philodendrons or the leaves will not split to the extent that they should. They require sufficient moisture to keep the soil moist but not wet. Philodendron dubia, the common variety of philodendron, needs light and humidity. Philodendrons on totem poles do much better if care is taken to moisten the moss stick at times. Trileaf wonder, a_ variegated green plant, is easy to grow in low light and a loamy soil. If you like small dramatic plants, try the peperomias. They like medium heat and careful attention given so as not to overwater. Peperomias come in plain green, variegated, or watermelon variety. Regardless of size, dracemos (dracaena), in general, thrive in damp soil and require at least medium light. If the leaves become brown, it is usually a sign of improper watering — too little or too much. 'There are a number of interesting species, and they have leaves that are long and _ broad, striped in white or yellow. The Boston fern wears spring's tender green all year long. As natives of tropical regions, ferns dislike cold. In wintertime sect ferns back from the window so that the frond ends do not touch the cold glass. WHYS, WHEREFORES, AND FUN WITH GREEN PLANTS 183 184 Hal Rumel FICUS DECORA (Rubber Plant) They thrive best in a sixty-five degree temperature. Aspidistra grows where nothing else will. It is often called the castiron plant and grows best in an out-of-the-sun location. For appearance sake, clean the leaves of this plant often with a commercial solution or plain water, so that its somewhat leathery foliage will be at its glossy best. HE rubber plant will grow to tree size. It makes a handsome room decoration, and withstands neglect and lack of sunlight, but do not overwater this plant. Pandanus has a sword-like leaf and thrives in a warm indoor temperature. Water the pandanus moderately in summer and keep it on the dry side in winter. Dieffenbachias flourish in locations receiving filtered light. 'hese are luxuriant plants that catch and hold attention in any room setting. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 They grow best in a well-drained soil, rich in organic matter. They need filtered light to prosper. All cactus plants are succulent, which means they have the ability to store water, so they need little water. Succulent plants take on so many fascinating shapes and forms, and so many have dwarf, or small growth patterns, that they make ideal house plants. 'Their sculptural appearance calls for unusual containcrs. Everyone loves flowering house plants. Their fresh blooms, sometimes fragrant, always colorful, catch and hold the eye of all who cnter the room. One can, if she plans ahead, have a variety in bloom all year. Perpetual bloomers are the begonias and African violets. Geraniums will reward you with ten long seasons of blooms. Cuttings rooted in the late summer bring fall and winter blooms, in addition to spring and summer flowcring. Hal Rumel DIEFFENBACHIA (Rudolph Roehrs) Grow these house plants for the gifts of color and freshness they bring to your home. You can have the spring plants such as daffodils, hyacinths, and tulips many weeks ahead of time by a process known as "forcing" (which means to bring to bloom at earlier than normal date). The larger the bulb the more simple it is to force. The later the bulb blooms out of doors the harder it will be to force indoors successfully. Yclamen plants require a sunny spot and lots of water. Pour the water at edge of the pot and not into the plant crown. Poinsettias come in pink, white, and red, and these plants are easily damaged by chilling. Keep them always away from a draft. When warm weather comes, cut the stems back and set the plants out in the garden in a sunny location, then bring them indoors before frost. A bloom-laden azalea will keep its show for many weeks. Keep it in good light but in a fairly cool location. Water each day just enough so that it will require moisture the next day. Geranium plants need regular pruning to keep them growing in a bushy, pleasing shape. The stems cut off can then be rooted to give healthy new plants. 'Take cuttings three to five inches long just below a joint, plant about two inches deep in vermiculite or coarse sand. Keep cuttings in the shade until the roots begin to form, then move into the sun. When the roots are one and a half to two inches long, cuttings are ready to pot. Provide for good drainage. Pinching — encourages branching on a young plant. Hydrangeas require indirect light, wet soil, and prefer a cool room. As many plants are killed each year from "overcare" as die from neglect. Most plants need good light and thrive best (out of drafts) at temperatures of seventy to seventy-five degrees. Examine the soil each day and add water uniformly when the soil starts to dry out. The soil should be moist clear to the bottom of the container. Fertilize monthly with a commercial plant food. More and more decorators are using green plants as important decorative elements in furnishing a room. 'They choose large plants to punctuate a focal point or camouflage an architectural defect. Always select plants to the proper scale of your room and remember verdant plants give a home a touch of personality. Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue HE April 1960 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four outstanding stories being presented. Look for these stories in April: "Uncle Matt and the China Doll," by Sylvia Probst Young "To Die Before Thy Time," by Helen Bay Gibbons "Room in Her Heart," "That Special Flavor," by Shirley Thulin by Dorothy S. Romney. WHYS, WHEREFORES, AND FUN WITH GREEN PLANTS 185 An Ounce of Precaution Mabel Harmer HE members of the Marshall family were enjoying their usual sound sleep one night when the father was awakened by the smell of smoke. After arousing his wife, he rushed into the next room and jerked the two eldest boys out of bed. He didn't take time to investigate whether or not there was any danger. He simply shouted, "Fire! Scoot!" The lads grabbed bathrobes and scooted. He went across the hall, picked up Debbie and Dina, the six-yearold twins, and followed the boys outside. He knew that Mrs. Marshall had already escaped with the baby and two-year-old Jean. It had taken less than three minutes for all of the family to get out of the house. Only then did he go back inside to phone to the fire department. How was it that each one knew exactly what to do in case of such an emergency? It was because Mr. Marshall had taken the precaution of holding a fire drill the very day the family had moved into the new home. It was still so new that the blaze had started from paint cloths left too close to a radiator. Fortunately, the fire was confined to one room. Still more fortunate —due to that ounce of precaution— the family escaped safely. Almost every day, especially during the cold winter months, the newspapers carry headlines of death by fire. More often than not, the victims are children. Surely many of the deaths could be prevented. Page 186 What could be more simple than taking the family through a fire drill, showing them how to get out if the stairways, or other usual exits are cut off? Why not teach children such simple procedures as keeping their heads near the floor if a room is heavy with smoke, or, if possible, to put a wet towel over the nose and mouth to assist in breathing. One young woman who lost her life in an apartment house fire, could have been saved if she and her husband had felt the door to find out if it was hot, before opening it to let in the death-dealing smoke. They could both have escaped through the window. As it was, he lost hold of her hand in the darkness and only he reached the window alive. One more simple precaution. Everyone who is old enough should memorize the telephone number of the fire department. Often one is too excited to look it up correctly. Sometimes there are no lights by which one can look it up. The least anyone can do is to have the number on a card above the phone, along with that of the police department and the family doctor. AST year there was a total of over 35,000 deaths on the highway. Next to this avenue as an exit from life, the home takes dubious second honors as a setting for accidental death. If adults choose to risk their lives by improper wiring, driving through the night when half asleep, or climbing on unsteady ladders, there isn't much anyone AN OUNCE OF PRECAUTION can do about it. But children are different. We should do everything in our power not only to protect them from danger, but also to teach them how to help protect themselves. One conscientious young mother in our neighborhood has trained her children to come home and ask permission before eating any candy that may be given to them. She conceived the idea so that she could keep track of how much they ate, and when, but the rule paid off in another way. Five-year-old Ann was playing out with friends when they found some "candy" in a garbage can. Why people will be so criminally careless as to put dangerous pills or poison out where youngsters can get hold of them is beyond comprehension, but it does happen. The other children urged Ann to eat the "candy" but, true to her training, she went home first to ask permission. The pills were labeled For adults only, to be taken sparingly. Had the child eaten them in any quantity, the result might have been disastrous. How many children have been killed or maimed by having firearms pointed at them in play? One such tragedy occurred on Christmas day with a weapon that had been given as a gift. As is usually the case, this gun was "unloaded." It is only common sense — although far too uncommonly exercised — to make sure that all firearms in the house are unloaded and are out of the reach of children. But one should go a step further than this and insist that, even in play, no child aims even a toy weapon at another child's head. 187 The dread of every parent is that a child may be molested by a sex pervert. It is not wise nor necessary to frighten a child unduly, but there are certain precautions that can and should be taken. Fortunately, many school officials are now taking the responsibility of teaching children how to avoid such dangerous encounters. First of all, a child should be warned never to get into an automobile with a stranger. Even going for a visit in the same neighborhood, it is a simple matter to have the child telephone and let mother know that she has arrived at her friend's house. Two small girls who lived in the suburbs had been instructed that they should never get into an automobile with anyone except friends of the family. When a man who lived in the same neighborhood, offered to drive them home from the end of the bus line, they accepted with provision, "First you must give us your telephone number, in case anything happens to us." The neighbor gravely wrote down his phone number, then drove them safely home. 'Their mother impressed the warning a bit more deeply for the future. HERE are certain danger spots besides automobiles that children should be warned about. Foremost among these are movie houses, rest rooms, and public parks. Recently, police dogs have been added to the force that patrols the parks of some cities. They are valuable in flushing out anyone who might be lurking in the shrubbery. When a movie is being shown that will attract a large audience of chil- 188 dren, the public safety department has a number of extra officers on hand. At this writing, the body of a Camp Fire girl has been found, ravished and slain, while selling candy. How easy it would have been for some man to have invited her to step inside the house while he made a purchase. A friend of mine said that after she had invited a Girl Scout indoors to buy her cookies, she warned the girl never to go inside another house. Almost every parent knows the anxiety and terror of having a child lost. In the great majority of cases children return home safely, even after an expedition into unknown streets; however, once in awhile they do not. As soon as he is able to do so a child should memorize his name and address. Even earlier, a simple precaution is to sew his name and address on a tape inside his clothing. Always he should be taught that the policeman is his friend. It is hoped that there is no one so benighted in these days as to frighten a child into good behavior by the threat of calling a policeman. While a dog may be man's best friend, a strange dog, on the other hand, may be a dangerous enemy. Every youngster should be cautioned against petting strange dogs. I shall never forget the agony I suffered when our three-year-old boy was attacked in the face by a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 strange dog. For some time we feared the sight in one eye might be gone. True, the dog was tied up and the child should not have gone near; but he didn't know that. We had failed to warn him that all dogs are not playmates. In some places the irrigation ditches and streams claim the lives of an appalling number of tiny victims every year. Increased watchfulness on the part of parents is the most important thing that can be done to lessen the number of these tragedies. But there are some precautions that can be taken with older children, such as teaching them to swim. Even in places where it is too far to swim to shore, a child who has learned to handle himself in water may be able to stay afloat and keep from getting panicky until help comes. The rudiments of artificial respiration should be learned, for many a life has been saved by the simple method of breathing into the patient's mouth. No one wants to turn a child into an "accident-chondriac," fearful that any move may send him to a hospital, but it is wise to teach safety rules persistently, one at a time, and parents should see that these rules are practiced. The trewards may be the saving of a life, and the life you save may be that of your own child. <> Mlorning Zata Sabin Bird songs waken me — sparrow or lark, Or maybe a robin or wren. Coolness, like gauze, lies over the town. Day is beginning again. Offerings of the Heart Frances C. Yost ARJORIE Martin tied the bow under tiny Julie's chin and said, "There, the little sunbonnet Mommie made for you will kcep those old freckles off Julie's smiling face." She patted her little daughter lovingly and added: "Have fun in the yard, Julie darling, and don't put anything in your mouth." "Bye bye, Mommie," Julie mouthed the words joyfully. Her little face wreathed in smiles under the sunbonnet. "Back soon!" She was gone out into the warm morning sunshine. "Julie talks very well for her age," Marjorie's mother-in-law said, as she picked up the dish towel to dry the dishes Marjorie had started washing. "Yes, Julie does talk nicely," Marjorie agreed. "Why, she won't be two years old until July, and already she can make her every want known. Since Dan fenced in the back yard so securely, do you think I make a mistake turning her out alone, Mother Martin?" "Why, I think she's all right for a spell, but she bears watching. All children do." Mother Martin laughed a little. "I can watch her every movement while I wash the dishes here at the sink," Marjorie said. "Oh, oh, she's picking those nasty dandelions. It's just like her to cart them in the house, and want them stuck in a flower vase. Well, I'm not having the house overrun with those ugly weeds, as some doting mothers do! Ll nip bringing bouquets to mother before she starts." Marjorie quickly dried her hands and started for the door. "Just a minute, Marjorie. I think I should tell you about Emily," Mother Martin said gravely. "Who on earth is Emily?" "Emily is a little girl I knew very well, long ago.' Mother Martin kept drying dishes as she spoke, but her eyes had a faraway look.... Emily didn't have a thing to give her mother, and she wanted so much to give her something nice, for Mother was always giving her something, or doing something for her. It was springtime, and the wild flowers were in bloom, and so Emily decided to gather a lovely bouquet of flowers for Mother, and give them with her love. Emily started gathering the flowers, but the wild flowers were scattered. Emily was not even aware of the time or energy she was using as she climbed over crags and rocks and even walked where the ground was slippery and muddy for a pretty flower to add to her tiny bouquet. The day wasn't overly hot, but it took a long time to find the flowers, and some of the first ones had wilted in her sweaty little hands. At last Emily had a nice little bouquet of flowers of many colors, and proudly she retraced her steps towards home. The walk, ordinarily, would have seemed long, but today Emily thought of the pretty smile on Mother's face when she would see the lovely little bouquet of wild flowers. In her excitement, Emily forgot Page 189 190 the mud on her feet, forgot to clean them on the mat. Instead, she rushed into the house calling, "See what I have!" "T see what you have, mud on your shoes!" Her mother expostulated. Mother came toward Emily, but she wasn't wearing her "nice-tosee-you-smile."" Mother's face looked like the old cracked earthen bowl turned over. Then Mother spoke sharply: "Get those ugly weeds out of my house, and clean your feet before you come in. I've scrubbed and cleaned all day, and I'm tired!" MILY turned and ran from the house, still clutching the wild, wilted flowers in her hot, little hand. As she rushed toward the old woodshed, she felt tears splashing on her cheeks. She crept into the woodshed and shut the door tightly. Emily had built a little playhouse in the corner, where the wood had been used, but she wasn't in the mood for playing house now. She wasn't crying aloud as she sometimes did. She was sobbing, big, gasping sobs that she could not control, could not stop. Emily fell exhausted on the slivery floor, and sobs shook her body, and the tears kept splashing on her checks. Latcr, Emily laid out the flowers one by one on Daddy's greasy old work bench. Mother was right, they looked old now, but if the little flowers had a drink of water, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 they would look pretty. When she was all hot and tired, a drink of water made her look better, and feel better. The flowers were only thirsty and tired. 'They were not old and ugly, as Mother had said. Just thinking of mother and the flowers made Emily start to cry all over again. But this time she just cried silently, inwardly. She had so wanted to surprise Mother, give her a nice present. Make her eyes light up and her face smile and smile and smile all day.... Mother Martin's story culminated when a childish little knock was heard on the back door. Marjorie went to open it. "Look, Mommie, flowers for you." Julie's face was wreathed with joy, as she extended a handful of dandelions to her mother. "Why, Julie, these are pretty as primroses. 'Thank you so much, my little darling." Marjorie stooped to kiss the tiny forehead under the little sunbonnet. 'Then she turned to Mother Martin. "Do you mind if I ask who was little Emily, of the generous heart?" "I was christened Emily May. When I grew older [ was just known as May," Mother Martin explained. Marjorie's voice had an almost reverent quality when she said: "Thank you, Mother Martin, for teaching me a very important lesson in life." - ne Dreams Celia Luce ie is more important that I help my child to dream and teach him how to make his own dreams come true than that I fulfill all his dreams for him. With a Song in My Heart Mabel Law Atkinson 66 ON'T say it, Granny. 1 know the understanding wife doesn't try to change her husband. She accepts him as he is and loves him. Of course I accept Reg and I love him too, very, very much, but I'm going to change him, Granny. You mark my words. ['m going to change him or my name isn't Bethesda Nichols Grover. There now, I feel better, that's off my mind." "Will you make him entirely over, my dear, or just camouflage a few of his faults?" "Darling Granny, you know my Reginald doesn't need entirely making over. He's almost perfect as he is, but he does have one dreadful fault." Beth paused for a moment then went on, "It isn't being disloyal, is it, Granny, to talk things over with you? You've always seemed to understand me perfectly. Perhaps it's because I was named after you. I love the name Bethesda, and almost wish I were not called Beth for short." "My dear, of course you are not disloyal. Come, tell me all about your great big trouble with your handsome husband of only six months." Granny patted her arm. "Granny, since we were married, Reg has been getting less romantic every day. Everything seems to be for utility with him, downright practical. And I thought romance and star dust and silver music and beautiful words would go on and on...." "And life would be one long, perfect day." Granny's eyes twinkled as she finished the sentence. "I know, my dear, for you see I thought the same." "You, too, Granny? And did you get disappointed in one little way also? Is Grandpa like my Reg, all for utility?" "Yes, my dear, that's what I thought at first. Of course, he needed his practicality, for he had so much to do in pioneering a new land, that he had little time for anything else. But, as the years have passed, [ have come to know that his awkward, utility gestures are mostly on the surface and cover a most sensitive awareness to beauty. You must remember, my dear, a certain degree of utility or practicality is essential and praiseworthy, for people must eat and have homes and fuel and clothing. So be glad your Reginald is practical in most things." "Tam, Granny. Do you think it possible that perhaps Reg feels tender and beautiful beneath his practical and matter-of-fact veneer?" "I wouldn't be at all surprised, Beth, my dear. Perhaps he's like my Robert was, afraid to show the real man for fear he'll be laughed at or not understood. 'Think it over, my dear." "Tell me about Grandpa and his utility ways and how you have managed to change him into the tender and courteous lover he is today. Oh, but you two make a delightful couple, Granny, with your graying hair and your young-old smiling Page 19] 192 faces. 'Tell me how you did it, Granny, for I want Reg and me to grow old swectly together, too." "My dear, there isn't much to tell. I don't remember, now, really trying to change my Robert at all. I just loved him all the more after his awkward attempts to be nonchalant about his love for me, and as a flower grows toward the sun, gradually he came toward my way of doing things until now he is a perfect husband, and the perfect father to his children—or as perfect as I would ever want him to be." "But surely, Granny, he wasn't ever so thoughtless and downright queer as my Reg. Why, instead of giving me this watch wrapped up prettily, with a kiss and a 'Happy Birthday, darling, he actually had it wrapped in brown paper and brought it in with the groceries when he came at noon. I didn't discover it until after he had gone back to work. Can you imagine that! Honestly, Granny, sometimes I wonder if he has a sense of beauty and appropriateness." Granny was laughing inside, but only smiling with her lips as she replied, "His ways are different and unique at least. Did I ever tell you how your Grandpa gave me my watch several years after our marriage?" She fondly touched the small gold watch pinned to her dress a little below the left shoulder, as she spoke. "No. Do tell me, Granny." "All right. But bring us each a glass of milk and a plate of those cookies from the cookie jar, then we can eat as we talk." HK oo ok Ok * €¢7 had wanted a watch for years," Granny began, "but, of course, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 I knew we didn't have the money, just as I knew your grandpa didn't have the money for an engagement ring before we were married." "And you didn't get an engagement ring at all?" Beth turned her diamond on her left hand as she asked the question. "No, dear, and it didn't matter too much, not for long anyway, for I found so much joy in my work each day pioneering a new land, and in my babies as they came along, there was no time to grieve. You see, happiness doesn't depend on a ring. But, let me see...." Granny paused. "I was telling about my watch, wasn't J? It was a lovely Christmas we had, with the tree touching the ceiling in the front room, and decorated with strung popcorn and chains made of red and green crepe paper, with red apples tied on the branches. We had five of our nine children then." "But what about your watch, Granny? Did Grandpa give you one for Christmas?" "Yes, Beth, he did, but you'll never guess how he gave it to me. It was an even more unique and downright queer way than the way your Reginald gave you yours." "Do tell, Granny! Hurry!" "From morning until midafternoon I wondered why Robert had forgotten to give me a_ present. There was none from him in my stocking nor under the tree. The children felt worse than I did, the smaller ones, because Santa had forgotten me. "Then we discovered it! A large used envelope tied on to the tree with a sackstring—where the thick branches almost concealed it from view—bore the name 'Bethesda' in your grandpa's writing. WITH A SONG IN MY HEART "T thought it was a joke, so I told Robert Jr. He could take it down and see what was in it, if he wished. 'No, Mama, it is for you. You must be the one to see it first,' he said, as he handed me the very practical and homely looking package. "T glanced at your grandpa then. He was rather red in the face and looked quite chagrined and uncomfortable, but oh, the light of love and tenderness I saw in his eyes! "I untied the string, and opened the envelope. I gave a gasp as I saw the most beautiful watch I had ever seen, far more beautiful than I had hoped to own, ever." Granny lovingly caressed the watch at her shoulder and went on, "A piece of paper fell out of the envelope and on it were these words: This watch I give you with my love And want you, dear, to know If it should fail you and should stop Your love can make it go. "T looked at your grandpa again and saw him as he really was. In his eyes were love and tenderness, beauty and romance, with all his need for love and understanding. He was mutely telling me he needed my love and, with it, he could do and be anything I desired." Beth interrupted with a whisper, "What did you do, Granny?" "Holding my precious watch, I went to him and said, 'Put the chain around my neck, Robert, and pin the watch on my dress. He did. Then I put my arms about him, kissed him and said, 'How I love you, Robert; and I need the strength of your love. 'Thank you, my dearest.' I was so happy I cried and I saw a tear roll down each of his cheeks. "The children were about us then, 193 and Robert smiled as he said, 'It's hard for me, Bethesda, to be the perfect companion, but I try and will keep on trying, and with your help Ill succeed.' " wk & K OK O& éé OPEN this, my dear, and see if Pve improved a little through the years." It was Grandpa who entered and gave Beth's grandmother a long, narrow box, white tissue wrapped and silver ribboned. "It's my gift to you, Bethesda, for putting up with me and loving me for fifty years." He kissed her gently as he spoke. "But, Robert," Granny said softly, "it isn't our golden wedding anniversary yet, not for another three months, remember?" "But it was fifty years ago today that I told you I loved you and found out that you loved me. I should have given this to you then. Will you accept it now, my dear?" Granny's fingers trembled with excitement as she removed the wrappings and took the lid off the box, then with a quick intake of breath, she cried, "How beautiful! Oh, how breathtakingly beautiful! One longstemmed, perfect red rose! 'The red rose of love! Oh, my dear, you couldn't have given me anything more beautiful." Her eyes twinkled as she looked at her granddaughter and continued, "Nor more ronvantic. Thank you, Robert." She drew him down to her and kissed his forehead. "Granny," Beth asked, her eyes shining, "is it my imagination or is something flashing in the very center of your rose?" Granny inspected the rose and cried happily as a girl, "It's a ring, 194 Robert! A diamond ring, sure as sure! A high Tiffany setting as they used to wear. It's my engagement ring! Oh, bless your dear, romantic heart!" Granny didn't need to tell her husband what to do next. Without another word, he took the ring and placed it on her finger with the plain RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 gold band, gave her another kiss, and said, "There, now, that debt of love is paid." "You darlings!" Beth said the words impulsively as she kissed them both, then continued, "Thank you, Granny, and you too, Grandpa. I'm going home to my Reg now... With a song in my heart." { A Peppermint-Stick Party Helen S. Williams LEASE come to Florence's ice-cream and peppermint-stick party. If you do, your eyes will open wide and your mouth will water. The table will be surprisingly different, and everything will look good enough to eat, for Florence's parties for children are unforgettable. At this peppermint party, the table will be covered with a round red and white striped cloth made of chintz and edged with fringe. In the center of the table a graceful oak branch set into a round of wood will hold the ice-cream-cone decoration. The tree and base will be sprayed a fabulous pink and will hold icecream cones hanging from each branch. They look just like real ice-cream cones. Each will be filled with a scoop of pink styrofoam which stays in the cone with the help of glue. The cones will be fastened to the branches with fine florist wire that has been stuck night through the cone then wound around the branch. Nestled within the tree sprigs and above the cones, will be little pink artificial rosebuds which give the tree a dainty and festive appearance. Over to the side of the table will stand a holder for the peppermint chews and candy canes. What a novel and different way to serve candy to little ones. 'This tiered dish was made with different sizes of round pieces of wood held firmly in place by fastening the wood to the rod. It was sprayed with that same beautiful fabulous pink spray paint so easy to use. The bright red and white striped peppermints and the candy canes that hang over the edges of this epergne will catch the fancy of young eyes and hearts. A PEPPERMINT-STICK PARTY 195 Hal Rumel A PEPPERMINT-STICK PARTY Arrangement by Florence C. Williams Standing jauntily on the top tier will be the little man on the ball of styrofoam. His mouth is made of felt, his eyes and nose of beads, and he will be listening to all the "Oh's" and "Ah's" through his ears of peppermint life savers. On his head is his cunning hat — a peppermint chew with a gay twisted tissue for its trimming. All the children will reccive a favor, of course, because Florence believes that everyone invited to a party should take home some little gift as a reminder of the afternoon — so the favors will be little men just Tike the one perched on top of the candy dish. They will stand in a half ball of styrofoam as a base, and their feet will be life savers also. Refreshments? Dainty sandwiches made in strips of bread with minced ham filling — pink punch and, of course, strawberry ice-cream cones. So, please come to Florence's ice-cream party, or give one yourself for your children or neighbors. _ You will have fun preparing for it, and the children will love you just as they love Florence for such a nice invitation and for such a dehghtfully different kind of party. ESSA oe SiN Kathryn AU Care ened Artist, Tlurse, Homemaker ATHRYN A. Carne, Scattle, Washington, lives the Relief Society motto "Charity Never Failcth." She has used her nursing skills and training to care for her friends and neighbors and to serve the community. During the First World War she was head of a Red Cross Emergency Hospital, and during the Second World War she served as a full-time Red Cross worker. She was manager of a nursing home for seven years. As a mother and foster mother her love and care have been unbounded. In addition to her own daughter, she has reared six otherwise homeless girls, and a grandson, who lived in her home for twelve years. She also provided for the education of the six foster daughters. Mrs. Carne is a gifted painter, specializing in landscapes, and floral and fruit subjects. Ticr work exemplifies much ability in design and the use of color. She has also made more than twelve hundred beautiful aprons, thirty-one quilts, six afghans, several croclictcd bedspreads, many hooked and braided rugs, six crocheted dinner cloths, and has made the needle point covers for many chairs. Her Church work has included service as counselor and as work meeting leader in her ward Relief Society. Shis J Know Mabel Jones Gabbott I have seen a burnished sunset glow Then dic, slowly, like famished embers, hushed And still; and felt the soft snow, as it brushed Against my hand, then watched it melt and go; 1 have seen the petals of the rose Drop one by one, their copper, gold, and rust Curled and crumbled into fragrant dust That pricks beneath boys' summer-barefoot toes. With cach I grieve a little; I wonder why. Tomorrow's light will quicken with the dawn, The running snow will wake a new rose leaf; So, too, the sudden tender look, your shy Quick grin, your oft told words -—— that now seem gone — = I shall know again. So why this grief? Page 196 The New Day CHAPTER 6 Hazel K. Todd Synopsis: Lynn Marlow, a dress designer in Chicago, who is engaged to David Talbot, returns to Springdale, her home town, to visit her Aunt Polly and to find out if she has really forgotten an eatly love for Johnny Spencer. Johnny had married a Southern girl and she had died, leaving two children. Lynn meets the children, and, finally, visits with Johnny, who is bitter and withdrawn. Lynn decides that, although she loves David, she must help Johnny to find himself again. She goes with the children to visit a turkey's nest. Anxious for curious onlookers on her private domain as was Peter. She struck her snakelike head out and hissed her displeasure. "It's just because you're different," Peter explained. "She doesn't care when Lindy and me look at her." "I think we shouldn't bother her," Lynn suggested. "She might leave her nest and not come back." The nest was hidden in the rocks in the forked roots of an old juniper tree. As they turned to leave, Lindy fell down and cut her knee on a sharp rock. Lynn picked the sobbing child up in her arms. "Don't cry, Lindy dear," she soothed, wiping the tears from her eyes with her handkerchief. ""Let's get away where we won't bother that grudging old hen and then we can see what's happened to that poor unfortunate knee, that's always getting hurt." A safe distance from the turkey nest, Lynn sat down on a big rock T HE old turkey was not so and began wiping the dirt from the injured knee. There was blood on her dress and a deep cut in the little knee. "We'd better put something on it," Peter suggested, patting his sister's head. "Daddy always puts a bandaid on it when it bleeds." "Tm sure that would be a good idea,' Lynn agreed. "Can you take her to the house and fix it up, Peter?" "Oh, I always get it all messed up. You'd better do it." Lynn had a frustrated, helpless feeling, as though she were being dragged into an inevitable pattern of events from which there would be no escape. It was too easy to love these children. Lindy was clinging onto her with her arms tight around her neck. And Peter was waiting expectantly. There was but one thing to do. She breathed a little sigh and started after Peter. In the house Lynn set the little girl on the cupboard by the sink and looked at the cut again. "I am afraid this is too big for a bandaid. Do you have some gauze?" Peter brought her gauze and a tube of iodine. "Dad always puts this on when we hurt us, even if we cry." As soon as Lindy saw the iodine she began to cry again. "I don't want it! I don't want it!" she cried and started scooting across the cupboard. Lynn laid the tube down. "Let Page 197 198 your Daddy put some on when he comes home." In a few minutes she had the knee all wrapped up and Lindy had ceased her tears. Lynn lifted her gently to the floor. "I must go now." The cuckoo bird from the clock on the wall chirped once, and Lynn looked up, surprised to find it was 11:30. She hesitated. "Is your father coming home for dinner?" "No. But he left some sandwiches in the frig," Peter said. Leaving two children alone at dinner time wasn't nght. Lynn pondered thoughtfully a minute. Should she take them home to have dinner with Aunt Polly? 'That would antagonize Johnny, she was sure, and besides, she was only drawing the children closer to her. Peter was watching her closely. She couldn't stand here in this undecided manner. And then the idea came to her. It was farfetched and unreal, but she seized it quickly. "Peter," she said, opening cupboard doors until she had fished out a small pan, "take Lindy and run down by the turkey nest and pick some of the strawberries, will you? They would taste very good with the sandwiches." S soon as the children were gone, she went quickly to the telephone and began thumbing through the phone book, until her finger stopped at the hospital number. She reached for the receiver and then stopped. How could she hope for such a fantastic idea to work! For a second more she hesitated, and then she took the receivRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 er from the hook and repeated the number she had found. "I would like to speak to Miss MayRee Richins," she said, and waited while they went to find her, almost wishing they would be unable to do so. But in a few minutes she heard the cheery "hello." "This is Lynn Marlow, MayRee," Lynn said, gulping to keep her voice steady. "Why, Lynn, I heard you were back in Springdale. It is nice of you to call." "T am calling about Johnny, Lynn said. There was a moment's silence. And then, "That is a strange thing for you to be calling me about, Lindy Marlow." "Oh, MayRce, please try to understand. I have no interest in Johnny... Er... That is, I mean I am going to marry somcone else." She finished lamely, feeling that she had bungled the whole thing. "Well?" MayRee was still waiting for an explanation. "Aunt Polly told me you had tried to help Johnny, that you had both tried and he refused to be helped." "T am afraid, Lindy, you are the only one who could help Johnny." 'Would you be willing to try once more? Does it mean anything to you, that you would try?" Again there was a hesitation and then MayRee said, "What do you want me to do?" "T want you to come to his house and have dinner with his children." There was a gasp, and then MayRee said, "Johnny would annihilate me!" "Please give it a try, MayRce. Look, I have sent the children after? THE NEW DAY strawberries. There are sandwiches in the frig. You can fix something to go with it. Tell them something happened and I had to go back to Aunt Polly's. Could you be here by the time they come back with the berries." "It's the craziest thing I ever heard of." "But you will do it?" "T guess he can't do more than send me home." As she walked along through the clover to Aunt Polly's, Lynn felt strangely relieved, and yet, almost guilty toward the children who had so quickly come to trust her. Farther on across the meadow she turned to look back at the house, and saw the car stop at the picket gate. As she watched MayRee's trim figure step from the car, she remembered, with an odd sort of feeling, the few jealous pangs she had felt for this girl in those long ago years. She turned back again, with a half smile, and quickened her footsteps to Aunt Polly's. LL afternoon she debated with herself whether to call David or whether to wait to see what happened to MayRee. And then Johnny came. He stood at the door and demanded that she come with him. "Why, of course I will, Johnny," She said. "I'm so glad you called." Aunt Polly came forward a little shakily. "Johnny," she said, "It is so good to have you come. Please sit down a minute." But he didn't sit down. He just stood there in the door a hundred miles away, and waited. In the car he kept his eyes straight ahead on the road, and he made no movement toward her and 199 said no word. A half dozen times Lynn planned a way to begin, like "Johnny, you have such lovely children," or "Johnny, couldn't we just talk calmly?" or "Johnny, it is so good to see you again." But the chasm was too deep between them. She was sure anything she said would be the wrong thing. By the time he stopped the car before the drug store, she had given up saying anything. I'll just have to wait, she thought. She followed while he led her to their booth and they sat opposite each other. Mr. Jensen stared at them in astonishment and rubbed his chin nervously with his hand. "We want strawberry sodas," Johnny said calmly, "with pink straws." He looked sternly at Mr. Jensen who seemed to be petrified for the moment. "Did you hear?" Mr. Jensen jumped then. Sure, two strawberry sodas." Lynn looked at her soda thoughtfully. I may as well begin somewhere, she thought. "Johnny, it's almost like old times," she said, "I mean, drinking sodas like this." "Only it isn't like old times," he said bitterly, looking at her keenly. "Why, Johnny, I...." She gazed into his strained face. "No, I guess it isn't, is it?" She dropped her eyes wearily into her lap. There is no way to reach him, she thought. He was leaning forward toward her across the table. A lock of his dark hair falling over his forehead. "It can never be like old times, can it, Lynn?" And suddenly she realized he was "Oh, 200 asking her to go back to the old relationship. She looked at him sadly. Her heart ached for him. "No, Johnny," she said, "it can never be just like old times." "Then why did you come back? Why did you come to my home?" "I came back — not of my own choosing — but because I had to know." He looked at her awhile then, almost in utter weariness. "Well, now that you know, I will thank you to leave me alone, you and MayRee and everyone else." "But Johnny, we would all like to help you. Your children, you can't do this to them." He had risen from the table. "Johnny," she said in a last effort to reach him. "Oh, don't you see, nothing is hopeless. 'True, we can never go back to the past. It wouldn't be what we wanted anyway. We must always go on. This is a new day with new promises, new...." "Come on," he said, "I will take you home." She looked at him sadly. "No, Johnny, Mr. Jensen will take me home," she said. He turned then, and walked out into the spring evening. She looked at Mr. Jensen, standing helplessly before her. He shook his head sadly and fumbled with the napkin on the table. "It's no use," she said. And then, "Do you mind if I call David before we go?" "No, Lindy," he said. Wait here." He sat down at the table and drummed aimlessly on it with his fingers. "Tl just RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 T was wonderful to hear David's voice again. It seemed like half a lifetime since she had last heard it. And the eagerness with which he said her name brought new peace. "Oh, David," she said with tears suddenly coming, "I want so much for you to come and get me! Please leave tonight!" And then all the past heartaches and joys, all the years she had lived, all the problems she had experienced, came to her assistance and she was able to give to David the assurance of her love, pure and sweet in its entirety; save only one heartache which remained for the man she had been unable to free from bondage of the past. She found Aunt Polly waiting on the red couch. "T just called David," Lynn said. "IT am going home tomorrow." Aunt Polly nodded her head slowly. "T — I think I will go to bed," Lynn said then. "I will need to get up early and pack." "Yes," Aunt Polly said, laying down her apron on the chair. Then she came over and kissed Lynn on the forehead as she used to do when she was a little girl. "It has been wonderful to have you even for a week." "But Aunt Polly, I'll come back often now." Aunt Polly was gone, then, leaving her standing with the tears falling softly down her cheeks. She picked up the checkered apron from the chair, held it to her face, wiped her tears on it, and then cried new ones quietly into its folds. "Dear, dear Aunt Polly," she whispered. (To be concluded) — (pores FROM THE FIELD FF Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Socicty presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Emma A. Hanks GULF STATES MISSION, LAREDO (TEXAS) BRANCH SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, November 1, 1959 Front row, left to right: Connie Mitchell, Secretary-Treasurer; Dee McBride, Barbata McCrae; Kay White, President. Back row, left to nght: Joyce Box, accompanist; Barbara Jones, Second Counselor; Belle Fashender, First Counselor; Dorrine Hanley, director. Emma A. Hanks, President, Gulf States Mission Relief Society, reports: 'The Singing Mothers of the Laredo Branch Relief Society sang two numbers for the November Relief Society Conference. All these women, except one, are wives of Air Force men. 'They work very hard and are to be commended for their efforts." Page 201 202 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 rat Photograph submitted by Ruth T. Oscarson SWEDISH MISSION, DISTRICT LEADERS WORKSHOP LUNCHEON, STOCKHOLM, Autumn 1959 Seated at the table, beginning at the lower left: Edith Nilsson, Stockholm District; Signe Gustavsson, Goteborg District; Polly Thelander, Sundsvall District; Signe Edlund, Jonkoping District; Linnea Wiklund, Gavle District; Ruth T. Oscarson, former President, Swedish Mission Relief Society; Karin Larsson, secretary to former President Oscarson. Gunnel Olausson, Norrkoping District; Sister Larsson, Malmo District; Gartrud Ekelund, Karlskrona District; Judith Lindberg, Lulea District. Sister Oscarson reports: ""We met here in Stockholm ready to begin our mecting at nine o'clock in the morning, and held meetings all day, where we discussed and planned our work for the coming year. The luncheon was between meetings. Everyone enjoyed the meetings and they all feel that they gain a great deal by meeting together." Sister Oscarson was released from her duties in the Swedish Mission shortly after this photograph was taken. The new Relief Society President is Ellen S. Omer. Photograph submitted by June R. Shepherd MONTPELIER STAKE (IDAHO) FASHION SHOW AND HANDWORK DISPLAY Front row, beginning eighth from the left: Louisa Stephens, a former Montpelier Stake Relief Socicty president; Gertrude Teuscher, First Counselor, Montpelier Stake NOTES FROM THE FIELD 203 Relief Society; June R. Shepherd, President; Utahna Anthony, Second Counselor. Sister Shepherd reports: "Under the direction of Utahna Anthony, Stake Work Director Counselor, and Evelyn Kunz, stake work meeting leader, all of the ward Relief Socicties and one "home" Relief Society participated in one of the most colorful events on the season's calendar of the Montpelier Stake Relief Society. The occasion featured a fashion show and a display of handwork items made by members of the organization. "The skit 'Relief Society — Why,' a reading 'Stitching,' and special musical sclections introduced the fashion show. 'There were forty-two entries. Each style was detailed as it was modeled. Styles were varied, distinctive, and expertly tailored, featuring everything to wear, from casuals to wedding dresses for the women, suits for the little master, and frilly fluffs in both single and sister sets for the dainty little misses. All types of handwork were on display: quilts, embroidery work, applique, tatting, crocheting, knitting, weaving, painting, ceramics, leather work, artificial flowers, foam tubber, plastic items, and a variety of Christmas ornaments. "At the conclusion of the festivities, refreshments were served from an attractively decorated table, featuring the Relief Society in blue and metallic gold. Approximately five hundred members were in attendance." PMotograph eras By Ama W. Bentley NORTHERN MEXICAN MISSION, MONTERREY DISTRICT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, September 30, 1959 Front row, seated, left to right, five Mission Relief Society Board officers: Juana Vallejo, Monterrey District representative; Alfa Loya, Secretary-Treasurer; Carmen Vega, Second Counselor; Rula McClellan, First Counselor; Anna W. Bentley, President, Northern Mexican Mission Relief Society; Four Relief Society branch presidents: Maria Lackner, Rosa C. De Luna, Margarita R. Chavez, and Sara E. De Hoyos. Sister Bentley reports: "Enclosed is a picture of our Relief Society sisters from four branches in and near Monterrey. It was taken September 30, 1959, at the time of our District Visiting Teachers Convention. The more distant branches in the district held their conventions individually in their own branches. This was the first visiting teachers convention of the Monterrey District and was conducted by our mission board district representative Sister Juana Vallejo of Nuevo Repueblo. The spirit was beautiful among the sisters and genuine sisterhood was felt by all. Included in the program was a new song 'My Prayer for Today,' also a short drama depicting true compassionate service.... We love the Magazine and eagerly await its arrival each month. Many of our dear sisters read English enough to be on our mailing list." 204 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 — = ' ee Se MER I see xe Photograph submitted by Melvina Dust GRANITE PARK STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION, November 16, 1959 Front row, seated, left to nght: Hattie Guest; Miriam Allgood; Arminta Waters. Back row, standing, left to right: Clara Bleak; Melba Jacobson; Margaret Smith; Elizabeth Aiken. Melvina Dust, President, Granite Park Stake Relief Society, reports: "We featured a demonstration of a visiting teachers meeting by the visiting teachers and presidency of the Southgate Ward. This was followed by a presentation of the film 'Unto the Least of These.' All of the visiting teachers who had served more than twenty ycars were given special recognition. Seventy-one were honored with 'Visiting Tcacher' and the numbcr of years of service stamped in gold on a blue ribbon badge. The sisters in the above photograph have all served for fifty years or more as visiting teachers. Sister Allgood has served for fifty-three years. 'Two hundred and twelve sisters attended the convention. Attractive tables, with cut glass punch bowls centering them, and decorated with autumn leaves, were used for serving refreshments. Everyone attending was deeply moved by the film, and each one left the convention with a determination to serve the Lord to a greater extent in visiting teaching." So A Quick SadeOut Sylvia Pezoldt Or You've written the wrong thing — or made a blot right on that lovely card. Don't throw it away! A twist of cotton around the end of a toothpick dipped in ordinary household bleach will whisk away most ink stains. Some ink requires several applications — and some ink just doesn't respond, but it's worth a try. The bleach will remove color, too, so don't try it on any but white paper. Books for the Church Pianist ( ) Church Pianist— Stults oo... Ee eeeeeeeee 1.50 ( ) Eighteen Hymn Transcriptions— Kohlmann...................- 85 ( ) Famous Sacred Songs—Peery.............. 1.25 ( ) Melodies For Church and Home—Shelley.... 1.00 ( ) More Concert Transcriptions of Favorite Hymns—Kohlmann.. 1.00 ( ) Piano Hymn Voluntaries—Lorenz.......... 1.50 ( ) Piano Transcriptions of Your Favorite Hymns—Parsons...... 1.25 ( ) Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Schaum...85 ( ) Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Stickles.. 1.25 ( ) Sacred Piano Album for Home and Church—Gahm........... 1.50 ( ) Sacred Piano Solos— Rettenberg........00.00... 1.00 ( ) Sabbath Day Music— Randolph........22.... 1.50 ( ) Sunday Piano Music —Boston 200.....2...222.-- 1.25 ( ) Tranquil Hours— Presser. O...-...-.-csceese2ee- 1.50 ( ) Twenty-Four Voluntaries—Stickles.......... 1.50 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah I I! Please send the music indicated above. | (1 On Approval O Charge ' 0 Money Enclosed ame ddress ' I | ity & State Or Z AATAMLASIAAIEASD 15 E. Lst South salt Lake City 11, Utah 40 Shades of Plastic Foam Foam 14"x39" wide—10 yards..$8.00 Foam 14"x39" wide—1!, yard 30; 4% yard.45; 1 yard.90 Foam Strips, for pillow tops— SOA a Ce <r 10 Tote Bags, tiny size... 29 Complete selection of bags, baskets, mats, doilies, to weave and decorate. Dacron Bats, 72"x90" oo. 2.49 Greeting Cards, 30 card assort- 6c} 0 1.00 Ginghams, Dan River Checks, Reg. 1.19 yard oo... 19 Plastic Crystlettes..00..2....... Pkg. 35 Granite Gems, colored........ Pkg..25 "IDEA of the MONTH," by Elva M. Tingey, A new and exciting craft idea each month, complete with materials, and inAll prices plus postage Exchange Idea Day at our store, April 5, 1960 Handicraft, Hobby Supplies Toys — Cards — Gifts TINGEY'S COUNTRY STORE "Handicraft Center of the West" 3456 North State Highway 91 Spring Tour Mesa, St. George and Los Angeles. Leaves on March 19, 1960. Hawaii Tour Tour leaving June 1960. Mexican Tour June 1960. Also student tour in June 1960. Visit Book of Mormon places. Guatemala Book of Mormon Archeological Sites. Tour leaving August 1960. Hill Cumorah Tour leaving July 1960. For itinerary write or phone: ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phone: EM 3-5229 Page 205: structions. Lehi, Utah $1.00 Phone PO 8-2852 She Relief Society Mlagazine in Durban, South Africa Muriel Wilson IGEL came running in_ this morning with a large envelope in his hand. His little hands were shaking with impatience and excitement. "Look what the postman left today," he shouted at the top of his voice — as the door banged violently behind him. Malcolm looked up from _ his book with a pained expression on his face. "That's Mummy's Relief Society Magazine," he said, as he returned to his book. The covers are so beautiful, we just had to open the envelope to have a peep. Then Nigel was satisfied and went back to his road-making game in the garden, and I put the Magazine away to be read later, when my work was finished. I look forward to the arrival of The Relief Society Magazine each month. I would not like to miss any of the copies. I love the stories and the poetry. The advice and encouragement make me feel the troubles and trials of life are petty. I feel uplifted, and my testimony is strengthened. I feel refreshed and prepared to start anew to live the gospel to the best of my ability. I shall always remember my introduction to The Relief Society Magazine. We were investigators, and the elders had been holding cottage meetings at our home for months. At different times they brought along books for us to read. The Children's Friend, Improvement Era, and The Relief Society Magazine. We enjoyed reading Page 206 them, and the pictures were beautiful, but I didn't find much time to study them very closely. I was more interested in The Book of Mormon, The Doctrine and Covenants, and The Pearl of Great Price, and the pamphlets the elders left for us to read. However, for a month before Nigel was born, I had to go into the hospital for a complete rest on a strict diet. 'The elders brought me fresh copies of The Relief Society Magazine to read. It was then I discovered the refreshing and sincere stories and articles in the Magazine. With all day free and with a terrific appetite, I began to study the recipes — and how my mouth watered. From that time on I have never looked back and have been subscribing regularly to The Relief Society Magazine. I can thank The Relief Society Magazine also for my change of view with regard to Shakespeare. I always thought his plays were heavy and uninteresting. Maybe, being older, I appreciate his works more, but if it hadn't been that we were studying Shakespeare in the Relief Society literature course, I would never have had the experience of renewing my knowledge. I would like to think that every sister in the Church has her Relief Society Magazine regularly every month, so that we may all share in the joy of reading the stories and articles and delight in the beauty of the pictures therein, together. Reward of Obedience Flora J. Isgreen CONG at my watch, I noticed I would be on time and hurried on to meeting. How tiny but valuable a watch is, I thought. How intricately made; one part depending on the other; the hands depending on the springs, the springs depending on the service of man. If man did not wind it and give it care, it would have no value for him. The watch works by law. As I walked on to church my mind dwelt on the similarity between the watch and the kingdom of God. All the blessings of God are available for our welfare and good. His whole plan is for us, but this plan works on law. The Lord said that when we obtain any blessing from heaven it is by obedience to the law on which it is predicated. So, like the watch, the kingdom has value only to the man who makes the effort, who will co-operate, who is obedient. He is the man who receives the blessings. <> Hilltop Dawn Ethel Jacobson Now when all earth wakes And the sky is pearly-hued, Before dawn breaks And the leaves are cool, bedewed, The thicket suddenly stirs And almost bursts apart With an ecstasy of "whirrs"' Where clouds of blackbirds start. From a towering tamarisk A cardinal greets the sun With his gaily whistled, brisk Salute. Day has begun! And the radiance of sky And fluting trill of birds Are hymns of praise that I Put haltingly in words. HAWAII TOURS March 17, 1960, April 27, 1960, June 5, 1960, November 20, 1960. The tour leaving on June 5th is a special tour planned by ship. SOUTHERN TOUR March 23, 1960 Nephi, Mesa, St. George, Los Angeles for eight glorious days. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July 31, 1960 NORTHWESTERN TOUR June 25, 1960 — Two weeks June 27, 1960 — One week, Cardston, Canada DISNEYLAND TOUR AND LOS ANGELES July 1960 This is a very well supervised tour for children. Ask for folders of our many other tours MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 So. 23rd East, Salt Lake City, Utah Phones CR 7-6334, AM 2-2337, IN 6-2909 Mason & Hamlin The Stradivori of Pianos EVERETT PIANOS Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built THE WORLD'S FINEST Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Page 207 Birthday Congratulations One Hundred One Mrs. Emma HANSGEN Provo, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. NELUE TOoTIwENA Portgage, Utah Mrs. Nancy MANN KarTCHNER Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Hattie AMELIA BUSHNELL FOSTER Belleville, Ontario Canada Mrs. ZENA Rawson Cuuce Farr West, Utah Mrs. Auice G. SMITH Logan, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Emma Exttwoop Hitt Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Eva Barton GROESBECK Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. CaTuerine Heccie GriFFITHS Clarkston, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. AnniE Woops WESTOVER Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Marie JENSEN Shelley, Idaho Ninety-one Mrs. Saranw ANN SCHAEFER CLARK Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Lemon LEE Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Loutsr ParxK BROcCKBANK REYNOLDS Salt Lake City, Utah Page 208 Ninety Mrs. SELINA ELIZABETH SANIGER PHILLIPS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie MrEcHAM PASKETT Hyrum, Utah Mrs. FLORENCE CorRNELL KNIGHT Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary JANE CrowTHER DURFEE Aurora, Utah Mrs. Otive Pace SCHOETTLIN Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lottie Huntincton LAMBson Orem, Utah — Bubbles Christie Lund Coles Child, let us blow the bubbles high, A shimmering, gleaming bit of sky; A rainbow captured in a sheen Of rose and gold, and blue and green; A bright, translucent glistening, As delicate as skies in spring; A circle, round as earth made new, True as childhood trust is true. + Spring Nancy W. Wilcox Spring came to my house today, Strolled mght through the door And sat down as if to stay And rest awhile and chat With me about this and that. (Last night the weatherman said There might be cold winds or rain Or perhaps a touch of frost.) Spring just smiled her sunny smile And didn't seem to care, Wore her newest bright green dress, Blue violets in her hair, GET FULL HOUSEPOWER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Vida Fox Clawson Travel Center Dear Friend: If you are interested in HAWAII, remember we have tours going every month. EUROPEAN TOUR 1960 is a most important year for a trip to Europe because of the PASSION PLAY at Oberammergau, Germany, which is g-ven only once every ten years. HISTORIC TOURS Send for a day by day HISTORIC TOUR PROGRAM —- all of which will include the HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT. Programs for 1960 are ready for Europe, Hawaii, and Historic Train and Bus Tours. Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: DA 8-0303 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Soctety Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please inelude postage according to table listed helow if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 00.00. |. 150 to 300 miles 300 to 600 miles.. 600 to 1000 miles.. 1000 to 1400 miles.. 1400 to 1800 miles m_. | Over 1800 miles 00.0000...: Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Beginning and advanced classes start soon. Type your letters, minutes, reports, genealogy sheets, etc. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main — EM 3-2765 Salt Lake City, Utah 60 A NEW BOOK FROM ELDER RICHARD L. EVANS FROM WITHIN THESE WALLS This latest (Eighth) volume contains a new selection of the "Spoken Word" broadcasts from "The Crossroads of the West," including: Old Age; Health and Happiness and Physical Fitness; Are We Good for Each Other?; Repenting, Forgiving, Forgetting. Other selections. 3.00 NEWLY REVISED vealed in this newly-revised book that explains COMMUNIST Communism's amazing appeal, its history, its basic and unchanging concen and its ee time-table of conquest. An additional chapter visit to the United States. | 9 5 oe ning suenan Desereth "Book Co. 44 East South Temple -- Salt take Ciiy Utah DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find... Check... I IN ST money order... I have an account. Please Q charge. Amount enclosed $. For (1) From Within These Walls [1 The Naked Communist. Residents of Utah include 214% sales tax. = al THE N AKED W. CLEON SKOUSEN The incredible story of Communism is fully renow gives a report on Nikita Kruschev's recent Racine Soom VOL. 47 NO. 4 APRIL 1960 Special Short Story Issue f Words of Gaster Alberta H. Christensen "And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet, and heard his word" (Luke 10:39). His word was more than nuance of sound Syllable-shaped for time to remember. For the questioning heart his word was light, Morning, after the sleep of darkness; The sudden flame from a waning ember; Sunlight of spring on the frozen ground. For the troubled heart in the silent hour It was song in the stillness; the luminous cloud, Promise for root in the withering plain. The sorrowing heart knew his word as power— With the step of Lazarus quick again On the homing roadway, free of the shroud. To the humble of earth his word was more Than wool of raiment, sandal, and bread; It was peace and a healing against their grief— The kingdom glimpsed through an open door. They listened at dusk — Mary and Martha Moved by the wonder; blessed with belief! The Cover: St. Mary's Lake, Glacier National Park, Montana From a Transparency by Hal Rumel Frontispiece: Jesus in the House of Mary and Martha, From a Painting by Ludwig Otto, Photograph I'rom Camera Clix, New York Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From Near and Sar The beautiful cover on the March 1959 Magazine ("Scene in the Ozark Mountains, Arkansas'') brought back memories to me. My husband had spent two years in the Ozark Mountains as a missionary. So, when we took a trip East, naturally we went to Arkansas. We drove down just such a shady lane, and my husband inquired of just such a boy, about the next town. I always scan the contents of the Magazine to see if my dear friend and school companion Mabel Law Atkinson has a new story or poem for us, —Mrs. Ada Ipsen Malad, Idaho A few minutes ago, I opened my front door, and there was the new Magazine. I was preparing a small package for my daughter for her birthday. All morning I had searched in books, in my files, in my memory, for a poem that I could add to the gift that would express my feelings for her. And there in the Magazine was just what I was trying to say, in the poem "What Can I Give You?" by Chnistie Lund Coles. Thanks for a wonderful Magazine that always seems to answer our every need. —Mrs. Elda Stafford Birmingham, Alabama I give you my heartfelt thanks for all the Relief Society Magazines that you have sent to me. We are able to read only a few words, but yet understand much of it, and the pictures are wonderful. —Mrs. T. Drent Sneek, Netherlands I would like to congratulate you for the wonderful work you are doing in the publication of The Relief Society Magazine. Every month I anxiously wait for my Magazine to arrive. I enjoy all the articles published in the Magazine. —Mrs. Kiniuyo Fukuda Hilo, Hawaii I do enjoy reading the Magazine and learn so much from it. I really look forward to receiving it each month and am truly grateful for it. —Doreen Andersen Holstebro, Denmark Page 210 I am so pleased and proud to have my poem "Letter From a Missionary' appear in the February issue (page 85). It is a beautiful Magazine, as it is each month. We were all so happy for Lucille Perry from Bountiful, who placed second in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. I feel Mrs. Roberts' first-place poem was a work of great depth and feeling. The strong undercurrents suggested in the simple, but well-chosen words gave me food for thought for many days. The poems in this February issue seem especially beautiful. I thought as I read Lael W. Hill's poem "Hour of Waiting," now this is true art, and such expert craftsmanship that it but adds to the beauty of the whole. —Mabel Jones Gabbott Bountiful, Utah I thank you for my Magazine received a couple of days ago.... You may wonder how I came to receive this Magazine. Well, Mrs. Louise Palmer of Provo, Utah, sends it to me as a birthday gift, as my birthday is on the same date as her late husband's was. Mrs. Palmer and I used to be "pen friends," then she came on an air trip to London to be present at the opening of the new temple. From there she was conducted to Sheffield by two elders who were staying with my daughter in Pitsmoor, Sheffield. My daughter brought Mrs. Palmer to our house in Hillsbro.... Talk about excitement! We just hadn't time to say and do all we would have liked, but we didn't do so bad.... Our visit was all too short as Mrs. Palmer had to rejoin her party and finish the tour, but it was long enough for us all to form a lovely friendship.... —Mrs. Nellie Goodison Hillsbro Sheffield, England I am writing to let you know how much I appreciate Lael W. Hill's poem 'Hour of Waiting," the frontispiece in the Febtuary issue of the Magazine. It exemplifies her talent for technique. Her poems enthrall me. I also like the serial "The New Day." —Grace Ingles Frost Provo, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - = President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - - = = - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Josie B. Ba Elna P. Haymond Elsa T. Peterson Irene B. Woodford Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Y Edith S. Elliott Christine H. Robinson Annie M. Ellsworth Leone G. Layton Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Editor - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - = c 2 = - = - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 47 APRIL 1960 NO. 4 Osiians SPECIAL FEATURES The Restoration Antoine R. Ivins The West Central States Mission Preston R. Nibley Using the Blackboard in Teaching Lessons in Relief Society The Widening Circle... PD csccnccneenaetsWilliam E. Berrett Charlotte R. Leyden Christening the New Carriage - Lula Walker FICTION — SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORIES That Special Flavor Dorothy S. Romney Uncle Matt and the China Doll Sylvia Probst Young The Blue Bowl — Part I Loya Beck Room in Her Heart Shirley Thulin To Die Before Thy Time aHelen Bay Gibbons The New Day — Chapter 7 (Conclusion) Hazel K. Todd GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Editorial: ''They Shall Speak With New Tongues"' Vesta P. Crawford Notes to ihe Field: Brigham Young University On-Campus Leadership Week penecorrn rc 242 Lesson Previews to Appear in the June Issue of The Relief Society Magazine.............. 243 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities..... Hulda Parker Birthday Congratulations FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the West Ceniral States Mission Anna C. Merrill Cosmetics for Grandma.. Esther H. Lamb Planters for the Patio... Eva Willes Wangsgaard Thirteen Don'ts in Sewing for a Best-Dressed You.... Wilma M. Rich Moonlight Celia Luce Applesauce Bread Myrile Ainsworth Anna Biase Johnson — Gifted Artist A Touch of the Divine Wilma Boyle Bunker A Christmas Chest for All the Year aGaiRY Elizabeth C. McCrimmon 278 (e) Blue Talisman of Spring Dorothy J. Roberts Spring Symphony.. A... Linnie F. Robinson Home Responsibility Winona F. Thomas The Wild Plum Tree Evelyn Fjeldsted Charity. Iris W. Schow Easter Message Matia McClelland Burk Someone Is Coming Mabel Law Atkinson PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Address at once, giving old and new address. Report change of Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Florence J. Madsen Blanche B. Stodderd Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Special Feature for the July 1960 Magazine Do It Yourself Christening the New Carriage -......0.-.-. The Old Red Couch Pathways Words of Easter — Frontispiece April Road ' At Easter Wild Morning Glories Masterpiece Untold Promise Claim Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall 237 Joy Hulme 256 oe. Eee aeLula Walker 261 Helen B. Morris 263. Evelyn Cox 265 Alberta H. Christensen 209 'Katherine F. Larsen 214 Ouida Johns Pedersen 241 Ethel Jacobson 246 Viola Quinn Willmore 250 Vesta N. Fairbairn 255 Maude Rubin 260 The Restoration President Antoine R. Ivins Of the First Council of Seventy HIS dispensation of the GOSPEL was initiated by the vision given to the lad Joseph Smith Jr. In the Sacred Grove near Palmyra, New York. In it the Prophet was told that he should not affiliate himself with any of the then existent church groups, and that the time would come when, if he were to live properly, he would be the instrument whom the Lord would use to re-establish the 'TRUTH among the people. In this vision the great confusion regarding the personality of Jesus Christ and God the Father was cleared up. In reality, it was a verification of the promise made to Peter when Christ told him that he would establish his Church upon the revealed testimony that he is the Son of God, for God introduced Christ to Joseph Smith as his Son. Some time after this first manifestation, the Prophet had others in which he was given much instruction and was prepared to receive the plates from which The Book of Mormon was translated. This book is a second testimony of the ministry of Christ in which many of the least understood principles of the gospel are clarified. In Second Corinthians, Chapter thirteen, verse one, we read, "In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every word be established." The Bible, alone, seems to have been unable to bring people to a unity of faith, and many factions of Christianity were struggling for supremacy at the time of these manifestations to the Prophet. Page 212 A second witness was clearly needed. These events were preparatory and initiatory to the re-establishment of the Church in the earth. Other things were necessary before the organization of the Church, especially the restoration of the Priesthood, for Priesthood is necessary for the performance of the various ordinances practiced in the Church. On the 15th day of May, 1829, John the Baptist conferred the Aaronic Priesthood upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery at which time he gave them notice that, at a future time, the Melchizedek Priesthood would also be given them. Before the Church was to be given a formal organization, Peter, James, and John appeared unto Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery and conferred upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood. 'That all of this should happen before the organization of the Church was imperative to make it authoritative. It will be noted that Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were instructed by John the Baptist to baptize each other, after having received the Aaronic Priesthood. 'Thereafter a few other persons were likewise baptized to qualify them to meet the requirements of the law of the State of New York, in that to organize a church six men were necessary. Accordingly, on the 6th day of April, 1830, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was given a legal existence within the State of New York. These events all hav- THE RESTORATION ing happened, there was now upon the earth, again, a Church which was set up under direct authorization from God. In addition to these gifts of Priesthood, there were certain special authorizations necessary. In the temple at Kirtland, as recorded in the 110th Section of The Doctrine and Covenants, we have the record of the visitations, in vision, of Moses, Elias, and Elijah, each of whom conferred upon the Prophet and Oliver keys for special functions of the Priesthood. These referred to the gathering of Israel, the dispensation of the gospel of Abraham, and the turning of the hearts of the fathers to the children and of the children to their fathers. (If there ever was a time when fathers should take greater interest in their children and when children should pay greater respect to their parents than right now, your humble servant cannot call it to mind.) HE Church functions through its Priesthood. The rights and privileges of the various offices in the Priesthood are set forth in The Doctrine and Covenants with great clarity. We recommend that all become familiar, not only with the offices of the Priesthood, but also with the responsibilities and functions incident to each office. Many people appear not to appreciate their position after accepting ordination therein. It will appear that in granting these keys of the Priesthood there is now, within the Church, the right to perform every ordinance necessary for the salvation and exaltation in the kingdom of God. All of these rights centered in the Prophet 213 Joseph Smith. When the Apostleship was bestowed by the Prophet upon a Council of Twelve men, they were given these keys which they should exercise always under authorization of the President of the Church, a provision necessary to assure that these powers would carty on even in the case of the death of a President. In the Aaronic Priesthood there are three orders — deacon, teacher, and priest — each with specific rights and responsibilities, while in the Melchizedek Priesthood there are two general offices — the elder and the high priest — and the Presidency of the Church, the Council of the Twelve, the Seventies, and the Patriarchs which are highly specialized. To control the use of the powers of the Priesthood, the people are organized into stakes and wards under authorized leadership. Ward activities are directed by three high priests called a bishopric. Their function is a dual one since they have to care for the temporal needs of the members of the wards and, at the same time, direct certain spiritual functions. The stakes are directed by three high priests — a stake presidency — from whom the bishops and all other stake officers take direction. 'This makes it possible for the general leadership of the Church, through stake presidencies and bishoprics, to reach the individual members, when _necessary, with a minimum of effort. Outside of the wards and stakes live many members of the Church. To care for them and carry on the proselyting work of the Church, there are fifty missions organized each under the direction of a mis- 214 sion president. The missions are divided into districts and branches with the necessary local leadership and, here again, close contact with the members is possible. Since every worthy man may have the privilege of the Priesthood, and since most men who accept it feel a certain responsibility to qualify for the implied service, there is a greater lay-member power for religious leadership than can be found in other church organizations. Member participation is the strength of every virile organization and this is especially true of those of religious nature. S aids to the Priesthood there are the Auxiliary Organizations set up with local and general supervision. Of these we are, at the present writing, especially interested in the Relief Society. This Society was brought into existence under the direction and special call of the Prophet Joseph who, when organizing it, set forth the purposes and functions of the, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 Society. It was composed entirely of women who set about finding ways and means of helping people in distress. With but few members at the time, it has now grown to great membership and the amount of good accomplished by it is beyond computation. Through stakes and missions it reaches into almost all parts of the world. Reports of its activities come from such far distant places as Japan, New Zealand, Australia, South Africa, and elsewhere. Who can doubt the inspiration of the Prophet in its organization? We have, then, in the RESTORATION a renewed testimony of the personality of God and Jesus Christ; a restoration of Priesthood in all its functions which came by direct gift through heavenly beings who had been sent by Jehovah himself; a renewed type of Church organization which gives the best possible means of satisfying the spiritual and temporal needs of the children of God. April Road Katherine F, Larsen A brown road calls me In the tender spring, To leave accustomed homeways; For when the blackbirds sing My wayward feet would follow Paths meandering Through buttercups and violets, Up an old wood road That winds through white-limbed aspen trunks Whose slender branches fling Fresh-minted glinting leaflets In sunlight shimmering.... Lucien Bown é "oo: ' "1 Sigtag ak ae Fo TEAPOT LAKE IN THE UINTAH MOUNTAINS, UTAH Blue Salisman of Spring Dorothy ]. Roberts Something breaks the monotone of seasons Edged with the ragged ermine of the snow — A sapphire jewel glinting on the landscape Where a pool holds part of heaven here below. And I recall the brave, blue tint of promise— The aqua sphere beneath the robin's wing, Blue courage of the hyacinth and crocus, Bare willows where an azure bird will sing. I think of dawn's pale preface to the morning Where the cold, black weight of midnight had been pressed— How the turquoise swells and spreads above the valley And crowds the waning darkness from the west. Revived, I leave, the bright brooch of the water Glistening on the dullness of the fen, And turning from the darkness and the winter, I walk the waiting land with faith again. Page 215 the West Contral States THlission Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian IE West Central States Mission was organized at a conference held in Billmgs, Montana, on November 11th and 12th, 1950, under the direction of Elders Harold B. Lee and Ezra Taft Benson, of the Council of the 'Twelve. The mission was formed from districts taken from three other missions: From the North Central States Mission — West North Dakota, Milk River, and Yellowstone; from the Northwestern States Mission — Northern Montana, Great Falls, Missoula, and Butte; from the Western States Mission — Wyoming and Black Hills Districts. Elder Sylvester Broadbent was installed as president of the new mission, and eighty-eight missionaries were transferred from the three missions to labor under his direction. A commodious mission home was purchased at Billings, where the headquarters was established. In June 1953, the Butte Stake was organized from branches taken from the West Central States Mission, under the direction of Elders Spencer W. Kimball and LeGrand Richards, of the Council of the Twelve. This was the first stake organized in the State of Montana. President Sylvester Broadbent served faithfully as president of the West Central States Mission until December 1953, when he received his release. He was succeeded by Samuel A. Hendricks. President Hendricks served until March 1957, and under his leadership the work of the mission was greatly enlarged. He was succeeded by George F. SimCourtesy Hungry Horse News Submitted by Anna C. Merrill LAKE McDONALD, GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, MONTANA Page 216 THE WEST CENTRAL STATES MISSION 217 y tne WER i. BOE oes Le ns ae a r Rise Studio, Rapid City, South Dakota Submitted by Anna C. Merrill THE SHRINE OF DEMOCRACY CARVED IN MOUNT RUSHMORE, SOUTH DAKOTA Left to right: George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt, Abraham Lincoln mons. President Simmons scrved until June 1957, when he was rcleased on account of illness. In June 1957, the Great Falls and Missoula Stakes were organized in the West Central States Mission, making three stakes in all in Montana. After the rclease of President Simmons, former mission President Samuel A. Hendricks served as acting president until the appointment of Casper W. Merrill, in August 1957. With President Merrill in making the first tour of the mission was Elder Alma Sonne, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. On his return to Salt Lake City, Elder Sonne said: "Missionary work is making steady progress in the West Central States Mission, and the prospects are exceedingly bright." President Merrill is serving at the present time. On December 31, 1959, there were 9,608 members of the Church in the mission, located in forty-four branches. During the year of 1959, there were 782 converts baptized. Forty-eight Relief Society organizations, with 1055 members, were reported in December 1959. Anna Crockett Merrill presides over the West Central States Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine is a view of St. Mary's Lake, Glacier National Park, Montana, taken from a transparency by Hal Rumel. See also "Recipes From the West Central States Mission,' by Sister Merrill on page 244. That Special Flavor Dorothy S. Romney down quilt over her cars in a futile effort to keep out the angry shrilling of the telephone. Then she remembered that Matt had worked late last night, had gone to bed completely exhausted, and needed sleep. She sat up abruptly and reached for the telephone. She attempted to sound at least half-awake, but failed. She felt too miserable to make the required effort. "Claire," a voice on the other end of the wire said, "this is Sister Herth. Matt stopped by on his way to work and said you weren't feeling well again. I want to come over, but can't get there for a little while. Jim is short-handed this morning, and I'll have to help out." Claire looked around her. Sure enough, Matt was gone. The house had that empty, silent quality. She looked at the clock on the dressing table. The hands stood at ten o'clock, later than she had ever allowed herself to sleep. "Matt shouldn't have done that," she apologized. "I feel all right. A bit tired, but otherwise all right," she insisted, thinking all the while that it wasn't true. Her head ached, and she had that same alarming shortness of breath she'd felt yesterday. "You have enough to do without taking on my chores," she continued. "PIL be over as soon as I can make it," Sister Herth replied. There was silence on the line. "Claire, are you all right?" the older woman asked. Page 218 C LAIRE Connelly pulled the "Yes," Claire answered, "perfectly all right. And please don't interrupt your busy day. I really don't need you." She rather hoped that she didn't sound too convincing. Sister Herth was such a comforting person to have around. "Tl be over," her neighbor repeated, and hung up. Past experience told Claire it did no good to argue with Sister Herth. She was also fully aware that her neighbor was a woman of few words but of tremendous action. 'The Herths were wonderful neighbors, always ready to help out in an emergency, but far too busy with their extensive dairy farm to have much time for trivialities. Claire hung up the phone, slipped into a housecoat and slippers, and went into the dining room. She sighed as she looked through the door at the stack of dinner dishes awaiting her at the sink. She had been just too tired to do them last night. Claire sat down. She was frankly puzzled. | "Why has the zest and sparkle suddenly and completely gone from my life?" she asked herself. "Perhaps it's my age." She pondered this thought fora moment. "Nonsense," she reminded herself, "fortysix 18 positively youthful. There must be another explanation." HE had just had a complete physical check-up, and been pronounced "fine." 'The doctor had, however, started to tell her something just as she was leaving his office, when he'd been interrupted THAT SPECIAL FLAVOR by a nurse with an urgent telephone call. "Just be careful you don't.... He had said, and that was all she had heard. Maybe she should call him and ask him to finish the warning. 'There must be some reason for her feeling so miserable. She was remembering that Matt had watched her all through dinner last night with obvious concern. "What you need is a complete change," he had pronounced. "T've just had a complete change," Claire had pointed out, "and it didn't take." "Tl get you that ticket to Utopia one of these days," he had promised. It had been a standing joke all through their life that someday just the two of them would go away on a nice, restful trip. "Two to Utopia," Claire had repeated, "it sounds funny, but nice." Matt had picked up his briefcase, gone into the den, and had worked far into the night. Claire had awakened several times and heard him murmuring in his sleep, as he always did when he was overtired. She felt guilty. She went into the kitchen and prepared a light breakfast, and then found that she had no appetite for even this small meal. Yes, she concluded, that old familiar lift is definitely missing. She began again to probe for the reason. With Marny, her eldest, married five years, with Dick staying on at the University for the summer courses to catch up after serving his mission, and Mark, their baby, just beginning his foreign mission; with her calling as Relief Society literature teacher finished until fall, Claire had suddenly found herself with very little to do. 219 complete change from the busy life she had led in the past, her thoughts continued. Perhaps a trip would be just the tonic she needed. 'Twenty-seven years of marriage without one honest-to-goodness vacation was a long stretch. Then she remembered all the delightful "snatches" of vacation they had enjoyed, she and Matt and the children, because she had never, never gone on a trip without Matt, and it had been difficult for him to leave town for more than a few days at a time. Claire got up determinedly, and went into the bedroom. Sister Herth mustn't see what a drone she had become. She would dress and have all the work out of the way before her energetic neighbor arrived. Of course, there wasn't much that needed doing, outside of the dishes. She had promised to put the finishing touches on a dress for Marny to take with her on the convention trip she and Peter would make, and to iron a white shirt for Matt. As she camc into the kitchen, a wave of dizziness passed over her. She leaned against the sink for a moment's rest. The doorbell rang and interrupted her reverie. It can't be Sister Herth, she thought. It has only been a few minutes since she called — thirty at the most. But it was. "Jim decided he could get along without me," she explained, "so I came right over." "Tm being a bother," Claire apologized again. "Tl just get these dishes out of the way," Sister Herth said. "You sit down and talk to me." Claire sat down as directed. She 220 watched her neighbor's energetic movements. She felt as if something dreadful were closing on her, like an ether cone over her face, cutting off her breathing. "I'm sure there's ironing to do," her neighbor said, as soon as the last clean dish was put away. She was on the service porch with the iron swinging expertly over one of Matt's difficult-to-iron shirts, before Claire could protest. Claire stood uncertainly in the doorway, feeling like a stray kitten someone had left on the doorstep. ISTER Herth critically. "You look tuckered,' she observed. "Why don't you take a nap while I'm ironing? Then [ll stay and have some lunch with you." Oh, thought Claire, feeling more than ever like a rudderless ship, she's treating me as if I were a baby. And then. Added, perhaps it's because I'm acting like one. She had never, over the years, known Sister Herth to interrupt her busy day just to sit down and cat luncheon — unless it was an occasion with real meaning. Matt surely must have conv oes her that Claire needed her. "Imagine a nap in the middle of the day," she protested. "A nap will do you good,' neighbor insisted. "Perhaps it will," Claire agreed. Her knees were actually beginning to buckle. Nevertheless, she felt guilty as she went into her bedroom. Unable to go to sleep, Claire finally decided to get up and see what she had for lunch that was tempting. She combed her hair, put on a fresh frock and lipstick, washed her hands, and went into looked at her " her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 the kitchen. Her head felt somewhat better. As soon as they had eaten lunch, Sister Herth insisted on washing up the dishes. After that she left for home, telling Claire she'd look in on her tomorrow. Her obvious concern made Claire wonder, did she know something about Claire's condition that Claire herself didn't know? That warning the doctor had started to give her — perhaps he had given it to Matt and her neighbors instead, to avoid frightening her. She settled herself determinedly at the sewing machine. She'd get this dress for Marny finished and out of the way right now, she declared. But after working for about half an hour she felt too miserable to go on. She put the dress aside, and lay down on the couch to rest. Her thoughts started back over the years, bright, happy years, full of action and excitement. Her energy had been boundless, which made _ her present lethargy all the more puzzling. "Two to Utopia," she thought again, longingly. She could scarcely wait until Matt returned from work. If he'd settled his present business, he'd be all set to go. Perhaps this would be the tonic she needed. THE telephone rang. It was Matt. 'Start packing, Mrs. Connelly," he said, "the deal is all done up in pink tissue paper." He was jubilant. "I'll stop mm and get something easy to fix for dinner," he added. Claire hung up the phone and sat down. "Well, it is actually here." 'The big trip that she had looked forward to all her busy life — THAT SPECIAL FLAVOR just for her and Matt. Still, there was no surge of joy, as she had expected. Anyway, she'd start packing immediately. 'They'd take the Hilman, she quickly decided, not the big gas-hungry station wagon as they'd had to do in the past to accommodate the crowd. One suitcase was all that the small car would hold, but with the modernday dacrons and orlons she was sure that would do — they'd sort of rough it for a change. As she packed she kept remembering the eager trio, Marny, Dick, and Mark each time they had prepared for a short trip — remembering their shining faces, glowing with anticipation, their happy chatter as they rode in the back of the huge station wagon. Well, this time, she thought, she could look back and see nothing but the empty road stretching out behind them. It would be rather restful. Matt came home just as she finished packing the suitcase. It was still open on the bed. He kissed her, then went to the closet to hang up his coat. "What's this?" he asked, as he turned and saw the closely packed suitcase. "I thought this was going to be the big celebration, the trip to outdo all trips. How about taking enough clothing for a comfortable vacation without having to worry about laundering?" "T thought we'd take the Hilman — save on gas," she told him, "and one suitcase is all it will hold." "Whatever you say," he replied, his voice all at once flat. Claire went into the kitchen and started to prepare dinner. The telephone rang, and she answered it on the extension. It was Marny. "Hi, Mother," her bright young 221 voice said. "Did you get the dress finished?" Claire had a sudden feeling of guilt. She had always disliked giving excuses. "No, dear, I had one of my headaches come on, and had to stop working," she explained. "Mother," Marny said accusingly, "why don't you see a doctor?" "IT had a complete check-up two weeks ago, and there's nothing wrong,' Claire assured her daughter, then wondered again about the doctor's half-spoken warning. "Well, PI just have to buy a dress. Peter and I are leaving in the morning for that convention, and I have to have one — I'm hostess for the Tuesday luncheon. And don't worry, Mother," she added, "T have a perfect flower of a babysitter engaged." "That's fine, dear," Claire said. This would be the first time Marny had gone out of town and left her children with a stranger. Claire had always insisted on taking them. She wouldn't tell Marny about their own planned trip — not just this minute, anyway, the steaks needed attention. "Tl call you before we leave in the morning," Marny promised, "but now I must rush out and buy that dress." The steaks were so tender they almost melted in your mouth, and the tossed salad was refreshingly springy tasting, but Claire found her appetite only half adequate to do justice to the meal. Matt insisted on washing the dishes. Claire dried them. HEY were preparing for bed when the telephone rang. It 222 was Marny again, and she was in tears. "Oh, Mother," she wailed, "the most awful thing has happened." Claire's heart turned completely Over. "Our baby-sitter has the measles, and I can't think of another soul I'd trust with the children — except you. Oh, if only you felt better." She sounded exactly as she did that time when as a six-year-old she had broken her favorite doll. "What shall I do?" Claire went silent for a long moment, her heart and mind in a turmoil. "Your father and I are leaving in the morning on a long-planned trip. We're taking the Hilman. I have our suitcase all packed. There must be someone reliable you could get to look after the children..." she hesitated. "Tl call Grandma Larson. She would be perfect, if she's free." "All right, Mother," Marny replied. Her bright, golden voice of a few hours ago had turned leaden, Claire thought with a pang. Claire dialed Grandma = Larson's number immediately. She waited several minutes, but there was no answer. 'Then she remembered that Grandma had told her several weeks ago that she was going to Tuolumne to visit her daughter for a month or so. She dreaded calling Marny. Poor child, she'd be so disappointed, and she had looked tired lately. We KK HE sun shone so brightly on the pavement that was the "go" Highway, Claire had constantly to adjust the windshield shades, in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 spite of the fact that they both wore sunglasses and big smiles. "Happy?" Matt asked, often. Each time Claire nodded emphatically and said, "Very." She kept looking back as they rode along. "Beautiful day, beautiful sight, isn't it?" Matt asked. "Oh, yes," Claire breathed ecstatically. Behind them in the big station wagon sat Marny's two bright-eyed twin girls, aged two, their faces scrubbed, and shining with an eagerbeaver look, then the two boys, who were the older brothers, three and four — same look. Back of them stood the family's huge Boxer, alert and ready for his run on the beach. Behind that the station wagon extended a yard, at least, crammed with suitcases for a happy vacation. Claire sighed rapturously. 'That old certain-something, that special flavor was back in her life. She felt young and zestful. What a romp they'd have on the beach these two delightful weeks. Just like old times. "Seven for Utopia,' she told Matt. He smiled at her happily. After she'd called Marny back last night and told her they'd take the children with them on vacation, she had felt really fine, normal, and elated for the first time in weeks, she couldn't believe it, quite. So this morning she'd called Dr. Hart to make sure she was up to it. "Sure you're all right," he'd said. "T told you there was nothing wrong. What warning?" he had asked, in answer to her question. "Oh," after a few minutes of thinking. His chuckle was low and merry. "That — 'just be careful you don't come down with a case of leisure-itis.' " Uncle Matt and the China Doll Sylvia Probst Young IGHT was stealing down the mountains when E[lizabeth, carrying a supper tray, crossed the barren field toward Matt's place. At her side the wind moaned ominously. A snow wind, maybe. How late the snow comes this year, she thought resentfully. They were to be gone "when snow flies," Hank had said. At the far end of the field the light from a lantern glowed eerily through the barn window. Hank was milking. 'This was the life he loved — life on the land. He was willing to keep on trying year after year to make this raw country into a thing of beauty. He would make the farm pay, he said. Young, strong, and dauntless, he had cleared the sage from acre after acre with his own two hands and a grubbing hoe. It was she whose courage had failed after three years with no crop. Hank had finally agreed after a July hailstorm had lashed the golden turning wheat into the ground and left the fields looking devastated. "We'll go back to Parkville," he had told her. "I'll lease the place. Mavbe it's better that way.' Her heart had lifted then. "You know there is always a place for you in the mull," she had encouraged, "and Patty won't have so far to go to school." "We'll try to go by the time snow flies," he had promised. Now it was the first of December, the ground was still bare, and Hank had talked no more about leaving. Elizabeth quickened her steps; she wouldn't brood now. The warm lamplight from Matt's windows gleamed out invitingly. As she neared the porch, the door opened suddenly. "Mama!" Patty's were glowing. "Come in, and see the new dolls." "Dolls?" Elizabeth smiled at her eager eight-year-old daughter. Patty, with the blond pigtails, the shining brown eyes, and the quick smile, was the light of their lives. In the homelike warmth of the big room that served as general store and Matt's living room, Elizabeth unbuttoned her coat and put the supper tray on the great wooden counter. "Guess you're about ready for supper, Matt. Has this daughter of mine been behaving herself?" From his armchair by the window the big man looked lovingly at the little girl. "She's a big help, Patty is." Elizabeth nodded knowingly. "By the time she's sampled all the penny candies and the gum, she hasn't much time to help." "Oh, but I did help, Mama," the little girl defended. "I dusted the showcases and straightened up the brown _ eyes Mama, combs and the cuff links. I didn't have any candy at all." "That's right, Elizabeth," Matt assured her. "And then Patty was busy with the dolls." "Matt," Elizabeth brought the supper tray to the little table beside his chair, "I thought you weren't getting dolls this year. I thought you were saving all the money you could for a wheel chair." "T am, Elizabeth," he told her. Page 223 224 "PIL get my wheel chair, but it wouldn't be Christmas if I didn't have dolls in the window." BLIZABETH'S eyes sought the front window where a dozen different dolls were on display, some suspended by cords and some propped up in pasteboard boxes. At Patty's urging she went to look more closely at them. Dolls — so many of them, no wonder Patty's eyes were glowing. And each one was different. Some had composition heads, two or three were celluloid with painted faces and, wonder of wonders, some of them had eyes that opened and closed. But there was one — a very special doll; Patty had pointed her out immediately. She looked like a queen. Her body was covered with soft, white kid, her head and arms were of china, her hair and eyclashes were real, and her eyes — dark brown like Patty's — would open and close. "Isn't she just beautiful?" Patty breathed. Elizabeth could only nod_ her head, the little girl's eagerness had brought quick tears to her eyes. Patty's dolls had been of the celluloid variety. It was wrong for Matt to have such a doll in his window, she thought. Who in Rockport could buy it? Matt seemed to read her thoughts. "The big doll was specially ordered," he told her. "Or did Mr. Geece just use his super salesmanship on you?" Elizabeth challenged, thinking of the tall, sauve, friendly drummer. Matt smiled and shook his head. Elizabeth found a chair beside the pot-bellied stove and watched her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 brother-in-law eating the simple food she had placed before him. Her heart warmed. Matt was a very special person. Some kind of paralysis had made his legs useless, and for twenty years he had sat in his combination store and_ living room greeting friends and _ neighbors. They brought their eggs to exchange for vinegar or sugar, back combs, or greeting cards. 'They sat by his stove to play a game of checkers with him or to tell him their troubles. He was always willing to listen to their joys and their sorrows. In his friendly place the young people gathered to sing or to talk of their romances, women exchanged recipes, men discussed cows and crops. "It's a good supper." He looked at Elizabeth while he buttered the warm bread. "I always told Hank he married the best." From behind the counter Patty, who was deciding what kind of candy to take from the glass jars as pay for helping Uncle Matt, turned to join in the conversation. "Uncle Matt told me our life story again," she announced. "Matt," Elizabeth laughed, "she knows it off by heart." "T like best the part where Daddy came home from the dance," Patty twinkled, "and he said, 'Matt, I met the schoolteacher tonight, and I'm going to marry her.'" "Your Daddy didn't take long to make up his mind," Elizabeth told her, "and speaking of your Daddy — we'd better go, he'll be through milking now." She rose to gather the dishes and felt Matt's eyes upon her. "You're unhappy tonight, Eliza- UNCLE MATT AND THE CHINA DOLL beth. What about Parkville, nothing decided?" The tears she had fought all day suddenly glistened in Elizabeth's blue eyes. "Hank's never said anything more." she choked, "and I haven't wanted to nag him." Matt's face was marked with understanding. "It will work out, Elizabeth," he said gently, "it will work out." HE wind was still blowing when they went outside, and light flakes of snow peppered the cold air. But Elizabeth's heart felt warmer. Matt had always been able to soothe her troubles as a_ father soothes a child. She tucked the little girl's hand in her coat pocket, and turned her eyes toward home. "Mama," Patty's voice was wishful, "do you think that Santa Claus could bring me a china doll with eves that open and close?" "I don't know, honey," she chose her words carefully. "Sometimes Santa Claus doesn't have enough dolls to go around, and we have to be happy with whatever he can bring us." The little girl sighed, "I know, but maybe I could write him a very special lettcr." The purr of the separator greeted them when they entered their kitchen, and Patty went out into the back room to watch the golden cream run out of the valve. It always delighted her. Sometimes Hank let her turn the big handle. "She'll make a good farmer's wife," he would say. And Elizabeth's only answer would be an unspoken '"'No!" 225 The dishes were on the table, and she was slicing bread when Hank came into the room. "Hello, honey." He came over to the table to plant a light kiss on her forehead, his dark head towering above her fair one. "What we got for supper?" "Just dried beans and carrots." "Sounds good, though." He was so easy to please. "Patty's been telling me about Matt's dolls." "Yes. She's got her heart set on one of them. Wish Matt didn't have them." He looked at her tenderly. There was concern in his eyes. ""You've not been fecling well, have you? Which reminds me I talked to Willis this afternoon, again, he'll lease our place." "Hank!" Elizabeth cried. There was mingled joy and exasperation in her voice. "Why don't you ever tell me these things?" "Didn't want to get your hopes up before I knew. He'll take over the cows the first of the year, or before, if we want it." In her eagerness she was unaware of the forced lightness in his voice. "Pll write Mama and tell her. We can stay with them until we find a place." "You want to go before Christmas?" She saw the shadow on his face then. "No," she said quickly, '"'oh, no, we'll stay here for Christmas, Matt would be so disappointed and Patty, too." HEN supper was over, Hank went over to Matt's to visit a bit and help him to bed. Patty helped Elizabeth with the dishes, and they made plans for 226 leaving Rockport, but Patty did not share her enthusiasm, and Elizabeth was disappointed. When the little girl was tucked in bed she went to stand at the front window. 'The ground was covered with white now, but it had stopped snowing, and the moon was breaking through, fringing the clouds with gold. Her eyes followed the road to a place near the hil] — Rockport's cemetery. A part of her heart would always be there by two little graves where two infant sons were buried. In Parkville there were doctors within call, the coming baby would have a better chance. She turned from the window; the room was warm and pleasant. The lamp burned with a lazy tongue, and the wood fire crackled cheerfully. She smiled, thinking of Hank, big and quiet, a little shy, but sure of what he wanted. She was glad he had wanted her. The next afternoon Hank drove Elizabeth over to Mortensen's Mercantile. The butter and egg money that she had carefully saved, came to $3.57, enough to buy material for shirts for Hank and Matt and pongee for a new dress for Patty. There would be enough pongee for a new dress for Patty's doll, too. She had debated long over the money before buying the cloth — $3.57 — the china doll in Matt's window was S6. She couldn't ask Matt to charge the rest, her charges were always written off his books, and he had said the doll was a special order. Patty would understand, and next year they wouldn't have to depend on a crop for their existence. Hank would be working at the mill in Parkville, Patty could have a new doll then. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 In the days that followed, when Patty was at school and Hank busy with the chores, Elizabeth worked at her sewing machine. The dolls in Matt's window were fast disappearing, but the china doll was still there, much to Patty's delight. A few days before Christmas, when they brought Matt's supper to the store, the china doll was gone. Patty noticed its absence at once. "Uncle Matt," she cried, "the china doll is gone." iLZABETH thought she saw a tear in the dark eyes, but the child only smiled. "Well, I guess she couldn't stay here forever," she said, "but whoever gets her is going to be awfully happv." When school let out for Christmas vacation, Elizabeth had finished her sewing. She was pleased with the red-checkered shirts, and the pongee dress, with its ruffled skirt, was beautiful. Even the celluloid doll looked sweet in her new dress, although the paint on her eyes was almost worn off. The day before Christmas, Flizabeth and Patty busied themsclves making gingerbread men and honey candy. Hank brought the tree into the house in the early afternoon, and Patty's delight knew no bounds as she strung popcorn and hung bright tinsel stars on it. They took Uncle Matt's supper over early. 'Ihe store was full of neighbors and friends, little gifts and bright greeting cards lay on Matt's table. "Everybody loves Uncle Matt," Patty observed as they walked home in the gathering twilight. "We'll miss him, Mama." UNCLE MATT AND THE CHINA DOLL "Yes," she said lightly, "but we'll have him tomorrow and that will be a wonderful day." T was late when Hank came back from Matt's that night. Elizabeth had gone to bed, but she got up when he came in. He was carrying packages and he put them on the table. "Been so many folks there I couldn't get away. "What do you suppose he sent us?" "Well, the sack is candy and oranges, he had me fix that up. 'The others, I don't know." "Shall we open them? It's almost Christmas morning." "There're no names on anything." Hank picked up a long, thin box and handed it to Elizabeth. Her hands trembled as she lifted the lid. For a long moment she couldn't speak, her eyes were glued to a china-headed doll lying in the box before her. "Hank," her voice was choked with emotion, "it's the doll, and he said it was a special order." 227 Hank nodded. "I'm not surprised. Won't Patty be happy? But he'll be even happier — It's the same every Christmas, he writes people's accounts off his books. Guess he gave half those dolls away. Don't know when he'll get his wheel chair, but I don't know anyone happier." Elizabeth held the doll close to her. Anticipating a child's joy, an unheeded tear rolled down her cheek. Matt was happiest making others happy, even when it meant going without himself. She looked across at Hank. He was like Matt, even willing to give up the land — the thing that he loved so much, to make her happy. The land was his hope, and spring would come again with new promise. But she was taking him away from it. He would never be as happy anywhere else — maybe she would not either. "Hank," she looked at him steadily, "'let's not go after all." "Elizabeth! You mean.... Elizabeth...." There were stars in his eyes as he took her into his arms. Oh, Spring Symphony Linnie F. Robinson Boxeldcr trees beside the stream Are festooned with an early bloom Of golden lace in the sun's bright glow, And blackbird music spills below. The pragmatist walked their way— "They're quite enough to deafen one, What do they celebrate?" he said "These are no trees to furnish bread." I only smiled because just then The finches and the robins sang, And then the larks gave music clear Of tone as ever fell on human ear. Each branch swung dark with feathered wing, And every heart was wont to sing.... The sun was warm upon the land With golden trees and golden strand. Using the Blackboard in Seaching Lessons in the Reliof Society Wiliam E. Berrett Vice-President and Professor of Religion Brigham Young University (Address Delivered in the Teaching Aids Department, Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 8, 1959) have never known an effective teacher who did not make regular use of the blackboard. The value of a blackboard in the teaching process should be obvious. The optic nerve, which carries impressions from the eye to the brain, is eight times as large as the auditory nerve, which carries impressions from the ear to the brain, and is correspondingly more important in the learning process. Hence instructions, to be effective, should be directed to the eye as well as to the ear. Experience shows that information placed upon the blackboard is retained by the student in a much higher ratio than information which has been presented only orally. In five important phases of the teaching process the blackboard becomes a vital aid: 1. Getting attention 2. Motivating thought and study 3. Clarifying the subject or object under discussion 4. Obtaining student retention of ideas 5. Obtaining student activity (student use of blackboard) The following suggestions are made as to methods of using the blackboard. (A) The Outline The teacher of adult groups will find that an outline of the subject to be discussed, when placed on the blackboard, will stimulate thinking by class members and will tend to keep the discussion purposeful and progressive. 'The outline enables all Page 228 class members to follow the discussion, acts as a constant review of what has been covered during the class hour, and contributes to the fixing of ideas permanently in the mind. 'The outline should be simple and easy to understand without oral explanation. (B) Listing Problems and Answers Student-teacher discussions are often aimless and a waste of time unless the blackboard is used to give organization and direction to the discussions. For example, the teacher might ask the class, "What problems concerning baptism do you believe we should discuss?" If the problems are answered or discussed in the order of student responses, there will be much duplication, jumping about, and a getting of the "cart before the horse." The logical step is to write upon the blackboard all of the problems before attacking any of them, eliminate duplications, and arrange them in a logical order. Hence the discussion takes a direction and purpose. 'The whole of the problem can be scen, and the relationship of one question to another becomes apparent. Likewise, the blackboard is invaluable in listing the answers of class members to questions or problems raised. This method enables both teacher and class to visualize the discussion and to keep in mind all the suggested answers so as later to evaluate them properly. This method glorifies the member's answer. It was important enough to write down. It glorifies the class members by making them the judges of their own responses. (C) Maps The most effective maps a teacher can use are outline maps sketched upon the blackboard. 'This can be done from time to time by a few simple chalk lines, or at a nominal cost of a few cents, an outline map can be drawn on the blackboard with white paint that is usable for years, putting in the details needed for each lesson with chalk as the occasion arises. (For illustrations of the type of details see J. Lewis Browne, The Graphic Bible). A painted outline map does not interfere with use of the blackboard for other purposes as other writing can be written over it freely and erased without destroying the map. (D) Charts and Diagrams The need of charts and diagrams in teaching for the purpose of clarification is apparent to all. Teachers. The blackboard simplifies and encourages their use because of the ease with which a chart or diagram can be made with chalk. Charts help students to see the relationships of time, proportions, distance, weight, and effects. (E) Objects, Directions, Events The use of the blackboard to illustrate objects, directions, and events has been greatly neglected. In teaching adults, however, its use is best confined to illustration of objects, directions, and events outside the usual experiences of the group. For example, one does not draw an illustration of a horse for adults who already have mental images of horses, but might illustrate the Temple of Solomon or the sequence of historical events. Illustrations can be made graphic without necessarily being accurate or artistic. Three fine books on this use of the blackboard are available: Blackboard Sketching by FrRepericK Wuuitney, Milton, Bradley Co., Springfield, Mass.; and Chalk Talks; and Talks in Crayon and Chalk, both by Erra M. Woop, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Utah. (F) Central Thoughts and Challenging Statements A sentence carrying the central thought of a day's lesson, placed upon a blackboard before or at the beginning of the class hour, has a powerful effect upon the class discussion, and upon retention. (G) Summarizations The use of the blackboard to summarize must not be overlooked. 'The best summaries are built up of responses by the class as to what has been accomplished during the class hour, and, when written on the blackboard, enable the students to carry away from class a unified message. (H) Assignment The best assignments arise from problems raised by the class members and listed on the blackboard. If the class cannot answer the questions, assignments for special study are obvious. The name of the person assigned and reference or directions for finding the needed information can then be suggested by the class or teacher and written upon the blackboard by the question. Placing assignments to a group, upon the blackboard, saves teaching time and the assignments are remembered longer. Use your blackboard at each lesson period for at least one thing, and you will find yourself preparing your lessons with greater care and teaching with increased satisfaction. USING THE BLACKBOARD IN TEACHING LESSONS IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY 229 The Blue Bowl Part | Loya Beck it shpped into view around a wide bend in the Mississippi River, would surprise a traveler who had grown familiar with the previous scenes of open countryside and straggling population on the fringe of Amcrica's wilderness in January of 1846. Surrounded on three sides by the mighty Father of Waters, the city rose with the gradual sloping of a dome-shaped hill, its highest elevation about a mile from the river. Blocked into neat squares with broad streets and _ tree-lined avenues, the metropolis was crowned with a massive structure of gray marble that overlooked the terrain, like a ship riding the crest of a wave. Streamers of smoke drifted from the tall chimneys of the newly built homes that dotted the hill, bestowing an illusion of warmth on the chill winter air. On Mulholland Street, only a block from the temple, the clatter and bang of metal on metal resounded from the rustic interior of a small, two-story frame house. Playing near the warmth of the fireplace, a fhery-haired toddler pounded his mother's wrought-iron cookware with the fury of a Don Quixote attacking a windmill. "Come along, Alma, it's time for your nap." 'The child's mother endeavored to speak above the clamor, as she drew loaves of golden-crusted bread from the oven and _ placed them on the table to cool. "No!" was the quick retort. Page 230 T HE bustling city of Nauvoo, as "Yes!" the mother answered firmly, taking the child by the hand and raising him quickly to his feet. "No! Busy, Mama, busy," the child wailed, tugging away from her. "You can play with the kettles again when you wake up. Come, now, let me see if you can climb the stairs by yourself." With the enthusiasm of a turtle climbing a thorny hillside, Alma plodded his way to the upstairs bedroom. His mother watched him from below, saw him disappear through a curtained archway, heard the squeak of the springs as he climbed into bed. Mary Martha Lee listened carefully for any sounds from her son. Weighted with the bloom of an eight-month pregnancy, any venture upstairs seemed like a major expedition to her. A Welsh flannel dress with a high neck, wrist-length sleeves, and a floor-length skirt enveloped her small figure. Hearing no sounds from the room above, Mary gratefully returned to her work. Seated in a rocker near the window, Mary began sorting out leftover piece-goods to be used for quilt blocks. Interest in her task began to lag, however, and_ her hands soon fell idly into her lap. She gazed about the room, perceivying its homely features as those of a dear friend from whom she was about to part. It was a someday room. Someday it could have been finished along with its homemade THE BLUE BOWL furnishings, which consisted of a table, two chairs, and a tall cupboard. In one corner a bed, without a headboard, leaned against the wall with a faded blue blanket hugging the whole of it. Between the bed and the back door there was a large trunk with a high curved lid and bright silver trappings. A colorful Paisley shawl was draped over its side. A handcarving done by Tom, Mary's husband, of her mother's bakery shop in Hanley, Staffordshire, England, hung on the wall above the trunk. The sign, "Woods Bakery — Hot Pies," was carved plainly on the front. Ruffled curtains made a_ gay frame for two small windows that overlooked the snowy front yard. Mary had purchased the material for the curtains with part of the money she had earned from the sale of the first pair of men's trousers she had made. When Mary and Tom had first moved into their new home, rugs and other luxuries had to wait, but "A home is not a home without curtains at the windows," Mary had said when Tom had urged her to wait for them, too. 'The curtains now decked the windows with the assurance of old friends that had come to stay. Glancing out the window, Mary saw a stranger coming up the path leading to the house. The sudden beating of the man's fist against the door set Mary's heart pounding, as she rose to her feet and hesitantly walked to the door. "What do you want?" called through the closed door. "My name's MacDowell, Christopher MacDowell.... I'm interested in buying your place. You'll be selling out, I reckon." Mary 231 ARY opened the door, recoiling in the sudden cold blast that penetrated the warmth of the room, and invited the stranger in. He was a small man, slim and hard-muscled underneath his enveloping black coat. "You want to buy our place?" Mary questioned hesitantly. "I'd like to look it over and sce if it's worth buying." "My husband won't be home until this evening. You can come back tonight and talk to him about it." An expression of disapproval hardened MacDowell's sharp blue eyes as he boldly scrutinized Mary from head to toe. "I have no mind to come back tonight, Ma'am. I'll just look around myself and see if it suits my needs. If I like it Vl make you an offer. You can take it or leave it, only you'll be smart to take it if you figure on getting anything out of this place at all." "I would rather you would talk to my husband," Mary replied firmly, feeling the color rise to her cheeks at his continued stare. MacDowell's lips tightened impatiently. "I'll just go ahead and look around." "No!" Mary spoke emphatically. "No, if you have to see the place now, I'll show it to you." She was surprised at the high pitch of her usually controlled voice. "All right, you show me." Dowell shrugged indifferently. Mary's clammy fingers tightened into the palms of her hands. "There are only two rooms — this one and the one upstairs." Pulling off a woolly cap and slapping it against his thigh, MacDowell turned and surveyed the room. Mac- 232 "T reckon you'll not be taking the furnishings with you." "No." "\What's in the cupboard? Anything in there for sale?" Mary walked to the cupboard and threw the doors wide. "Everything's for sale," she said. "See, there on the center shelf, that's real Staffordshire china, handpainted by my father. It's worth a lot." The delicate deep shadings of the pansies that centered the shining blue plates in the cupboard had been painted with meticulous care. A ring of gold encircled their paperthin edges. A smile passed over MacDowell's thin lips as he took the gracefully designed sugar bowl that belonged to the set into his rough hands. A stubby finger caressed the smooth curve of the bowl. "My woman would sure like this!" "Let me have it, I will not leave this piece." Mary snatched the bowl from his hands and returned it to its place in the cupboard. "Don't get riled, Ma'am," MacDowell protested. "So your father was a blimey old Englishman with a gift for painting? "Yes, 'm English. They are people, too, you know," Mary retorted proudly. "My husband is Scotch, but he was reared in England." "Maybe Danny Edinburgh is people, and Johnny London is people, but Mormons, what are they? Are they people?" MacDowell grinned, but his blue eyes were cold. Mary's pale lips tightened and her gray eyes met his directly. "We'll be taking some of the kettles with us, but no doubt, some will be left behind." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 MacDowell toed one of the iron kettles that Alma had been playing with on the floor. "You must have another kid, mine does that, too." "We have a son two years old. He's upstairs asleep," Mary answered. "I'd rather not take you up there; it might disturb him. All we have up there is an iron poster bed and a wooden chest." "The room's just like this one, I reckon. Got any heating up there?" "Only what comes up from below." "T don't have to see it, I guess. Pll look around outside and then come in and make you an offer for the place." MacDowell shoved his cap back on his straggly hair and turned towards the door. "TI go with you." Mary hurried to the door and snatched her coat from the peg behind it. "Now, that won't be necessary, I don't need any help in my looking." ARY slipped the coat on and fastened it. "I'm ready to go," she nodded. MacDowell jerked open the door, and a rush of icy air surrounded them in its wake. From the back door they could look down over the sloping city to where the ice-choked Mississippi ribboned the foot of the hill. "That's your temple over there, isn't it?" MacDowell nodded _toward the massive spired building that towered on the hill. "Yes, it is." Mary answered, pausing to gaze at the temple fondly. 'Tom was there now helping to finish the intricate hand-carving on the interior. THE BLUE BOWL "Looking forward to a good oldfashioned revival meeting there someday," MacDowell tcased. Mary's cheeks paled even in the bite of the frosty air, but she did not answer. She followed MacDowell down a snow shoveled path which was bordered on either side by the naked stems of an orchard that she and 'Tom had planted only last spring. Arriving at a gray shed made over from old lumber, MacDowell pushed open the door and waited for Mary to enter first. A Guernsey cow lifted her head from the manger. "She's not our cow," Mary pointed out. "She belongs to our neighbors. We shelter her and help feed her, and both families share the milk." "Don't need a cow,'"' MacDowell muttered. Then, looking around, he observed, "Not a bad shed, don't seem to be too drafty." "It's built well. My husband built it," Mary said proudly. "Those your chickens?" Dowell questioned. A rooster and five hens were huddling together in a corner looking drowsy-eyed. "Yes, they're ours. For sale." "IT saw you had an orchard planted outside,' he said, clearing his throat. "What kind of trees do you have out there?" "Apple, mostly,' Mary answered, a note of triumph in her voice. "A few pear trees, peach, plum, and cherry." "That sounds good. It's a good place, I like it. Easy to see there was care taken in the building." MacDowell opened the gray shed door and stepped out into the snow. Mary followed to the house, feeling MacThey will be 233 a chill run across her shoulders and down her spine. Back again in the warm house she threw another log on the low burning fire. "Tm not a rich man, you understand," MacDowell began as Mary jabbed at the burned logs with the poker. "I like this place, so I'll make you a special offer." He paused to shift on his feet and scratch the side of his nose with his finger. "Pll give you two cows and a dandy good rifle for the whole kit and kaboodle." Startled, Mary faced MacDowell. "Two cows and a rifle for this whole place? Why my china alone is worth...." "Take it or leave it. Makes no difference to me. I can just as well wait till you go across the prairie, then take over the place for nothing. But, I'm a fair man, don't believe in taking anything I don't pay for. You can use the cows and the rifle, too, so take your choice." "Of course, you are exactly right," Mary's voice broke. "My husband will have to confirm any sale. If you go over to the temple and ask for Thomas Lee, I'm sure he will be glad to talk to you." Mary followed MacDowell to the front door. "Tll talk to him," MacDowell said as he opened the door, but pausing on the threshold, he glanced back at Mary's face. "How old are you?" "Nineteen, why?" Mary lifted her head to meet his gaze. "Why don't you go back to England, girl?" MacDowell's hard blue eyes seemed to soften. "Why don't you go home to your mother?" Ie turned and slammed the door behind him. (To be concluded) Room in Her Heart Shirley Thulin 66 ELL, Ann, you're going \\V to have a baby." Doctor Brooks grinned, but Ann avoided his direct gaze. Her chin quivered and her lips were hot and div, as she listened to his cheerful voice repeating, like a well-known record, her instructions for the coming months. As if she didn't know how to care for herself by now! This was her eighth child, and the doctor's verification of her own suspicions had left her with mixed emotions. "Ann, I have something new I want you to try,' Doctor Brooks continued. "It may help you have less nausea in the mornings." He handed her a little box of capsules. "Thank you," she said, but she thought — what have you in the way of a capsule that will help me and give me the strength and courage to face some of my family, and friends, and neighbors who will say I am having too many children? And, as though he were reading her thoughts, the doctor said, "Ann, you have a wonderful family. 1 am proud to be your friend and doctor." The tears welled up close to overflowing, but Ann managed to control them. "Thank you," she said quietly, though she wanted to say much more. She wanted to tell him how grateful she was for his competent care over the years. 'To tell him how much it had always meant to all of them to have him there when they needed him, with the parade of broken limbs, tonsillectomies, and Page 234 upset stomachs. His abilities as a physician and surgeon could not help her with her coming ordeal, however, although Ann was deeply happy in her motherhood and the opportunity to bring another soul into the world, the criticisms of others were sometimes hard to take smilingly. Ann was grateful for the early evening breeze that refreshed her as she stepped out of the downtown medical building, joining the tide of homeward-bound shoppers and office workers. As she walked towards her bus corner, her mind was a whirlpool. Ann could see her mother's face and hear her say, "Oh, Ann, not again. Susie is only a little over a year old. You will never live to rear them at this rate." And no amount of reassuring on Ann's part would make her mother stop worrying and realize, as with each of the other children, that this eighth one was wanted. And Ann knew what Beth, her neighbor on the west, would say. "Oh, really, dear, what can you be thinking of?" And she knew what Beth would be thinking... One more little Jensen child to pick my tulips the spring when he reaches the age of two. No matter how carefully Ann watched them it happened every time, but only once. Ann reached the corner and hoped she wouldn't have to wait long for her bus. She was weary and a little anxious about the children. Jill was dependable and was good to follow instructions, but the ROOM IN HER HEART little boys would sometimes tease and make Sue fretful, then Jill had more than her hands full. ANN wondered how Jill would take the news. She had been happy over little Sue, but she was younger then, and hadn't as yet had much responsibility placed upon her. Ann felt a tug at her heart as she thought of all the fun Jill had had to miss this summer. It seemed that her Sunday School and Mutual classes always picked Saturday on which to have their parties and outings. 'This was fine for the others, but Jill couldn't often be spared on Saturdays. 'There was too much to do to get ready for the Sabbath. I only hope Jill doesn't become resentful. So far I haven't detected any signs of her having done so, but sometimes mothers take these things for granted. Ann pictured Jill, her soft brown hair curling slightly around her pretty face, which just in the last year had lost its childish roundness and had taken on a new look... A serious look. "Jill looks more like you every day, dear," Vern had said so often lately. At first it had pleased Ann to hear her husband say this, but now she was wondering if her eldest child were being forced to grow up too fast with too few childhood pleasures. I almost wish 'Tom had been a girl, too, then some of the work could be shared. But Ann had given up trying to teach her twelveyear-old son to help. He was willing to try, but was so awkward when it came to doing anything around the house... So like his father, Ann mused. Vern tried so hard to 235 be helpful that it was a little sad. About the only way to get help from the two of them, was to send them on a shopping errand or set them to a task in the yard that would keep them out from underfoot in the house. Each of the other four children had regular jobs. Debbie, ten, and Evan, eight, could do several little jobs well. Even Jerry, five, and Dickie, three, helped, but the brunt of helping fell to Jill. There is always so much to do when a family is large, Ann thought. Every household duty is multiplied by two or three-fold. But she knew it was worth all the effort cach time she looked at her dear children as they began each new day. If only I can instill the true values of life in my children's hearts, Ann thought. But now with the new baby and even more responsibility on the way, Ann was frightened. She wondered how she could do more to make their home life even more pleasant. 'They were a close-together family so far, and did many things as a group. 'They always attended their Church meetings together. They had regular family hours, and went on picnics. 'They visited friends and relatives often... But maybe these things were not enough to satisfy Jill now that she was growing up. HE green and yellow city bus came to a halt in front of Ann. She climbed aboard and took a seat near the front by an open window, and felt the tinge of autumn in the air. Maybe now that school is beginning, and fill will have more time outside the home, things will work out, she thought. 236 Ann wished they could afford a carpet for the living room, and then she had a little sick feeling as she realized that now the money they had saved would perhaps have to be used for the new baby. As for herself, a carpet hadn't seemed to matter. She had tried to keep the floor waxed shiny, and had placed bright, hand-braided rugs here and there. But, with so many pairs of fect traveling over the floor each day, it was difficult. Ann could hear Elaine, her sisterin-law say, "Why don't you do something about this living room? It looks so bare. You really should try to be more economical and put your money to better use.' Flaine didn't realize how many pairs of shoes and quarts of milk were needed for the little ones. Fiven a small item such as soap added up, when a family of nine or ten was involved! [laine had something to say about Ann's housekeeping, too. It did no good to try to explain that it was important to help Jerry cut out his supersonic rocket ship from the cereal box. And Ann and Jill would often be helping with Debbie's book of paper dolls or Evan's modeling clay, somewhere between the bedmaking and the dusting. When Ann would tell Vern, he would just laugh and say, ""There's nothing wrong with Elaine that eight or ten children wouldn't cure." Ann pulled the cord to let the driver know that this was her stop. Usually when she returned from town, she felt that the block she had to walk from the bus stop was almost too long to endure, but this time, it seemed far too short. It RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 didn't give her enough time to compose herself. She must not let her family know that she was rather upset, but she had to show how really happy she was about her new child. Happiness is always contagious, she thought. But it would help if she didn't have to make the announcement just yet, but she knew from past experience that it was impossible to keep it from them, even for a few weeks. She knew that when she walked through the door, they all would ask their usual questions: "Where have you been, Mommy?" "Why did you have to go to the doctor?" "Don't you feel well?" And she would tell, in spite of herself. Ann stood a moment and breathed deeply. She feared what she might see in their eyes and those of her neighbors and dear ones. Ann closed her eyes. She bowed her head slightly and said a prayer to her Father in heaven. "Please, Father, help me to make them all as happy about the baby as I am, and to be kind and understanding." As Ann continued walking along, she looked at the row of neat little homes. She felt a surge of thankfulness. "We are blessed," she told herself. "We live in a nice neighborhood, we have all the necessities of life." NN was nearly home when she heard the commotion. It was coming through her opened windows. The voices were loud and excited. Something had happened! She heard a chorus of what sounded like screams, and she ran across the lawn and up the porch steps two ROOM IN HER HEART at a time and pulled open the front door. "Mother!" Jill shouted. "Oh, Mother, I'm so glad you're home. The baby...." "What is it? What's happened? Where's Daddy?" 'Then, as Ann glanced from one face to another, she could see the twinkling eyes and wide smiles. "Daddy had to go help Uncle Bill administer to Aunt Elaine. She's having another one of her nervous spells," said Jill. "But, Mamma, the baby...." "What about the baby? She looks all right to me." And Ann stooped over and picked Sue up from the middle of the floor. "Oh, she's all right," Tom said. "She's been walking." "Walking? Why, you little rascal." Ann was a little saddened that she hadn't seen her very first steps. "Imagine," said Jill. "She's walking at last. I was beginning to be embarrassed. Janc's little brother is only ten months old, and he's been walking for simply ages." "Mom," said 'Tom, "look how big she's getting to be." "Yes," said Jill, a little wistfully. "Gee, soon we won't have a baby any more." 237 Ann couldn't speak. Her throat was all lumpy inside. That night after the family prayer had been said, Ann gave each of her children a special hug and tucked them in their beds, then went to the living room to wait for Vern. She knew he wouldn't be home for a little while yet. Sometimes these sessions with his sister lasted until quite late. Ann was glad that there had been so much excitement about Sue's new accomplishment this evening. The children had forgotten to ask their questions. Now she could tell Vern first. She knew that when he came home he would say his usual, "Honey, we are so blessed! I feel so sorry for Elaine and Bill. I wish they could have a baby, or would adopt one." And Ann planned to ask in a teasing tone, "Shall we give them our new one when it gets here?" He would look bewildered, then surprised, then he would hold her tight and say, "No, sir. There is always room at our house for one more." Ann leaned back against the softness of the couch. Things had assumed their right perspective now. She knew she could make her announcement with joy and pride. 9 Special Feature for the Guly 1960 Magazine A special surprise feature will be presented in the July 1960 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. This feature will have practical and artistic appeal for all Relief Society women. Watch for the July Magazine and be sure that your subscription is up to date so that you will not miss this special feature issue. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1900 "Tor tune Ricurs OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE Ricurs or TIE WoMmEN OF ALL Nations" RESULTS OF THE REVOLUTION: This momentous occurrence produced the most perfect basis upon which to build a beneficient governmental superstructure — the American Constitution. It has no counterpart in human affairs. It provides to the individual citizen the fullest possible freedom, the most ample personal protection and the complete security of legal property possession. It is the basic guaranty of exact equality before the law, without classified distinctions. I1ence the American nation is composed of the most independent and, therefore, the most strongly individualized race on the face of the earth today, with a record of progress that "has no parallel. —Mabelle Snow THOMAS JEFFERSON: His personal appearance... Is described as six fect two inches in height, slim, erect as an arrow, with regular features, a very ruddy complexion, an extremely delicate skin, full, deep-set hazel eyes and sandy hair. He was more a student than athlete, yet he possessed a passionate Jove of nature and took the grcatest delight im horsemanship. Though an ardent student, he was not necessarily a bookworm, but, on the contrary, was fond of socicty. He was an expert musician, the violin being his favorite instrument, was a good dancer and a daring rider.... As Thomas Jefferson's home-life was ideal and a beautiful example to young America, far more so was his public career... For forty years he served his country.... As a statesman Jcfferson was unequaled.. —Annie W. Cannon TO MRS. M. ISABELLA HORNE A life replete with brave and noble deeds, Wrought in sweet patience and humility, With loving thought for all humanity, And that which ev'ry living creature needs. Eighty and one, long years, how strange it seems That you should see so many wondrous things.. Through youth and wedded life, and widowhood.... And toil and labor, all the time for good.... —Emmeline B. Wells RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY IN THE SEVENTEENTH WARD, SALT LAKE CITY: The Seventeenth Ward Relief Society celebrated anniversary day March 17, Saturday evening in the ward hall, President Clarissa $. Williams presiding... Some exquisite hymns were rendered, beside the sacred songs.... Sister B. W. Smith, one of the presidents of the General Board, gave a verbal sketch of the first Relic Society organized in Nauvoo and of its officers and work. At the close of Sister Smith's address, a neat little girl in white came forward and presented her with an elegant bouquet of choice flowers. Sister Julia C. Howe, who had been connected with the ward since its organization, read a sketch of the Relief Society in that ward.... The secretary, Mrs. C. F. Wilcox read a... Paper on the life and labors of "Aunt Zina," and the possibilities of the Society, and paid a beautiful tribute to Aunt Zina, and her magnanimity of charactcr in all departments of life. —Editorial Page 238 UEEN ELIZABETH II of Great Britain gave birth to a baby boy February 19th. This is the first time in 103 vears a child has been born to a reigning British monarch. Prince Charles and Princess Anne were born before their mother's ascension to the throne. MSs ELEANOR M. JOHNSON has become a power in American education. Director of Elementary School Services, Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connecticut, she long served as Editorial Director for the American Educational Press. She became responsible for a variety of weekly publications for schools and also My Weekly Surprise, a_ picture newspaper for the pre-school child. She has authored and directed the development of several series of widely used textbooks. RS. MARGARET RUSSELL'S second story "The Cup" appeared in the March Ladies' Home Journal. Her first was "String of Pearls." Mrs. Russell teaches the literature lessons in the North 'Twentieth Ward, Ensign Stake Relief Society, Salt Lake City, Utah. She is the mother of seven children. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon EGINNING March 27, 1960, a six-day White House Conference was held in Washington, D. C., in the intcrests of children, youth, and better family and community relations. This was the sixth such national convention. They represent a great development in America's social conscience, resulting in improved legislation and organization of public and private social services. In 1909 the emphasis was on home-finding for dependent children — many thousands of them — and breaking up large institutions for child care into small, cottage-type units, more like homes. In 1919 specialists in child welfare, education, pediatrics, and public health drafted a statement of minimum standards for child employment, maternal and child health, and child protection. In 1930, 1200 experts prepared reports on subjects which included prenatal care, communicable disease control, parent education, vocational guidance, recreation, the handicapped, and delinquency. In 1940 democracy was the theme: the economic challenge to democracy; self-respect, self-reliance, and a cooperative attitude necessary to democracy; the family the "threshold of democracy"; the waning of the family's acceptance of responsibility for its own children. 'The 1950 theme was discovering the ingredients of a healthy personality. Page 239 JITORIAL c~2O VOL. 47 hey Shall Speak With Tew Jongues: N a morning in early spring a farm woman who lived in the bleak hills of a western desert walked to the mouth of a canyon to see what appeared to her to be a miracle. She saw a stream of pure water breaking from a snowbank— and only a short distance down the hill the wild vellow violets blossomed in splendor against the gray rocks. Spring had come and hope had come, and sunshine blessed the land. The woman felt joy and gratitude in the turning of the seasonal cycle that had brought the springtime back again. It was the restoration of promise and the renewing of the Heavenly Father's lasting covenant with earth. To all women whose hearts are made glad with springtime there comes again the message of the holy scriptures and the precious words that bring the undeniable solace and hope of the teachings of the Savior. For among the believers in the land of Palestine were many faithful women "which followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering unto him." First at the opened tomb were the women of Easter. 'They were the first to hear the immortal words that fell as everlasting sunlight against the darkness of the sepulchre: "He is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay." Page 240 To women — first — was the message given — to women who had followed the Christ along his earthly pathway, rejoicing in his gospel and seeking for understanding of his words which opened for them the wide doors of a belicf in life eternal. How glorious are the words of Easter, crystal clear as brooks leaping over stones, deeper than pools of water, and more vibrant than fountains in a season of rain—the words witnessing the resurrection of Jesus, and the consequent arising in the time of promise, of all who had ever lived upon the earth and those who were yet to make the journey in mortality. It is of great moment that women the world over, in every age and generation, should contemplate the significance of that eternal message. The words came not without a responsibility to those who heard the voice of the angel — or to those women following in later eras of the gospel light: "... Go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead; and, behold, he goes before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him... And they departed quickly from the sepulchre... And did run to bring the disciples word." Thus the women of Easter became couriers and messengers of the word. Light upon the stone paths were their feet, and glad their APRIL 1960 NO. 4 EDITORIAL hearts to carry the message of the resurrection. It is not strange, then, that women have been in times past, and are today privileged to rejoice in the glad tidings—"... Go tell my brethren.... All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth... And lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world..." (Mt. 28:10, 18-20). Then, shall we not as women in the beloved sisterhood, accept with 241 rejoicing our privilege of earth life, enduring with courage our trials and disappointments, placing a resplendent faith in the Savior's promise of eternal life? Shall we not rise above the stones and the troubles that beset us, and greet each day even as the women of Easter lifted their radiant faces on that morning long ago from those dark hills roundabout Jerusalem? —V. P. C. At Gaster Ouida Johns Pedersen Along the dark path Mary carried spice And ointment, sweet and fragrant in her hand. Seeking to do some small service there, She sought the tomb across the morning land. Perhaps she knew, as women know, that grief May be assuaged in service, that the call Of human need can bring a sweet relief When faithful hands are busied with a task. As sunrise rimmed the hills her eyes beheld The open sepulchre. She stood in sudden fright Before the angel, yet she stayed to hear His message spoken in the growing light. From tombs of grief the stones were rolled away Eternally. To all the world was given Joy, when, trembling in amazement, Mary heard "He is not here — he is risen — he is risen!" WYotes TO THE FIELD Brigham Young University On-Campus Leadership WVoek June 4-9, 1960 — 37th Annual Festival of Learning "A LAND OF PROMISE" The welcoming doors of Brigham Young University will again open to the guests of Leadership Week June 4-9 of 1960. Each year the Relief Society members have found the events of Leadership Week most interesting, enjoyable, and of great help in their year's program. 'The General Board would like to direct the attention of the members of the Relief Society to the following classes, along with many others, which will be of great value to Relief Society women: Historical Background of Relief Society Theology Lessons Relief Society Theology Lessons — The Doctrine and Covenants Relief Society Social Science Lessons — Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Relief Society Literature Lessons — American Literature Comes of Age Teaching Helps Music Helps Audio-Visual Helps — Teaching Materials for Relief Society Storytelling, Poetry, and Dramatization Work Day Ideas — Arts and Crafts for Teachers of Adults (Including workshops) Family Nights Teaching Discipline to Healthy Children Kitchen Planning Drapery and Lampshade Construction Community Meal Service Handling the Family Income Understanding Your Child Foundations of Health in the Family Methods of Caring for the Sick in the Home Foundations of Testimony Elder Roy W. Doxey, author of the theology lessons for the coming year, will teach the course on the Doctrine and Covenants, Elder Briant S. Jacobs, author of the Relief Society literature lessons, will teach the classes in American Literature Comes of Age; Elder Blaine M. Porter, author of the social science lessons, will teach a course in Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age; and Elder Ivan J. Barrett will teach the course in the Historical Background of Relief Society Theology Lessons. Detailed programs and registration cards may be obtained by writing to or calling in at the Brigham Young University Adult Education Services in Provo, Utah. The information and teachings given at Leadership Week do not substitute for the official Relief Society instructions, but the material is most beneficial as it supplements and enhances understandings. Leadership week programs at the following times and places will be announced later: Ogden, Utah June 20-22 Salt Lake City, Utah June 27 - July 2 Southern California August 22-26 Northern California August 29-Sept. 2 Rexburg, Idaho November 9-11 Arizona December 28-31 Page 242 Lesson Previews to Appear in the Yune Yssue of She Relief Society Mlagazine THE previews for the 1960-61 lessons will appear in the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and the lessons for October will be in the July 1960 issue. In order to obtain the June issue of the Magazine, it will be necessary for renewals and new subscriptions to reach the general offices by the first of May 1960. It is suggested that Magazine representatives check their lists immediately so that all Relief Society members will receive all of the issues containing the lessons. Ward presidents, also, should make this announcement in the April meetings. <— She Widening Circle Charlotte R. Leyden Associate Director, Public Education American Cancer Society, Inc. HE widening circle made by a pebble in a lake always reaches the outer edges. If it's a large lake it takes longer than if it's a small lake. If you dropped a pebble from a boat into the center of Lake Michigan you might never witness the moment when the widening circle meets the shoreline. But you know for a fact that it will. Not all of us may live to see cancer conquered.... The concensus of scientists is that cancer will be conquered just as were other once dread diseases, such as tuberculosis, pneumonia, and polio. 'The question is no longer if, but when. There are many doctors in practice today who remember the time when there was no if about it, when the outlook for the average cancer patient was death and disaster. 'That was when a small group of men and women dropped a pebble of hope into the dark, seemingly impenetrable depths of the cancer problem. Slowly it spread into what has now become a vast life-saving network of research, service, and educational programs. Independent volunteers built the American Cancer Society as their instrumentality for achieving cancer control. The Society is a grass roots organization which belongs to its 2,000,000 volunteers, working in fifty states. They raise the funds, they set the policies, they do the chores that each year help save the lives of 165,000 men, women, and children cancer patients.... In many areas informative films for group showing. May be: obtained from local organizations of the American Cancer Society. One million living Americans cured of cancer bear witness to the success of these efforts. In April the Cancer Crusade will give you a chance to drop a pebble with a dollar sign into the widening circle of hope for every cancer patient in America.. Page 243 Recipes Siom the West Comal tates Ti lission Submitted by Anna C. Merrill HucKLeBERRY DESSERT 1 Cc. Sugar 1 c. Flour and pinch of salt 2 tbsp. Butter 3 c. Ripe huckleberries, washed 1 egg, beaten % c. Sugar, mixed with cinnamon 1 tsp. Baking powder, sifted with or nutmeg Mix in order given, stir in huckleberries. Spread in greased cake pan, 8" x 10". Sprinkle top with % cup sugar mixed with cinnamon or nutmeg. Bake 25 or 30 minutes in 400 degree oven or until brown and crusty. May be served with cream, whipped cream, or lemon butter sauce. Serves four. Berr ln Sour CREAM 3 Ibs. Lean stewing beef 2 Cc. Sour cream 3 tbsp. Fat % tsp. Oregano 5 large onions 1 tsp. Salt Cut beef in chunks suitable for serving. Roll in flour and brown in fat. Remove to baking dish. Slice onions thinly and brown in remaining fat. Add sour cream and seasonings. Cover and bake in 300° oven for 2 hours or until tender. Serves 8. Banana Drops 2% c. Flour 1 Cc. Sugar 2 tsp. Baking powder 2 eggs % tsp. Salt ¥, tsp. Vanilla % tsp. Soda 1 c. Chocolate drops or chips 26 c. Shortening 1 c. Mashed bananas Mix as for standard cookie recipe. Drop by teaspoons on greased cookie sheet. Bake at 400° for 10 to 12 minutes. Yield: 6 dozen. ButtTerRscoTcH BROWNIES ' c. Shortening % c. Flour 1 c. Brown sugar "2 tsp. Salt 2 eggs % tsp. Vanilla 1 tsp. Baking powder % c nuts Mix as for standard cookie recipe. Bake at 350° for 20 to 25 minutes in 8-inch square pan. BARBECUED VENISON Use round, T-bone, or other cut of steak. Sauce is for approximately four servings. Sauce: *% c. Catsup salt, pepper to taste 3 tbsp. Mustard (onion salt if desired) 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce % c. Water Page 244 RECIPES FROM THE WEST CENTRAL STATES MISSION 245 Combine all ingredients in the order given to make bar-b-que paste. Place meat in greased baking dish. Spread prepared paste over meat. Add small amount of water to bottom of pan to keep meat moist. Cover and bake at 350° for 1% hours or longer, depending on tenderness of meat. Add water if needed. Roast PHEASANT 1 pheasant 1 tsp. Salt 1 qt. Boiling water ¥, tsp. Pepper 3 stalks celery 4 strips bacon 1 onion 1 c. Water Clean pheasant, place in pan, and pour boiling water over bird and into cavity. Place celery and onion in bird. Do not sew up. Rub bird with salt and pepper. Place in roasting pan and place the bacon strips over breast. Add the 1 c. Of water and roast in moderate oven (350° F) uncovered for 2 hours or until tender. Wixp Duck 1 duck 3 strips bacon 1 stalk celery 2 tbsp. Bacon drippings % apple salt and pepper to taste 1 onion Clean duck and soak in strong salt water 2 or 3 hours. Remove from water and dry well. In cavity of duck place celery stalk, apple, and onion. Season outside of bird with salt and pepper. Fasten strips of bacon across the breast of bird with toothpicks. Place duck, breast side down, in uncovered roasting pan. Add bacon drippings. Roast at 375° F. Until it begins to sizzle and turn brown. Place lid on, and reduce temperature of oven to 300° F. Baste every 20 minutes and roast for 3 hours. During last half hour remove cover and turn duck so breast will brown. Dre Luxe Hor Cakes 3c. Unsifted whole-wheat flour 2 egg yolks 1 tbsp. Baking powder 1% c. Whole milk "% tsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Oil 3 tbsp. Honey 2 egg whites, beaten Combine in order given, folding in beaten egg whites last. Bake on lightly greased hot griddle. 'These are really light and tasty. Pan Cakes, CHyuck WaGON STYLE 6 slices bacon 2 ¢c. Flour ¥ c. Cooked bacon fat 4 tsp. Baking powder 2 eggs 1 tsp. Salt 2 c. Milk - "A C. Sugar Chop bacon and brown lightly: Set aside while fat cools. Sift flour, baking powder, sugar, and salt together. Beat eggs, stir in milk and cooled bacon fat. Add dry ingredients. Beat to a smooth batter. Makes about twenty 3-inch cakes. Cook on hot griddle. 246 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 Doucunuts 2 eggs, beaten "A tsp. Soda lc, sugar 1% tsp. Baking powder 2 tbsp. Oil 1 tsp. Salt 1 c. Sour milk or buttermilk 1 tsp. Nutmeg 4 c. Sifted whole-wheat flour " tsp. Cinnamon Combine beaten eggs, sugar, and oi]. Add sour milk or buttermilk and beat. Sift dry ingredients together twice and add to first mixture and beat well. Knead for " minute. Roll to %" thickness, cut, and fry in deep fat. PRUNE CAKE 1% ¢. Sugar 1 tsp. Cinnamon 2% ¢. Flour 1 tsp. Nutmeg 3 tsp. Baking powder "4 tsp. Cloves " tsp. Salt % tsp. Allspice Mix well in a large bowl, then add: 3 eggs 1 tsp. Vanilla "2 ¢. Chopped nuts " ¢. Shortening 1 c. Prunes (cooked, cooled, pitted, and add juice) Beat until smooth, about 4 minutes. Bake at 350° for 45 to 50 minutes. Easy CaraMEL Icinc 1% c. Brown sugar 2 tbsp. Butter "4 c. Top milk 1 tsp. Vanilla Mix in saucepan, bring to boil, and boil for 3 minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from heat, add vanilla, beat until thick and creamy enough to spread. Add a little cream if needed to spread. Wild Mo m ing Glo res Ethel Jacobson Colors run riot Over the plain! Here like a purple Hurricane The morning-glory Armies sweep Till we walk in glory Ankle-deep, Where a myriad tiny Trumpets blare Triumphant paeans On April air! To Die Before Thy Time Helen Bay Gibbons ARY Sheridan was smiling M as she hung up the telephone. It was easy to break that appointment, she thought. I'd better call Martha again nght away —she is so insistent, and the luncheon does sound tempting. For a moment she glanced outside at her flower bed, neat and colorful behind the billowy, white Priscilla curtains. Mary took great pride in her excellent housekeeping. She enjoyed creating for her husband and children the peace and comfort of a clean, uncluttered home. Her eyes surv eyed the shiny kitchen, and discovered in the corner a small boy's Cub Scout cap, carelessly crumpled. "Oh, dear, I forgot about Jamie's scout program this afternoon." She tapped her toe impaticntly. "Well, it isn't very important. Jamie w ill understand about the luncheon," She reassured her sinking spirits. Remembering the Cub Scout commitment really troubled Mary, for she was a conscientious person, but deliberately pushing aside her misgivings, she raised the telephone. That's when she heard the voices. Her startled senses suddenly became aware of an unexpected conversation. "Who else is coming in to sce Dr. Sterling today, Suc?" "Not too many patients. A Mrs. Mary Sheridan just called and changed her late afternoon appointment to Friday." Many blocks away, Mary listened silently, She was a very proper person who usually wouldn't dream of eavesdropping, but hearing her own name mentioned, curiosity conquered. She held the receiver quietly — straining to hear the muffled voices of her doctor's nurse and receptionist amid the background of doctor's office noiscs. Apparently no one there had noticed the telephone ajar on its cradle, and the earlier connection with Mary's line remained unbroken. "Mary Sheridan!" she heard the nurse exclaim. "Did you check with Dr. Sterling to sce if it would be all right to postpone the appointment?" "No. IJ thought it was just a routine matter. Is it important?" "T don't know for sure. Dr. Sterling had asked Mrs. Sheridan to come back today so that he could discuss with her the results of the tests we ran. Where are the lab reports?" Mary sat stiff and attentive. She heard the rustle of shuffled papers, and a comment or two that she just could not make out. Then she heard the nurse exclaim, quite clearly: ' "Oh, dear. This is a bad one!" 'What do you mean?" "Tm not an expert at assessing lab reports, but see what it says: 'evidence of widespread malignancy.' It's sad when a case like this occurs. I don't envy Dr. Sterling. Of course, he'll check and double-check, run more tests, and do all that he can, but when his efforts fail, he must face the patient. It must be terribly difficult to tell a woman that she has only a few months left to live." Page 247 248 MakY felt a heavy agony begin to grow inside her. "Only a few months Icft to live." Her shocked mind repeated the phrase over and over. Its chilling force paralyzed her muscles and she sat with the telephone frozen in her grip, totally unconscious of the click of the other receiver, and the buzz of the dial tone. "Tt isn't true — I don't believe it," Mary cried aloud at last. But even as her ears heard the words, she realized that she did, too, believe it. A fear of just this sort of thing had taken her to Dr. Sterling's office in the first place. She put down the telephone, buried her face in her arm and wept. She cried only a short time, however, for Mary Sheridan had never been inclined to hide from reality. Always, when something went wrong, or when something had to be done, she had gone to work with a kind of aggressive energy to resolve her problems. Now that the first force of the shock was receding a bit, her mind probed urgently inward, and she began dispassionately examining her own soul. What was to be done? She tried to weigh her strengths and weaknesses just as she might have inspected the items in her daughter's back-to-school wardrobe. "Here I am," she finally admitted to herself, "just another middle-aged matron with a somewhat dusty mind and well-polished furniture. I have carefully cultivated my flower garden, and neglected my character. I live with my drab spirit in a lovely, cheerful house." "How did it happen?" she kept asking herself. "Dear, generous Dan works overtime to buy the things I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 want, and we are all too busy to have much time together. Oh, Januc and Louise, how I've neglected you." It did not take long for Mary to realize that there was much to do. And being very conscientious, she wiped away her tears, rose to her feet, and began to rearrange her way of life. We OK ON OK 'SNTOW, boys," said the den mother, Mrs. Whitney, "will you please stand, one at a time, and introduce your guests. Mothers, welcome to our Cub Scout party." Mary Sheridan sat very straight in her chair, resisting the urge to hug Jamie and his scrubbed freckles. No need to embarrass him in front of his friends. There was a certain manliness about him, but Mary could still see in him the baby son She had held in her arms such a short time ago. A big grin kept popping out all over his face, and his head bobbed around excitedly. He was so lovably like Dan, big, exuberant, and perpetually in motion. As Mary glanced at Jamie, she remembered uncomfortably the snowman they had not had time to make, the hike in the canyon that would have made them too dirty, and the noisy friends that were too unruly to invite into the house. "Boy, that was a real neat party, wasn't it, Mom!" Jamie burst out on the way home. "Yes, it was, son, and I'm glad you invited me." As usual, Louise burst into the house breathlessly. "Mom, the kids are waiting outside for me. May I go over to Janet's rumpus room. She has some dreamy new records." "Hi, honey,' Mary answered TO DIE BEFORE THY TIME breezily, "run along, but be home in time for dinner. Why don't you get the crowd together here for a platter party sometime soon? We could roll back the rugs and dance, if you like." Louise had an expression on her face like Christmas morning, as she dashed out. Mary's face looked lit up, also. Perhaps it was the reflection of the afternoon sun. WHEN Dan saw the living room, his concern was very evident. "Mary, what's happened to your expensive new love seat that was delivered yesterday?" Mary's smile was warm and affectionate. "I sent it back to the store and cancelled the order for the other pieces. Here is the refund check." "But, honey," her bewildered husband frowned, "I thought you liked the new furniture." "Oh, this old couch is much more comfortable," his wife reassured him, "and besides, we need lots of things more than a new love scat— like dinner now, for instance. Later, let's hold a family council. I've a few suggestions — about taking a hike Saturday instead of working in the yard. This beautiful weather is too good to waste." Dan still looked puzzled, but smiling at the aroma of steak and onions, and patting the refund check in his pocket, he accepted the new atmosphere uncomplainingly. Later that night, lying awake in the moon-drenched bedroom, Mary drank in deeply of the refreshing air of evening, and watched the familiar face of her husband relax into sleep. She knew that Dan had _ sensed something was different, but Mary 249 had made it safely through without revealing her secret. Wonderful Dan — always so kind and good. She remembered the day they married, promising cach other, "We'll make our lives really mean something." Hungrily, her eyes took in every beloved detail of her husband's appearance — his _ broad, muscled shoulders and _ strong, square hands, the funny wrinkles. Around his eyes. "It's almost too late, Dan," she whispered, "almost, but not quite." She fell asleep thinking of the freckled grin of a small boy, and the joy in a teen-aged daughter's lovely eyes. HAT was the way the days. Passed until Friday. The children hurried home from school to: a mother with time to welcome and listen to them. Dan, refreshed by the thought of the sizable refund check deposited in the bank, seemed more relaxed and secure. He seemed to find more time to spend with his family. Mary, marking and savoring every hour as it passed, knew that she must go on Friday to see Dr. Sterling and hear from him what amounted to her death sentence — the penalty which disease: had placed upon her. "Dr. Sterling will see you now, Mrs. Sheridan." 'The nurse's voice, clipped and formal, sounded strangely like doom to Mary. She shuddered slightly, but squared her shoulders as she walked down the hallway. Dr. Sterling was examining a paper as she came in. It was the lab report, no doubt. At least, it would be a relief to know just what 250 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 she might expect. In any case, ready know what is on the lab reMary thought, PH appreciate the port." days that remain. "Well, Mrs. Sheridan," Dr. Ster- "Mrs. Sheridan,' Dr. Sterling ling smiled as he spoke, "you greeted her cordially, rising and exobviously overheard the wrong lab tending his hand. "How are you report. You are the fortunate one today? Won't you be seated." — another of my patients is not so "Please don't think me abrupt, blessed with good health. All that Doctor," Mary said, sitting nervouswe must do now is make a date for ly on the edge of the chair, "but I taking care of that tumor." am anxious to know the truth." on "Well, that will be easy. We find The afternoon sunshine was brilonly a small benign tumor, easy to liant in its happy blue sky. 'The remove. Otherwise, you are in fine flowers smiled gaily. Mary missed heaith." nothing of the sights and sounds of Mary looked at him suspiciously, the city streets, the earth, the sky struggling to hide the quaver in her and the people around her as she voice, "Please don't be afraid to tell hurricd home to continue her newme what you really found. You planned life with her husband and see, I overheard your nurse. I alchildren. <> Mlasterpiece Viola Quinn Willmore Blushing pink, fluffy white, and cerulean blue, Orange, mauve, and cerise in Joud or muted hue; Purple, gray, and harvest gold— What artist dares to paint so bold? And yet in the evening to the West there lies This panorama in Dakota skies. —< Cosmetics for Grandma Esther H. Lamb WHE day had been long, warm, and work-laden. I sat, grateful for a moment on the cool stone of the front porch, glad for the sound barrier the house provided between me and the half dozen lusty-voiced grandchildren playing on the back lawn. All day they had performed like monkeys on strings, each set in motion by his own animated need for action. "T am weary to the bone" I told myself. I would be glad when night folded them in its quietness. Suddenly the back yard war changed its battlefield. All the generals hurled their forces past me in frenzicd pursuit of imaginary foes. Five-year-old Scott, the wildest lieutenant ever to go into action, broke ranks, leaned toward me and pressed swect lips briefly against my cheek, and charged away. He never guessed the tingling wave of renewal that his caress had spread across my face, to lodge with restfulness in my heart. Planters for the ano Eva Willes Wangsgaard NE of the surest ways to increase the outdoorsy fecling of the patio and tie it to the garden is by means of planters. So containers become of basic interest — what size, what shape, where and how to obtain them? I made mine and collected Onental kegs to add to them. 'The Japanese grocers import native foods for their customers. Soy bean sauce, pickled plums, etc. Arrive in wooden kegs of a delightfully artistic design. They are made of hardwood staves with bamboo rounds. Removing the paper labels, sanding off the print, and applying a coat of spar varnish is a very small task, and you have a beautiful jardiniere, or with a brace and bit, you can bore drainage holes and have a practical planter that will enhance the beauty of any arrangement. Since the kegs are made of wood, if they are used as jardinieres, they need periodic soaking to prevent shrinkage and falling apart. But as planters, the watering of the plants keeps the staves moist and tight. The goods boxes which carry the canned goods in from the Orient are another source of planter material. These may be obtained through the Japanese grocers for a few cents each. They take redwood stain well, and, being hardwood, make particularly serviceable containers. One box sawed in half lengthwise will make two planters. The lids provide the material for filling in the open side. If the lids are not available, two boxes will make three planters 7" x 10" x 20", which may be finished in two shapes — depending on whether you use the 7" side for the bottom or the 10" side. This is determined Page 251 252 by the space it has to fit, and also, by what the intended planting is. The shallow, wider box is a_satisfactory petunia and shallow-rooted plant container. The deeper box serves well for geraniums and coleus plants. In making containers of wood, one must keep in mind the fact that wood swells when wet and may warp out of shape. This warping is controlled by binding the bottom and sides around both end pieces with strips of metal. For this one can use the metal strips that come off peat moss bails and similar sources, but, usually, I use brass weather-stripping because it is just as binding and is ornamental as well. When inch-wide stripping was all I could purchase, I split it lengthwise with the garden shears with little resistance. An additional binding around the middle with full-width weather-stripping makes a good decoration. NOTHER source of material is the redwood pieces discarded RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 in the kindling piles at the local lumber yards. Also, it pays to buy redwood by the foot and make your own designs, because in that way you can fit the size and shape of the planter to your requirements. I had mine cut to measure at the planing mill and put them together with small finishing nails. 'The least expensive material is the unfinished redwood used for basketweave fences. It has a pleasing, rough texture. For other spots you might prefer the finished redwood. You can buy it in a number of widths and thicknesses, and, cut to measure, the finishing of the boxes is a simple, pleasant job. Except for the kegs, most planters, of whatever wood they are made, look better and give longer service if they are given two coats of redwood finish '"'three-in-one," which stains, seals, and waxes in one application. My patio contains two house windows. I leveled my sills with a piece of 2" x 8" redwood beveled on the underside to fit the slope and PLANTERS FOR THE PATIO secured to the widowframe with angle braces. Around this slab, and protruding one half-inch above the surface, I nailed a wide strip of weather-stripping which serves as a lip to prevent slipping of window boxes and as an ornament. Window boxes timmed with redwood bark and planted with Madeira vines make a picture of the windows and soften the severity of the firebrick walls. Carrying out the theme in the garden, the fifteen-feet circle, which is my iris garden, is only foliage from June on. To fill this space with color, depth, and_ interest, planters and stands proved an aesthetic answer. Large boxes 10" x 10" x 27" filled with Maytime petunias, and resting on iron stands, backed by taller merchandise-display stands, loaded with tiers of planters filled with Pink Wizard petunias, which carried out both depth and height to the color picture, carry summer color out, up, and back to the background of Persian lilacs. A nail keg, cut wide at the mouth and bearing a rich redwood coat, holds a_ growing bouquet of dwarf dahlias and fills the center spot. Each year teaches me a little more about color effects and timing, but I key my whole garden color scheme to the phlox which, in this locality, are at their height in 253 patio season. A planting of City of Portland (melon pink) cannas is lovely in an Oriental keg with lower-growing related plants such as chin-cher-chin-chee or gladioli blooming around them. The small boxes that fit the flower cart are made of cut-to-measure finished redwood and _ planted with coleus, geraniums, and fibrous begonias. To keep planters off the floor and allow drainage, which is provided for by bored holes, I use rubberheaded furniture protector pins or rubber caster cups nailed on upside down. Planters frequently need moving for convenience or for obtaining sun and shade as required for plant growth. This chore is made simple by use of a few homemade dollies. One wide board cut the proper length for fitting the planter, reenforced by a cross piece at either end, is made mobile by screwing casters to the cross pieces, one in each corner. If no wide wood is available, the crosspieces make it easy to hold narrower lumber together. Homemade dollies have two advantages over commercial ones, they cost less and can be made to fit the need. The casters of the type that screw to the bottom of things can be bought at most hardware stores for a reasonable price. Shitteen Don ts in Sewing for a Best-Dressed You Wilma M. Rich OU always look as if you had stepped straight from the pages of Vogue!" my neighbor reflected aloud one day. "How do you do it?" "By sewing all my own clothes," I answered simply. With a wail close to tears, she asked, "But how? I sew, too, but I come closer to looking as if I've splurged at a third-rate rummage sale instead. What makes the difference?" What does make the difference? Expensive materials? Four hundred dollar sewing machines? Extensive sewing courses? Or just taking a few specific pains and double checking? Speaking from experience, I've discovered that good quality materiai and a smooth-running machine do help, as do hours of experience and learning; but the big thing that makes the big difference is learning to eliminate a few simple mistakes. Mistakes most often made by beginners as well as experienced seamstresses can be wiped quickly and easily from the slate and thus save frustrated tears and chucked away, half-finished clothes. But how? Well, to explain easily, let me list the "don'ts" to watch out for and leave the "do's" to the pattern you choose to create with. First of all, T'll generalize with one tremendous don't that briefly overheads all smaller ones: Don't shortcut! The others follow and are all of importance. Page 254 1. Don't begin your article until you are completely familiar with your pattern, material, and sewing machine. If you do, it is like putting your confidence in numerous, strange business partners. 2. Don't underestimate the value of markings on your pattern pieces. Use them to full advantage. Having a dot or a broken line to follow may save many precious moments and stitches. 3. Don't choose at random the kind of seam for your garment. Investigate types of seams for different types of clothing and complement your article with the best seam possible. 4. Don't fecd material under the needle too fast and turn out faulty, uneven seams. Anyone can sew fast, but only an expert can sew straight. 5. Don't leave seams unfinished or depend entirely upon pinking shears for finishing seams. Leaving a seam unfinished is like leaving a cake un-iced, and pinked edges are only effective on certain materials. All materials fray; only finished seams keep unruly threads intact. 6. Don't neglect to clip curves and trim seams when the pattern calls for it. Carelessness may produce puckers and humps and look very unattractive. 7. Don't fight "the battle of the bulge." If bulges crop up in obvious profusion, don't try to push or pry them out, the result may be hazardous. Get to the base of the problem and work it out deftly from where the bulge begins. 8. Don't cover one mistake with another. Two wrongs don't make a right. Undo the first and the second will take care of itself. G. Don't scowl at and skip around the word "'baste'" on a guide sheet. It is put there for your benefit and will simplify your job immensely. Take the extra time that says you care. THIRTEEN DONT'S IN SEWING FOR A BEST-DRESSED YOU 255 10. Don't tack by machine in conspicu- 13. Above all, don't sew under stress. Ous places. It may spare you a moment, An hour of mistakes may be avoided by a but will cost you that fashion-lovely look — twenty-mimute relaxation break. You desire. 11. Don't pull gathers haphazardly. The To sum up: tiny gathers determine the graceful curve Don't take your sewing for grantof a sleeve and the full, flaring drape of ed. 'Take time, use care, and be a skirt. Make them precise. Tolerant and patient. You'll discover a whole new world of delight ahead 12. Don't finger-press. Use an iron so Saab; your seams, pleats, tabs, and plackets will and an exquisite, fashion-fancy, new lie flat and even. You. ' Untold Pronvise Vesta N. Fairbairn Like an opening flower, Like morning's dawnlight hour, Like the unread page, Like spring's first breath of sage, Like untried chords and tone Of a song, unsung, unknown, Like mystery of earth Is each year's joyous birth. Mloontight Celia Luce qpee night was a gusty one, with the sky almost covered with clouds. The moon sailed behind the clouds, sending its light in a great glowing circle where the clouds were thin, and peeking through tiny holes in the thicker clouds. 1 watched with delight, but feared the display was about at an end. Ahead of the moon was a dark cloud that looked as though it was so deep and black there would be never a hole for the beauty of the moon to shine through. The moon crept on behind the dark cloud, but her radiance kept finding thin places and holes, and she went shining on. The cloud which had looked black and forbidding was made golden and beautiful by the moon's presence. There are times when life looks like the dark cloud. There doesn't seem to be anything ahead but the deepest of gloom. Then the wise person turns to the Lord in prayer. The light of God will shine through the gloom and scatter beauty over the path ahead. The light of the moon may not be fully appreciated on clear nights; but a few clouds spread the glow and add immeasurably to the beauty. We turn to God for help when the way ahead looks dark, and our lives are richer, more beautiful, for the clouds of sorrow we have seen. Do J £ You rself Joy Hulme HE do-it-yourself urge with me is like yeast. Hidden away in my being somewhere are the tiny spores waiting for the proper frame of mind to nourish them. When a spark of thought warms them, and they are fed the sweet sugar of ambition, they begin to ferment and grow within me until I am filled with a bubbling effervescence for action. My husband Bill has choked down sandwiches for dinner many a time while he suffered through the worst and hoped for the better. My children have learned to make their own beds or open a can of soup for lunch in case of emergency. (Iémergency has a very liberal meaning at our house.) But the person who has needed the most understanding is my mother-in-law. Some supersensitive instrument must have been built into Bill's mother for her to detect when the yeast has come to a head, that she can always pick the day of my latest project to "drop in." It is almost as uncanny that I cannot predict her visits. I have not yet figured out what pattern they make on her closely followed schedule of things to do. I can predict a week, a month, or even ten years in advance that come Monday morning, she will wash. Tuesday, rain, shine, or hurricane, she will have the ironing finished by ten o'clock. So it goes. She has a time for everything. She never has spring or fall housecleaning as I do, when everything is turned excitedly upside down for two weeks and finally settled comfortably, Page 256 cleanly back. Each day she does some of those extra cleaning chores. She would never say on a fine spring Monday, "I think I'll just sit under the apricot tree and drink in the deliciousness of the air." I could. And, likely as not after studying the pleasing shape and arrangement of blossoms on the apricot bough, I would think, wouldn't that make a nice design for an etched aluminum tray? I'd make a circle of my fingers and, looking through it with one eye closed, move it closer and farther away from the flowerladen twig, until I had determined the placement of the spray in the design I was already forming in my Std I really should make something for Mary Jean Thomas' wedding, I would think. And the bubbling was started in my brain. By afternoon I would be deep into the project. The dishes would still be in the sink and the floor littered with not quite perfect patterns that lay where I had dropped them in my zest to make a better onc. My fingernails would be black with asphaltum, but on the tray the design would be painted in neat clean lines. About the time I would hold it up to admire the freshness of spring I had caught, Bill's mother would ring the bell, and I'm sorry to say, she would not catch any freshness of spring, but rather the choke of turpentine, as she came through the door. HE truth is I wanted to feel that way myself. My mother-in-law was everything I'd like to have been — calm, cool, collected. I yearned DO IT YOURSELF to be the competent master of my fate that she was.. But efficiency was a conservative garment I wore only occasionally. I still kept it well pressed, hanging in the closet to shp on at a moment's notice, hoping for the chance to appear casually clad in it when my mother-in-law arrived; but I never had time to get it on. Last spring I thought I was cured forever and ever of the do-it-yourself business. It started one morning as I lay in bed and saw a cobweb hanging from the ceiling. I looked around for more and noticed, not for the first time, the streaked green color of the walls and the dark spots by the light switch. "This room needs painting," I said. "Uh huh," agreed Bill who was always affable when he wasn't quite awake. The idea was only a vague thought. I could turn away from it. Sometime later I got to the mental game of choosing a color scheme, and the day I saw the paint sale at the hardware store, I knew there was no turning back. I don't like to paint at all, really, so the thought was in my mind to have Bill do it, although his uncooperative idea about all do-it-yourself projects was that they cost nearly as much as a professional job by the time you had bought the tools; that they didn't look so well; and besides (and mostly) that they were too much work. I didn't ever really expect Bill to do it, but just mentioning it was part of the process. Sometimes it took a good deal of impatience to get the yeast-like action going. After several days of hinting, I 257 finally said, "When are you going to paint the bedroom?" "You're not expecting me to do it, are you?" he asked. That settled that. Still I had had to eliminate the possibility that he might do it because I didn't want to, either. After that I took to measuring the room with my eye and approximately the number of strokes with the roller it would take to do each wall. I assembled the tools and materials needed so nothing would slow me down once I got that urge to get the job done. Still no urge. The yeast was getting old. It was one Monday morning, after a particularly peaceful week end, that my eyes swept the room with a new speed. The size of the walls diminished under my gaze, and the length of my arm sweep and the width of the paint roller were exaggerated by my _ exuberance. And today was Monday. Bill's mother would be too busy with her washing to catch me in a mess. "I think I'll just paint this room today," I said. "Uh huh," mumbled Bill and rolled out of bed. Just paint this room today, indeed! That proved to be the understatement of the century. I started to pull up the covers on the bed but threw them back instead. Might just as well have clean sheets, too. I'd just toss them in the washer. As soon as Bill had gone to work and the older children were off to school, I stacked the dishes and started the painting. If only a roller or brush could sweep down a wall as fast as the eye thinks it can! I had failed to con- 258 sider the rough finish of the plaster. It took a great deal of pressure on the roller to force the paint into the recesses of the wall. Before long I was puffing with the effort. I paused and looked back to admire the spot I had finished. The thirsty plaster was drinking in the paint like a blotter. Instead of the clean oyster-white I had in mind, the spot was a dingy, pale, seasick green. Feeling a pale, seasick green myself, I turned back to my task with more determination but less enthusiasm. I'd have to hurry to get two coats done before Bill came home and saw that bilious color. Vour-year-old Wayne appeared in the doorway. "Whyn't you give me 'prize?" he asked. "An' not a kiss." "I don't have any surprises," I said, stretching to reach a little farther on the ceiling. "Run outside now and play in the sand pile." Finally, by staring him down, he said, "Okay," and the door slammed. By mid-morning my_ shoulders ached from pushing, and my neck was stiff from holding my head tipped back to look at the ceiling. I remembered the sheets in the washer and went to hang them out. Then the overflowing hamper of soiled clothes demanded attention. When I had put down my paint roller to hang clothes for the sixth time, I looked at the clock. Patty would be home from school any minute and could play with Wayne when he woke up from his nap. In another blessed hour Edward would be home from his paper route. He could help me with the second coat. I'd tried a swipe where the paint had already dried and it was the gleaming, clean color of an oyster shell. My spirits had revived somewhat, but I had given up on RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 my time schedule. The woodwork would have to wait until tomorrow. Edward came in about four o'clock with his face looking like a storm cloud. "Finished your route alrcady?" "No, I haven't started it. My bike won't work." "What's the matter with it?" "The fender drags on the wheel." "Can you fix it?" "I just have to tighten up a screw." "Go tighten it then. The fuss about?" "T can't reach the screw without taking the wheel off. Tl need a little help." Edward and I have an _ unexpressed understanding between us. I will give him help when he needs it, and he will do the same for me. It is very fine to have a son like that. We had the wheel off his bicycle and the guilty screw tightened in a few moments, but couldn't get the axle nut tightened after we replaced the wheel. After working for half an hour, we discovered the threads were stripped. We were rummaging in the odds-and-ends box looking for a new part when the phone rang. It was Mr. McCloud wanting to know why his paper hadn't been delivered yet. "Get in the car," I said to Edward. "Pll take you around your route." I called to Patty to wash the breakfast dishes and set the table for supper while she watched Wayne. "All right," she said. Patty is a delightful child. "Please help me with my arithmetic, when you get back," she called. What's all HAT night when Bill and I crunched our way to bed across DO IT YOURSELF the newspaper-strewn floor, he said, "We should have hired John Olson to paint this room." "We couldn't afford it,' I reminded him. He acted as if I'd reduced the resale value of the house at least five hundred dollars by doing the job myself, and we couldn't afford that either. "It will look better with a second coat," I assured him, pointing to the spot I'd gone over twice. "T hope so." He sounded dubious as he turned out the light. The next day I painted with the greatest care. I went over every spot until not a speck of green was showing. The enamel on the woodwork was brushed and brushed and not a drop allowed to run. I painted around the window glass with a meticulousness unheard of by professional painters. This took a good deal of time, however, and by afternoon I could see I wouldn't finish this day either. I sank wearily into a chair. I felt the enthusiasm escape from me in tired little puffs. This time the yeast had risen too high. 'Tomorrow I would start being efficient like Bill's mother. I'd make a schedule and Icave no time on it for my crazy schemes. Tomorrow when the painting was finished, that is. I picked up a paper and pencil and made a few notes: Monday, wash; Tuesday, iron. I may be slow to get started, but at least I'm not a quitter, and the next morning I was at my task early. 'This was very much to my credit, for the air outside was like bubbling gingerale—sparkling, cool, inviting. Bill's enthusiastic "Not bad. Not bad, at all," when he saw 259 the room, had given my spirits the lift they needed. I marveled at my luck that my mother-in-law hadn't caught me in the worst of all messes. No sooner had this thought crossed my mind than a car crossed the intersection and drove to a stop in front of the house — her car. I quickly wiped the paint from my arms, peeled off my dirty clothes, and slipped on a clean dress. I sprayed air freshener in a thick choking fog to dissipate the paint odor and shut the bedroom door. WHEN the bell rang for the secone time, I called, "Come in," from the kitchen where I'd started to wash breakfast dishes. I had to look twice to make sure it was Bill's mother. No crisp gingham today. She was wearing an old skirt, and one of Dad's faded shirts. My mouth was so busy being open she was the first to speak. "I came to help you," she said, "with the painting." She should have been a detective. I thought my quick camouflage had been complete. "How did you know?" "T heard from Bill and I see paint on your nose," she said simply. "Where's a brush?" "But today is your day to clean the linen closet." I had memorized her schedule by now. "Forget the linen closet. Who will know a hundred years from now if I cleaned it today or not?" "Mother, sit down. Do you feel all right?" "IT haven't felt better for thirtyfive years." 260 "Will you explain what's happened to you?" "Nothing happened to me. 1 happened to it. Emancipation ProcJamation." I decided I'd better humor her. I was afraid something had snapped in her well-disciplined mind. "What did freeing the slaves have to do with you?" I asked. "I have just freed myself from being a slave — a slave to my house, to my work. But, mostly, to my schedule. I burned it." "Burned your schedule?" "Yes, I wanted to be like you. Master of my fate." "But 'm not master of my fate at all. You're the one...." "Oh, yes, you are," she said. "Tf you want to do something, you do it. 'm always wanting to come over to see what new and exciting things you are doing." The new, exciting things she was talking about rushed in a quick procession through my mind — the etched trays, the ceramic figurines, the floats for the children's parades, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 raisins drying in the sun, copper tooling, mosaics, piecing quilts. The line was long. It had been fun. "You've taught your children to do all sorts of things," she went on. "You are never too busy to help them learn." I hadn't really taught them, just let them work with me. They were so eager, and their small fingers responded skillfully. It was true they had learned to do many things both to help and for fun. I crumpled the paper | had started writing my schedule on last night, and dropped it in the waste basket on my way to the bedroom. "Let's hurry and finish the painting," I said, "and then how would you like to ride up the canyon and take a picnic?" "T'd jove to," Mother answered. "We could get some river stones so I can get started on that rock garden I've wanted so long." One thing I didn't know about do-it-yourself until then. It's contagious. Claim Maude Rubin I claimed this garden plot for mine... From desert earth I'd made it, Planted every rose and tree, Harbored bird and humming bee, Hoarded seed and gently laid it In the furrow — powdered fine Was every clod of dry adobe. But now these flowers so full of wonder, These drums of hail, these shouts of thunder, Tear my flimsy claim asunder... God's — the seed, the storm, the tree, God's — the garden, lent to me! Christening the Tlew Carriage Lula Walker T was an ecstatic moment when I first saw our new carriage that lovely summer morning in 1905. No sleek-lined Cadillac could ever thrill me as did that carriage, its satiny smoothness gleaming in_ beautiful newness — a marked contrast to our weather-worn old spring wagon. The carriage was a complete surprise. Only the night before papa had smuggled it into the shed, then driven it out next morning at the strategic moment when we were ready to go visiting. For years we had longed for a carriage. Now we had one, with a wonderful glossy top to shelter us from both sun and rain. No more aching arms from holding parasols. And those intriguing little glass boxes up in front held real kerosene lamps. Fancy driving along a dark road with carriage lights gleaming like a couple of giant fireflies! Papa had perfectly timed the new purchase with our long-planned visit to the Wright family who lived on a distant farm in the "Eagle" neighborhood. Proudly we climbed in, Papa and Mamma in the front seat, we children in the back. Off we went behind Major and Ribbon, our faststepping sorrels. 'The carriage rode marvelously. It was like skimming along on air compared to our clumsy spring wagon. Everywhere was lush summer greenness—rolling meadows, fields of knee-high corn, and great clumps of wild roses dotting the roadside. In spite of our urging him to go fast, Papa drove slowly, saving the horses, he said. Poking along was not in keeping with a handsome new carriage, when we knew our team could pass any other on the road. Not till we reached the National Trail did Papa "let out the ponies." 'This was the best road in the country, graded and dragged to almost boulevard smoothness by the enterprising Eagle farmers. But there was another reason for Papa's increased speed. 'This fine road was attracting those newfangled automobiles. Just as well get out of danger as soon as possible, Papa said. The possibility of mecting one of the machines put a slight damper on our high spirits. We were fearful as to how Major and Ribbon might react to their first sight of an automobile. Terrible stories were told of what sometimes happened when horses saw automobiles. 'There had been runaways and even people killed. Women seldom drove on the road any more. A man's grip on the reins was needed if one of those nefarious machines was encountered. LERT to danger, we kept close watch on the road back of us. Suddenly, my heart stood still, but I managed to gasp, "There comes one!" No need to say what. Papa urged the team ahead, while the rest of us concentrated on that brassy-eyed monster. If only we could reach the safe haven of Mr. Wright's barnlot before it caught up with us! The horses' hoofs clicked faster Page 261 262 and faster, but what horse could match a machine that raced at the reckless speed of twenty miles an hour? It was gaining on us! No doubt about it. The horses' ears were up. They had scented the acrid smoke of that fearful machine. Mr. Wright's red barn loomed ahead. We might make it if the gates were open. With the sprawling hedge, we couldn't tell. Closer and closer came the wheezing monster. "Hurry, hurry!" we warned Papa. A tickle of the whip, and the team broke into a gallop. Just ahead, a man was wildly waving his arm in the direction of the gate. 'Thank goodness it was open! Mr. Wright's firm hand gripped Ribbon's bridle as the brasstrimmed machine went snorting by. The horses stood panting with heaving sides, but we and our new carTiage were safe. We hadn't realized how common the gas buggies had become. Before the day was over, a half dozen went whizzing by. And each time we children raced to the front gate for a close-up of this fascinating machine. With their curiosity under better control, the grownups took their vantage point on the front porch. Almost as queer looking as the automobiles themselves were the occupants — men in funny black goggles, women with long fluttering veils, and both men and women wearing long coats that Mrs. Wright said were "dusters." Conversation that day didn't fall into the usual pattern of "man talk" and "woman talk." In the parlor Mr. Wright and Papa made desultory attempts to discuss crops. But it was hard to concentrate on corn when any minute they might have RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 to dash to the porch to see how the passing model differed from the one that went by an hour ago. Both Papa and Mr. Wright were agreed that automobiles were a menace. Vermont might have the right idea, they said, in passing a law that forbade driving an automobile on a public road unless a man walked several hundred feet ahead to give warning. But Mr. Wright admitted a few Eagle farmers were getting "the bug." His neighbor, Ed Matson, had just bought one. Foolish, of course. He wouldn't think of it himself. Oh, maybe in a year or two, if crops were good.... But Mr. Wright's conclusion was cut short by a raucous honk that sent both men scurrying to the porch. HE topic of automobiles had also invaded the kitchen. As she whipped the potatoes, Mrs. Wright kept up a sprightly flow of chatter about the Matsons and their new automobile. Dropping her voice to a whisper, she confided to Mamma that she was worried... Worried about her husband who was showing strong symptoms of "automobile fever." He was a good man, but men were men, and you couldn't tell.... "Come on, you women," boomed Mr. Wright from the parlor, "or you'll miss this one." Mrs. Wright dropped the potato masher, and with Mamma rushed to the porch. We could hardly bear to leave that exciting spot. We took a back road home, since Papa decided the longest way round might be the safest. Jouncing over this littletraveled road, our new carriage didn't ride quite so smoothly, but CHRISTENING THE NEW CARRIAGE we children chattered excitedly about those whizzing automobiles we had seen. Would we ever, ever ride in one, or wear one of those glamorous veils, we wondered? Papa might have been wondering a little, too. He held the reins 263 loosely, looking straight ahead with no comments on the corn we passed. Only now and then he'd speak, and when he did, it was to say something about automobiles. As _ yet, our new car was only a gleam in his eye, but the gleam was there. She Old Red Couch Helen B. Morris sat in the platform rocker staring at my old red couch. It wasn't really red any more — just the color that is left after many seasons of sun have subtracted the intense hues of newness. Varied lengths of faded strings dangled from the worn right arm, and an inch of heavy white cord pointed in my direction. It was a big, awkward intruder standing boldly against the new gray-green wall. Sadly, I realized it would continue to be the "chief seat" in our house for many seasons yet. But, then, it would surely have to go. This last thought stirred some idle corners in my mind. As I looked at the couch again, a vision of memories played before the eyes of my imagination. It magically melted my scorn and transformed it into a kind of affection. 'Then I knew that to cast it away without a thought of thanks would be slightly akin to retiring a loyal servant to penniless idleness. I suddenly remembered the bleak day four Januarys before when my three-year-old lay weak and _feverish. He was sicker than I had ever seen him. His pale, thin face made his heavy eyes look large and sad. I put a pillow and a blanket on the old red couch, and he lay there waiting for the doctor to arrive. That evening he sat up, turned to me and asked, "Mommy, who is it that makes little boys well?" "The doctor?" I guessed. "Yes, Mommy, but who else makes boys well?" he persisted, and without waiting for my answer, "It's Jesus that makes boys well, Mom- » my. At least seven different pairs of Relief Society visiting teachers have been asked to sit down on that old red couch. As they have sat there they have brought cheer and beautiful messages of gospel hope into our home. Any number of insurance, magazine, food-plan, awning, book, soft water, and brush salesmen have spent persuasive, fruitless hours sitting there with wares we may have wanted, but would have to wait a while longer to afford. Then into my mind flashed a picture of our family of four sitting side by side on the old red couch. There we have sat to begin our family hours — with all their successes and failures. Here three of us sat while we waited for the fiveyear-old to summon enough courage to give the talk he had composed for this special purpose. 264 I remembered his child voice saying, "I believe in Heavenly Father. I believe that the gospel is true. I pray to Heavenly Father when I should. When Jesus and his disciples went out fishing, the sea was 'furious, and Jesus said, 'Peace be still, and the sea was calm. I love my brother and my parents...." O many times we have invited our bishop and his counselors to sit down on the old red couch. Then we have steadied ourselves, wondering if their tidings might be a new challenge somewhere in the upbuilding of the kingdom. And surprising as such requests have been, or how far above us the task may have seemed, any bread cast upon the water has always returned a thousand fold. The old red couch has provided a seat for a representative from at least seven different classes of shy, twelve-year-old boys who have come faithfully on Fast Sunday morning carrying with them a stiff brown envelope. Then I remembered sitting there one late September evening. The head of our house came home later than usual from a Saturday night Priesthood meeting. I sat there while he told me he was the new member of the stake high council. Since then I have sat there waiting for him many long and lonely evenings, but there we have also sat when he returned and we have discussed issues great and small. From this spot, I realized, had come most of our hopes and plans. It had been the setting of many of our deepest confidences. Faces of friends old and new passed before my meinory as I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 thought of the people who had sat on the old red couch. I remembered the wonderful, welcome friends who came to strengthen us in Our moments of sorrow, and to share with us our times of joy. My reminiscing mind saw two tiny babies napping on the old red couch. It saw two little boys clinging to its edge as they learned to walk. And as they grew, their keen imaginations transformed its arms into horses, its cushions into boats, and its back to the tallest building in the world. And temporarily, it has been known to become a tumbling mat, a slippery slide, and even a trampoline. I remembered sacred moments when lying there ill I have felt the power of the Priesthood give me needed strength and felt great gratitude for the presence of the Priesthood in our home. We all went to the old red couch when we first sat down together as a family of five, and we opened a little white blanket to introduce a heaven-sent baby daughter to her two excited, noisy brothers. It was there we all said a silent, humble thanks for this gift of life. Remembering, a little of the color seemed magically restored to the faded red upholstery. The desire to send it to obscurity had lost its urgency. There it stood, meaning many things to a family — a boat, a cradle, seat of honor, and even a spare bedroom for grandpas and grandmas when they came to spend the night. Still, in time, the old red couch will have to go. But not to be discarded — just tucked away. It was the remembering that changed it from an enemy to a real trusted friend. Pa th ways Evelyn Cox B the early dawn I walked across a meadow. The air was cool with a fresh, earthy fragrance. Birds chirped and called from near by willow and poplar trees. From the indigo blue of the sky to the green carpet of grass I felt the world was beautiful; it was good to be alive. I enjoyed this habit of walking and looking and listening in the early hours after dawn. My steps left slight imprint upon the grass as I passed by. And then I crossed a path. Many footsteps had worn away the tender green blades of grass. Even the roots had long since been trampled and destroyed; the earth was worn down and deeply rutted. I stopped and thought, how like a pathway are the habits we form. Most acts, whether good or bad, do not leave too deep an impression when they are committed once. However, cach repctition givcs a deeper impression, and we have made a path upon which we travel, up or down, whichever the pathway leads. F Applesauce Bread Myrtle Ainsworth 1 pkg. Yeast( either fresh or dry) 1 c. Cracked wheat (dissolved in 14 cups warm water) % Cc. Sugar 1 c. Applesauce (sweetened or un- 1 tsp. Salt sweetened, as desired) % c. Shortening lc. Dry milk 5-6 c. White flour Mix all of the ingredients together, except the white flour. Then add two cups of white flour and stir well. Let the mixture stand in a warm place to rise (from one to two hours). Then add the remainder of the flour, enough to make a soft dough. This requirement will depend upon the thickness of the applesauce and the consistency of the dough desired. Mold the dough into three loaves, or two loaves and one dozen rolls, as desired. Dot with butter or brown sugar and let rise until double in bulk. Then place = an oven preheated to 4oo® F. After ten or fifteen minutes, reduce the heat to 300° and bake for one-half hour or more according to degree of brownness desired. Raisins or chopped nuts, dates, prunes, or figs may be added to this recipe, and, if desired, for a swect bread, more sugar may be added. If unsweetened applesauce is used, the bread will not have a sweet flavor. Page 265 Anna Whitney Johnson — Gifted Artist NNA Whitney Johnson, Springville, Utah, in all her eighty-two years, has exemphified the theme "A thing of beauty is a joy forever." An artist of multiple talents and many interests, she has been successful in landscape painting in oils, china painting and designing, raising houseplants, designing and quilting quilts and comforters, making hooked rugs, tooled Icather articles, ceramic figurines, and many pieces of embroidery, crocheted articles, and knitted clothing. She is a charter member of the Hafen-Dallin Art Club, and was Springville's "Mother of the Year" in 1956. Mrs. Johnson has devotedly served the Church, and has worked in various positions in Relief Society for thirty-six years. Her descendants include four sons, two daughters, twenty-four grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren. Home Responsibility Winona F. Thomas I thought to write a poem, One was running through my head, I fingered the piano; But I made you pajamas My music was outspread. 'To keep you warm in bed, When I saw dust upon the floor I cleaned your house instead. I could have made a picture, But I knew you had no bread That night my prayers were heaven sped. I kneaded dough and baked the loaves "Thank God for you," is what I said. So that vou would be fed. Page 266 The New Day CHAPTER 7 (Conclusion) Hazel K. Todd YNN_ packed her luggage carefully while it was still early morning. Aunt Polly had arisen long before sun-up and picked fresh rhubarb. Now she was making pie. There was already gingerbread on the cupboard, fresh strawberry jam, and a pan of chicken ready to be fried. "My goodiess, Aunt Polly, you'd think it was 'Chanksgiving or something with al) this baking,' Lynn said, coming into the aromatic kitchen. "T thought you might like a lunch to nibble on, on the way. If this David boy is like other men, he likes to eat." "Tm sure he does," Lynn laughed. "And he will be happy, I'm sure, to know he's marrying into such good cooking." "Don't say such things. You might give me a swelled head." Aunt Polly was trying to be jovial. But she added seriously, "It has been wonderful cooking for you again!" Then they didn't say any more. All day Lynn waited anxiously. She started watching the road long ahead of time. "It's a long way to Chicago," Aunt Polly said once. Lynn laughed a little. I'm just too anxious." Once she went out and walked around the yard. "If I could just have helped Johnny," she said, "it would have been so much easier to leave." "IT guess And then she saw the tiny speck far off in the distance. And she knew it was David. Even before she could sce the gray and green color of the car, she knew it was he. "Aunt Polly," she said. "I think he is coming!" Aunt Polly came and stood beside her. "Aunt Polly," Lynn said, "keep trying to help Johnny." Aunt Polly didn't answer. The big gray car was coming up the hill now. Lynn gave Aunt Polly a quick kiss and went out the door. She walked to the gate and stood waiting. And then, in a minute David's arms were about her. "Lynn, my darling," he said holding her head against his shoulder. "It seems as if you've been gone a year instead of a week." "Does it rcc! Ly?" She held to his hand then. "But, come, Aunt Polly is waiting to look you over. She has cooked such a feast we can never eat it all." They walked up the path holding hands, to the house where Aunt Polly was waiting.. It was difficult to say goodbye. Even the delicious breakfast of blueberry muffins and scrambled eggs hadn't taken away the sharp edge. "T never knew I was such a crybaby," Aunt Polly said. But she couldn't seem to do anything about it. She stood holding the corner of her apron to her eyes. "Oh, go on, get out before I start all over again." Page 267 268 "We must see her often," David said, as they walked to the car. "It's a promise," Lynn said, and then she saw Peter, almost upon her. His face was flushed from running, his shirt tail stuck out, and his chest was heaving. "You got to help me. Sick!" he panted. Lindy's N horror, Lynn looked down into his face. "Her knee hurts. Ted." The cut by the turkey nest! The iodine! She had not used it! "What is the matter?" David asked, looking at the frightened boy. "Who is this child?" "He is Johnny's boy," Lynn said. "His little sister cut her leg badly the day I called you." "My Dad had to go before Lindy woke up. That MayRee woman told me to always call her number, but I forgot it," Peter said unhappily. "But I can find it,' Lynn said, seizing the ray of hope. And then she stooped and put her arm around Peter. "I am going away to Chicago to live," she said. "But MayRee will alw ays be here to help you. Vil find her right now. She is a nurse and will know just what to do for Lindy." In the house Lynn explained briefly to Aunt Polly, and then waited for the hospital to find MayRee. "But I guess you know you got me sent home the other night," MayRee said to Lynn's second invitation to go to Johnny's house. "Please try again." "What am I supposed to do this time?" "That day before you came Lindy It's all big and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 fell and cut her knee. JI wrapped it up. Now Peter is all excited. He says that Lindy is sick, that her knee is red and swollen." "But Peter could have called me if he wanted to. I told him to." "He forgot your number. He's all confused." There was a_ slight hesitation. "But Johnny will just send me home." "Johnny isn't there now. Anyway, MayRee, somebody's got to help them. I'm going back to Chicago. I won't be here any more. Don't you think it would be better for you? You will always be here. And besides you are a nurse and know what to do." MayRee sighed. "Very well, Lynn. I guess I'll always keep trying. "Please do. And please let me know as soon as you can, how Lindy is. Ill be waiting here." "It may take only a few minutes, if Johnny comes. I may be back before you get your hat off." UT it was an hour before the phone rang. Lynn held the trembling hands. Asked eagerly. "Lindy is all right, Lynn, just a real sore knee, with a dose of infection. I'm taking her to the hospital for penicillin." "Oh, MayRee, I am so glad." "Yes, it could have been serious soon." "Johnny... Did he come?" "Yes, he came just when I had the bandage off and it looked the worst." "He didn't send you home then?" "No. Because I scared him half with she TECCIVEL "MayRee?" THE NEW DAY to death. I made him think Lindy was sick enough to die. He was glad to have me stay. If you have been wondering, Lynn, if he loves those children, you don't have to any more. He adores them." "Oh, I'm sure he does, but...." "He promised to change his ways, to... To forget the past. He promised to let me help him." '"MayRee, I am so happy." There was a faint sob. "Lynn, do you — do you think some day maybe I could be a good stepmother?" Lynn smiled to herself. "The best in the world, MayRee." She hesitated a moment. "Will you do something for me?" "Anything, Lindy." "Just tell Johnny we said goodbye as the best of friends." There was a slight pause. "But I... Why don't you tell him yourself? He's with Lindy. Pll get him." "But I'm not sure he would talk to me." "I think he would now, Lynn. Wait just a minute." 269 Lynn waited calmly until she heard him pick up the receiver. "Johnny?" "Yes, Lynn." "I just wanted to say goodbye." "Thank you, Lindy." "You have darling children, Johnny." He paused. "I... I want to thank you for being so kind to them. They adore you." "T will be looking forward to seeing all of you when I visit Aunt Polly." "Lynn, can you forgive me for being — for being that way?" "Of course, Johnny. I have been foolish, too. But that is all in the past. Remember, this is a new day, a bright new day, with all the world before us." "Yes," he said, "I will try to remember." She wiped the tears from her eyes and wondered why she was crying when she was so happy. And then she hung the phone on the old worn hook, kissed Aunt Polly again, and went to find David who was waiting for her in the porch swing. She Wild Plum Sree Evelyn Fjeldsted From near the creek a wave of perfume comes, As softly as the zephyr's touch at night. The native wild plum tree will soon bring plums To ripen in the wind and valley light. Its growth was sure when there was much at stake, And with the perfume of another dawn, It brings back fleeting memories that take Us far, but blossom trystings soon are gone With all the sweet intangibility Of perfume from the Potawatomi. Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Haat NO toe vs Photograph submitted by Marjorie M. Ward SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAH), NINETEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MAKES HOOKED RUGS IN PROJECT "RAGS TO RICHES" Left to right: Jeanne Wilkins; Naomi Bliss; Antonia Van Otten; Alice Tolman, instructor; Cordelia Taylor; Connie Ward. Marjorie M. Ward, President, Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, reports: "During the year 1959 the Relief Society sisters from the Nineteenth Ward have hooked these beautiful rugs, making them entirely from discarded woolen clothing and old blankets, doing all the dyeing themselves. They have learned the true value of thrift, the real art of blending colors, and the joy of doing something very worthwhile. 'A thing of beauty is a joy forever.' With care, these rugs will last for many generations, a luxury many could not afford if they had to buy them. 'These rugs cost so little, only the price of the stamped burlap and a few cents for dye." Page 2/0 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 271 Photograph submitted by Beulah B. Woodbury BRITISH MISSION, CENTRAL AND NORTHERN DISTRICTS SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC AT CONFERENCE December 1959 Beulah B. Woodbury, President, British Mission Relief Socicty, reports: "General Conference of the Central and Northern Districts was occasioned by the visit of President Henry D. Moyle of the First Presidency and Lawrence D. McKay of the Sunday School General Superintendency, their wives, and the two daughters of President Moyle, Alice and Janet. "The Singing Mothers have been called on to organize themselves and sing at each of the district conferences this past fall series. All of the Singing Mothers from this arca united in a group of 226, which was led by Sister Margaret Jenner of the Hull District, and Sister Elsie Curtis, also of the Hull District, acted as accompanist. The Singing Mothers have also been called upon to provide the music for the spring series of conferences almost by popular demand of the membership of the mission. "Many expressions of appreciation of this event were received from district presidents and branch presidents, as well as from many others. President Peter J. Everett of the Hull Branch commented: 'The Relief Society choir was truly magnificent, a choir of angels. How great it was to sing with the other 2,034 saints, and then to crown all this to hear the leaders of our Church speak.' " <i PHOENIX STAKE (ARIZONA) RELIEF SOCIETY VIEWS FILM "UNTO THE LEAST OF THESE," November 5, 1959 Ruth Stapley, President, Phoenix Stake Relief Society, reports the showing of the film "Unto the Least of These" through courtesy of the Fox 'Theatre, Phoenix. "More than 1100 women came out to see the film. A personal invitation was sent to every woman in the three stakes (Phoenix, East Phoenix, North Phoenix) inviting her to come and bring her husband and friends and neighbors. "We began the hour-long program with a beautiful prayer offered by the East Phoenix Stake visiting teacher message leader, Edith Alexander. 'Then a grecting and introduction of the film by Ruth Stapley, President, Phoenix Stake Relief Society, followed by a song, "The Lord's Prayer' sung by our talented Phoenix Stake Relief Socicty organist Virginia Peterson. Then the film was shown, followed by the song 'My Testimony' sung by a large group of Singing Mothers from Phoenix Stake. Benediction by Mildred Romney, visiting teacher message leader of the East Phoenix Stake. It was truly a touching and inspirational hour. We know that many hearts were touched that morning and many good resolutions were made anew. "We sincerely thank our wonderful General Board, and especially Sister Christine Robinson, for this marvelous story so beautifully told and filmed." 272 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 Photograph submitted by Minnie P. Burton WEST GERMAN MISSION, COLOGNE BRANCH SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR NOVEMBER 1, 1959, SUNDAY EVENING PROGRAM At the nght: chorister Margaret Schoeler. First row, left to right: Era Schumacher; Martha Elisabeth Otto, President; I1edwig Klesper. Second row, left to right: Anna von Kalkstein; Margarete Obermann; Frieda Weichhaus; Margarete Moccke. Back row, left to mght: Ruth T. Benson and Marion Kaye Greenwood. Minnie P. Burton, President, West German Mission Relief Society, reports: "Ruth Benson and Marion Kaye Greenwood are missionaries. 'The Singing Mothers groups in our mission have done much to bring our sisters together. Many of our groups are small, but in this land where so much fine music originated, the love for music is ever present. We hope to encourage such groups in each branch in the mission." Bheconmaan submitted = LaRue L. 'Schoenfeld LAKE VIEW STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, October 18, 1959 Lake View Stake Relief Socicty officers and board members, seated in the front row, left to right: Mabel Burgener; Gwen Stokes; Hazel Heslop; LaRue L. Schoenfeld, President; Glenda Thompson; Lucille Molen; Iola Belnap Murray, chorister; Mabel Peterson; Laura Holmes; Mae Matis; Marietta Parker, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 273 Several members of the chorus were absent when the picture was taken, including Dorothy Code, stake organist and Mabel Belnap Relief Society stake organist. Sister Mabel Belnap's picture is inserted at the top right. Sister Schoenfeld reports: "Approximately one hundred Singing Mothers participated in the singing for both sessions of conference, and also for conference in January of the same year (1959). Some of the songs sung in the two conferences were Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen's 'Oh, Lovely Land, America,' 'My Soul Is Athirst for God,' and 'If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments.' " Photograph submitted by Luella T. Wilson KOLOB STAKE (UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION January 9, 1960 Front row, seated, left to right: Clara Gren; Nellie Wiscombe; Ella Peterson; Sarah Jane Davies; Mary Christensen; Maggie Daley; Sarah Beardall; Harriet Brown. Second row, seated, left to right: Amy Ostler; Harriet Jensen; Zelma Christiansen; Edna Lindsey; Leila Fullmer; Alice Johnson; Eva Bird; Estella Wixom; Mary Whiting. Third row, seated, left to right: Clara Perry; Agnes Harrison; Annie Gividen; Gladys Parry; LaVerl Young; Martha Houtz; Olive Whiting; Zina Dibble; Eugenia Bird. Back row, standing, left to right: Roka Fackrell; Velma Hjorth; Thora Dalley; Lilly Barney; Rose Neilson; Martha Whiting; Margaret Miner; Mable Brown. Luella T. Wilson, President, Kolob Stake Relief Society, reports: "At a Visiting Teachers Convention held in Kolob Stake, January 9, 1960, all visiting teachers were invited to become star teachers for 1960. As they arrived, a gold star on a blue background was pinned on each visiting teacher. Stake Priesthood authorities, President Ernest A. Strong, Jr. And advisor, Bishop Oliver H. Dalton, were present and spoke words of inspiration and encouragement. The beautiful film 'Unto the Least of These' was shown, and two musical numbers were rendered by the Sixth Ward Singing Mothers. All sisters with twenty-five or more years of service as visiting teachers were introduced by their respective Relief Society presidents, and presented with a pretty blue potted primrose in a gold foil container. Corsages were also pinned on four sisters who had served over fifty years. The oldest was Amy Ostler, who has served sixty-two years and is still active. Refreshments were served after the program at a table beautifully decorated in blue and gold, which also carried the theme of being star teachers." Nineteen other visiting teachers with twenty-five or more years of service are not represented in the picture. 274 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 gam ame Photograph submitted by Mona Brown TWIN FALLS STAKE (IDAHO) LEADERSHIP MEETING AND WORK MEETING CHRISTMAS DISPLAY, December 1959 Seated, left to mght: Ruth Stanger; Blanche Hansen; Lucille Poulton; Ila Campbell; Jean Staley; Mary Cheney, stake work director. Standing, left to right: Wilda Carlson, stake organist; Donnie Miller, reader; [lla Johnson; Effie Larsen; Lois Willis; Marilyn Fairbanks; Deonne Roberts; Thelma Quigley; Norma Larson; Muriel Demer; Betty Birrell, stake chorister. Mona Brown, President, Twin Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our December leadership meeting preliminary program was presented by the stake music department and told of Christmas in song and verse. Following the departmental mectings, we all went into the work department to view the lovely Christmas displays and have refreshments served by the stake board." Photograph submitted by Mary G. Jensen JUAB STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS WHO FURNISHED MUSIC FOR THE WEDNESDAY MORNING SESSION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERNCE, October 7, 1959 Standing at the nght: Tabernacle organist Alexander Schreiner and Vivian P. Hoyt, director of the chorus. Standing in the foreground, at the left of the organ: Will L. Hoyt, Juab Stake Patriarch, and husband of Mrs. Vivian P. Hoyt; Juab Stake President R. Roscoe Garrett. Mary C. Jensen, President, Juab Stake Relief Society, and her counselors Helen B. Jones and Reba C. Mangelson, are standing in the third row, center of 'the left section. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 275 Sister Jensen reports: "One hundred sixty-five women participated, their ages ranging from twenty-three to eighty-nine years. This group of women represented about 1250 family members (husbands, children, and grandchildren). 'There are six wards in Juab Stake and almost one hundred per cent participation of stake and ward officers and class leaders in the chorus, with only a few trained singers in the group. Selections sung were: 'Prayer Perfect,' by Stenson, and 'When Mothers Sing,' words and music by Vivian P. Hoyt. Sister Hoyt has dedicated and assigned this song to the Juab Stake Relief Society, who are contributing all proceeds from this music to the building fund of the stake and ward building which is in the process of construction." Photograph submitted by Claire D. Ord UNION STAKE (OREGON), BAKER SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS HARVEST THEME AT OPENING SOCIAL, September 28, 1959. Claire D. Ord, President, Union Stake Relief Society, reports: "The opening social for the Baker Second Ward used the harvest as its theme. It was held in the evening, husbands were invited, and a lovely harvest dinner was served. The hall was beautifully decorated, with the center of attention being a very large horn of plenty, showing an abundant harvest. (The horn of plenty was made of chicken wire, brown wrapping paper, and a hoola hoop.) "With the beginning of the program, a much deeper theme was introduced, that of the spiritual harvest. What are we gleaning from this life to take home to our Heavenly Father? As each of the different departments was represented, each held different shaped seeds (made of painted cardboard), saying that attendance at Relief Society would aid us in the planting and nurturing of the good seeds bearing the fruits of the qualities we so desire. As each sister finished her preview, she placed the fruit bearing a word which we could expect to glean from her contribution to Relief Society in the coming year. "The invitations, sent earlier, were gay, using burlap for the covers, and bright colored yarn and stickers for the horn of plenty. This opening social was outstanding in theme and general beauty, and presented well to both the sisters and their husbands the coming year's work and the aims of Relief Society. Sister Luella Jordan presides over this ward." 276 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1960 Photograph submitted by Elizabeth C. Hayward EAST SHARON STAKE (UTAH) PRESENTS "PREVIEW OF CHRISTMAS IDEAS," November 5, 1959 Left to right: Hilda F. Stewart, Stake Work Director Counselor; Helen Bateman, Ward Work Director Counselor; Helen Cragun, stake work meeting leader; Lillian Smoot, ward work meeting leader. Elizabeth C. Hayward, President, East Sharon Stake Relief Society, reports: "On November 5, 1959, the East Sharon Stake of Provo, under the direction of Hilda F. Stewart and Helen Cragun, presented 'A Preview of Christmas Ideas.' Each of the eight ward Relief Societies was responsible for a display. These, plus two guest displays, made up the exhibit, which included the following subjects: gifts in music, gift wrappings, homemade toys and games, Christmas foods, Christmas decorations, inexpensive gifts, aprons, quilts, household items, and books. During the afternoon over three hundred sisters from the stake visited the preview. Arrangements were made for ward work meeting leaders to obtain pattcrns and instructions as requested by the women of the wards." Charity Tris W. Schow Charity is the last loaf — shared; The grace to lean; the will to lift; The step that ends the second mile; The giver, given with the gift. Books for the Church Pianist ( ) Church Pianist— Stults ooo. Eee eeeeee 1.50 ( ) Eighteen Hymn Transcriptions— Kohlmann..........0......... 85 ( ) Famous Sacred Songs—Peery.............. 1.25 ( ) Melodies For Church and Home—Shelley.... 1.00 ( ) More Concert Transcriptions of Favorite Hymns—Kohlmann 1.00 ( ) Piano Hymn Voluntaries—Lorenz.......... 1.50 ( ) Piano Transcriptions of Your Favorite Hymns—Parsons....... 1.25 Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Schaum...85 ( ) Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Stickles.. 1.25 ( ) Sacred Piano Album for Home and Churech—Gahm.......... 1.50 ( ) Sacred Piano Solos— Rettenberg......002200...... 1.00 ( ) Sabbath Day Music— Randolph 0.2.2.2... 1.50 ( ) Sunday Piano Music —Boston ooo. 1.25 ( ) Tranquil Hours— Presser oooo... Eeeeceeeeeeee 1.50 ( ) Twenty-Four Voluntaries—Stickles.......... 1.50 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Lst South ' Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. OO On Approval (J Charge 1 Money Enclosed Name Address City & State Daynes Mace | MTATMLATLATT Loe Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah HAWAII TOURS June 4, June 13, June 29, August 8, November 21, 1960. All tours are especially planned for either ship or air. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July 29, 1960 — 2 weeks July 30 — 3 weeks NORTHWESTERN TOURS June 25, 1960 — Two weeks DISNEYLAND TOUR AND LOS ANGELES June 11 thru 17 EUROPE August to October Ask for folders of our many other tours MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 So. 23rd East, Salt Lake City, Utah Phones CR 7-6334, AM 2-2337, IN 6-2909 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Soeicty Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the: Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must aceompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed' below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distonce from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles oe 150 to 300 miles 300 to 600 miles. 600 to 1000 miles. 1000 to 1400 miles. 1400 to 1800 miles.. F Over 1800 miles «0.0... Ee 87 Leave them at our conveniently locat-. Ed uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 277 Southern Tour April 23, 1960 Eight wonderful days — Manii, Mesa, St. George, and Los Angeles. Hawaii June 1960 Mexican Tours June 1960 Also student tour in June 1960. Visit Book of Mormon places. Northwest Tour June 20, 1960 Black Hills Passion Play July 2nd through 9th, 1960 Hill Cumorah Pageant July 22, 1960 Guatemala Book of Mormon Archeological Sites. Tour leaving August 20, 1960. ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460-7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phone: EM 3-5229 A Touch of the Divine Wilma Boyle Bunker | Oe I was returning home, planning as I drove along what could be prepared quickly for the family dinner. It was late afternoon, and the sun was just ready to dip behind the tops of the mountains on the west of the Salt Lake Valley. I had my car radio on listening to the musical setting of "The Lord's Prayer." As the soloist began to sing, "For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever,' I glanced up at the snow-capped mountain peaks in the east where the setting sun spotlighted their whiteness, and in that fleeting moment I felt a touch of the divine. Yes, Iam sure I would have appreciated the beauty of God's handiwork without the music, but combined with it, it truly washed away from my soul the dust of everyday life. Page 278 A Christmas Chest for All the Year Elizabeth C. McCrimmon NSTEAD of saving money for a Christmas fund, articles for Christmas presents may be acquired throughout the year. I pick them up at sales when I am out shopping, or stow them away in my Christmas cedar chest. Although Christmas is often overdone, the saddest gifts are those that aren't given. There are lonely and neglected people who, with just a little more effort, could be remembered. It is a misfortune for a child to be disappointed on Christmas morning! So, all year, when I go shopping or attend sales, I keep my eyes open for exceptional values or appropriate stock for Christmas giving. This, in addition to suppiying the needs of our immediate family. In the spring, winter clothing is disposed of at half price. Summer clothes are sold at heavy discount in the autumn. I have found treasures in a rummage sale and dug out antiques at a secondhand store. A lingerie shop, closing out, is a bonanza. A picture from one place, a frame from another, combine attractively. A few of the books I buy and read during the year are stored: away to be passed on at holiday time. Linens are always acceptable. I have fun at a ceramic sale in obtaining figurines for indoors and out, and finding artistic planters for succulents. Cosmetics and perfumes are luxuries from drug store sales. Costume jewelry lends an exotic note. Carved leather and baskets from A CHRISTMAS CHEST FOR ALL THE YEAR across the border make appreciated gifts, sometimes dressed up with sequins and velvet. An elderly lady that I drive to the grocery store volunteered to make the clothes for both old and new dolls, and I purchase aprons, and children's clothes at the Relief Society bazaar. With this, I help a worthy cause as well as get good values. During the year I also save clean, pretty boxes. These are stored one inside another to save room. Christmas boxes are quite expensive. 'Ten days before Christmas, when everyone is rushing around, I arm myself with a box of festive wrapping paper, a ball of mbbon, and some name cards. Leisurely I go to work on the contents of the chest; decide what to give whom. Won't some of the recipients be surprised! My idea of a Christmas present is a surprise. Something that a person would not buy for himself. I do not go into debt nor impoverish the family for holiday festivities. At the last minute | can scurry around, dig up a bottle of perfume or arrange a basket of fruit for an invalid; or bake fresh cookies for the children. Then I have time to address the Christmas cards, and perhaps write Christmas letters. Sometimes a letter is the best gift of all, and all it costs is a four-cent postage stamp! Aster ITlessage Matia McClelland Burk After the cross, the victory; After the night, the day. With spring's eternal promise— The stone is rolled away. 279 Vida Fox Clawson Travel Genter Dear Friend: If you are interested in HAWAII, remember we have tours going every month. Spring Blossom Tour April 19th and May 28th. EUROPEAN TOUR 1960 is the most important year for a trip to Europe because of the PASSION PLAY at Oberammergau, Germany, which is given only once every ten years. Tour sails on June 10th. Write for complete itinerary. HISTORIC TRAIN AND BUS TOURS Send for day-by-day PROGRAMS — all Historic Tours will include the HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT. There are both two and three week tours. Leaves Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: DA 8-0303 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah |: Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Mrs. Eunice Lowry Moen Great Falls, Montana Ninety-eight Mrs. Evizasetu JANE RussELL Day Hunter, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Laura G. Brown NEBEKER Pleasant Grove, Utah Mrs. EvIzABETH WILson YOUNG Sanford, Colorado Ninety-four 'Mrs. MinnettTa PERMELIA BROWN THORNE Manti, Utah Mrs. Maria P. Tuompson Ephraim, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Apa DEAN ALEXANDER BONNER Midway, Utah Mrs. Sopuia ANDERSON WoRKMAN Francis, Utah Mrs. Nora MEGLEMRE Yakima, Washington Mrs. Mary Row Ley Grantsville, Utah Mrs. AticE Gowans Tooele, Utah Ninety-two 'Miss IsaBELLA CATHERINE ROGERS Lewiston, Utah Mrs. Ruopa Avice Hates TANNER San Diego, California Mrs. Georcina Toone ConpiE Ogden, Utah Page 280 Ninety-one Mrs. ALBERTHA Nievson Hatcu Riverton, Wyoming Mrs. AMALIA OLtson UNGERMAN Castle Dale, Utah Mrs. Martua Marie Packer PIERCE Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Sarau Firch WuHytTeE Lethbridge, Canada Ninety Mrs. Incer ANN THompson HANSEN Preston, Idaho Mrs. Mary Ann GiLes CumMMINGs Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. ANNIE GLADE VINE Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary ANN CuMMINGS Daly City, California Mrs. EMELINE BincuamMm Woop Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarau VAN Natta WuipPle SHAW Salt Lake City, Utah <—- Someone Gs Coming Mabel Law Atkinson Someone is coming Over the hill, Golden her laughter As wild daffodil. Someone comes dancing Over the land, A little catkinned willow, The wand in her hand. Someone who waited For winter to pass Is singing her name In rain on the grass. Someone delightful Advances, we know, For in her footprints The violets grow. Rinsed by a shower, His flute crystal-clear, The glad lark is calling, "April is here!" Now in new LIBRARY BINDINGS of Fabricated Leather (Fab-Lea) These LDS classics and Standard Work are now available in the beautiful new Fab-Lea (fabricated leather) library bindings. If you are building a permanent library collection, these volumes in the new Fab-Lea will be most serviceable and enduring. Close-up view of Fabricated leather cover Book of Mormon Articles of Faith James E. Talmage......2.50 Jesus the Christ James E. Talmage........ Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed vou will find [] check [] money order [] I have an account. Please charge for following books in new Fab-Lea (fabricated leather bindings:) copies "Articles of Faith'. | copies "'Jesus the Christ" Residents of Utah include 22% sales tax. Amount enclosed $. _. _. Copies "Book of Mormon"' Is your home out on a limb - - - without mortgage insurance? Some people — such as arctic explorers and small boys who build precariously perched tree-houses — like to live dangerously. But most of us prefer to play it safe... Especially when it comes to home and family. There is only one thing more pathetic than a home without a mother — and that's a mother without a home. If the privilege of living in a home while you are paying for it is worth 5% or 6% interest, then the knowledge that your family will always have that home must be worth the additional 1% or 2% that it costs for mortgage insurance. Will you leave your family a home—or just the memory of one? Beneficial Mortgage insurance makes all the difference. A3 >:: Sh | Save AM ' ed ot we: +f ee Ni <4 #£ om.." BS j V4 4 t 4 I an "h, re BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY Beneficial Life Building Salt Lake City, Utah Dept. R 460 Check up now on your householding foresight... Send for free falder 'The House That Jack Built."' BENE FIC L LL LIFE Name cece —— pburance Company Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah SK Or Tlother Christie Lund Coles After these many years her lips still shape Her words with a faint Scandinavian mark. The native tongue she spoke for twenty years; And now her hair is white, which once was dark And heavy, falling to her firm and slender waist; The color whipped into her high checks by The ocean winds, the cold and Northern clime, Is faded into pallor; her slim hands, lie U Quite still, which once made lace, and kneaded bread. Her footsteps are unsure which one day ran, And served us with unfailing steadiness. She has grown old. Age is the fate of man. Yet, still within my heart my mother holds A spot which is forever fair and young; For she is not this woman aged, alone— But many different women, all unsung. A friend in joy and sorrow, and a nurse In illness... Gentle, patient, true; A saint of understanding in our pain, A gay companion when our youth was new. A keeper of the home where all who came Found warmth and food heaped high, and more, The sustenance of strength, her hope, her faith, Her kindliness which opened like a door. To all who needed kindness. Life has not Left her unscarred, nor spared her its dark tears, So I, who have the meager gift of words, Bring her this gift for the gift of all her years. The Cover: Mount Elbert, Colorado's Highest Peak Courtesy Denver and Rio Grande Railroad Company Submitted by Daisy R. Romney Frontispiece: Tulip Blossoms, Photograph by Don Knight Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press. From Near and Sar Each month I look forward to receiving The Relicf Society Magazine. I always find many interesting articles and pictures in it. In the July (1959) issue is a picture of the Susquehanna River. I find this very interesting as I have made a number of oil paintings of this same river. I am a visiting teacher and I find the lessons very interesting and inspiring. I hope to be a subscriber to the Magazine long enough to have my name mentioned in the Birthday Congratulations—which will be many years from now. —Lola M. Tetzner Waterloo, Iowa For some time I have desired to write and compliment you on our lovely Magazme. Like my husband, I agree that it is one of the best magazines published. And it has the very best stories. It seems a long time to wait for the continued stories. | "Grandpa's Red Suspenders" (Second Prize Story, February 1960) by Myrtle M. Dean was so refreshing and contained such wisdom. It could be read in every home where the commandments honor thy father and thy mother should be taught. The poetry is nice and the lessons and editorials are excellent. —Ruth T. Clark Thornton, Idaho We have enjoyed the lovely contest poems and stories this year, especially Mrs. Roberts' "Immigrant's Child" (first prize poem), with its warmth of subject and its timeless style of expression; and Mrs. Robinson's "The Fishbite Story," in which she has so adeptly combined childlike humor with a moving example of faith in action. The 1960 covers are giving us some wonderful vicarious journeys. 'The lithographing is flawless. —lIris W. Schow Brigham City, Utah I surely enjoyed "The Fishbite Story" (third prize story, March 1960) by Dorothy Clapp Robinson. —Marguerite McNamara Iona, Idaho Page 282 I loved "The Fishbite Story" by Dorothy Clapp Robinson, the third prize story, March 1960. Even my grandchildren enjoyed it. Her descriptive ability is wonderful, and her stories are so interesting. I am always happy to see her work in the Magazine. —Nina Olsen Iona, Idaho 1 am very happy and thankful that Mrs. Elizabeth Hogan is sending The Relief Society Magazine to me. I surely appreciate her kindness. I love to attend Relief Society meetings. We are snowbound — had no meeting tonight (March 9, 1960). I live in Nauvoo, Ilnois. My dear mother was a friend of Emma Smith, wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I am ninetysix years old and have spent many pleasant hours reading the Magazine. The story "A Is for Apron" (August, September, and October 1959, by Ilene H. Kingsbury) touched my heart. Many thanks for the good Magazine. —Sophia Harsch Nauvoo, Illinois At the present time I am serving as a missionary in the Finnish Mission, and on a number of occasions have had to speak in various mectings. Wanting some ideas for subjects, I have turned to The Relief Society Magazine for help, always finding such wonderful ideas. —Maxine Kershaw Joensuu, Finland I wish to thank you for the very wonderful, inspiring, and uplifting lessons we receive through Relief Society and our Magazine. I continually marvel at how these lessons, though written for so many, scem to speak to each one of us individually. Each message seems to be meant just for me! How can we go wrong if we but heed the wisdom to be found in The Relief Society Magazine? —Winnifred Billquist Decr Lodge, Montana THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spefford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - = - = = = + Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond Elsa T. Peterson Edith S. Elliott Christine H. Robinson Annie M. Ellsworth Irene B. Woodford Florence J. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Leone G. Layton Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron Elizabeth B. Winters Blanche B. Stodderd Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt LaRue H. Rosell Evon W. Peterson Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Jennie R. Scott Aleine M. Young Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor = 5 5 - S S 2 C - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 47 MAY 1960 NO. 5 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES What the Gospel Means to Me -ooeceeeecececececcecceeeseeeeeee. Irene B. Woodford 284 The Western States Mission oo...... CceccececcccecccecececececeescceceeesecseetececeseceecveveesceeeceuseseeeeeseeePreston R. Nibley 288 Contest Announcements—1960...... Eee ee eee. 290 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest o..... Ccccccccscsccssesececcccececesseveeeceecevececscveesessusssecessseacescaseeneceseensescseceaeassasseaeees 290 Relief Society Short Story Comtest 2......... Cccceccccsssesssseseccseecenccesncnesecseseecsesacseseseseeaceeescseetsteeenseeaeseeeees 291] I, Too, Want to Be Useful ooeccecceiceccecccccececcocccecceveccesseseuceseseceesecseesessesesessensecenecevevencereAslaug S. Vaieland 318 Magazine Honor Roll for 1959. -... Marianne C. Sharp 325 FICTION Orchids in the Snow—Chapter I IRosa Lee Lloyd 293 Second Baby oon. Eeccecicceccseceseeccececcecceeececeececeecececceseecesseasececeseeseeescseseees. Dorothy S. Romney 299 Standing Pat ee Frances C. Yost 312 The Blue Bowl—Part [J woeceeeeclececcecccccceeceeeeeeceseeceeees —————.... Loya Beck 32] GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far wii. Eeeccceceecccecsceceeeceesceceseeeencceeceeseeee 282 Sixty Years AGO oo. C. Eecececcecseecescececeeseecseeserceseeees a ———— 304 Woman's Sphere ooenneeeecececnencensececcesccescesseeesceccescececceseaceccsceasessssescascecasssseaeeesaesseaseeseseseseesRamona W. Cannon 305 Editorial: Wife and Mother 20... Ceeesesesssesececescecesccceesceseeeeseseeeee.... Marianne C. Sharp 306 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 200.0. Eceee teens _—Hulda Parker 335 Birthday Congratulations 2... Eee ccecececcceecececcescececsevecececscsensccececavecseseeesesevesteseveveee 344 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Western States Mission.. O.. E.. CcccceccccccscecesecesceseeceeseseceusesceeseeessseeeeseeeDaisy R. Romney 308 The Golden Years o0.... C. Esecseecceccesceeecsceseesceeseseeteeeeeesesatentes =.. Maggie Tolman Porter 310 Not Only By Bred wee. CccccccccecccceccecscceececessneseseseeeecceeccevscsssseceesceecencaeasacasaesescseseessesDorothy J. Roberts 317 Crossed Wires ou. Ecececccscceec cc cee ceccceaececesccececeuvevecseeneveveeseseseeseseeneaes. Genevieve Van Wagenen 319 Annie Maria Spray Steel Makes Many Braided Rugs. -o. Ecececsssssssssssssececssseseseseseeces... 320 When Parents Play seceeseeeteeseessestscesttettststtsseeseeeeeee RUby Dee Christensen 342 POETRY For Mother — Frontispiece oo... OcccccecccccccecececescseeseseecssessceceseeesseseesesessacsesseseceseseseeceeeeChristie Lund Coles 281 These Small This nee ccecececececccseccecscecececessscsensseseseesseevaeseceeeecseesaessssasnesesssasessesessesesecesseessesMaude Rubin 287 The Native Currant......... Evelyn Fjeldsted 287 From a Canyon Retreat 220... Eceeeceeeeceeeeeeteeeeeeeee Mother _..... Linnie F, Robinson 298 Your Sacred Presence nn.. Ecceecceessecseseceesceeseeeseesees Se oe ereCaroline Eyring Miner 307 My Gifts = ay H. Marsh 307 ANG cscuiom Contras as SsEvalyn Miller Sandberg 319 Respite > sco SSCS SCORE ESEE CD cS SCC ESE EO Zara Sabin 320 Contemplation — Fo cacacsnnrtttttnecasscaenees. Catherine B. Bowles 324 Rep ECh Lee pen ee aeLouise Morris Kelley 334 Prairie School............ - —. Lula Walker 334 Girl Graduate: sosescnssaesesnenneneceesenneesseceeeetaeeeesessnaneascranenenserensnaeerececeseeeasisetescascecsesIda Elaine James 340 Beneath a Song Sparrow's NeSt -....... S: csececseeceececceecceceeseeseteeeseeseestesneseseneeees ou. Eva Willes Wangsgaard 341 Inheritor of Beauty 0. 2 20° Se ROTC CCRC =O SO RSROEEVesta N. Fairbairn 344 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of - ol: Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 283 What the Gospel Means to Me Irene B. Woodford Member, General Board of Relief Society a small town school in Canada in February of 1943 started a sequence of events which culminated in my conversion to the gospel. 'The combining of classes necessitated by the fire resulted in one teacher being left without a room or students. Since the neighboring school in which I taught had been without a principal for two weeks, this teacher was asked to fill the position. A few days after his arrival, a friend voiced her suspicion that the new principal was a Mormon. I knew practically nothing about the Mormons — but I nevertheless sincerely hoped that he was not one of them. However, he was. Our Mormon principal soon found opportunity to have some gospel conversation with me, and I knew immediately by the testimony of the spirit that he had the truth. I felt a great and impelling urge to know more of the things of which he spoke. After four months of avidly studying the gospel and storing my mind with its wondrous truths, I became a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. How deeply grateful I am that the Lord blessed me with the opportunity of hearing the gospel of his beloved Son, Jesus Christ. The knowledge and understanding I now have of God and his divine plan for the eternal progression and exaltation of his children are the joy and strength of my life. I know that God lives and that Jesus is the Page 284 T HE burning of two rooms of Christ, the Redeemer of the world. I know that Joseph Smith was the instrument in God's hands to restore the fulness of the gospel to the earth in these latter days. The earth was created that we, the spirit children of God the Eternal Father, might each receive a tabernacle of flesh and have opportunity for development and growth during a period of mortal probation. While in this life we suffer a spiritual death by being shut out from the presence of God, that we might learn to walk by faith. In due time we also experience mortal death in the departure of the spirit from the temporal body. A Savior was provided who freely gave his life that we might live again. Through his infinite atonement the bands of death are broken, and we receive the free gift of resurrection and immortality to enjoy forever the kind of life we have prepared ourselves to receive. There is, however, a great difference between the immortality given to all men, good or bad, and the individual salvation gained only through obedience to the laws and ordinances of the gospel. For those who accept the atoning sacrifice of the Savior and obey the gospel, who are valiant in their testimony and faithful to the end, God has prepared an exaltation and eternal glory beyond our present comprehension. Through baptism by water and by the spirit, we enter the gateway to the celestial kingdom. 'There now must follow a steadfast pressing forward along the straight and narrow WHAT THE GOSPEL MEANS TO ME path of obedience to all the other laws and ordinances, if we would realize the blessing of eternal life. This understanding of the purpose of life makes one keenly conscious of the commandments of God and their transcendent importance in one's life. Each of us has the obligation to seek and know the truth, for we cannot be saved in ignorance. Consequently, membership in the Church and kingdom of God is a priceless possession, not to be taken for granted nor treated with indifference, for it is only within the Church that we can receive the truth and live completely in accordance with it. HE most glorious and exalting ordinance to be received as we press forward in our progression is marriage for eternity in the temple. Compliance with this ordinance is necessary for the gaining of exaltation. Companionship of husband and wife is a divinely appointed means of mutual betterment; and according to the mcasure of holy love, mutual respect and honor with which that companionship is graced and sanctified, do men and women develop toward the spiritual status of God, (Quoted anonymously by Louise Y. Robison, "Marriage for Eternity,' ARcHIBALD F. BenneETT: Saviors on Mount Zion, page 188). For those who desire to attain unto God's glorious promises, the gospel becomes the dominant, motivating force of life, its influence permeating thoughts, hopes, aspirations, and actions. This influence is felt in the choice of friends and companions, "For intelligence cleaveth unto intelligence; wisdom treceiveth wisdom; truth embraccth truth; virtue loveth virtue; light 285 cleaveth unto light... (D&C 88:40). Living the gospel brings control of appetites and passions, maintains moral cleanliness, and leads to the overcoming of evil propensities. Through its refining influence, Christ-like attributes of patience, tolerance, meckness, kindness, humility, long-suffering, courage, and righteousness are developed. Through faith, study, and prayer, spirituality grows. The great key to happiness and to personal growth and development is service to fellow men. King Benjamin said, "when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God." To live the gospel of Jesus Christ truly and conform our lives to its teachings, we must dedicate ourselves to the work of the Lord. Thus, service in the Church is part of the life of a Latter-day Saint. What joy we experience in knowing that someone's life has been enriched and blessed through our efforts! 'The happiest families are those engaged in Church work, for those who serve willingly are the recipicnts of peace of mind, one of the priceless blessings of life. The reward of unselfish service has been told by the Lord,. Whosoever will save his life shall lose it: and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it" (Mt. 16:25). There are innumerable opportunities to render kind, unselfish service. There is first of all the home, where we dedicate our time and talents, our love and kindness, in looking after the needs and promoting the happiness of those who are so dear to us. There are the auxiliary organizations of the Church, such as the Primary, Y. W. M. LA., and Sunday School, with their many needs 286 for teachers to instruct, inspire, and, in other ways, meee for good the youth of ane Church. HE great service organization of the Church is our own beloved Relief Society. President McKay said of Relief Society: The most beautiful and undoubtedly the most efficient organization in the realm of service, is the National Women's Relief Society. Through this channel, your myriad deeds of mercy sparkle like gems in a crown (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1958, pp. 792-93). My first call to serve in Relief Society Was as a visiting teacher, and my next-door neighbor was in my district. My companion and I called at her home one day, discussed the message, and _ left. The next day she said to me, "You have no idea how important your visit was yesterday. I had a problem with a friend, and I did not know what to do about it until I heard the message. It gave me the answer to my problem." This experience made me appreciate more fully the privilege of being a visiting teacher. Other opportunities I have had to serve in Relief Society have brought great joy into my life. The privilege I now have of meeting Relief Society sisters throughout the stakes of the Church gives me an association with wonderful women, choice spirits of our Heavenly Father, many of whom have endured trials and adversity and have held fast to the faith. They are stalwarts of the Church, strong in their convictions of the truthfulness of the gospel, gracious and kind in their manner. Such sisters are a strength and an inspiration to all who know them. Still another great opportunity for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 service, and a responsibility that rests upon all of us is that of missionary work.. It becometh every man who hath been warned to warn his neighbor" (D & C 88:81). The great privilege of filling a full-time mission or a stake mission comes to many, but not to all. This, however, does not deprive us of the opportunity of being missionaries. Neither a stake nor a full-time missionary ever called at my door. I am a member of the Church because a working associate took the opportunity to present the gospel to me. A friend of mine prior to her marriage worked in a department store. She was a convert to the Church and had a strong conviction of the truthfulness of the gospel. However, she did not feel that her co-workers would be interested in her faith and so refrained from mentioning it to them. Several years later one of these women came to her and said, "You had the gospel when we worked together. Why did you not tell me about it?" She had recently joined the Church, but she regretted the lost years when she could have been enjoying the blessings of Church membership. Opportunities to assist in the saving of souls come to all of us, whether it be in explaining the gospel to our next-door neighbor, the stranger we meet in our travels, or in strengthening our brothers and sisters in the Church who are weak in the faith. Probably the most unselfish of all Church service is that of work for our ancestors. Many hours, months, and years are spent by faithful and devoted members of the Church in gathering the records of their dead and performing the saving ordinances in their behalf in the holy temple. The responsibiltemple work for the benefit of othity for this work rests upon us all, ers not only develop unselfishness "For their salvation is necessary and but also a great love for our fellow essential to our salvation... They men. It is a most rewarding service without us cannot be made perfect that fills the soul with peace and — neither can we without our dead contentment. Be made perfect" (D & C 128:15). I cherish my membership in the The Prophet Joseph Smith emChurch and kingdom of God. Havphasized the importance of this ing tasted of the blessings of the work when he said, "The greatest gospel, I would not want to live responsibility in this world that God without it. It gives purpose to life, has laid upon us is to seek after our joy in service to fellow men, and the dead." Hours spent in research and hope of a glorious resurrection. Shese Small Shings Maude Rubin This Bible graced her marble center table, Recorded births — and marriages — and death. Small treasures picture her, small home-things able 'To speak through changing years with gentle breath Of one who found her joy in simple things — Brought her happiness to children; reared strong men, Gave them a name to honor, one that rings Forever through this West-land.... Now, as then, This clear bell shields her wreath of waxen flowers... Her sand glass counts these hushed, atomic hours. <—_- > She Native Currant Evelyn Fjeldsted Along the creek and country roads, The rugged native currant thrives Through years, through changing modes On the arid wasteland it survives. The tiny yellow blossoms hold The captured sunshine of each spring; The fruits, like jewels red and gold, Are gifts, and now the field birds sing. And when the currants have been sealed, In crystal settings in a row, Far and wide in lane and field, The shrubs present a scarlet glow. WHAT THE GOSPEL MEANS TO ME 287 She Western States ITlisscon Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Eistorian HE Western States Mission was organized in April 1907. It comprised the States of Colorado, Wyoming, New Mexico, Nebraska, and North and South Dakota. The headquarters was established at Denver, Colorado, and Joseph A. McRae, former President of the Colorado Mission, was installed as the president. In December 1908, President McRae was released, and John L. Hertick was appointed to succeed him. At that time there were 654 members of the Church in the entire mission. There were also ninety full-time mussionarics. President Herrick served until June 1919, and the mission grew and prospered under his leadership. At the time of his release there were 5,500 members of the Church residing in the mission. A new chapel and mission home had been erected in Denver. President Herrick was succeeded by John M. Knight, who served until March 1928. Other mission presidents who have followed are: Elias S. Woodruff, 1928-1933; Joseph J. Daynes, 1933-1937; William W. Scegmuller, 1937-1941; Elbert R. Curtis, 1941-1945; Richard W. Madsen We 1945-1946: Francis A. Child, 1946-1949; Ray E. Dillman, 1949-1954; A Lewis Elggren, 1954-1958; David S. Romney, 1958- The boundaries of the Western States Mission were changed in 1925, 4 1 ROSE LF iphone ence ne Ry We ares Courtesy Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad Company Submitted by Daisy R. Romney WILL ROGERS SHRINE TO THE SUN, CHEYENNE MOUNTAIN NEAR COLORADO SPRINGS, COLORADO Page 288 THE WESTERN STATES MISSION 289 Courtesy Colorado Advertising and Publicity Company Submitted by Daisy R. Romney CLIFF PALACE, MESA VERDE NATIONAL PARK, COLORADO when North and South Dakota were added to the North Central States Mission. Stakes that have been organized within the mission are San Luis (1883), Young (1912), Denver (1940), Grand Junction (1955), Albuquerque (1957), Cheyenne (1959), and Denver West (1959). In 1946 President George Albert Smith visited the Western States Mission, and at Pueblo dedicated a monument which had been erected in honor of the Mormon Battalion, which, one hundred years previously, had established the first white settlement in what later became the State of Colorado. In June 1959, President Antoine R. Ivins made a tour of the Western States Mission and on his return to Salt Lake City gave the following report to the Deseret News: "He pointed out that the mission has good leadership in the districts and branches, and that all the branches are presided over by local members. He praised the work of President and Mrs. Romney who are directing the mission." At the end of December 1959, there were 4,390 members of the Church in the Western States Mission, located in twenty-nine branches. Twenty-nine Relief Society organizations, with 629 members, were reported in December 1959. Daisy R. Romney presides over the Western States Mission Relief Society. Note: The cover for this Magazine, ""Mount Elbert, Colorado's Highest Peak," was reproduced from a transparency submitted by Daisy R. Romney, courtesy Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad Company. See also "Recipes From the Western States Mission," by Sister Romney, page 308. Contest Announcements—1960 CONTESTS CLOSE AUGUST 15, 1960 HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest arc conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Wen Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. Sliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1960. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize............---.-----$40 Second prize.....2-.--2-2-----$30 Third prize.........-..-.------$20 Prize poems will be published in the January 1961 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birthmonth of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relicf Society General Board and emplovees of the Relief Society General Board. Page 290 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. The poem must not excced fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. ) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5- No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. E. That it has never been published. D. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again cligible to enter the contest. CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS—1960 g. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Message or theme 291 b. Form and pattern c. Rhythm and meter d. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1960. 11, All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Relief Society Short Story Contest HE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1960 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1960. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize.......2-2-2-22------$75 Second prize «2.2.2.2...$60 Third prize..............-..-$50 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1961. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. 'The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of the words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is writen the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 292 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the english department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreements among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style g. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1960. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. ¢ trom a Canyon Retreat Pansye H. Powell O God, from concrete streets and brick-lined squares We come to thee, Laying beside thy purling stream our cares, For one day free. Between these cottonwoods we see thy sky A clearer blue; This flowering verdure that thy brook flows by Takes deeper hue. The smallest canyon rock, the aspened peaks That, encircling, tower, Witness thy presence, and each one bespeaks Thy unmatched power. Now over all thy peace broods like a dove Upon her nest; And not a jarring sound disturbs what love Has surely blessed. May beauty, peace, and rest we find today Be truly thine, That when we leave here we may take away Something divine! Orchids in the Snow CHAPTER | Rosa Lee Lloyd eyes, stretched her arms, and looked dreamily at her beloved bedroom. Frothy white curtains crisscrossed her window where the early morning sun was a pinkish mist; a golden filigree tray with perfume bottles glistened on her ivory dressing table, and the long French mirror with the pink taffeta bow at the top, completed the room especially designed for an adored twenty-oneyear-old daughter. Suddenly her face crumpled and she covered it with her hands. 'Tears came achingly. She was going away. She was leaving all these precious things and the people she loved; her twinkling, witty mother, her big, generous-hearted dad, and Kenny, her fifteen-year-old brother who was a teasing rascal at times but adorable anyway, really adorable. And Aunt Jewel, too. Dear, thoughtful Aunt Jewel. She could not bear to leave them. And yet, she was overjoyed to go! Today was her wedding day! Her dark eyes flew to the Dresden clock on her bed table. Six o'clock. In two hours she would be in the temple. In exactly twelve hours she would be standing beside her husband, Samuel David Wynter, in front of the rose-banked mantle downstairs in the living room. By this time tomorrow morning they would be on their way to Sun Valley for their honeymoon. A little sigh of joy whispered through her tears. Two weeks alone with Sam in beautiful S HARON Haskell opened her Sun Valley before they flew to Alaska where they would make their home. Sam had accepted a position as instructor in the engineering school at the University of Alaska in Fairbanks. A little tremor of apprehension went over Sharry. Aunt Jewel had warned her that there was a housing shortage in Fairbanks and that living conditions were very different from those in Salt Lake City. But she refused to worry about it. Aunt Jewel, she thought tenderly, didn't have children of her own, so she had given Sharry and Kenny all her pent-up motherly affection. She was a professional nurse and had cared for her parents until they died last winter. Sharry's engagement, her bridal parties, her temple marriage this morning, and her wedding reception tonight had given Aunt Jewel the joy of her lifetime to be a part of it all. She lived in Sharry's romance and happiness. Everyone in the ward loved Aunt Jewel, Sharon thought, and everyone hoped that she would marry some fine man now that she was free from the family burden she had carried since she was a young girl. Aunt Jewel was only forty-four, two years younger than Daddy, who was her brother. She was still slender and queenly fair, especially in her white cap and uniform. Sharry wished Aunt Jewel would go to ward parties and have fun instead of working so hard all day and staying home every night. "You need a change, Jewel," Page 293 294 Mama had said one day last week. "You must reach out for happiness and love." "T know," Aunt Jewel had answered. "I know I should go out more, Mary. But there is so much to do, so many sick people who need me. Then I'm too tired at night for parties." Mama had nodded, understandingly. "You've been so loyal, Jewel. So self-sacrificing. But now—please go out more, meet new people. Have some of the things you deserve. You've earned a little happiness, dear." "But I am happy, Mary!" Aunt Jewel had protested. "I love my work—it is everything to me." Mama had smiled her knowing little smile. "No woman can be completely happy who hasn't known love, Jewel," she said. "Give yourself a chance for that happiness." Re ok Kk ok OW Sharon pressed her tear-wet eyes with the palms of her hands, then reached for Sam's picture on her bed table. Why did she love him so deeply? She asked herself, wonderingly. He wasn't exactly handsome. His red hair was too bushy. Even last week when he was honor guest at the dinner his fellow engineers had given for him, he was very wellgroomed in his new dark suit, but his hair was a red bush. She had never seen him in a hat. Did engineers wear hats in Alaska? She wondered, or fur caps or ear muffs? And would Sam's bounce off his head because of his hair? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 Her finger lovingly traced the outline of his nose in the picture, still a little crooked where a baseball bat had struck him when he was ten. But his eyes are wonderful, Sharon thought, blue and honest and genuine. And she loved the wide, generous curve of his mouth. "That boy will always be good to you," Mama had told her when they became engaged in April. "He has good eyes and a kind mouth and a chin like the bow of the Queen Elizabeth. But don't push him too far, Sharry. Don't pout and want your own way all the time. Men with bushed-up red hair and chins like that have a will of their own, even when they love as tenderly as Sam does." Yes, she thought, Mama is right. Sam has a will of his own. She had seen him angry only twice in the year they had gone together, and both times had been her fault. She had sulked because he had been gone so long on a consulting job with the Twin Mining Company in Colorado. She had been jealous because his work was so important to him. From now on she would take Mama's advice and not argue with him about it. She held the picture close to her heart, remembering what her chum Marge Barlow (who was to be her maid of honor tonight) had written on the card with her wedding present: "May your life together be a path of roses." Oh, Marge, she thought, as she placed the picture back on the bed table and put on her robe, our life will be a path of roses. How can it help being so when we love each other? Sam is the man who carries my world on his shoulders. ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW knock on the door brought her head up sharply. That would be Mama, of course. "Come in!" she called gaily. Mama must not know she had been crying. But it was Kenny, tanned and lean in his bathing trunks. His blond hair was a damp stubble. "Hi, bride!" he called, impishly, tossing a big rubber tire wet from the pool toward her. She flopped back on the bed, struggling to hold the tire. "Kenny!" she gasped. He grinned. "Just wanted to know if you're in condition for Fairbanks, Alaska. It's rugged up there. I've been reading about that little burg you're going to live in. Or should I say ice-burg?" Sharon pushed the tire to the floor and jumped to her feet. "Take that thing out of here! Why can't you act like a gentleman on my wedding day?" Kenny sat down on_ her satin slipper chair and looked around the room. "Think PI make this my workshop when you're gone. [I can repair television sets right in this room." "Kenny — please. Don't be so mean," she coaxed. "This will always be my room. You know that. This is my home, you are my brother, and I love you even though you are unbearable." "Your home will be Fairbanks, Alaska, after today,' he insisted. "Fairbanks, Alaska, where you can have a big gray wolf for a pet, while Sam is off on his snowshoes searching for gold mines in the white icy spaces." "Wait until 'm gone. You'll 295 wish you had said something nice to me," Sharon insisted. "Like what?" he teased. "You might say I have been a sweet sister to you," she answered patiently. "You might remember certain little favors I've done while you were growing up. I'll remember every little thing about you, Kenny. The first day you went to school when you were six and I was thirteen, and you cried before Mama came in and I didn't tell about it." He jumped to his feet. "Kid stuff!" he scoffed. "Sisters always think they're so grown-up. Does Sam know that you cry when you're alone in the dark or when your hands get cold? Does he know ou've never been away from home without Mom or Dad or me?" "Oh, you! Sam wants me just the way I am." His young eyes sobered. "Sam is twenty-nine," he said, as though he had been thinking it over. "He's used to roughing it on long, hard engineering jobs. He's used to living in a trailer or a tent. He'll expect a real woman to keep house for him, and what'll he get? A doll baby who doesn't even iron her own blouses!" "Why, Kenny Haskell! You get out of here right now or I'll call Mama." "That's right," he teased again. "Call Mama. You always call for Mama. Who'll you call for in Alaska?" He lifted the tire and opened the door. "You better wake up," he added significantly. "This book I'm reading says that part of Alaska where engineers go is our last fronticr. You might have to live on caribou 296 meat or clean fish or shoot bears. And learn to can moose, because beefsteak is three dollars a pound up there!" "Don't be ridiculous!" — she laughed, but her heart turned over and was suddenly very quiet. Somewhere deep inside of her she remembered that Sam had said how high the cost of living was in Alaska. "It won't be an easy life, darling. And you may have to stay alone at times while I'm away on consulting trips. Alaska's great mining and metalurgical resources are of great value to the country. Some of my work will be secret. But we'll work it out, sweetheart. We'll have each other and that's what counts." ENNY closed the door with a little bang. She stood there listening as he bounced the tire down the hallway. Then she realized that Kenny was worried about her going to Alaska. His impishness was just an act to hide the real way he felt. He had even taken time to read books about the place where she and Sam would live. That was more than she had done, she thought with a guilty pang. She had been too happy and too busy preparing her trousseau, having her announcement party, and arranging for the wedding reception after their marriage which would be in the temple this morning. Her eyes went quickly to the clock. Almost six-thirty. She didn't have time to worry over what Kenny had said about wolves or snowshoes or caribou meat or cleaning fish. She must bathe and dress and brush her hair until it shone like a black pony's coat. That was how Sam described her hair and she loved the way he looked at her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 when he said it; as though he was marrying the most beautiful girl in the world and nothing else mattered. Kk oo ok of T six o'clock that evening, Sharon walked down the stairway. Everything was crystal white and beautiful. She could hardly breathe for the lump in her throat. Fresh dewy flowers smiled at her from everv nook and corner of the downstairs She met Sam's eyes and took her place in the reception line by his side. "My wife!" he whispered in his deep, tender voice. "I love you, darling." All the glory of love was in his eyes as they met hers. "My husband," she whispered back, "I love you, too." This was the moment she had dreamed of and planned for ever since the night in April when she had promised to be his wife. This was the dream come true. Smiling, gracious guests streamed past the wedding party saying the chosen words of praise that every bride and groom love to hear and remember. Soft music from the string trio on the patio was a lullaby of enchantment. Sharry's heart lifted and sang with the joy of it all. No night had ever been so beautiful, no bride had ever been so loved and loving. She closed her eyes in a wave of gratitude to her Heavenly Father. She would remember every moment of her wedding day forever and ever. Sharon started in surprise. Kenny was standing before them. He looked very grown-up in his dark trousers and cream-colored coat. ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW Even his black bow tie was perfectly straight. "There's a call from Alaska, Sam," she heard him say. "Some man from the University wants to talk to you. He says it's very important." Sam's heavy brows drew together as he looked at Sharry. "Sorry, darling. You'll have to excuse me a minute." "But, Sam!" she touched his arm. "You can't leave now. You can't." "T have to," he said simply. "No one would call me unless it was an emergency. P Sharry's eyes widened as she watched him walk away. How could he do such a thing at their w edding reception with dozens of people watching them! How could he leave her at a time like this? Marge Barlow, her maid of honor, slipped her arm around her. "Take it easy, hon,' she coaxed. "He'll be back." "T could die, Marge," she said, tightly, "just for an old telephone eal." "But it must have been urgent," Marge insisted. "You married a man who has a job to do, remember?" HARRY felt her anger mounting in her. Sam always put his work and duty above everything. But now he had a wife and she must come first. She would insist that Sam not answer their telephone while they were on their honeymoon in Sun Valley. She glanced at others in the line. Of course they were wondering why Sam had left her like this. Daddy and Mama were whispering together with Sam's parents, and there was a ripple among the bridesmaids. 297 Marge nudged her. "Now be good," "Tere he comes." "That didn't take long," he said, as he took his place in time to greet the Sherman Browns. After they had moved on, Sam turned to Sharry. His blue eyes were serious. "Listen, honey, I wish this could wait, but it can't. 'There is a special meeting for all mining and metalurgical engineers scheduled for next Saturday. We'll have to leave on the first plane out of here. 'The mecting is of national importance." Sharry felt the words beating against her heart. Sam was telling her they must give up their honeymoon in Sun Valley! "No!" she heard herself saying in a strange, tense voice. "You promised, Sam. 'Two weeks alone in Sun Valley. You promised!" "Look at me, darling,' he pleaded. "You know I want those two weeks as much as you do. Do you think this is easy for me?" She could not answer. Flickered away from his, and her mouth drooped into a pout. Then she saw Mama looking at_ her, warningly. It was as though she was saying: "Don't pout or want your own way all the time. Don't push him too far, Sharry." She took a long, quivering breath as she turned her eves back to Sam. "It's all right," she said. "I — understand how it is." "That's my sweetheart!' he sighed gratefully. "I knew you would be a real trooper, honey. ['ll make it up to you. You know I will!" "T know, to smile. She swallowed hard. She coaxed. Fer cyes dear," she said, trying Sam must 298 not see her cry, she thought bravely. She must live up to what he expected of his wife. She had to learn how to be a real wife now. He was her husband and she loved him with all her heart. But her hands trembled as she pressed her bouquet against her breast. "I hope I catch your bouquet," Marge whispered. "It's almost time to throw it, Sharry." Sharry's hands closed possessively around it. She wanted to keep it fresh and lovely like this forever. Some brides didn't throw their bouquets any more, so why should she? It was an old-fashioned custom, and she didn't want to do it. A half hour later as she started up the stairway, she was still holding it closely. The rooms were crowded with guests. She could feel the eyes of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 everyone on her, especially the yearning eyes of the bridesmaids and the unmarried women. She turned slowly. She must share her happiness. Mama and Daddy had taught her that when she was a little girl. Maybe if she threw her bouquet it might make someone very happy, hoping to be the next bride. Sharon lifted it high above her head, calling gaily as she threw it into the crowd below: "Here it comes, lucky you!" There was a grasp of wonder. Sharry stared down at the upturned faces. Pale, golden Aunt Jewel, her eyes like newborn stars, was holding Sharry's bouquet in both hands as though she couldn't believe anything so wonderful could happen to her! (To be continued) Mlother Linnie F. Robinson This hour has not come suddenly, but slow And steady paced. The clock divides my life Into small intervals, and by these I know The outline of your days as mother—wife. For time is measured by remembered things, And by events where children grow— And things less tangible through faith alone, But things that children need to know. I never knew if doubt assailed your day, Or if discouragement pressed like a sword; You taught us how to labor and to pray And helped us want to learn and keep his word. I knew security through your blessed eyes, And if I follow you I will be wise. Second Baby Dorothy S. Romney ELGA hummed a small tune as she went about the task of putting fresh linen on young Mrs. Sturm's bed. It wasn't that she was so happy that early afternoon, but more to keep up her courage, that she sang. She stopped for a moment in front of the open window to view the landscape, now bright with spring blossoms. Spring is spring, she thought, and saw the daffodils nod their agreement in the slight breeze — and always just as new every year. Her thoughts came back to her present problems. She had taken this case with misgivings. "TIL not be taking the Sturm case," she had told Dr. Merritt, when she'd heard Laura Sturm was expecting a second baby. "My methods are much too old-fashioned — she would never put up with the likes of me." Helga liked her patients to be happy. "Now, Helga," the doctor had cajoled her, patting her ample shoulder, "'you're not going to let one young woman scare you out, are you? Not after twenty years of successfully caring for the new mothers of our town, and bringing up six fine children of your own?" He looked at her over the top of his glasses in a way he had. A younglooking forty-one, Helga suspected this was a trick he had invented to appear older and sterner to his patients. When she didn't say anything, but simply stood, looking doubtful, the doctor continued: "Just because Laura Sturm is a registered nurse is no reason to back down. You'll see that the old and the new methods mix very well — although Laura is a bit on the strict side," he added, honestly. "All right, PI try." Helga had thrown up her hands, helplessly. She might have known she couldn't refuse a case for Dr. Merritt. "Good," Dr. Merritt had said, with a twinkle in his eye, "I was sure I could count on you." So here Helga was, firmly entrenched in the Sturm household, with the new mother expected home within a few hours. In spite of all her past experience, Helga was fluttery as a mother hen trailing her first brood of chicks. When the bed was made up to her satisfaction, Helga tiptoed into the nursery to make sure that fouryear-old Jimmie was safely asleep for his nap. "Looks like a wee, pink angel," she murmured. She had discovered in the three days she had been caring for Jimmie, that this wasn't quite the case — that he was as full of energy and capable of as much mischief as any sturdy child his age. He was curled up in a soft little ball; one chubby hand was tucked under his cheek, and a halo of yellow curls was framed on the pale pink of the freshly ironed pillowcase. ELGA heard the back door open and went into the kitchen. It was Fred, Laura's husband, and he Page 299 300 had a load of groceries in a box which he set down on the table. "Yello, Helga, how are things going?" he asked "Why, just fine," she answered. He was easy-going and affable, and Helga had taken an immediate liking to him, and had at once felt comfortable in his presence. "My wife and the new baby will be home at about five o'clock this evening,' he announced proudly. "I hope everything will be to her liking." Helga had heard from several sources that Laura was not only strict with Jimmie, but most particular about her housekeeping. "Oh, I'm sure it will be,' he answered quickly. "I had a house to show out this way, and thought Pd drop in with some groceries. I'll see you tonight." He went out and closed the door quietly. "Such a nice young man," Helga remarked. As yet she hadn't met Laura Sturm, a comparative newcomer to town. She had come to the Sturm home a few hours after Laura had left for the hospital, but from the list of things to do tacked up on the kitchen bulletin board, Helga decided the reports of Laura weren't exaggerated. "My land," she declared, as she took another look at the list, "I wouldn't be surprised if she put starch in her own bath water." Being clean was fine, but to Helga's way of thinking, there was a limit to everything. The house looked spotless, and since there was nothing more to do tight now, Helga decided she would rest for a moment. She sat down in the living room and picked up a Relief Society Magazine from the tabletop. She depended on_ her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 Magazine for guidance in the little, everyday things of life, as well as the bigger issues, and was glad to see that Laura was numbered among the Magazine's subscribers. Helga had taken but two deep breaths and opened the cover, when she heard Jimmie in the nursery. My goodness, she thought, he even wakes up with a bang. She gave him cookies and milk in the patio, then let him play in the sand box outside. He'll get rid of some of that excess energy, she told herself. But he quickly tired of this and came in demanding that Helga read a story. She found a rhyming book, and they were just comfortably settled when Jimmie cried "Mommie, Mommie." Sure enough, Helga saw a car draw up in front of the house. She hadn't realized that it was nearing five o'clock. She hurried to the door and accepted the baby from Fred, who then went back to the car to assist his wife. HE baby was sweet and healthy looking, and Helga took him into her heart immediately, as she did all her charges. He was comfortably asleep. She was careful not to awaken him as she put him down gently in his crib. He'll be no trouble, she told herself. Laura and Fred came in. Helga looked at Laura, and her heart melted within her. This was not at all the starched person she had expected to see. The curve of her mouth was sweet, as she smiled a bit weakly at Helga, and her brown eyes were gentle looking. She did smell slightly too anti- SECOND BABY septic, but that was probably due to her stay in the hospital. Jimmie bounded over and threw his arms around his mother's knees. "Not now, darling," she said, "let Mother get settled, then she'll have some time for you — and don't touch the baby." Helga saw his lower lip tremble, as he turned and ran into the nursery. The poor lamb, she thought, he's waited all day. She almost forgot him in the bustle and hurry of getting the new patient settled. Fred had gone out on a late appointment, and after giving Laura a light supper, Helga supervised the baby's feeding. She had little time to think of anything else until Laura suddenly asked: "Where's Jimmie?" Helga's heart sank. "Must be in the nursery," she replied, and made an immediate departure in that direction. He was there, all right, curled up in a little heap in the middle of the bed and sobbing. "Go 'way," he cried, when he saw Helga approaching. "There, there," Helga's arms went about the little figure, as he yielded to her comforting tone. She had him at once ensconced on her ample lap in the rocking chair. "Jimmie," his mother "come here to me." "No, I won't," was his answer. "Jimmie," in a more severe tone. Helga put him down, took his hand, and gently led him into his mother's bedroom. "IT want no more of this crying," Laura began. "You're the big brother now, and you'll love the baby just as much as we do, once you get used to him." called, 301 Oh, dear, thought Helga, that's all wrong. He's too young to understand what she means. He needs love and reassurance, not an explanation. "Put him to bed, until he can behave," Laura said, her face suddenly too pale. Helga closed the nursery door, grateful for a chance to try to comfort the boy. She once more took him onto her lap and rocked him. In a short time the crying ceased and he was fast asleep. QHE put him down on the bed, threw a light cover over him, then went quietly into the kitchen through the hall. There was still dinner to be served to Mr. Sturm. He came in presently, looking very tired. Helga served him his meal in the breakfast room, and sat down with him to eat her own. After greeting Helga he inquired about his wife and the baby. "Haven't heard a sound in there for the past half hour," Helga answered him. "I believe they are both asleep." "How did Jimmie like the new brother?" he asked presently. "He got no more than a peck at him," was her evasive answer. Mr. Sturm looked tired enough, she decided, without having to worry over the fact that his son had cried himself to sleep. "Laura tries so hard to be a good mother," he began, then stopped. Helga longed to say something comforting, but couldn't find quite the right words. "If she could just learn to relax," were his next faltering words. "You see, she herslf was brought up by distant relatives who were far too 302 busy to pay her much attention, or even to take her to church...." "Mommie, Mommie,' Jimmie called just then. "Tl fetch him," said Helga. She brought Jimmie into the kitchen. He was rosy-cheeked and smiling, and apparently had forgotten that there was an usurper to be dealt with. "Hi, young man," his father greeted him, and then asked in a quieter tone of voice, "how do you like your new brother?" It was very still in the wide kichen. "He's not my brother," Jimmie finally declared. "Come here, son," his father said. He took Jimmie onto his lap. "What say we let mother take care of the new baby, and you and I will take care of each other? After all, we're the men of the family." He waited, tensely. A long silence followed, in which Helga wondered if Fred fully realized how impossible it was for a four-year-old to give up his mother. "No," Jimmie protested, fighting hard to keep back the tears, "I'm not a man, I'm a little boy." Helga longed to take him in her arms, but all she did was give him some bread and butter. "Come now," she said cheerfully, "sit over here and eat, then Helga'll tread you a story before you go back to bed." This served as a diversion, and the stiff little body relaxed somewhat. He moved to his own chair and began eating. Soon father and son were chatting happily away together. Now that's what I like to see, Helga told herself, as she went about the task of clearing up the supper things. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 Tomorrow she would corner Dr. Merritt and see if he could help her with this problem. Ok ok ok ELGA didn't see Dr. Merritt the next day, however. He called and inquired about his patient, then told Helga there was a slight outbreak of "flu" in town and he'd be kept busy. "Let Laura get up for an hour or so today," he told her. She couldn't bother him with her problem now, with an epidemic on his hands. It was while she was on her way back to the bedroom that she got her idea. It might cost her her reputation as a reliable nurse, at least in Laura's opinion, but it was well worth trying. Accordingly, after Fred had gone to work, Helga gave Jimmie his color book and crayons on the kitchen table. She needed to keep him there. So far he had refused all invitations to visit the newcomer. As the baby's bathtime drew near, Helga wondered if she had the courage to go through with her plan. One look at Jimmie's forlorn little figure convinced her that she did, however. "Tl take the bathinette into the kitchen and give the baby his bath out there," she told Laura, with quickened heartbeat. "It's warmer. Pll put your chair out there — doctor's orders are that you get up today." "Well, all right," Laura agreed, slowly. Helga arranged everything as quickly as possible. Out of the corner of her eye she saw Jimmie making furtive glances in the direction of the activity. She almost held SECOND BABY her breath for fear he would bolt before her purpose was accomplished. Helga had the baby undressed and all ready to bathe. "Dear me," she said, and hoped her tone sounded convincing to Laura, "I've forgotten the washcloth." "Tl hold him while you get it," Laura said, a trifle impatiently. "No, no, Jimmie can run and get it for me," said Helga. Jimmie looked up at the sound of his name. "Please Jimmie, Helga needs your help," she said. "Bring me that washcloth from Mother's room. It's right there on that little table." yeeMIE slowly laid down his crayon, went into the bedroom, and returned with the washcloth, handed it to Helga, and went back to his coloring without a word. "Thank you, darling," she said. "Gracious me," she said shortly, "how can I ever be so forgetful today? Jimmie, will you run into the bedroom and get that can of baby powder? On the table where you found the washcloth, and it has a big red cross on it. You can't miss it." This time Jimmie didn't hesitate. He was in and out of the bedroom in no time, and instead of going back to his table, he stood a few feet away from the bathinette and watched. "Thank you, Jimmie,' "you're a real helper." She looked at him, and his face was radiant. He stood very still, as if not daring to breathe. There was just one more article she had forgotten to bring out of " Helga said, 303 the bedroom. That was the baby's clean blanket. She was beginning to lose courage. Laura must know by this time that she was up to something — either that, or she would think Helga was the most inefficient practical nurse in Plumas County. She looked at Laura. Laura's eyes were fixed on Jimmie, as though she were seeing him for the first time. "Come over here and see mother, Jimmie dear." Laura's voice was soft and controlled. Jimmie ran to his mother. Laura's eyes met Helga's over the top of her son's head. A look of complete understanding passed between them. After that there was a long, blissful interval, with Helga still fussing over the now peacefully sleeping baby, and Jimmie and Laura comfortably talking it out together in each other's arms. Helga looked at them and sighed. Her mind went back to those first years after her husband, Ned, had died. She recalled the many times she might have been completely lost had it not been for the strength of her Church teachings, the things she learned in Relief Society, and an occasional talk with her kindly bishop. At that very moment she appointed herself official Grandmother to the Sturm family. She would see that Laura had plenty of time to attend her meetings. We'll grow wise together, she thought with a smile. 'There's always something new and interesting to learn. She picked up the baby carefully. Pll just have to fetch my own blanket, she thought happily. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1900 "For THE RiGHTs OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RicnTs oF THE WOMEN oF ALL Nations" VOLUME TWENTY-EIGHT: This numbcr of the paper closes Volume 28 and our patrons and fricnds of the dear little home paper are reminded that it is a good tine to renew subscriptions.... The women of Zion are greatly indebted to the Exponent for aid in their undertakings in organizations and industries and many other ways too numerous to mention.... There is no good reason in these days of prosperity why the sisters should not patronize their own paper. One dollar a year; they would never feel it, it does not amount to ten cents a month, nor yet two cents a week; and vet the dear sisters who do appreciate the paper often say there are single articles... That are worth more than a dollar to them. —Hditonal BRIGHAM YOUNG'S BIRTHDAY: The ninety-ninth anniversary of Brigham Young's birthday (June 1, 1801) is to be made a day of rejoicing and elaborate ceremony, and it is eminently fitting that it should be so, that all the people of Utah and the adjoining country may remember this great, good and wise man who builded not only for his own people and followers but for the world and generations yet to come; who opened up the desert and cultivated the land and colonized in the midst of this... Uninhabited region.... —E. B. W. EMBRYO I feel a pocm in my heart tonight A still thing growing; As if the darkness to the outer light A song were owing... A something vague, and sweet, and sad; Fair, fragile, slender; Not tearful, yet not daring to be glad, And oh! So tender.... —Lydia D. Alder REPORT FROM MARICOPA STAKE AT GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY: The first speaker was Pres. M. A. Hakes, Maricopa Stake, she reported the society throughout in good condition and the sisters full of good works. 'We live a long way from headquarters, we have to travel [hundreds of miles] to come to Conference. In our place we have only one hundred and thirty white people and six hundred Lamanites. 'The government has established a school for them and erected a fine building.... We have many young women who have joined our society. We have to seal up our wheat in tin cans in order to keep it.... —E. B. Wells, Sec. ADVERTISEMENT: 90% of American women wash dishes three times a day. If you are one of these, wear a pair of "Goodyear" Rubber Gloves and always have soft, white hands. Sent by mail postpaid, on receipt of $1.59. Agents wanted. M. F. Reese Supply Co., Setauket, N. Y. Page 304 ROWN PRINCESS MICHIIKO, of Japan, the twenty-fiveyear-old commoner with whom Crown Prince Akihito fell in love on the tennis courts, gave birth to a son, heir apparent to the Japanese throne, on February twenty-third. The nation rejoiced and all street cars hoisted rising sun flags. 'Thousands of "Banzais" were shouted. EAN BROWNING MADEIRA, American-born diva, is now the leading contralto of the Metropolitan Opera Company, New York City. She has also appeared at La Scala in Milan, at the Brussels World Fair, and in Vienna, Bayreuth, and other citics. She is particularly famous for her roles as Carmen, and as Amneris in "Aida." N the Winter Olympic Games at Squaw Valley, California, Maria Gusakova, Liubov Baranova, and Radya Eroshina—all Russians—won the gold, silver, and bronze medals, respectively, in the women's crosscountry skiing contest. In downhill women's skiing, Heidi Biebel, of Germany, won the gold medal; Penelope Pitou, of the United States, the silver; and Traudl Hechel, of Austria, the bronze. In the giant slalom, Penelope Pitou of the United States, lost to Yvonne Ruegg, of Switzerland by one-tenth of a second. In the ladies' skating, Carol Heiss, of the United Statcs, Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon won the gold medal, with Sjoukje Dykstra, of the Netherlands, winning the silver, and Barbara Roles, of the United States, the bronze medal. PRINCESS MARGARET ROSE of Great Britain, sister of Queen Elizabeth II, is engaged to Anthony Armstrong-Jones. 'The fiance is an artist-photographer who has taken many pictures of the royal family. The Queen and the people in general seem to approve highly of the match. LIZABETH JENKINS, English novelist and biographer, is the author of Jane Austen (Grosset and Dunlap Publishers), an authoritative and scholarly study of the life and works of Jane Austen who ls regarded by many critics as Tngland's greatest woman novelist. [er literary accomplishments are vividly etched against the background of her times (1775-1817). ESSAMYN WEST is a Quaker wife, mother, and writer, whose collection of short stories about Quakers, The Friendly Persuasion, is delightful reading, especially helpful in giving an insight into the hearts of this people who have made a great contribution to the life of America. Jessamyn West writes with delicacy, artistry, and deep poignancy. Page 305 GD EDITORIAL c#m© VOL. 47 Wife and Mlother mother in the home has the dual role of being a mother to her children and a wife to her husband, and each must be fulfilled well, if the children are to be given the most satisfactory rearing. There are two things, at least, of which children are keenly aware. To a voung child his world seems bounded by his mother's smile or frown but, at the same time, as he grows, the atmosphere of the home may cause him to rest in security or shrink within himself as a protection from an undefined feeling of the clashing of wills and interests. Sometimes a mother who is giving loving and tender care to her children may not realize their sensitivity to the relationship between herself and her husband. A wife who studies the desires of her husband and seeks to make his home a place of joy and comfort to him is, at the same time, establishing an atmosphere of love and understanding in the home which will give the feeling of security she wishes her children to have. The world seems a piace of dread to a child who hears quarreling or bitter words between his dear parents, or who hears his mother criticize his father or the father criticizes the mother. It is not sufficient to give attention to a husband until children arrive and then decide that the attention from henceforth will be devoted to the children. 'The Prophet Joseph Smith at an early meeting of Relief Society: Page 306. Exhorted the sisters always to concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in their husbands whom God has appointed for them to honor.... You need not be teasing your husbands because of their deeds, but let the weight of your innocence, kindness, and affection be felt, which is more mighty than a millstone hung about the neck; not war, not jangle, not contradiction, or dispute, but meekness, love, purity — these are the things that should magnify you in the eyes of all good men. Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur—if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness (D. H. C. IV, pp. 604-605; 606-607.) It may not be easy for a young wife to follow the words of the Prophet, but the more nearly she conforms and overcomes her own selfish interests the more joy she will have. The Prophet spoke eternal truth and a humble acceptance of his words and a growing obedience to them, bring their own reward. If a young Latter-day Saint wife prepares herself for the proper relationship toward her husband from the time of their temple marriage by obeying this advice from the Prophet of the Lord, she will create a home atmosphere in which her children may develop righteously and be favored to develop their MAY 1960 NO. 5 EDITORIAL potentialities. With a wife maintaining this attitude of love and understanding, the husband will usually reciprocate with love and understanding, and a sure foundation for marriage will begin to be established which will grow in stability and strength with the passing years — a foundation on which their children may rest secure, providing them with assurance to solve their own problems as they arise. 307 Part — and a basic part of being a proper mother includes the proper husband-wife relationship. The father provides the physical shelter for his family, but only he and the wife together can provide the proper atmosphere of the home. Into a home of love permeated by consideration the spirit of the Lord will be invited to dwell, to lead family members into all righteousness. —M. C. S. Your Sacred Presence Caroline Eyring Miner Sweet memories like scented flowers now Bring back your sacred presence once again. And I can feel your cool hand on my brow As I was wont to in my childhood when A fever raged. At sunset when the sky Is golden, I can hear you say, "Take note How gold shames garish red, and ever try To be demure and modest.'"" Once you wrote Above my mirror so I'd surely see, "Be true to self, my daughter; you will find Respect from others starts with you." Your knee Became my altar where I learned the kind Of faith that set me on the narrow way And helps me know my Maker when I pray. My Gifts May H. Marsh Before me lie the lovely gifts That came on Mother's Day— The silken scarf, the stone-set pin, The scented rose bouquet. And with each gift a little card, With words, "I love you so, Your life has been my guiding star That led the way to go." I gaze again—the silken scarf May be threadbare some day; Rose petals wither, fall, and die, And luster fades away. But gifts of love, from heart to heart, So like a golden tie, Bind love on earth, live on and on— Such gifts can never die. Recipes trom the Western "States iltsston Submitted by Daisy R. Romney WESTERN Rocky Mountain Ratnsow Trout 12 oz. Trout, 8 to 10 0z., 2 eggs when boned 24 cup milk corn meal or flour Clean trout, season with salt and pepper, then dip in corn meal or flour. Then, if desired, dip from flour to light batter of eggs and milk mixed together well. Saute in bacon fat or oil, placing the skinned side up, if boned, for even browning, but place skinned side down on serving plate. Serve with julienne almonds. Blanch almonds in boiling water, remove to cold water and skin. Sliver with knife and brown evenly in butter. Add lemon juice and a little salt. Place down the center of the trout. Serve with parsley, drawn butter, and bacon strips. To bone trout: With a sharp knife start from head, slip under rib bone, work down the bone to back bone, to tail. Start on the other side and with the knife, do the same, clip bone off, leaving head and tail in place. Open trout out flat and prepare as above. SLIcES OF CoLorADO BEEF TENDERLOIN (Created for President Eisenhower during his stay at the Summer White House) 3 Ibs. Colorado beef tenderloin, sliced 6 green onions, fiinely chopped 12 baby carrots 1 Ib. Mushrooms, sliced % |b. Butter or substitute % clove garlic % c. Cooking oil Melt butter and oil in hot frying pan. Season slices of beef with salt and pepper and brown them in the hot mixture, so that beef is still rare. Remove beef to baking dish. In frying pan, simmer onions, garlic, and mushrooms for five minutes. Demiglace ingredients: 1 Ib. Veal bones 1 stock celery 1 lb. Beef bones 1 large onion i large carrot Cut vegetables into small pieces, and add: 1 bay leaf 1 c. Cooking oil % c. Flour 1 bunch parsley or stems, cut fine Put oil in roasting pan, add beef and veal bones and vegetables. Roast for twenty minutes, uncovered, at 350° Add flour, bay leaf, parsley, and cook until brown. Add one gallon water, salt and pepper, cook until fluid is reduced to one quart. Strain. Add the one quart of demiglace and simmer one hour. Pour the sauce over slices of beef; lay the carrots (cooked until tender and buttered) on top of beef. Heat and serve. Yield: six servings. Page 308 RECIPES FROM THE WESTERN STATES MISSION 309 Cotorapo Rocky Forp CANTALOUPE SALAD (Grown only in this area and a favorite with the people) Cut Cantaloupe in half. Remove seeds and crisscross or ruffle edges. Fill with Colorado fresh peaches, sliced or in balls, seedless grapes, banana slices, pincapple chunks, or other seasonable fruits, such as strawberries. 'Top with a sprig of mint. Chill and serve with a Princess Dressing. Princess Dressing is made by using a mayonnaise base, adding a small amount of currant or grape jelly for color, and folding in whipped cream flavored with honey to suit taste. BaxEeD CoLorabo Pinto BEANS 2 c. Pinto beans 1 tsp. Mustard Y% |b. Rind of pork salt to taste 4 tbsp. Molasses onion, if desired Cook beans until almost soft. Score the salt pork rind and place in the bottom of a casserole. Cover with the beans, molasses, mustard, a little salt, and onion, if desired. Put remaining salt pork on top with rind up. Cover dish and bake slowly for several hours, adding more water if necessary. Near the end of baking time, remove cover, and brown on top. Cook beans in soaking water to save the vitamin B! Or thiamine. Variation: Pour a tomato sauce over the pinto beans previously cooked with the salt pork. Sauce is made by cooking stewed tomatoes with a few celery leaves, bay leaf, or other seasoning. Strain and thicken with 2 tbsp. Butter and 2 tbsp. Flour to lc. Strained tomatoes. Mix together and bake until heated through. 'Top with grated cheese and brown. Mize-Hicuw Caxe Recipes—s,280 FEET ALTITUDE Burnt-Sugar Cake "' c. Shortening 2% c. Sifted cake flour 1% c. Sugar 1% tsp. Baking powder 2 egg yolks % tsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Burnt sugar syrup % c. Cold water 1 tsp. Vanilla 2 egg whites, "4 c. Sugar Cream shortening and sugar, add beaten egg yolks, add sifted flour, baking powder, salt, vanilla, alternating with cold water and burnt sugar syrup. Beat egg whites until foamy, adding % c. Sugar and beat until stiff. Fold into batter. Bake in two 9" layer pans, greased and floured, at 375° oven for 25 to 30 minutes. Burnt sugar syrup: Stir and melt slowly in skillet, one-half cup sugar. Allow it to brown slightly. Add one-half cup boiling water and cook until smooth. Cool before using. For cake flour: Add two tablespoons corn starch to one cup of all-purpose flour and sift thoroughly. 310 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 WHITE CAKE % ¢. Shortening 1% c. Sugar lc, minus 1 tbsp. Milk 4 egg whites 2 c. Sifted cake flour 2 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Vanilla Soften shortening, add sugar gradually, then add dry ingredients, alternating with milk. Beat egg whites stiff, but not dry. Fold carefully into batter, add vanilla. In two round 8" greased cake pans, lined with greased wax paper. 30 to 35 minutes. Bake Bake at 375° for The Golden Years Maggie Tolman Porter HE full life of a man is conT sidered to be three score and ten. If we accept this as standard, then all the years above seventy, we shall call the Golden Years. Just how are we to spend this precious bonus? Far too many of us spend it in self-pity, discouragement, vain regrets; and too many of us dwell only in the past, with no plans for the present or the future. When we have no longer a goal to reach, no ambition to achieve, no interests to take our time and efforts, we may become senile, for we cannot remain static. We must progress, or we retrogress. In simple words, if we wish to keep all our faculties, we must use them. A muscle soon becomes weak and flabby if we cease to exercise it. So it is with the mind; if we cease to use the faculties God has given us, we retrogress. During the Golden Years life may be filled with desires to achieve and accomplish things for which one had no time while rearing sons and daughters. Then each day and hour seem shorter, more precious than the yesterdays. It seems that there is a gleam of a diamond-studded dawn as each golden day is born. 'The desire to accomplish keeps us young. This formula for growing old gracefully has been of great worth. Of greatest importance is to make your peace with God. Cherish the testimony that Jesus is the Christ, truly the Only Begotten of the Father, that he was resurrected; that we will live after death. Know that he hears and answers prayers. He may say "No" to many of our requests, because of our lack of wisdom in asking, just as we, as patents, refuse the unwise demands of our children. To have our prayers answered, we must have a positive approach, and, first and last, add ""Thy will be done, not mine alone, dear Lord." That is faith, but faith without works is dead, so the Book of Books tells us. Do everything within your THE GOLDEN YEARS power to help the Lord answer your petition. If you ask him to bless the poor, the suffering, and those in sorrow, go out and do something to help them vourself. It may be only a word of encouragement, attention to some neglected child, a loaf of fragrant home-baked bread, a glass of your favorite jelly, a telephone call to some homebound person, less fortunate than yourself, either friend or stranger. That is works. We are really old when desire is gone. A desire and will to accomplish something keep us young. Something within that driving power helps us to grow old gracefully. Don't dwell on your aches and pains and let them absorb all your thoughts and conversations. We all have ailments, and remember, they are no worse than we think they are. Don't worry and give up too much to those pains and aches. Pray for strength and courage to bear them with a minimum of complaining. They are a part of the golden years. Of importance, also, is the word service. Granted, we may not be able to do much manual service for anyone. Perhaps we are even beyond giving service to ourselves., We may be chair or bed patients. There is still service awaiting us. Write cheery letters to loved ones and to the sick and sorrowing, and to friends. 'The hand may tremble, but write anyway, or, if possible, use the typewriter. You will find it fun to peck it out with one finger, if you are not fortunate enough to have had experience in typing. The secret is: Do something for 311 someone and forget yourself and your miseries. If you are in tune with the Infinite, you will be led to write and say words of wisdom and love to comfort those whom you contact. Love is the key. Have your heart so filled with love for all mankind that there will be no room for hatred, jealousy, bitterness, discouragement, or remorse, which are all negative attributes. Fill your soul with positive ones, instead. One sad part of our golden years is that many of us must spend those years alone. Our life's companion may have been called home. 'Thrice blessed are you when you can sit in the golden gloaming, side by side. Cherish each other, be understanding, tolerant, and loving. We have been building our memories for the golden years each day of our lives. It is truly up to us what that harvest of our memories will be. They have a way of creeping upon us in our solitude. Pleasant memories bring us uncounted pleasure. Sad, regretful memories bring sorrow and tears. Our life is like a garden. We reap what we sow, whether it be joy and satisfaction, or regret and tears. Have we planted the rose of forgiveness, the bright-faced pansy of pleasant and loving thoughts, the seeds of truth and virtue and love for God and mankind? If these we have tenderly nurtured as the years have glided by, they will be joy and comfort and peace to us as we fall asleep on the Saturday eve of our last Golden Year. Standing Pat Frances C. Yost LAIR Seaton frowned at Pat, C her teenage daughter. "Well, I think you could at least dry the dishes!" "Wish I could help you, Momie darling, but I just have to get to the first game." Pat gave her a peck on the cheek and in her usual gay, carefree way, ran from the house. Alone, with her hands in the dish suds, Clair made a mental rehearsal of every move Pat had made since she breezed into the house after school. Pat had thrown down her coat, scarf, books, then turned on the radio rather loudly not to miss any of the latest "pop" tunes. Then she had spread herself a generous slice of bread, butter, peanut butter, and jam, and sat down to read the funnies, laughing occasionally above the din of the radio rock-and-roll music. Funnies read completely, Pat had pulled out the ironing board, pressed her cheerleader outfit, then shined her shoes. Then she enjoyed two prolonged telephone conversations with friends with whom she had spent the day at school. By then supper was on the table, and Pat had managed not to turn her hand toward helping. Well, this isn't going to continue, Clair thought as she bent over the sink. She just isn't going to get away with it. Pat used to be a good worker around the house, and I'll just have to see that she helps more now that she's older. Since the dishes are up to me to do alone, I might as well get going, Clair sighed. Page 312 The sigh was heard in the hving room, where her husband, Mel Seaton was reading the paper. Mel dropped his paper reluctantly and came into the kitchen. He put his arms around Clair's waist, as she stood at the sink. "Whats the matter, Momie?" Mel asked. Clair wished Mel wouldn't call her "Momie," when the children weren't around. "What's the matter, Momie?"" he repeated. Clair sighed again. "I'm just tired, I guess. Mel, do vou realize I haven't had an ounce of help from Pat since the basketball season started?" "I'm not at all surprised," Mel rejoined. "When I was on the main basketball team in high school, my family didn't sec me at all, unless they came to a game and watched me on the floor. Clair, what say we take in the game together tonight?" "Mel, don't you realize 'm worn out from doing every bit of housework myself. Anyway, I don't understand basketball as you do." "You don't have to understand all the plays to enjoy it. Just count the baskets each side puts in. Easy as that! Why you haven't seen a game all season." "But, Mel, I have the mending to do this evening and...." "The mending will keep, Clair. You're going to the game tomght and watch Patty lead the Pep Club." w OK KOO HE superintendent was giving some form of welcome as Mel and Clair Scaton walked into the STANDING PAT gymnasium. 'hey had just found seats in the center of the balcony, when their own hometown, the Lincoln High, band started plaving "America," and the spectators all arose. 'Then it was that Clair saw her. Pat came through the big front door of the gym carrying a very large silk flag. It was on a long pole, which must weigh pounds and pounds, yet Pat carried it regally, patriotically, reverently. Patty had never mentioned that she was the flag bearer. But Clair had never asked her, either. Immediately behind Pat were three girls. Yes, Clair knew them, Karen, Nancy, and Sue, the other cheerleaders. They were, like Pat, dressed in white satin full-gored dresses and wore the red school emblem on the front. The cheerleaders were prancing sort of like high-stepping horses in time to the music, and in step with Pat, a little ahead. 'To the very center of the gym Pat came with the beautiful flag flowing behind her. Then they all stood, and Pat led the whole gym full of people with the salute to the flag. Clair felt her eyes brimming, as she placed her hand over her heart. How long had it been since she herself had pledged allegiance to the flag? "One nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all."" The words were as beautiful now as she had thought them when she herself went to school. Now the game was commencing. The two teams, their own Lincoln Iligh and the opposing team, the Bickel High, were running on the floor, and everyone was cheering. The two referees in black striped suits came forward, and tossed the ball in the center of the floor. Clair 313 could see both teams were out to win. Why this was equally as exciting as a three-ring circus. Clair looked over toward the cheering section to see if she could see Pat. There she was, motioning fora cheer. What were they shouting? A tisket, a tasket, put the ball in the baskct. Come on boys pitch it in, may the best team win. Clair could hear Pat's vibrant voice above the others. May the best team win, she repeated. Why that was right sporting of them. She would have to remember to tell Pat what a nice cheer that was. 'They certainly were being good sports. About it. EL had said for her to keep her eye on the ball. She looked back and saw Lincoln High's own Max Sheldon, the big boy who played center, had the ball now. He was pitching it; it fluttered over the basket, and then dropped in. Everyone sighed. "Yea, Max! Yea, Lincoln High!" the cheering section shouted. Pat's voice was familiar to Clair above the others. Clair glanced at the scoreboard. Lincoln High had the first two points anyway. Oh, oh, Bickel High had the ball and was making. A basket. Back and forth the ten boys worked retrieving the ball, pitching it, retrieving and pitching. But Lincoln High wasn't making baskets. It was as if somcone had put an invisible lid over the Lincoln High basket and the ball just couldn't go in. Clair looked at the scoreboard. My goodness, Bickel High had passed Lincoln High! The. 314 score was ten, two. Clair wrung her handkerchief. Something had_ to be done! But Pat was doing something about it. She was leading with a cheer! We have a coach who is the best The very best coach in all the West. We have a team that's genuine. Come on boys, we've got to win. Clair wondered if the boys heard the cheering on the floor as well as she could, but they must have heard, because they immediately made a basket. Clair turned quickly to look at the scoreboard, but the score was dishcartening. Bickel High eleven, Lincoln only four. Then the whistle blew, and it was the end of the first quarter. There were Pat and the other cheerleaders stepping out farther on the floor and doing a clever routine. Clair watched them breathlessly. It was beautiful, like a ballet dance, but they were doing it to band music. 'They were singing the Lincoln High School song. Clair found herself singing along, too. A person should sing more, it was good for the soul, she thought. It was then that Pat noticed her with Mel up in the balcony. Pat smiled broadly, and waved a little personal wave of her own, special for Clair. The second quarter was beginning. The referees were holding the ball for the jump. If only something could be done to spur the Lincoln High boys to score and catch up. Then Clair heard Pat's familiar voice at high C pitch shouting a cheer. The cheering must help. Lincoln had made another basket. Clair was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 glad she and Mel were seated in the center balcony where she could sec so well. She watched every movement of the ball. A basket for one side, a basket for the other, but always Bickel High seemed to keep that good margin ahead. Then it was the end of the half. Clair looked at the scoreboard. Bickel High was eighteen, Lincoln trailing behind with twelve points. LAIR looked over at Pat. She hoped she wouldn't take the score too hard. Winning meant much to Pat. But Pat was smiling, a sort of fixed showmanship smile, and she was leading the marching club onto the floor. This was why Pat had stayed so long night after night at school. The girls marched down the floor in perfect step, perfect formation, sort of like soldiers. When Pat whistled the marching team changed positions. Now they were forming four rows and marching off the floor. Now the second half of the game was beginning. Clair looked at the scoreboard again, but Bickel High was still those six points ahead of them. She found herself saying the words under her breath. "Our team must win." Clair heard the Pep Club shouting. She turned and watched Pat leading the cheer, her voice clear and strong. Why the cheering really must help the players, for after each yell it seemed the boys pitched a basket. Who had made this one? Yes, it was big Max Sheldon again. Now they were doing fine team work. 'The Lincoln High boys were putting in basket after basket. STANDING PAT After each basket Pat was shouting: "Yea Max, Yea Charles, Yea Kenny!" LAIR looked around for the boys' mothers. But they didn't seem to be here. 'They should be here to enjoy the glory heaped upon their boys. How could she herself have missed so many games when her being here meant so much to Pat? Then the dreadful thing happened! Max, the big wonderful center, fell. The game was temporarily stopped. The coach rushed from the bench to where Max lay, unable to get up. Even Clair knew what this meant to Lincoln High. What was Mel saying? "He's their best player. They can't get along without Max Sheldon." The people started rushing onto the floor, but the coach was saying, "Stand back, give him air." Then Max was carried from the floor. The coach over the loud speaker said that it was a sprain, nothing serious, but that Max could not play the rest of the game. Little Mike Roper, a junior, was replacing big Max Sheldon. Clair could tell about how he felt. Sort of scared, and afraid of the job he had to do, filling Max's shoes, yet proud to serve, to help his school. What this boy needed was a pat on the back to let him know he was important, and that he really was capable of filling his new position. Pat was giving him just the encouragement he needed. "Let's give three cheers for Mike!" she shouted up at the cheering section. Mike smiled and ran to retrieve the ball. 'Then from the cheering section came another loud cheer: 315 Roll up that score, roll up that score, Roll up that score as you've never done before. Roll, Lincoln, roll! It seemed to Clair the cheering was all it took. Mike, who had felt too insignificant to replace big Max Sheldon, had a job to do and was doing it. Steadily the five men took up the routine play which netted basket after basket. "Such teamwork!" Mel shouted in Clair's ear. "Such teamwork. That will do it like nothing else." "Have you watched Pat?" Clair asked her husband. "Too busy watching the game." He laughed. "She's doing a good job though. Giving the boys courage." That was it, Clair thought. Pat was giving courage when they needed it. Everyone needed to know someone was cheering for him. She should have been doing more cheering for Pat. Clair glanced at the time clock. Why they were on the last minute of the third quarter. Mike Roper was in the center of the gym holding the ball and wondering if there was time to do something. When he heard the shout "throw," he threw. The ball flew through the air, then dipped over the basket, made contact, and by so doing upped the score two points to tie the game at the close of the third quarter. A sigh went through the crowd. "Good going," Mel shouted in Clair's ear. She reached over and squeezed his hand. Now the fourth quarter, the home stretch was upon them. Yet it was like starting a new game because of the tied score. Clair found herself joining with the 316 Lincoln spectators and shouting, "Come on boys!" Mel poked her gently, smiled and said, "Let your little daughter do the cheering, Momie." Momie, the same word which had so annoyed her two hours ago, now it sounded sweet to her ears. It's all in the frame of mind, Clair thought. The entire building was as if it was rocking with vibrations, the band playing, the cheering, the coaxing and shouting from the spectators. THE ball, like a jumping jack, went from one end of the hall to the other, never stopping, never idle, always the center of attraction with hundreds of eyes constantly upon it. Clair realized that Pat would be hoarse when it was all over. Thank goodness there wasn't another game for a few nights, perhaps she could recover in time to shout again at the next one. Never mind the next one, Clair chided herself. This game is the important one. The boys were making quite a few baskets now. One after another, but the two teams were nip and tuck, and it was the last minute and still it could be anybody's game. What could be done to win? Clair wrung her handkerchief helplessly. She couldn't remember when she had been so excited. Then from the cheering section: Ten baskets, five baskets, two will do. Come on Lincoln we're for you! Suddenly Mike Roper pitched a basket in, which brought the score two points ahead of Bickel High. Such shouting and screaming! Ordinarily this much racket would have RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 sent Clair's head skyrocketing. Could it be that because her own mouth was open cheering and shouting, the pressure was relieved? The ball was in the hands of Lincoln's boys. The ball flew through the air, landed in the basket to score, just before the clock pinged out the time, and the game was OVET. Clair looked up at the scoreboard as everyone else was doing. "Visitors 44, Hometown 48." Lincoln High was the home team. They had won! Clair looked around for Pat. She must be exhausted. But Pat had run out on the floor to the team. "Congratulations!" Pat shouted, loud enough for even Clair to hear. What were they saying to Pat? "We couldn't have done it without you, Pat, and the Pep Club. It kept us going like nothing else. We knew you were behind us all the way." Yes, Clair thought, Pat had stood behind the team, the school, the community, but who had stood behind Pat? She vowed she would be a more understanding mother, a cheerer. How could she have expected Pat to do more than she was already doing? She, not Pat, had been in the wrong this particular time. She forever complaining about headaches, and a few dishes and housework, and never bothering to come to the games. Clair felt tears wanting to be evidenced, but she blinked them back. Clair was happy about the results of the game, but, mostly, she was happy about the change in herself which this certain game had brought about. She had a score of her own to roll up and cache away. Tlot Only By Bread Dorothy J. Roberts OT only by bread, were we children fed by my mother — but by cake and righteousness and the constancy of her presence; not only by bread, though it was always there — a fragrance on the day, the house, the street. And my mother's righteousness was as ever-present as the bread, as she was ever-present. Her righteousness knew its boundaries. They were distinct boundaries, with good and evil clearly fenced, and with never a misty line between to baffle us. She lived within those boundaries and taught us to do the same. We sat in church of a Sunday; she saw to it. 'The very roots of memory seem to begin at the meetinghouse in the faint scent of talcum drifting from under the collar of her dress, the warmth of the hall releasing it in a sweet aura around her. If food is one of the joys of life — and surely it is — then my mother gave us joy, daily. Oh, the mysteries she placed before our hunger — taken from the oven or the shiny black top of her coal range. And no one was ever forgotten. For the late or absent, the choicest portions were stored in the dark cavern of the warming-oven, safe and succulent, waiting to heal weariness or discouragement — luscious roast, beans baked brown with homemade chili sauce, parsnips boiled and then browned in butter, Danish dumplings exquisitely shaped, floating among tiny islands of golden fat where bits of green parsley grew like palms—there were the celestial lemon pies and the king of pies, dewberries, and brown betty with cream, rich and golden. At the end of a day working in the fruit, or after a day's skating on the humped canals, or in the twilight following an afternoon's swimming in the creek, there waited the treasure at the end of the rainbowed hours: my mother's heavenly food and she, neat and clean, always there to serve it. Only a few times a year she left us for a half day's shopping. The house was clean and unbelievably empty, and hollow, with a cold feeling even on the hottest days. We watched for her return and ran to meet her and carry the mysterious parcels with the strange goodies for us, which we always knew she had hidden away. Then the house was suddenly warm again, and the emptiness filled with her. Page 317 J Joo, Want to Be Useful Aslaug S. Vaieland T was one day, not very long after I had come to this country as an immigrant, that something very pleasant happened to me. The President of Relief Society in our ward told me they were planning to have a ward dinner in a few days, and would I come along with a group of other women to help with the preparations for the dinner? First, I thought that I must have misunderstood her, but no, it was no mistake, she had really asked me to help with the preparations for the ward dinner, just as if I were in no way different from the others. "Oh," I stammered, "do you really, really think that I can be of any use to you?" "Of course," she answered, cheerfully. "Why not? We all know that you can do almost all the things that others can do." Those were words I needed most to hear; they warmed my heart; gave me faith and confidence in myself; yes, they meant a lot to me. You see, I am both blind and deaf, and I have grown used to the idea that people around me consider me as not being capable of doing anything very useful. Whenever I wanted to be of some kind of help, J was never accepted. "No, this is too dangerous for you'; "No, this is too hard for you"; or they were afraid I would spoil something. The only place on this earth where they thought I belonged was in a good comfortable chair. How could I make them understand how wrong they were and how much I longed to be among them and do my little share? It is hard for others to realize that Page 318 we handicapped also want to be useful persons, and try to live a normal life. Where there is a will, there also is a way, and if the handicapped person has the will, he can do almost anything; but he also needs the good will of those around him, the will to help him to help himself. Just a couple of days ago, I was again asked to help with a dinner. There I was, crumbing an unbelievably great amount of bread, helping to mix it together with some other ingredients, so that the result would be a nice dressing for the turkeys. The kitchen was filled with activities, busy women went about doing their tasks, I could not see them, neither hear them, but I knew they were chatting. By the sense of smell and touch, I could tell what some of them were doing. One of them came to talk to me; when people are talking to me, they have to use their hands, and this woman had some very wet and cold hands, so I knew she was cleaning vegetables. Then, too, another woman, not very far from me, surely was grinding onion, because my tears kept running, although I was especially happy that day. I thought to myself as I stood there stirring in this mountain of dressing, they told me that this dressing was to be put in the turkeys, but to me it seems that the turkeys must be put in the dressing! That thought was so funny, that I could not help smiling. A woman must have been watching me, because she came and asked if I was having fun. Soon I was on the move, I would 1, TOO, WANT TO BE USEFUL find myself at the stove, stirring in a huge kettle, and before I knew it, I found myself with a terribly dangerous bread knife in my hand, shredding lettuce. Yes, I thought, they really have confidence in me, since they will trust this awful thing in my hands. Now I was neither in the way of others nor sitting in a comfortable chair, with my hands idle and only 319 my own thoughts for company; now I was an important wheel in big machinery. The very thought made me happy. I have been lucky in meeting people with the right attitude, and I'm so grateful that I, too, can be of some use, in a small way maybe, but the little wheels are as important as the big ones, are they not? <i >_> A Case for Contrast Evalyn Miller Sandberg Brown moments may be made to serve a purpose. Suppose you were an artist with a brush: Would you paint all your lines with equal accent And never add a shadow's restful hush? Could you portray upon the stage a story So simple that it had no plot to solve? Would you compose concertos or crescendos Without soft modulation to resolve? Brown moments may be made to serve a purpose. Like moving shadows of a bird in flight, They make time's course from dawn to fading sunset And add new depth to scarlet-tipped delight. NE of the late model cars has a clever little gadget or safety device which signals when one goes beyond the desired speed. If you are driving in the city, you set it for thirty miles per hour. Should you go over the thirty miles, a light flashes and a little buzzer rings until you slow to the proper speed. Thus you avoid difficulty with the law. We, the people of this modern twentieth century generation, came equipped with a wonderful safety device — the same as all previous generations. > Crossed Wires Genevieve Van Wagenen This safety device has been called ''conscience" and the "'still small voice.' Call it whatever you will, its purpose is to remind us to be honest and deal justly with our fellow men. It is a most valuable instrument. It develops understanding, brotherhood, and love. It insures peace and harmony — that's what we all want! But too few people ever hear the gentle buzzing of this delicate instrument. They have their wires crossed with a gadget called "greed" and "selfishness." Annie Maria Spray Steel Mlakes Mlany Braided Rugs AONE Maria Spray Stcel of Oakley, Idaho, lost her sight soon after her ecighticth birthday — but she did not lose her joy in new accomplishments. She took a course in typing from the records for the blind and became a proficient typist. In Vebruary and March of 1959, she visited with her daughter in Salt Lake City, Utah, where she was instructed in rug making by a teacher from the Center for the Blind. In one year she has made the rugs shown in the picture. Mrs. Steel has served the Church in many capacities. As a girl of fifteen she served as Sunday School organist, and since that time her musical talents and training have been useful in many types of Church and community work. She has been a Relief Society member ever since her marriage and served as a ward president for many years. She attended the dedication of the Salt Lake Temple, and now, at the age of cighty-four, her memory is excellent. She is the mother of ten children and grandmother to cighteen. ¢ Respite Zara Sabin I would like to find a quiet upland road To ramble on, such a day as this... A winding, twisting, wandering country road To grant release when things have gone amiss. I would dawdle down its dusty way, and pause Upon its hills; feel the peace of wood And glade and stream; remember not applause Nor blame, but this: "God saw that it was good." Pade 320 The Blue Bowl Parr II (Conclusion) Loya Beck ARY slipped off her coat, M hanging it on its peg by the back door. Secing the cupboard doors still standing wide, she walked wearily over to close them. The blue sugar bowl caught her eye, and lifting it into her hands, she felt of its hard-glazed surface. She remembered when her whitehaired father had painted this piece. She could see him now with his fine brushes working painstakingly in the dim light of his old workshop. He had promised her this set for her own, and had taken particular loying care in perfecting his work. He had been working on this shining blue sugar bowl the day Mary had quietly slipped into his workshop and sat down by his side, laying her head lovingly on_ his shoulder, her arms about his neck. She was almost fourteen then, slender, fair-skinned and beautiful, with her heavy chestnut hair falling loosely about her shoulders. He had kissed her cheek and smiled at her knowingly, expecting to be charmed into some favor. When she had told him of her desire to join The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, better known as the "Mormons," the smile had faded and he had said, "You are too young to think about religion, Mary." "Oh, no, no," Mary had pleaded earnestly, "I'm not too young, I'm not." Her request had been refused at first, but under the barrage of her persistent pleadings, Mary's father had finally allowed her to be baptized.; Awakened from her reminiscence by the sound of a familiar voice in the street outside, Mary quickly brushed away the tears that had stolen down her cheeks. 'Through the window she could see 'Tom talking to old Brother Rushton at the gate. She heard the words, fire and outskirts of town, and guessed that there had been another houseburning by the mob. Taking leave of his neighbor, Tom hurried towards the house with long, swift strides. He was erect and tall, with wide shoulders and thick limbs. Ils boyish freckled face was rosy under his cap. When Tom pushed open the door, Mary was there to greet him. "How's my girl?" 'Tom smiled as he pulled off his cap, revealing a shock of unruly red hair. "I'm fine, Tom," Mary answered. Trying to appear in a good humor, she slipped her arms about his neck and kissed him. Tom cupped her chin in his big hand and searched every line of her features. He returned her kiss tenderly, the wrinkles in his brow deepening. "At least you are cheerful," he said. Without warning, he lifted her into his arms and carried her to the bed, laying her down as gently as if she were a porcelain doll. "Tom, please, I can't lie here," Mary said, laughing. "There's supper, I haven't even started." Page 321 322 "['m the cook tonight," Tom interjected. "Tl fix you up the best mulligan stew you ever tasted in your life." "T've been through this before," Mary said, smiling, "I know your mulligan stews." "Where's my son, still napping?" Tom questioned as he pulled off his coat and hung it next to Mary's. "He should be waking, he has slept extra long this afternoon," Mary answered, letting her head relax into the pillow. "TI get him." "Tom, did Mr. MacDowell find you?' Mary questioned. "Yes, Mary, he found me—I accepted his offer, little as it was, we're lucky—blessed to get that. I haven't told you this before, but some of the brethren have about given up hope of selling out at all. The mobocrats know they can just walk in here and help themselves after we leave. We can use the cows and the rifle, too." Mary felt her chin quivering, and she looked away from Tom. "All right, you know best," she answered softly. OM bounded up the stairs, and soon Alma's high - pitched shrieks of joy, coupled with his father's bellowing laughter, resounded down the steps. Obeying orders, Mary stayed in bed while Tom fixed the supper, his two-year-old, red-haired counterpart by his side—helping. They sang old English nonsense songs full of life and fun, Alma shouting out the last word of each familiar phrase. In spite of the gaiety, Mary thought she noticed a droop in Tom's broad shoulders. "Tom, when you set the table," RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 Mary asked, "will you set it with mother's best linen tablecloth and my china and silver?" "What's the celebration?" Tom inquired. "Just being at home." Mary answered gravely. Home, Tom." Later, when dinner was over and Tom had tucked Alma into bed for the night, he came down into the shadowed room where Mary was sleeping and sat down on the edge of the bed. Mary opened her eyes and he smiled down at her. ""There's a dance tonight, want to go?" "T'd love to go," Mary smiled. "But, I always believed three to be a crowd." They laughed, and the laugh faded. Resting his elbows on his knees, 'Tom rubbed the palms of his hands together thoughtfully. "These have been happy days, Mary." His eyes stared into the blazing fire. "They have been happy days for both of us," Mary answered warmly, reaching out slim fingers to touch his arm. "Seeing the temple take shape before our eyes, working day and night alongside the brethren to build it. "And selling all our spare clothing to get money cnough to live on in the meantime," Mary chimed in, smiling. "Still we have been happy, really happy." Tom looked down at his wife. Her brown curls were falling loosely over the pillow's crisp whiteness. The happy smile on her face did not hide the signs of illness there. 'Tom glanced away and bowed his head in the thought, why do they have to force us out now—in the dead of winter? He rubbed his mouth over the back of a clenched fist and "Just being at THE BLUE BOWL then buried his head in his hands. We told them we would leave in the spring—why couldn't they at least let us wait until spring? "We know we are not alone, Tom," Mary reminded him calmly, running her free hand through his hair. Tom bowed his head and prayed aloud so that Mary could share in his words.... The familiar closing words of 'Tom's prayer brought Mary the comfort she needed: "Hasten the day of thy judgment, O Lord," he said, 'and he that endureth to the end shall be saved." KW OM HK OR EBRUARY 26, 1846, dawned clear and cold. A frigid northern blast spread a chill hand over Ilinois. One wintery finger had dabbled in the mighty Mississippi, setting there a bridge of ice, reaching from shore to shore. Caravans of lumbering wagons streaked out across this glassy thoroughfare; the exodus from Nauvoo was already well underway, and the sounds of shouting men, the bawling of cattle, and the wails of children were captured in the frosty air. The vanguard company had set up camp six miles from the river at Sugar Creek, Iowa, with Brigham Young at the head. Arriving at Sugar Creek in the late afternoon, 'Tom and Mary cleared away the snow in order to pitch a tent made from their wagon cover. Later that night as the moon cast a white light across the hard crusted snow, penciling in the shadows from the winter-stripped trees along the creek, Tom found himself running for water and setting it to boil 323 over the blazing fire he had built near the tent. When the tasks at hand were completed and_ the women who had come to help Mary had chased him away, Tom paced nervously about the camp, observing the activities of his fellow exiles. A white city of tents and covered wagons had mushroomed during the day and more were still coming. Tom observed a rude hut in front of him as he walked. Its roof appeared to be made of loose bark, and its sides were formed by blankets fastened to poles stuck in the ground. A woman with a tiny baby on one arm was preparing supper over an open fire and trying to comfort three small children who clung to her skirts, crying from the cold. Those without wagon covers were fixing beds beneath their overloaded wagons. "Can you hear it, Brother Lee?" a quivering voice questioned. Tom turned to see old Brother Rushton coming up behind him. A sack of meal was slung heavily across his shoulders. "Hear what?" Tom questioned. "Why the bell," the old man said. "Can't you hear the temple bell?" Tom lifted his head and listened carefully, the cold air nipping at his cheeks. Faintly on the clear night air, the distant peal of the large bell atop the temple reached his ears. 'Tom looked down into the old man's withered face and saw tears streaming over his cheeks, "Where's your camp?" Tom questioned gruffly as he lifted the sack of meal from the old man's bony shoulders and placed it on his own. HE dawn slipped over the snowy horizon in somber silence. Mary lay in her drafty shelter, 324 wrapped in heavy quilts. Alma was bedded down with four other children in a neighbor's tent. In the curved shelter of her arm, snuggled close to her own body, Mary held the precious warmth of her newborn child. She could hear Tom conversing with Sister Remington outside the tent. Sister Remington had attended her throughout the night. She was not an experienced midwife, merely a mother of ten of her own, all living. "Tow is she?" 'Tom was saying. "She's a plucky little girl," the buxom, gray-haired mother answered. "The baby's fine, a healthy little girl. 'The birth was — well, it wasn't easy; but nothing serious, you understand. I think the milk leg is setting in; it'll be painful for her, but she'll get over it. I had it with six of mine. You go in to her now. I better get back to my own family. I'll be back soon as I see they get breakfast." Mary heard the crunch of snow as Sister Remington hurried away. Pulling back the flap of the tent, Tom entered, bringing with him a fresh rush of frosty breezes. Reverently he tiptoed to the side of the mattress where Mary was lying. Removing his cap, he dropped to one knee. "How's my girl?" he whispered. "Just fine," Mary smiled weakly. There was a moment of silence and an exchange of understanding glances. ''Sce," Mary said, breaking the silence between them and <—- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 pulling back the covers to reveal the small, red face beneath her arm. "Let me hold her," Tom said. "I won't let her get cold." Mary nodded, and 'Tom lifted the tiny bundle into his arms, sheltering her within his great open coat. He looked down at the sleepy little face in wonderment and rocked her gently back and forth in his arms. "How is Alma? Have you scen him?" "He is still fast asleep. He didn't fuss too much last night when I put him to bed. He was a pretty tired boy." "He'll be pleased to have a sister." "Won't he though?" Tom agreed, as he pulled back the coverlet to place the baby back in her mother's arms. Then, reaching into his shirt, Tom brought out a round object wrapped in sheepskin. "Mary, I wanted to give you something..." he stammered, a rush of color rising into his cheeks. "You are pretty precious to me. I love you very much—I only wish I could give you...." His voice faltered. Mary unfolded the sheepskin covering to find, gleaming within it, in all its fragile loveliness, the blue sugar bow]. She fingered the bowl silently, a soft glow warming her pale cheeks. She looked up at her husband, her eyes wet, but shining. "This sugar bowl and _ happiness must go together, Tom," she said softly. "It looks as if we'll be taking them both with us." Contemplation Catherine B. Bowles Happiness brings the sunshine, While sorrow darkens the view. No cloud will cast a shadow Till the sun comes shining through. Magazine Honor Roll for 1959 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp ON December 5, 1914, the President of the Church, Joseph F. Smith, sent a telegram from Ocean Park, California, to President Emmeline B. Wells, General Board of the Relief Society, as follows: Accept my sincere congratulations and heartiest greetings in honor of the birth of The Relief Society Magazine. May it enter upon its noble mission so firmly entrenched about by the bulwarks of worthy and capable endeavor and cnduring truth that its career may be successful and glorious. (Signed) Joseph F. Smith The General Board at this time would wish it possible that they might send a message or, better yet, give a personal expression of gratitude to every stake and ward Relief Society Magazine representative who has faithfully and diligently fulfilled her calling to bring about the excellent achievement in_ placing The Relief Society Magazine in the homes of 162,589 people throughout the world. This total is an increase of 7,961 subscriptions over the year 1958, a commendable increase. 'The career of the Magazine today would seem to be proving "successful and glorious," as President Smith wished for it, and the General Board earnestly endeavors to entrench it "about by the bulwarks of worthy and capable endeavor and enduring truth." The record of the stakes in placing the Magazine in the homes of the Church is an encouraging one. In 1959 there were ninety stakes which had 100 per cent or over subscriptions in proportion to Relief Society members; in 1958 there were seventy-two. There are threc fewer stakes not on the honor roll — twenty-eight as against thirty-one. There are 258 stakes on the honor roll, an increase of eleven. 'There are thirty stakes this past year which had every ward 100 per cent or over, and in 1958 there were only nineteen. There are 2016 wards on the honor roll in 1959, and there were 1912 wards in 1958 — an increase of 104 wards. 'The mean for all the stakes is ninety-one per cent as compared to ninety in 1958. For the thirteenth consecutive year the South Los Angeles Stake leads the Church with the highest percentage — ig2 per cent, and with the highest number of subscriptions — 1350. Of the ten stakes with highest ratings five stakes are in California, four in Idaho, and one in Utah. The wards are again led by the South Gate Ward of the South Los Angeles Stake with 341 per cent. Congratulations are extended to these and other stakes making outstanding records. 'Uhirtyone have shown great increases, with Santa Barbara Stake leading, with an increase of thirty-nine per cent. The missions have shown remarkable progress in 1959, and the General Board is happy to welcome the South African Mission among those on the honor roll which, with the Canadian Mission and the West Canadian Mission, are the ones represented outside Continental United States. The first place among the missions again goes to the WestPage 325 326 ern States Mission with 124 per cent. 'The highest rating of a district is the Platte Valley District of the Western States Mission, with 333 per cent. The mean for the missions on the honor roll has risen from eighty-five per cent in 1958 to ninety-one per cent in 1959, a marked increase. 'There are sixteen missions on the honor roll in 1959, as there were in 1958, but the mission branches on the honor roll have increased from 538 to 585, an increase of forty-seven branches. Foreign-speaking missions which cannot subscribe to The Relief Society Magazine as do English-speaking missions express great appreciation to members of the stakes who send gift subscriptions to the General Board. These are allocated by foreign-speaking Relief Society imission presidents among members who RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 can read English or whose children can interpret for faithful Relief Society mothers. The Relief Society Magazine is a binding tie among Relief Society members the world over. Its contents reflect earnest endeavor on the part of Latter-day Saint women writers to give the best of their thinking and ability for the advancement of their sisters. 'The programs of Relief Society presented by the General Board therein present truth and mirror facets to illumine all phases of Latter-day Saint women's work upon the earth. Again the General Board would express gratitude to each individual Magazine representative whose zealous efforts have spread the knowledge and inspiration and_ gospel truth found in the Magazine throughout the stakes and missions of the Church. Honors for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California) 192% Magazine Representative—Amelia Dellenbach Ward South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 341% Magazine Representative—Bertha A. Whitehead Mission Western States Mission—124% Mission Magazine Representative—Daisy R. Romney Mission District Platte Valley District, Western States Mission—206% Magazine Represer. Tative—Irma M. Chandler Mission Branch Sidney Branch—333% Platte Valley District, Western States Mission Magazine Representative—Idona B. Richins Ten Highest Percentages in Stakes 'South Vos Angeles........2am...-sagee eer Huntington Park 00.2... Eee 'Glendale....192.... Amelia Dellenbach...185...-Rachel Liston...184.... Elsie Weber Magazine Honor Roll for 1959 a27 Inglewood..............-..-c--cececeececeeceeeeneeeeneeteneseenees 141.... Janet C. Madina ext nge __... Se TR rr nsettt tithe vessecoceversceereres 138.... Beth Moore Burley......22.2--2:-2-2-cecceceeceeceeeeceececeeceeeeecenecneceenenes129.... Virginia Nichols Oquitth -202. Ee eee eee cence eee eneeneeneeeeeeeees 129.... Dorothy Smith East Idaho Falls........2.2.... E-esceecceeeeeeeeeeceeeeenees 121.... Bertha Christensen Monterey Bay........-...-----..2-22c--ccecceeeeeeceeececeeeees119.... Louise Johnson Shelley -....2.2.2.2.: ceccsceseeceeeecceeeeeeeeeceneeececeeraeaes119.... Merle Young Missions Achieving Ten Highest Percentages Western States «2... Ceceececeeceeceeceneececeseeeees 124.... Daisy R. Romney Northern States -.....222.2-..-eeeeceeccecceeeseeeeeeeseeees110.... Vera C. Stratford Ce105.... Frances J. Monson Northern California...2..20..2222---2-eeeeee eee gg.---Leta C. Pugh Northwestern States.................-0..-ss: sseseeeeeeeeees 98...-Helen K. Richards West Central States.............2..22eeeeceeeeeceeeee eens 97.---Anna C. Merrill Central States...........20222222--seseeeceeceeeeeeeeceeeeceneeces g5.---Peggy B. Sears Eastern States........0000. Cccccccccececeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeneenees 93----Olive L. Smith Great Lakes -.....2222.2..2022:02seeseeceeceeceeeeeeeeseeeceees 89.... Vonda H. Christensen New England.........22-.22.2---2------2eeeeeeeceeeeeeeeee... 86.... Alberta S. Baker Ten Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions: South Los Angeles 1350 Sugar House 896 Glendale 1265 Twin Falls 895% Huntington Park 1165 Las Vegas 895 North Idaho Falls 991 Alpine 865% Ensign 945% Rexburg 863 Ten Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions. Northern States 1280 British 881 Eastern States 1180 Southern States 862 Central States 1069 Central Atlantic 853% West Central States 972 Great Lakes 760 Northwestern States 968 East Central States 755 Stakes in Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or Over Burbank.............--- Maude S. McLatchie North Davis.......... Helen W. Barber Burley...........-.-------Virginia Nichols North Pocatello.... Tura Hadley Columbia River.... Leah Rudd Pasadena..............--Maude F. Lester East Idaho Falls.... Bertha Christensen Rexburg.............2.---Beth Moore East Long Beach.... Margaret Bryan St. Joseph.............. Nira P. Lee East Pocatello........ Verna Gridley San Diego East.... Shirleymae Jones Glendale.............-- Elsie Weber Seattlewe,............3:. Laura C. Bronner Granger..........--------Veda L. Dew Shelley........------------Merle Young Granite -...............--Wilma D. Wetzel South Bear River.... Dorothy B. Kerr Highland................ Faye M. Swaner South Los Angeles.. Amelia Dellenbach Holladay -...........--Lucille B. Crowther South Salt Lake.... Hannah Dietrich Huntington Park.... Rachel Liston Weber Heights...... Virginia P. Jensen Inglewood.............. Janet C. Madina West Boise..........--Myrtle B. Oborn Las Vegas............-- Lila H. Leavitt West Covina........ Lucille C. Hales Mt. Jordan............ Rose A. Brown Wilford...........-..----Amy Gerrard 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 TTlission Percentages Ofl Hlonor Roll Western States 124 Central States 95 Gulf States Northern States 110 Eastern States 93 Western Canadian Canadian 10 Great Lakes ste) California Northern California — 9g New England 86 South African Northwestern States 98 East Central States West Central States 97 North Central States 85 Stakes by Percentages—1959 South Los Angeles 192 Columbia River 106 Santa Ana Huntington Park 185 East Pocatello 105 West Pocatello Glendale 184 Granger 105 Valley View Inglewood 141 Granite 105 Mt. Rubidoux Rexburg 138 Calgary 105 Washington Burley 129 Nampa 105 Auckland Oquirtrh 129 Seattle 105 Malad East Idaho Falls 1213 St. Joseph 104 Blackfoot Monterey Bay 119 Twin Falls 104 Ensign Shelley 119 Walnut Creek 104 Orange County San Diego East 113 Raft River 104 Bountiful North San Diego 112 Bannock 104 Portneuf Las Vegas 112 San Fernando 104 St. Johns West Boise 11 Bountiful 104 Snowflake Weber Heights 111 Bakersfield 103 North Seattle North Idaho Falls 110 East Long Beach 103 Cottonwood Idaho Falls 110 Kansas City 103 Granite Park Torrance 110 Pasadena 103 Sugar House Burbank 110 Boise 103 San Bernardino New York 110 American Falls 103 Grantsville San Joaquin 110 Lake View 103 Chicago Box Elder 110 Bonneville 103 Moapa West Utah 110 Cassia 103 Sacramento East Sharon 109 South Bear River 103 Mt. Graham Woodruff 109 Liberty 102 Beaver Monument Park 108 Taylor 102 Portland Highland 108 Wilford 102 Virginia Grand Junction 108 Rigby 102 Santa Rosa Mt. Jordan 108 Temple View 102 Cache Olympus 108 University 101 Provo Minidoka 107 Great Falls 101 South Summit Holladay 107 North Box Elder 101 Santa Barbara South Salt Lake 107 Juarez 101 Franklin Fast Phoenix 107 Nyssa 101 Yellowstone North Pocatello 107 Sevier 101 Kolob West Covina 107 Pocatello 101 Clearfield North Rexburg 107 Albuquerque 101 Park East Rigby 107 Juab 101 Grant Reseda 106 Los Angeles 101 Zion Park Phoenix North 106 North Davis 100 Maricopa South Idaho Falls 106 Parleys 100 Winder Gridley 106 Wells 100 Norwalk Long Beach 106 Bear River 100 Reno Magazine Honor Roll for 1959 East Millcreek Covina Young Taylorsville Riverside Butte Tampa Millcreek Yuma Wasatch East Provo Santa Monica Big Horn East Mesa Ogden Nebo Weiser Spokane St. Louis Union Uintah San Francisco Ashley Lost River Emigration Panguitch Whittier Mojave St. George North Sevier North Weber North 'Tooele South Blackfoot Tacoma Benson East Cache Mt. Logan Star Valley North Jordan Sharon Denver Murray Alberta Palmyra Rose Park Tooele Utah Garfield Richland Davis Denver West Fresno Indianapolis Idaho Oneida South Carolina San Luis Obispo Lethbridge Redondo Spanish Fork Kanab Phoenix Murray South Atlanta Yakima San Mateo West Sharon San Antonio Cincinnati South Davis Springville Mesa North Sanpete Cedar San Juan Oakland-Berkeley South Sanpete East Jordan Parowan Blaine Millard Monument Park West Teton Deseret E] Paso Palo Alto San Jose Uvada Sandy Hayward Southern Arizona Lehi Ben Lomond Flagstaff Grand Coulee Salt Lake Timpanogos Missoula East Los Angeles East Ogden Summit Gooding Bear Lake Humboldt Roosevelt Cheyenne Layton San Luis 86 STAKES BY PERCENTAGES (Continued) Riverdale Lake Mead Orlando Bountiful South Detroit Montpelier 'Tucson New Orleans Farr West Alpine Pioneer Salmon River Honolulu Klamath North Carbon North Sacramento Hillside Lorin Farr Carbon West Jordan Wayne Kearns North Morgan Emery South Sevier Duchesne Mt. Ogden Hyrum Houston Dallas Kearns Logan Smithfield Willamette Weber South Ogden Orem Midvale Florida Lyman Gunnison Orem West Santaquin-Tintic Canyon Rim Nevada Shreveport Cannon Lewiston Moroni Oahu Brigham Young University* Utah State University* 329 (*Limited Participation ) STAKES ON HONOR ROLL—1959 Representative EnrollSubscriptions Relief Society t N Pct ment oO. Cl. EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. Magazine Representative 330 Alberta Albuquerque Alpine American Falls Ashley Atlanta Auckland Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaver Ben Lomond Benson Big Horn Blackfoot Blaine Boise Bonneville Bountiful Bountiful North Bountiful South Box Elder Burbank Burley Butte Cache Calgary Carbon Cassia Cedar 699 417 1127 855 483 3848 316 461 361 515 514 521 664 575 847 600 310 527 839 428 480 433 698 631 629 438 594 497 836 385 719 609 420 87 101 865% 77 365 103 436% 90 293 314 477 375 408 515 502 532 510 779 595 254 543 862 443 474 336 765 694 811 408 568 §21 631 395 593 84 99 103 104 79 100 96 80 89 a2 99 82 103 103 104 99 78 110 110 129 93 96 105 75 103 82 Viola B. Wynder Della S. Miller Marvel D. Sunderland Enid W. Thornton Maryetta Wardle Pauline Gilbert Gertrude Grant Virginia C. Hodson Ida Sorenson Jean P. Budge Lottie R. Potter Beulah Wood Violet H. Cottrell Tess Christensen Christie C. Harvey Lucille Wareing Walnah E. Byington Effie Baxter Laura Brann Mary B. Waddoups Eunice H. Van Orden Louise S. Hanson Naomi P. Larkin Maude S. MecLatchie Virginia Nichols Harriet Millecam Alice D. Griffin Vernetta Reed Gertrude W. Edwards Claudia Martin Venice W. Prince Cheyenne Chicago Cincinnati Clearfield Columbia River Cottonwood Covina Davis Denver Denver West Deseret Detroit East Cache East Idaho Falls East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Millereek East Ogden East Phoenix East Pocatello East Provo East Rigby East Sharon El Paso Emigration Ensign Farr West Flagstaff Franklin 318 563 241 541 709 514 458 946 413 376 769 A412 750 261 647 490 660 822 448 666 655 500 578 604 476 455 532 954 630 404 808 251 79 545 97 201 883 514% 95 748 106 504 «98 430 94 818% 87 362 =88 825 = 886 627% 82 319 77 665 89 317 121 5381 82 507 103 525 ~=—-80 755 92 421 94 530 = 80 702 107 527 105 5384 92 64346107 518 109 371 = 82 479 90 945% 99 484 77 3824 80 771 395 Rose Eads Florence G. Andrew Mildred Bang Beverly W. Stevenson Leah Rudd Mabel R. Baker Ardella Hackford Sarah B. Strong Agnes T. Dykes Phyllis Mohler Leatha Bennett Myrtle M. Moffett Ines B. Bergeson Bertha Christensen Lila J. Reich Margaret Bryan Valerie C. Baisley Elva M. Brown Donna B. Greenwood Mary Stirk Geneva Cluff Verna Gridley Jane S. Watkins Eileen Madsen Hildegard P. Nicholes Florence N. Pierce Adeline Jensen Pearl L. Whitney Bertha H. Palmer Ruth W. Palmer Phyllis W. Kingsford RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 Relief Society Magazine Relief Society Fresno Garfield Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Grand Junction Granger Granite Granite Park Grant Grantsville Great Falls Gridley Hayward Highland Hillside Holladay Honolulu Humboldt Huntington Park Idaho Idaho Falls Indianapolis Inglewood Juab Juarez Kanab Kansas City Klamath Kolob Lake Mead Lake View Las Vegas EnrollSubscriptions ment 552 286 688 540 525 427 549 644 620 736 502 823 569 624 549 1047 593 430 240 631 418 443 300 575 515 100 469 348 529 533 422 703 799 AT7 249 1265 429 421 No. Pct. 86 87 184 79 80 459 42108 579 105 677¥2 105 605 696 98 95 48642 97 327 101 604% 106 504 594 793 636 329 190 1165 360 488 259 812 519 101 397 359 405 77 507% 95 329 78 723 1038 895 112 Magazine Representative Virginia Vetterli Lula Moore Elsie Weber Agnes Shaw Amy Kent Josephine Prinster Veda L. Dew Wilma D. Wetzel Lythia Street Olivia N. Fitt Ruth Rydalch Glenna MacDonald Ivy M. Brown Aura B. Kirk Faye M. Swaner Mae M. Hickman Lucille B. Crawther Louise K. Kaanapee Sarah Jordan Rachel Liston Elizabeth L. Stevens Erma W. Boyce Hazel M. Brinson Janet C. Madina Alligee L. Anderson Fannie B. Hatch Effie L. Sorensen Venna T. Witbeck Marion Sander Hilda W. Cherrington Magda Potter Mable Burgener Lila H. Leavitt Relief Society Layton Lehi Lethbridge Liberty Long Beach Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Malad Maricopa Mesa Millard Millcreek Minidoka Missoula Moapa Mojave Monterey Bay Montpelier Monument Park Monument Park West Mt. Graham Mt. Jordan Mt. Logan Mt. Rubidoux Murray Murray South Nampa Nebo New Orleans New York North Box Elder North Carbon EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 607 665 723 757 627 681 605 305 552 729 960 611 354 657 430 281 371 310 770 393 555 627 408 707 735 494 707 787 626 387 428 664 437 478 179 53414 80 61514 85 774 102 664 106 515 76 609 101 275 90 548 99 688 94 793 83 501 82 32714 93 705 107 343 80 272 «97 331 89 370 119 596 77 426 108 455 82 605 96 439 108 625 88 732 100 431 87 596 84 825 105 572% 91 298 77 470 110 671% 101 334 76 Magazine Representative Dorsey Hodgson Rosa Ashton Thelma E. B. Derochie Ila C. Hatton Margaret P. Bodine Ella N. Christensen Verda M. Cohen Elaine Aikele Maude Y. Jensen Muriel Freeman Edith D. O'Barr Josephine Wadsworth Martha J. Matern Margaret H. Merrill Norma Ludlow Era C. Jones Ora Kidd Louise Johnson Lola McCammon Sara Stone Marjorie S. Boyd Annie B. Larson Rose A. Brown Lola H. Gibbons Hilda Peel Mabell A. Smith Beatrice M. Turner Ida N. Cafferty Leona S. Crouch Evelyn G. Talbert Thyra T. Stoddard Ruth R. Black Parthenia H. Rhead Magazine Honor Roll for 1959 331: Relief Society North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Sanpete North Seattle North Sevier North Tooele North Weber Norwalk Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden Olympus Oneida Oquirrh Orange County Orlando Palmyra Palo Alto Panguitch Park Parleys Parowan Pasadena Phoenix Phoenix North Pioneer Pocatello EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 583 899 405 573 621 814 671 549 397 A87 626 410 429 780 647 884 670 573 365 201 667 488 465 765 469 368 731 503 517 601 A467 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL-1959 585 100 991 110 3856 =88 612% 107 662 107 622 76 554-83 5389 = 98 354 89 432 89 556 = 89 386 94 433% 101 642 82 594 92 413 108 575 86 636% 129 362 99 156 78 581% 87 397 = 81 416% 90 724 95 470 100 3802 82 754 1038 425 84 550 106 4614 77 471 101 Magazine Representative Helen W. Barber Eva J. Wilkins Vonda L. Sharp Tura Hadley Ethel K. Archibald Marguerite K. Richins Ruth E. Erickson Chelta D. Brown Rhea Mickelsen Mary McKellar Nellie Opheikens Helen D. McVey Catherine R. Roberts Vera Waindorf Chloe M. Summerill Lydia Russell Mada M. Larsen Dorothy Smith Edna C. Mackay Leila Prevatt Paula C. Welles Vivian M. Anderson Verda Applegate Pearl E. Rohde Hazel S. Robison Mary L. Stubbs Maude F. Lester Florence M. Broberg Rose Openshaw Rura J. Woodall Anna Egbert Relief Society Portland Portneuf Provo Raft River Redondo Reno Reseda Rexburg Richland Rigby Riverdale Riverside Roosevelt Rose Park Sacramento St. George St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis Salmon River Salt Lake San Antonio San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East Sandy San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Juan EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 740 465 486 19z 505 694 564 625 553 786 620 721 553 731 590. 897 A58 567 189 206 808 258 627 623 543 579 631 535 638 433 576 713 »=96 459 99 465 96 209 104 430 85 6538 94 600% 106 863 138 479 87 7998 102 487 79 672% 93 437 79 637 = 87 571 3997 800% 89 450 98 591 104 171% 91 158 877 648 80 216 84 608% 97 700 112 612% 113 468 81 654 104 484 90 700 110 352 81 475 = 82 Magazine Representative Lela C. Clifford Ada L. Parris Myrtle M. Clayson Alice O. Neddo Margaret Gorman Pearl Robison Eleanor 8S. Christensen Beth Moore Beth H. Rowe Ruey A. Ball Rhoda W. Priest Bess Davis Katie Duncan Marjorie J. Peck Arvilla Sorensen Agnes S. Pickett Glenda G. Pulsipher Nira P. Lee Tessie E. Lake Keturah Moultrie Frances L. Kooyman Elaine V. Drake Valeer M. Jolley Lois Helm Shirleymae Jones Retha H. Sheriff Cleo Hupp Gertrude P. Terry Elizabeth Miller Louise Rimington Eloise B. Mahon 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 Relief Society San Luis San Luis Obispo San Mateo Santa Ana Santa Barbara Santa Monica Santa Rosa Seattle Sevier Sharon Shelley Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Carolina South Davis South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles South Salt Lake South Sanpete South Summit Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Summit Tacoma Tampa Taylor Taylorsville Temple View Teton EnrollSubscriptions Pct. Ment 508 213 490 436 315 821 542 602 846 335 699 616 592 638 503 711 805 702 524 741 434 326 630 509 570 699 922 3438 709 233 691 326 775 509 No. 400 182 412 436 301 757 520% 630 854 294 830 605 607 566 431% 590 856 1350 562 610 415 263 534 464 472 616% 896 273 629 216 706 305 788 79 85 84 100 96 92 96 105 101 88 119 98 103 89 86 93 102 94 102 416% 82 Magazine Representative Opal McDaniel Clara J. Nelson Hazel E. Young Elvira Bollschweiler Rita Sessions Geneve A. Cannon LaVaun L. Allen Laura C. Bronner Louise B. Sampson Dorothy H. Weight Merle Young Adele H. Ballard Dorothy B. Kerr Agnes D. Cox Florence W. Watkins Gwen M. Horsley Violet Jaussi Amelia Dellenbach Hannah Dietrich Ethel Hughes Thora R. Lambert Maud Post Virginia W. Gardner Pauline Bastian Donetta Anthon Dorothy L. Worthen Nellie J. Ehlers Florella A. Faddies Nettie M. Blake Inez Edwards Ruth Hovey Marjorie E. Coats Mabel E. Snow Merle F. Sewell Relief Society Timpanogos Tooele Torrance Tucson Twin Falls Uintah Union University Utah Uvada Valley View Virginia Walnut Creek Wasatch Washington Wayne Weber Heights Weiser Wells West Boise West Covina West Jordan West Pocatello West Sharon West Utah Whittier Wilford Winder Woodruff Yakima Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park EnrollSubscriptions Pct. Ment 741 473 368 531 859 454 561 576 559 309 511 328 567 740 702 014 403 561 855 581 ABl 1013 430 324 649 450 567 363 552 208 818 593 267 387 No. 593 412 405 411 80 87 110 77 895% 104 411 91 508% 91 582% 101 487 250 509 316 591 684 698 234 446 512 857 647 482 757 430 272 711 402 578 342 600 175 780 556 247 87 81 100 96 104 +) 99 75 111 ol 100 111 107 75 100 84 110 89 102 94 109 84 95 94 93 365% 94 Magazine Representative Vera Matthews Jewel Holgren Toni Kimball Belva Jones Carrie Webb Laura Simmons Mar Jean Westerfield Maud W. Johnson Bertha R. Memmott Vera Rowley Dorie N. Walton Cassandra L. Waddoups Marie D. Barber Leda E. M. Titus Mary E. Stimpson LaVird W. Balle Virgia P. Jensen Irene H. Winegar Edith H. Koelliker Myrtle B. Oborn Lucille C. Hales Vivian Ray Alta Holmes Monte B. Harward Edith G. Baum Juanita Singley Amy Gerrard Melba S. Thomas Naomi B. Harris Ann H. Johnson Ida Garrett Iva Sterling Effie Nowland Pearl Stratton Magazine Honor Roll for 1959 333 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 MISSIONS ON HONOR ROLL-1959 Relief Society EnrollSubscriptions Magazine ment No. Pet. Representative California 411 340 83 Lela L. Udall Canadian 667 700 105 Frances J. Monson Central States 1123 1069 95 Peggy B. Sears East Central States 980 755 77. Marie C. Richards Eastern States 1266 1180 93 Olive L. Smith Great Lakes 858 760 89 Vonda Hi. Christensen Gulf States 488 414 85 Emma A, Hanks New England 879 754 86 Alberta S. Baker North Central States 648 551 85 Diana F. Child Northern California 631 625 99 Leta C. Pugh Northern States 1213 1280 110 Vera C. Stratford Northwestern States 987 968 98 Helen K. Richards South African 269 220 82 Holly W. Fisher West Central States 1005 972 97 Anna C. Merrill Western Canadian 760 634 83 Lila A. Arave Western States 553 687 124 Daisy R. Romney 9 Pepper Sree Louise Morris Kelley Combed-out gusts of green wind Caught upon a seven-pronged stick Tremble with remembered blowings Though the air be still. ' Prairie School Lula Walker She toured her grandson's brand new school Equipped with every modern tool Of learning. What could this structure lack? But Grandma's thoughts went straying back To school days in a prairie soddy. Dust storms that choked her, blinding sleet, White drifts, waist high as floundering feet Sought dirt-floored room, queer place to hold A school. Wood stove, no match for cold, But basking in its feeble glow While through wide cracks wind sifted snow, Eager children fired with yearning Caught crumbs from teacher's loaf of learning. Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES tlie Soxig in the heart | Se ae, pee ) A cal ket a Es % FUG AE Photograph submitted by Madge Christensen NEBO STAKE (UTAH), FOURTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MAKES FLOAT FOR ANNUAL NEBO HOMECOMING DAYS CELEBRATION Madge Christensen, President, Nebo Stake Relief Society, reports: "Titled 'Relief Society in the Heart of the Ward,' this float was a contribution from the sisters of the Fourth Ward, Nebo Stake, Payson, Utah, to the annual Homecoming Days celebration in September 1939. The float was on a white satin background. A blue satin pleated band circled the raised platform which was rounded in front. The hearts were the lovely Relief Society colors — a gold satin heart with bars of blue cellophane, the big heart being bedded in blue cellophane plumes. "On the float was a young mother, Margene Wilson, with little Shauna Johnson, on the opposite side of the picture. Facing the camera was Debra Herbert, all three dressed in blue satin. "Gladys Wilson is president of the Fourth Ward Relief Society, with Echo Durrant and Georgia Durrant as co-chairmen of the float." Page 335 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 Photograph submitted by [lah K. Smith DENVER STAKE (COLORADO) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, December 28, 1959 Front row, center section, beginning third from right: Hah K. Smith, President, Denver Stake Relief Society; reading to the right: Helen 'Thornton, First Counsclor; Gwen Maxwell, Second Counselor. Second row, center section, left to right: Gladys Rusk, stake visiting teacher message leader; Relief Society Uigh Council representative Arden B. Olsen; President Theodore Christensen of the Stake Presidency; sixth from the left: Daisy Carlock, stake organist; at the end: Reta Beck, stake chorister. Sister Smith reports that this event was a special stake function during the Christmas season and was held after showing the film "Unto the Least of These." Approximately 130 attended and all very much enjoyed the occasion. Eae no ons SERS GARFIELD STAKE (UTAH), BOULDER WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE 100 PER CENT VISITING 'TEACIHING FOR FOUR CONSECUTIVE YEARS Frout row, left to right: Leona C. Lyman; Fae H. Jeppsen, visiting teacher message leader; Idona A. Taws; Alice Alvey. Second row, left to right: Flora M. Baker; Renon S. Peterson; Esther P. Coleman; Geraldine K. Shurtz. Back row, left to nght: Blom H. Ormond; Dorothy N. Lyman; Lenora H. LeFevre. Nelda Willis is president of Garfield Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 337 Photograph submitted by Janet Maughan SAN LUIS OBISPO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, October 25, 1959 Front row, seated, beginning third from the left: guest conductor Norma Jones; Janet Maughan, President, San Luis Obispo Stake Relief Society; Charlotte Main, First Counselor; Anna Dee Packer, Second Counselor; Clara Nelson, Sccretary-T'reasurer; Loa Clark, chairman, stake music committee. Co * 'a x Py Man ony one. Ae e Photograph submitted by Mary E. Cutler GLENDALE STAKE (CALIFORNIA), ELYSIAN PARK WARD RELIEF SOCIETY WOLDS BAZAAR, December 1959 Left to right: Veatrice R. Poulson, President; Rita H. White, Work Director Counselor; Elizabeth Kelly, Work Meeting Leader; Wanda H. Petrovich, SccretaryTreasurer. Among the beautifully made items featured at this outstanding bazaar may be seen the lovely quilts, some of them designed in colorful applique. Also featured were aprons, embroidered and crocheted pillowslips, doilies, tea towels, pot holders, toys, and many other handmade articles. Mary E. Cutler is president of Glendale Stake Relief Society. 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 Photograph submitttd by Maude Warren CARBON STAKE (UTAH), DRAGERTON SECOND WARD SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC AT THE NOVEMBER SPECIAL SUNDAY EVENING SERVICE, 1959 Maude Warren, President, Carbon Stake Relief Society, reports: "This picture is of the newly created Dragerton Second Ward Singing Mothers. They sang for the first time at the November ist special Sunday evening services. Wada Anderson, the President, is second from the left on the front row." PRaomeat submitted by Ruth Millet RIGBY STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CHRISTMAS PROGRAM, December 1959 Front row, left to right: Ruth R. Braegger; Mary A. Lewis; Louise Hebdon; Jane I'. Green; Chloe C. Later. Second row: Mary DaBell; Lola Y. Jones; Mary E. Life; Electra P. Field; Caroline G. Miller; Mary Martin; Margaret Wood; Lydia B. Dunn. Third row: Clarissa C. Hall; Nancy Merrill; Merle Jenkins; Roberta Keiler; Florence Hardy; Elizabeth B. Harker; Gladys Chapman; Ella Martin. Fourth row: Ruth Ellis; Ella Quinton; Harriet P. Green; Artemissia H. Andersen; Pearl C. Baron. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 339 Ruth Miller, President, Rigby Stake Relicf Society, reports that cach of these visiting teachers has served twenty-five years or more. Some have served over forty years, and Louise Hebdon has served for fifty-two years. This lovely holiday testimonial was under the direction of the stake Relief Socicty board. Christmas music provided a spiritual background for the occasion and a Christmas message was presented by Rigby Stake President George Christensen. 'The film "Unto the Least of These," showi ing the blessings and opportunitics of visiting teaching, was presented. For the social period, following the program, punch and Christmas cookies were served. Photograph submitted by Hattie Wallentine BEAR LAKE STAKE (IDAHO), BLOOMINGTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS DEMONSTRATION OF THE VALUE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Front row, seated, left to right: Cleone Payne, Secretary-Treasurer; Margaret Painter, Second Counselor; Gladys Jacobson, President; Maud Bateman, First Counselor. Second row, seated, left to right: Ruth Thornock, Magazine representative; Pearl Bateman; Letha Madson; Violet Nelson. Back row, standing, left to right: Nadine Nelson; Vera Haddock; Lark Bateman; Deltha Painter; Ruby Dunford; Lula Reese; Inez Findley. Hattie Wallentine, President, Bear Lake Stake Relief Society, reports: "The reproduction of the Magazine on a large scale, and in color, was painted by Irene Mumford. The script was prepared and spoken by Nadine Nelson. All of the officers and class leaders of the Bloomington Ward Relief Society took part in the demonstration. The setting was very effective, with the beautiful large reproduction of the Magazine and the other colorful Magazines placed around the stage. On the piano was placed a large globe map of the world, depicting the idea that the Magazine is read all over the world. After the various sisters had told of their interest and enjoyment of the different articles, stories, poems, editorials, lessons, etc. Representing women from all parts of the world, Lark Bateman gave a beautiful musical reading aimed at telling the story of the literary people of the New World, and interesting the sisters in the literature lessons. 'This demonstration was first given at our stake leadership mecting, but we felt that it was so verv fine that we asked for it to be repeated at our stake visiting teachers convention where 183 women were in attendance." Photograph submitted by Mazie S. Christensen ASHLEY STAKE (UTAH), DUTCH JOHN BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: Dea Blosch, Secrctary-'lreasurer; Erma Wood, Sccond Counselor; Lyle Coon, First Counselor; Hilda Morrell, President. Mazie S. Christensen, President, Ashley Stake Relief Society, reports: '""The Dutch John Branch Relief Society was organized November 1, 1959, and held an opening social on November 11th, at which function twenty- -eight women were delightfully entertained. Much interest and enthusiasm have been displayed by officers and members as they have gone forward in perfecting their organization and in carrying out the instructions of the General Board. Dutch John is a small trailer town located near the Flaming Gorge Dam on Green River, which dam is now under construction. The community is a branch of Ashley Stake and is located about forty-five miles northeast of Vernal, Utah." Girl G radua te Ida Elaine James Heart of my heart, you are going now. I cannot keep you, nor Pinion wings. 'True love must allow That flight is what wings are for— To life—through life's open door. Now you may journey, east or west. Know, dear, the charts are few; But, for your compass, all the best Of me shall go with you, Craving all things that are lovely, Praying for all things true. 340 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 Recommended Music for Relief Society Choruses Ladies Three Part ( ) Come Ye Blessed of My Father—Madsen...20 ( ) Forth in Thy Name, O Lord J Go—MadSCM oeeeeceeeeeccecececeeeeeeees.20 ) Go Ye Forth with My Word—Madsen...25 ) Incline Your Ear— Wilkes 0000. 25 In Thy Form—MadCp ae.20 ee ee ee — ) Let the Mountains Shout for Joy— Stephens 0.0.0.2....20 ( ) Lord, We Dedicate this House to Thee— Madsen.............2..-----.20 ( ) Music—Marsden.......20 ( ) My Redeemer Lives —Gates Loe.20 ( ) O Lovely Land, America—Madsen.....20 ( ) Open Our Eyes— Macfarlane................ {25 ( ) Send Forth Thy Spirit—Schuetky.......20 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blan DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 £. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. O On Approval O Charge (1 Money Enclosed Name Address City & State Daynes Made | salt Lake City 11, Utah Twenty - three Boston, Washington, New York, and Chicago. Top broadway show will be seen. Church historical places will also be visited such as Nauvoo Ahman. HAWAITI June 1960 MEXICAN TOURS June 1960 Also student tour in June 1960. Visit Book of Mormon places. NORTHWEST TOUR June 20, 1960 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY July 2nd through 9th, 1960 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July 22, 1960 days, including and Adam-OndiGUATEMALA Book of Mormon Archeological Sites. Tour leaving August 20, 1960. ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460-7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phone: EM 3-5229 (Beneath a Song Sparrow s Tlest Eva Willes Wangsgaard Yesterday's speckled eggs Are shards on the ground, Empty, immaculate, Once full and round. All eager mouths and cyes, Fledglings protest Hunger's sharp urgency Crowding the nest. Eggs, shards, and noisy young — Whence do these spring: Melody to the throat? Flight to the wing? Page 341 When Parents Play Ruby Dee Christensen HE hot ball of sun had set. Now, as rosy twilight deepened into quiet night, I was back again in the delightful land of childhood, a scrawny eight-year-old, complete with skinned knees, missing teeth, tangled curls, and daydreams. It was weekly family night and companionably grouped on_ the front lawn was the whole family. This particular evening held a special charm for me as there would be a full moon. Lying on the cool, thickly-matted, green grass, I hugged myself in eager anticipation. Family night was always grand. On cold winter evenings we would gather about a large wood-burning stove. With the north wind blowing eerily outside, Dad, a master raconteur, would enthrall us with tales of his youth in the Oklahoma 'Territory. Or, by the light of oldfashioned kerosene lamps, we might play charades, dominoes, or some other parlor game. Sometimes Dad would play his fiddle and call square dances while my older brothers and sisters formed a square and do-sidoed around the room. Sometimes we could persuade our shy little mother to play the guitar and sing folk songs or ballads, but, mostly, she was content to sit back and admire the remarkable (to her) talents of her family. Fach child, and there were nine of us, was given opportunities to perform by reciting, singing, dancing, drawing, or doing anything we considered entertaining. Mother always had steaming mugs of hot chocolate, popcorn, or some other Page 342 tasty refreshment to round out our evening. N the summertime we _ always stayed outdoors on the grass. The lawn was our pride and joy and our one extravagance. Bright emerald green and springy underfoot, it kept its rich texture by faithful, abundant watering On summer family nights we would usually relax in silence for a brief time. We would listen to a chorus of frogs at the nearby pond and watch fireflies send out signals with their tiny lanterns.. 'The gay, twinkling stars in the black velvet sky seemed almost close enough to touch. Dad would point out constellations and tell us the legends behind them. Often neighbors or my older sisters' beaux joined us. We would have community singing or the men would tell "Can you top this?" stories. Mother would serve cookies or doughnuts and cold milk. On rare occasions we had a real treat — homemade ice cream. It was all wonderful fun, but the few times family nights came when there was a full moon were, to me, the best nights of all. We would gather as usual in the front yard. Then, when the moon arose, the whole family, including Mother and Dad, would play hide and seek. Moonlight is just sheer magic! Washed by its silvery beams the house, the trees, Mother and Dad, myself, my brothers and sisters all seemed enchanted. As we hid in moon-flecked shadows shivering with joy, our laughter sounded like silver WHEN PARENTS PLAY bells. We rushed on winged feet to count ourselves in free before whoever was "it" could discover our hiding places. Harmony prevailed; no harsh dissonance disturbed the even tempo of the evening. At last, when our eyes grew heavy, Dad would have us kneel in the light of the moon for family prayer. Contented, we would go to bed and fall dreamlessly asleep. Of course I now realize that Mother and Dad were the magic of our family nights. They were wise enough to realize what it means to children to have their parents play with them. In spite of long, arduous days of farm work, they truly enjoyed themselves when joining us in play. I am grateful to them for my sweet memories, especially those joyous, carefree times we played hide and seek in the moonlight. 343. HAWAII TOURS June 4, June 13, June 29, August 8, November 21, 1960. All tours are especially planned for either ship or air. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July 29, 1960 — 2 weeks July 30 — 3 weeks NORTHWESTERN TOUR June 25, 1960 — Two weeks DISNEYLAND TOUR AND LOS ANGELES June 11 through 17 EUROPE August to October Ask for folders of our many other tours MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 So. 23rd East, Salt Lake City, Utah Phones CR 7-6334, AM 2-2337, IN 6-2909 New Work Day Ideas. Helps For Home Life. Conducting Hymns. And many other features. Emphasis for Relief Society Teaching Helps— ticipation @ Teaching Methods @ Visual Aids for Relief Society Lessons Includes One Special Day (Monday, June 6) of @ Lesson Preparation and Class Member ParShe is going to... Brigham Young University Leadership Week Theme: "A Land of Promise" June 4-9, 1960 Workshops, lectures, and demonstrations every day especially designed to aid Relief Society sisters. Theology, Social Science, and Literature Lesson Helps (By authors of lessons). ® Religion and Genealogy Classes. ©@ Family Night Fun. ® Vogue Fashion Shows. 1 CLIP AND MAIL Last Name First Middle Stake or Mission Church Position $2.50 registration fee enclosed, payable I | l | Home Address City State I | I to B. Y. U. Extension Services, Provo, Ut. GET FULL HOUSEPOWER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Birthdat Con ratula tions | =) One Hundred Two Mrs. Deseret Newman MippDLETON Los Angeles, California Ninety-nine Mrs. Exizapetu Terry BLair Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-eight Mrs. Anna ELIZABETH BLACKENMYRE AGEE Anoka, Minnesota Ninety-six Mrs. Soria Harscu Nauvoo, Illinois Ninety-five Mrs. WiLtHEe~mMina NIELSON CLEVELAND Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. JoserHine NIgLsen THORNLEY Los Angeles, California Page 344 Ninety-two Mrs. Lois Bartin WHITTAKER Circleville, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Eviza ANN Crapwick RANDALL Ogden, Utah Mrs. Exrma SERELDA CLARK BERRY Los Angeles, California Mrs. ELLen WILLIAMS Farmington, Utah Mrs. Nancy Hammer Matuews Shelley, Idaho Mrs. Annie Leicu Mace Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Rosemary WALKER CHAFFIN Farmington, Utah Mrs. Saran SHAW Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Sotomon EARDLEY Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Wooprurr ENSIGN Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Amina SIMONS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. EvizaBetu TABITHA STEVENS BIGLER Fairview, Utah > Gnheritor of (Beauty Vesta N. Fairbairn When I look up at night At trillions of firefly stars My mind takes winged flight. Such special beauties are Mysterious to me, As awesome and remote As all infinity, Beyond me to connote. Yet here on earth am I Created and blessed to know This majesty of sky, Star light, star bright, star glow. Vida Fox Clawson Announces: Three Hill Cumorah Pageant Tours: 3 Weeks Bus Tour—leaves Salt Lake July 30th 3 Weeks Golden Eagle Train Tour 2 Weeks Golden Eagle Train Tour—leaves Salt Lake July 25th Each of these tours will be limited in number so early reservations are advisable. Weekend Decoration Day Tour Leave Salt Lake on Denver and Rio Grande Railroad Friday evening, May 27th. Arrive Denver Saturday 28th. Sightseeing in Denver and in quaint historic Central City. Sunday, May 29th, Colorado Springs. Visit United States Air Force Academy and the Garden of the Gods. Monday the world-famous Royal Gorge and arrive Salt Lake Tuesday, May 31, 8 a. M. Price $68.00 Write for Itineraries: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: DA 8-0303 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relicf Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance fram Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles.............. 23D) 150 to 300 miles 00... 39 300 to 600 miles............ 600 to 1000 miles............... 1000 to 1400 miles. 1400 to 1800 miles. Ed uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT PIANOS Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built THE WORLD'S FINEST Cable-Nelson Finest Law Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano Peaple 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Beginning and advanced classes start soon. Type your letters, minutes, reports, genealogy sheets, ete. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main — EM 3-2765 Salt Lake City, Utah LrO ZION; HANDCARTS LeRoy R. Hafen and Ann W. Hafen From 1856 to 1860, nearly three thousand souls, new-born infants to the aged, travelled over thirteen hundred miles of wilderness by handcart to reach the land of Zion. This is their story, in all its colorful detail and courage, with excerpts from original journals and diaries, and including rosters of all who made the trek. Illustrated. 495 INTIMATE | 2. WITH A DISCIPLE | bid o Gon i SONG IN HER HEART i Te ef Grace H. Croft Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen is known and loved as the director of The Singing Mothers and is one of the most outstanding vocal teachers of this area. Her career also includes years of triumph on the concert stage, with critics acclaiming her as one of the nation's greatest singers. Over 50 illustrations. 3. INTIMATE DISCIPLE Claire Noall Heart-warming biography of Willard Richards, devoted friend of the Prophet Joseph Smith, whose unswerving loyalty to the Mormon Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find........ Check........ Money cause enabled him to surmount $ order........ I have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed: chronic ill-health, domestic tragedy, ° $afor encircled (numbered) books: and mob violence in the 3 crucial 1840's. 1 2 3 B75 $$ Nereis aee nce cee cee cececeeceeceee coeeccecer sesceceeeeeeseesesecseescneenesnenarseeeseas Residents of Utah include 242% sales tax.:: Address........2...2....220ccccccccecceeeeeeceee ceeeecceeeseceeseessennecccceeeseessenernenae Git _...........--ccosesense eee eaeZone........ State... Ae JUNE 1960 Lesson Previews Co Fs SO O Z nm v xi O > WVhere Summer Goes Alice Morrey Bailey If you should knock and I'm not there, When roses end their bloom, When sun-heat shimmers on the air And branches weave their loom — Go seek me at the river's edge, Or at a boat's white sail, Or on a sun-warmed, lichened ledge Beyond a sage-bound trail. Perhaps I'll be among the pines Toward the mountain's crest, Knee-deep in ferns and columbines, I may be East or West. I may be with the mocking bird, The eucalyptus tree, Where ocean's voices can be heard. Where summer goes, find me. The Cover: Blossoms in Liberty Park, Salt Lake City, Utah Color Transparency by Claire Noall Frontispiece: Eucalyptus Trees at San Diego, California Photograph by Ward Linton Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From ear and Sar I just picked up the beautiful March issue of the Magazine. My husband and I both enjoy each issue and look forward to reading them together. I often read portions aloud for our Family Hour. The story "A Place for Everything" in the March issue seemed to point the finger right at me, and since reading it I have been trying to take time out to play with and enjoy our little boy. Many times I have said I wish every mother in the Church would subscribe to and enjoy this very special and inspiring Magazine every month. —Mrs. Millie Martindale Bossier City, Louisiana I am a new missionary of ten days in the Kearney Branch. The first Sunday here I was put in President of the Relief Society. I attended last Tuesday. Three dear sisters met at a home, each with a Magazine, giving the lesson and carrying on even though few in number. It was a humble and spiritual feast when each sister gave her testimony. Thank you for the Magazine. This branch is small and scattered. —Fstella D. Jones Kearney, Nebraska My fifteen-year-old daughter has discovered the Magazine at our house the last year or so, and she really could hardly wait for the next issue to come while she was reading "The New Day" by Hazel K. Todd (October 1959 to April 1960). —Margaret H. Matthews Boise, Idaho I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much. I can hardly wait for it to come each month. On the morning it arrives I hurry through my busy morning schedule, and as soon as lunch is over, put my children down for their naps, and then I sit down to an enjoyable afternoon with my Relief Society Magazine. —Mrs. Barbara De La Mare La Miranda, California Page 346 It is a pleasure to read each issue of the Magazine, and I was happy to see the picture of a true friend, Dorothy Clapp Robinson, in the March issue, and to read her prize story "The Fishbite Story." Recently, at Saint Maries, Idaho, while staying with my orphaned grandsons, I attended Relief Society.... This rather new branch of the Church is growing quite rapidly. Saint Maries is a pretty place among evergreen trees on the hillside near a lake where the Saint Joe River comes into the Jake. —Fliza W. Buckland Idaho Falls, Idaho I always enjoyed my mother's Relief Society Magazine at home, but never had my own until last year. We had just recently moved to this community, and one of the sisters gave me a year's subscription to the Magazine as a gift. I shall always remember her friendliness and kindness, especially since my own family lives some distance away. I have looked forward each month to receiving the next issue of the Magazine. I enjoy all of it, and usually read it from cover to cover. The front covers and frontispieces are always beautiful. Mrs. Anne W. Salina, Utah McCausland We here in the Southern Hemisphere greatly appreciate and value very highly our fine Magazine. All the lessons are well set out and contain matter of essential value. Most of us acknowledge that the theology lessons are the highest if we have to make a choice. For the beginner (like myself) the lessons are the groundwork of our daily living. I would like to pay a personal tribute if I may to Sister Ethel Wheeler of Fairview, Utah, through whose persuasion I joined the Relief Society here. She has also been the donor to me of The Relief Society Magazine for the last three years. I am truly grateful to her. —Sarah E. Smith Christchurch New Zealand THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - = - =~ = Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond Elsa T. Peterson Edith S. Elliott Christine H. Robinson Annie M. Ellsworth Irene B. Woodford Florence J. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Younes Fanny S. Kienitz Leone G. Layton Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron Elizabeth B. Winters Blanche B. Stoddard Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt LaRue H. Rosell Evon W. Peterson Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Jennie R. Scott Aleine M. Young Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen Manwaring RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawiord General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 47 JUNE 1960 NO. 6 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Emma Ray Riggs McKay -... Secccsscececcceeceeecccneneteneeees Emma Rae McKay Ashton 348 Annual Report for 1959 Hulda Parker 380 FICTION Needed by Someone ooiieiiicicecececsceeceseceseeseeeeseseeeeeeceeeees Helen H. Trutton 359 You'll Always Be Rich 2....... Ccsssseececeeseeeees Betty Lou Martin 369 Orchids in the Snow-—Chapter 2 'Rosa Lee Lloyd 374 Fiddlers Three. Lula Walker 395 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far.. 346 Sixty Years Ago _. _ 364 Editorial: The 130th Annual Church Conference...... 2Vesta P. Crawford 366 Notes to the Field: Program for the November Fast Sunday Evening Meeting........: scccscssscsseseoes 368 Hymn of the Month—Semi-Annual List. Ee 368 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker 404 Birthday Congratulations. 424 FEATURES FOR THE HOME For a Flower Leone H. Simms 372 Menus for Special Dinners Ruby K. Smith 390 Mary Sorenson Johnson Finds Enough Hobbies to Make Her Happy..... 401 My Mother and Her Hemstitching Machine... Fay McCurdy Bailey 402 LESSON DEPARTMENT—PREVIEWS FOR 1960-61 Theology — The Doctrine and Covenants Roy W. Doxey 411 Visiting Teacher Messages — Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Christine H. Robinson 413 Work Meeting—Caring for the Sick in the Home o.. CececcceccccecesccssssessseceeesssseeseeseeseMaria Johnson 414 Literature — America's Literature Comes of Age Briant S. Jacobs 416 Social Science—Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age......-Blaine M. Porter 418 Notes on the Authors of the Lessons 420 POETRY Where Summer Goes — Frontispiece Alice Morrey Bailey 346 Swallows Dorothy J. Roberts 358 SouNG in SUM Mer oon nec eesceesseeseveceeeneecececncessessesaessecasesseescesnesssscueesassocarsecsussuesseeeanesRenie H. Littlewood 373 Summer Night ee Maxine R. Jennings 399 Prayer Grace Ingles Frost 379 FOreCOSt 2neneeeeee-sececeecneccececeeeesecenscessesecescacssenetescataeanssssescaese Evalyn M. Sandberg 401 Smoke-Warm Grasses Eva Willes Wangsgaard 403 Visia es aeLinnie F. Robinson 403 Give Me the Mesa. Maude Rubin 410 Small Gypsy. Ne... Ethel Jacobson 422 Mountain Cabin.......... Marian Woodbury Gold 422 Anticipation _ Zara Sabin 423 Her Load Is Shared Ida Elaine James 423 Candle of Life Catherine B. Bowles 423 Apple Orchard Christie Lund Coles 424 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by Genera) Board of Relief Society of The Church of aa '; Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 347 Woman's Sphere onnecec cece cccceceeeccsnceeceeceenescnenseececeeseacecseneececseseneceneaenencnceeseees Ramona W. Cannon 365 Emma Ray Riggs McKay Emma Rae McKay Ashton |The members of Relief Society throughout the world love and do honor to Sister McKay on her eighty-third birthday, June 23, 1960.] 66 OTHER, why don't you M ask one of us to run to the basement for you?" plead six willing children, eager to save her steps and to wait on her. "TI never ask anyone to do anything for me that I can do for myself," has been her reply through the years. This complete unselfishness is the keynote to Mother's happy life. "Won't you take the casy chair?" or "Let me help you," or "You may have my share," are familiar phrases we associate with Mother. In her daily routines she has manifested her selflessness. Every morning she has risen between five and_ six o'clock to prepare a nourishing breakfast for her busy husband and children; every day with no word of complaint she has kept warm the midday meal even though it might be served any time from _ twelvethirty to two, depending upon Father's appointments; every evening, if Father was detained, she would feed her family but wait for his return before eating herself. "I know it isn't pleasant for Daddy to eat alone," she would remark. She is not only patient, loving, and understanding, but also beautiful in form and feature. One person remarked that she was the most beautiful bride she had ever seen. In her appearance and in her housekeeping she is always neat, and though soft-spoken, she is cheerful Page 348 with a sparkling sense of humor. Her beauty is also from within, from pure thoughts and high ideals. Emma Lucy Gates Bowen wrote these words which, I believe, apply to Mother: "A beautiful, modest, gracious woman is creation's masterpiece. When to these virtucs a woman possesses as guiding stars in her life, righteousness and godliness and an irresistible impulse and desire to make others happy, no one will question if she is classed among those who are the truly great." This sweet, thoughtful little lady, by being the wife of our revered President, followed the pattern set down for her by studious and religious ancestors. In his book, Genealogy of the Riggs Family, John H. Wallace, the author, writes: "A prominent characteristic of the Riggs family, through successive generations, has been the large percentage of its members who were highly educated and effective ministers. Many of them have held positions of the highest trust and so many of the daughters of the family married Presbyterian ministers, and in due time became the mothers of Presbyterian ministers themselves. The value and stability of a family or tribe depend largely upon the intelligence and character of its women, and just so long as it is blessed with educated and dutiful daughters growing into conscientious and steadfast mothers, it } pee one SISTER McKAY ARRANGING FLOWERS IN HER HOME. Page 349 350 Bellsmith, OBADIAH H. RIGGS, FATHER OF EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY Cincinnati wil live and continue to exert a wide and beneficent influence." Mother's father, Dr. Obadiah H. Riggs, was born near Library, Pennsylvania. He joined the Church and was successfully engaged in teaching in the East until the spring of 1864, when he settled in Salt Lake City. He then resumed his profession and, in 1874, was appointed Territorial Superintendent of Schools. Later he returned to the East to study medicine. Mother's maternal grandfather, John Robbins, born in New Jersey during Joseph Smith's time, was an adventurous pioneer. With his wife Phocbe and three young sons, he joined Captain Samuel Brannon's party on the ship Brooklyn, thinking it wiser to travel by boat to Upper California rather than risk the perilous journey across the great plains and mountainous regions. Sailing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 around Cape Horn to San Francisco, the vovage took six months, and the passengers toward the end of the journey lived on rice and molasses three times a day. Two of their young children died on the Atlantic, and a baby daughter was born on the Pacific. 'They blessed her Georgiana Pacific Robbins. Another daughter, Emma Louise, was born in San Francisco. Later the Robbins family moved to Salt Lake City. BADIAH H. Riggs marricd the charming, vivacious Emma Louise Robbins, an accomplished pianist and singer who also taught voice and piano. The fifth child and only daughter born to this hap-. Pv couple was Emma Ray. Through the vears Mother has often related this amusing anecdote concerning her name. When she was back at Fox and Symons EMMA LOUISE ROBBINS RIGGS MOTHER OF EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY Cincinnati studying music, her professor asked her name. "Ray Riggs. Ray is spelled with a'Y.'" "No," argued the teacher, "you spell it with an 'E' because it is a girl's name." "But," retorted Mother, "I am the only girl born in a family of five boys, and I was named after a ray of sunshine." "You are perfectly right," agreed the instructor, "you do spell your name with a 'Y.'" "We had such good times together in our family," Mother has always said. "My older brothers could sing from memory all of the popular songs from the current operettas. We sang together by the hour. My mother was always jolly, with naturally red lips and flashing brown eyes. Everyone loved her." I thought, that is the reason for Mother's sparkle and her gay personality and why everyone loves to be with her, too. Having studied piano with her mother and at the Cincinnati Conservatory, naturally music has been an enjoyable hobby of hers. She has often accompanied our family when we have sung together. Another hobby of Mother's is the reading of good literature. "I was never lonely as a girl," she mused, "for I always had the companionship of good books." Indeed, in her girlhood, she was an avid reader of Dickens, Scott, Shakespeare, and other noted authors. She first met Father when he, with his brother 'Thomas E. And his two sisters, Jeannette and Ann, rented an apartment from her mother. These young University of Utah students became acquainted and saw each other occasionally on the 351 C. R. Savage EMMA RAY RIGGS AT THE AGE OF TWELVE campus. At the conclusion of the school year, Mother was invited by the girls to spend a few days at the McKay home in Huntsville. On this visit Father invited her to accompany him to his missionary farewell party. This was their first date. Through correspondence, however, while he was on his mission, their love blossomed. She continued her schooling while he was away, and at the end of four years, with a class of only six members, Mother was graduated from the University of Utah with a B. A. Degree. The next fall she received an offer to teach at the Madison Elementary School in Ogden. When Father returned from his mission, following several months of courtship, they were married 352 January 2, 1901, the first couple to be married in the Salt Lake 'Temple at the turn of the century. They settled down in Ogden where he was principal of the Weber Stake Academy. IVE years after their marriage Father was ordained an apostle. Since conference visits, made by wagon in those days, took him away two or three weeks at a time, much of the responsibility of rearing the family fell to Mother. It was up to Courtesy Emma Ray Riggs McKay EMMA RAY RIGGS WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH GRADUATING CLASS 1898 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 her to turn the chairs around at the table for family prayers, and to take time to listen to her little ones with their individual prayers each night and morning. She had much of the responsibility of keeping the standards high and maintaining the spiritual and cultural level of the home. She taught her children to respect the rights of others. She saw to it that the boys attended their quorum meetings, that all of us went to Sunday School and sacrament meeting. 'Tithing was paid Seated, left to right: Ralph Varey Chamberlin; Mary Elizabeth Connelly (Kimball); J. Reuben Clark, Jr Standing, left to right: Emma Ray Riggs (McKay); Herbert Thayer Hills; Albert Johannsen. EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY 353 The Thomas Studio DAVID O. McKAY AND EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY WITH THEIR ELDEST SON, DAVID LAWRENCE McKAY, AGE TWO and the Word of Wisdom was kept. In addition to this, Mother was president of the ward Relief Society. Determined to make a success of this position, she bundled her baby, and pushing him in his carriage, made personal visits to the ward sisters inviting them to attend the Relief Society meetings. Her diligence was rewarded. 'The membership increased from twelve sisters to ninety! Later, she was asked to be a counselor in the stake Relief Society presidency. In 1920, when Father and Brother Hugh J. Cannon made their world mission tour, Mother had the full responsibility, for one year, of the home and their six children, Bob the baby being only three months old. At one time during Father's absence, Mother needed a goodly sum of money to pay some obligations. She exhausted all her resources without being able to raise the money. Finally, the night before the money was due, with tears rolling down her cheeks, she knelt by her bed and prayed with all her heart that Heavenly Father would show her a way to obtain this needed sum. The next morning there was a knock at the door. 'The visitor was Brother John Hall, a member of her stake presidency. He had never before paid a social call so Mother was somewhat surprised to see him when she opened the door. His first words were, "Sister McKay, do you 354 SS. 48 The 'Salt Lake Tribune RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY, HIS WIFE EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY, AND THEIR FAMILY Photograph taken January 2, 1951 Front row, left to right: Francis Ellen Anderson McKay; Robert R. McKay; Sister Emma Ray Riggs McKay; President David O. McKay; Lou Jean McKay Blood; Dr. Llewelyn R. McKay; Alice Smith McKay. Back row, left to right: Conway A. Ashton; Emma Rae McKay Ashton; Dr. Edward R. McKay; Lottie Lund McKay; David Lawrence McKay; Mildred Calderwood McKay. One son-in-law, Dr. Russell H. Blood, a Commander in the United States Navy, was absent from the group, as he was serving with the United Nations forces in Korea when this photograph was taken. Need me? When I was down at the corner, something told me to turn up this way." "T should say that I do. Won't you come in and sit down?" She then related her problem and the ways she had tried to solve it. He promptly produced his checkbook from his pocket and wrote her the needed amount. "But, Brother Hall, I have no collateral, and I don't know when I can repay you." "Never mind, David O. Will see to it when he returns." N the year 1922, Father had been home only a few months from his world mission when he was called to take his family and for two years preside over the European Mission. Mother was set apart as the head of all of the auxiliaries in Europe. Her work in this capacity, her responsibility as mission mother to the 500 missionaries, and her managing of the mission home in Liverpool! Were creditable activities carried out with much diligence, love, and kindness. Upon their return from this as- The Salt Lake Tribune PRESIDENT AND SISTER McKAY CUTTING THEIR FIFTIETH WEDDING ANNIVERSARY CAKE, January 1951 MRS. EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY RECEIVING THE HONORARY DEGREE OF DOCTOR OF HUMANITIES AT THE COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES UTAH STATE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE (UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY) ieee 0a;, Cited as an "Exemplar of the highest qualities of American Womanhood EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY Courtesy Emma Ray Riggs McKay 357 PRESIDENT AND SISTER McKAY IN GREENOCK, SCOTLAND August 1955 signment, the family moved to Salt Lake City, where Mother was active for a number of years in the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society presidency until an operation terminated this call. In later years, when their children were grown, she became Father's constant traveling companion and won a place in the hearts of the people with her graciousness. It was fitting that these lifetime sweethearts should be honored on their golden wedding anniversary in January 1951. 'This loyal love of theirs radiates warmth and _ inspiration not only to Church members but to the people of the world as they have personally greeted this charming couple. The Europeans who welcomed them in 1952 delighted in honoring Mother in Finland on her seventy-fifth birthday. Latter-day Saints everywhere were thrilled with the selection of temple sites in Berne, Switzerland, New Chapel, England, and in New Zealand. You know the great historic trips President and Sister McKay have made to South America and South Africa. The year 1954 was a memorable one for Mother. She not only flew to the South Sea Islands, Australia, and New Zealand, but also she was chosen Utah's Mother of the Year and was presented a Doctorate of 358 Humanities by the Utah State Agricultural College (Utah State University). Truly Mother's life is happy and successful because of her service and inspiration to others. As Father has often said, "Mother's constant aim RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 in life is to make home the most pleasant place in the world. She accomplishes this with tenderness, watchful care, and loving patience." May her sweet influence be felt for many more years is our constant prayer. 4 Swa Hows Dorothy J. Roberts Weave forever that sweet summer Once you wove into my dream With your silent bars of music On wire staves above the stream. Swallows resting — gay notes patterned On the rippled rose of sky — Fabricate this healing vision On some child's enchanted eye. Fold the wings of time forever, Seal the peace of youth and bird In the memory of this silence, In this music never heard. Bound by years and winter-burdened, Let him stand, a child, and stare, In the innocence of morning In the coral hush of air. Needed by Someone Helen H. Trutton T was starting to rain when Agnes backed the car out of the garage and looked at the house. I haven't been this lonely since Rod's death over twenty years ago, she thought as she drove away. At least then I felt needed, with three young girls to care for. It's not that 'm unhappy, either, she told herself emphatically as the memory of Marla's radiant face flashed before her. Guess I'm just tired from the round of activities before her marriage in the temple, and preparations for the reception were most exhaustive. Marla, her youngest, was the last to leave home, and was now living in the ast. Last year it had been Paula, living presently in Denver. Then two years ago Christine had married and, fortunately, she lived only about a hundred miles from Carsonville in Midville. Agnes felt very grateful that her daughters had found such marital happiness. Certainly she wouldn't want it any other way, but still, one thought kept gnawing at her, especially since Marla's marriage. What does a mother do when her family no longer needs her? Not one single person really depends on her any more. Of course she had her writing, her livelihood since Rod's passing. Lucky she had been successful in that, for it had meant she could do her work at home and be with the gitls while they were growing up. She glanced down momentarily at her latest book entitled The Little Lady lying on the seat beside her. She'd brought it along to study in her spare moments in hopes of making her next book better. Agnes mustered a faint smile, displaying two dimples on her wellsculptured mature face as she passed a neighbor's house, and with an instinctive gesture, ran the fingers of her right hand quickly through her short, well-groomed gray hair. She hadn't called Christine to tell her she was coming to the writer's conference at Bill City, fifteen miles this side of Midville. Later, she would call her and, if Christine wasn't too busy, maybe they could have lunch together, at least. I shouldn't be taking this trip, Agnes reminded herself, with an unfinished manuscript waiting for me that's really been neglected these past few weeks. But it isn't every day an author gets an appointment with her publisher, especially Mr. Adams, one of the top men in his field. The rain began lashing down in torrents now, so characteristic of early spring, particularly through the mountainous region, making visibility from any distance difficult. Fortunately, Agnes was forced to drive slowly or she might not have noticed the makeshift sign along the side of the road. Agnes stopped the car and read aloud, "Wanted Mother Nurse. Ask in house." Back about four hundred yards from the road stood a rather old log cabin that looked deserted except for a thin spiral of smoke Page 359 360 puffing from the chimney. Agnes' first impulse was that a prankster had posted the sign, but something almost urgent in the childish scribble made her decide to investigate. A few minutes wouldn't make any difference in her plans. S the car came to a stop in front of the cabin, a young girl around eight or nine darted out the door calling excitedly, "You saw my sign?" "Yes. What can I do for you?" "Mommy's terribly sick," and the girl began to cry. "Oh, I'm very sorry. I'll help all I can," Agnes reassured her, as she quickly climbed out of the car and followed the youngster into the house. '"Mommy's in there." The child indicated the bedroom. "Daddy's with her." Agnes knocked gently and waited a moment before opening the door. A young man, sitting at the side of the bed, looked up bewildered as she entered. "IT understand you need _ help," Agnes said kindly. The man didn't answer immediately, but stared at her, and then bending over the still form of his wife, his voice broke as he whispered, "Our prayers have been answered, Lydia darling. Someone has come." "Do you know what is wrong with her?" Agnes asked, while taking off her coat. "I'm not a nurse." He turned away from the bed, and she saw how tired and scared he looked as he spoke. "I'm afraid it's pneumonia." "Then she should be in a hospital. Carsonville is the nearest, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 that's about thirty miles from here. You should have taken her hours ago." "T know," he said, "but our car is broken down." He walked about and looked down anxiously at his wife. "When she got worse last night, I tried to stop the few cars going along the Inghway, but I guess they thought I was a fugitive or something. None of them would stop." Agnes bent over Lydia. Be all right. I have a car." The woman rallied a little and opened her eyes. "I can't leave my baby. He's been sick, too." "Davey's fine now," the man assured her. '"'He's all smiles and cating well again." Agnes placed her hand on the hot forehead of the ill woman. "I know you don't know me. I'm Agnes Bigelow. I live in Carsonville. YI stay here and care for the children while your husband takes my car and drives you to the hospital." The young woman's eyes brightened. "You're very kind. I think you must be an angel." Agnes smiled. "Here, let me wrap you up well," and she carefully tucked the blanket around her, then stood back while the man gently gathered his wife up in his arms. "T'll be back as soon as I can," he called over his shoulder. "Our name's Freeman. God bless you, Mrs. Bigelow." At the door, he turned. "Are you in a hurry to get to your destination?" "Not until tomorrow. I do have a rather important meeting then, at one o'clock." He looked relieved. "I'll have your car back by that time." "You'll NEEDED BY SOMEONE FTER they drove away, Agnes turned her attention to the baby in the crib. "Hello," she smiled a at him. "You're a fine looking one.' "My name's Caroline," a low, timid voice spoke behind her. "Ts my Mommy going to get well?" Agnes slipped her arms around the trembling little girl. "T'm sure your mother will be well soon, Did you put that sign out there?" "Yes, Ma'am." "That was good thinking." "Thank you. Now if you like, Pll show you your room," and she led the-way to a bedroom. "This is my room, but I'll sleep on the davenport." "Thank you, Caroline, for letting me use your room. I won't unpack just yet." The baby began to fuss, and Agnes hurried to his side. "Do you know his feeding schedule, dear?" Caroline glanced at the clock hanging on the wall. "Tt's time in ten minutes. Daddy fixed his formula this morning." "Good. I think I'll straighten up things before lunch." "T can help," the youngster volunteered, as she joincd Agnes in picking up articles and arranging chairs in the rather crowded, small room. "Only maybe I should heat Davey's bottle first." Agnes smiled at the girl's eagerness to help, just the way Christine used to pitch in when Paula was a baby, she remembered. Caroline finished heating the milk and, after carefully testing it for the proper temperature, took the bottle in to Davey. When she returned, she stood idly watching Agnes move about the room. 361 "Is everything all right, dear?" "Yes. I was just thinking," and she ducked her head self-consciously, "Daddy was going to make cookies today, if Mommy was better." This is really like old times, Agnes thought happily. "Why don't I make them? I have a recipe my girls were fond of when they were growing up. " "Would you really Mrs. — Mrs.?" "Bigelow. Of course I will. As I remember, these special cookies were best made in shapes of elves, fairies, and...." Caroline quickly "Could I help?" Agnes laughed. P''m counting on it." A child's creative instinct, when confronted with rolled-out cookie doesn't suggested, "By all means, dough, belong to any particular generation, Agnes soon decided, as she watched Caroline gleefully cut patterns of every imaginable form. Christine, Paula, and Marla had enjoyed that part of cookie making, too. T was late afternoon before all the work was finished, and Davey fed again and aslecp. Then Agnes found time to sit down to rest. Caroline edged into a chair close by and asked, "Do you know any stories?" "Well, I have a book with my things vou might enjoy. I write stories for youngsters." "May I get it?" the girl asked enthusiastically. "Tf you like." When she returned with the book, she sat down and began to leaf through its contents. "My Daddy draws like that," Caroline 362 said, pointing to an illustration. "Really?" The youngster jumped up and went to the back bedroom and gathered an armful of drawings. "See," she said, returning to the room. Agnes looked them over carefully. "These are good. Does he draw, that is, does he sell them?" "Not too many yet, but Daddy says it takes time to get established," she answered sadly. "He will, though." "They're better than good," she told the girl. "You know I need someone to illustrate the book I'm working on. Tl talk to your Daddy." By eight o'clock Agnes was tired, and apparently Mr. Freeman wasn't returning before morning. "I think we should go to bed, don't you?" she asked. "Maybe Mommy is worse," Caroline answered, tears coming quickly in her eyes. "Try not to worry, dear, and remember her in your prayers tonight." "Oh, I will," she cried, "and you, too." Then she got up and walked into another room and _ gathered some bedding and piled it on the davenport. "I was just wondering," she finally spoke, "if I could call you Grandma?" Agnes couldn't trust herself to speak for a moment as she helped the girl make her bed. "Td feel very honored, if you'd call me Grandma." T was still raining the next morning when Agnes awakened to find Caroline standing by her bed. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 "Daddy will be home today for sure, won't he, Grandma?" "Tm sure he will. How's Davey? I fed him at four this morning." "Davey's fine, Grandma." After breakfast, Agnes bathed Davey and_ straightened up the house again before she went in to dress for the trip to Bill City. She was really looking forward -to meeting Mr. Adams to discuss some ideas on a future book. Mr. Freeman would be home any moment, and she must be ready to leave. But it was almost eleven o'clock before Caroline called excitedly, "Here comes Daddy, Grandma." Agnes looked out the window to see her car coming down the lane followed by another car, and watched as a strange man climbed out and came to the door. "Mrs. Bigelow?" he asked politely, as she opened the door. "Yes." "Mr. Freeman asked me to Icave your car here. He had to wait for a part for his car, but he didn't want you to miss your meeting. He'll catch a ride home in a couple of hours." "How is Mrs. Freeman?" "Much better this morning," the man answered. "Now if you'll excuse me, my wife is waiting in our car." He started to leave, then turned back to her. "Oh, Mr. Freeman asked if you'd mind stopping on your way home so he could settle with you?" When Agnes turned to tell Caroline the good news, she found her dancing merrily about the room. "Goody! Goody! Mommy's getting well. I just knew she would, though." "That's wonderful news, dear." NEEDED BY SOMEONE The girl stopped dancing and walked to the window. "You'll be going soon?" "Do you want me to stay?" "No, I wouldn't want you to miss your appointment." "Well...." Agnes glanced at the clock. It was a little after eleven, she'd really have to get started to make it to Bill City by one o'clock, and that meeting was very important. "If I could be sure ipa Daddy would get here shortly.. " "He will, Grandma." Agnes joined Caroline at the window, and watched little streams of water running down the road. Supposing, just supposing something happened so that Mr. Freeman didn't make it back. The thought kept running through Agnes' mind. Somehow, as the minutes ticked by, the meeting with Mr. Adams became less and less important. "Caroline," she finally said, "PI wait for your father's return." "But your important appointment?" Agnes put her arms around the gitl. "Suddenly, it doesn't seem nearly as urgent as staying here." A happy look crossed the child' S face. "I'm glad you're staying." OURS sped by. It was late afternoon, and still Mr. Freeman hadn't come. What had happened? Was Mrs. Freeman worse, or had Mr. Freeman been in an accident? Agnes tried desperately not to show concern to alarm Caroline. "Tm sure the car part was delayed," she had repeated numerous times during the day. "He'll be here soon now,' 363 Then, just as dusk was beginning to settle in the lonely mountainous region, Caroline jumped to her feet at the sound of someone on the porch. "Here comes Daddy," and she flung the door open. "Daddy! Daddy!" she cried. "Mommy's getting well!" "Yes, dear," and then he noticed Agnes in the room. "You stayed?" "T thought you might be delayed." Mr. Freeman held out his hand to steady himself against the door. His voice shook. "I've been almost frantic since we were delayed by a road slide. I thought the children were alone. Mrs. Bigelow, how can I ever repay you for your kindness? I caused you to miss your appointment. I'm sorry." Agnes smiled at him. "I'm just as glad as you are that I stayed. I'll call my publisher. It'll do just as well." "Your publisher? Then you are the Agnes Bigelow who writes children's books?" "Yes, and by the way, Mr. Freeman, your daughter showed me some excellent drawings. I'm looking for someone to do the illustrations in my next book. Would you be interested?" "Would I?" he exclaimed eagerly. The young man's face lighted, "Good," Agnes said. "Is the slide all repaired now?" "Yes, traffic is going through." "IT was just thinking, Mr. Freeman, with your wife in the hospital in Carsonville, why don't you and the children come home with me this evening? You'll be close to the (Continued on page 400) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent June 1, and June 15, 1900 "For Tue RicurTs oF THE WOMEN or ZION AND THE RiciTs OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS" DEAR OLD NEW ENGLAND: Among the New England hills memories come back to me that I never recall any other time or in any other place. There is in some of us a sort of heredity... That makes us cling with loving and longing to the haunts of nature in which childhood has been passed.... Journeying from New York... Into the heart of New England among the beautiful villages nestled among the green hills is charming in itself... One hastens from place to place to take a look at familiar scenes of long ago.... Deserted and desolate are many of the homes from which the Latter-day Saints emigrated to Nauvoo early in the Forties. —Aunt Em A RARE JUNE WEDDING: Undoubtedly the month of June is the most delightful of the year to have pretty weddings, and there have been a large number of very claborate ones this June season, the most significant one, perhaps, being solemnized June 29, in the Salt Lake Temple, the ceremony being performed by President George QO. Cannon.... The bride and bridegroom were Miss Maud M. Ford of Cleveland, Ohio, and Mr. Leroi C. Snow of Salt Lake.... A royal reception was given by the parents of the bridegroom at the Bee Hive House... Eight hundred invitations had been sent out.... The bride was attired in an exquisite gown of soft white material.... Bands of music were playing throughout the evening... Everything scemed in keeping with the auspicious union of two young lovers embarking upon the smooth and shining sea of matrimony.... —News Note OUR SCANDINAVIAN WOMEN Thank heaven for all these sturdy ones, These men of toil, these women truc, Who, working on through storms and suns, Found naught too hard for their hands to do, And whether on earth or whether above, We open the records of life and love, By the side of the names of our Danish sires, Whose hearts grew warm in the Gospel light Will our mothers be, for those living fires Have kept them as truly bright. —Alofa PIONEER WOMAN'S PAPER. This number of the paper, June first, nineteen hundred is the commencement of the Twenty-ninth volume of the Woman's Exponent. It is the oldest woman's paper in the West, and the first established except the New North West in Portland, Oregon; that was discontinued several years since. —Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN ALBERTA STAKE: President M. L. Woolf rejoiced to sce so many young mothers with their babes present. Ielt that the minutes just read were full of inspiration. We must cultivate the spirit of God continually, that our influence may always be felt. President Sarah B. Daines of Cardston felt that the work of Relief Society was a noble mission for the daughters of Zion. Stake Counselor Jane Hinman bore her testimony as to the blessings received through testimony and prayer.... Spoke on the principle of obedience. "If we perform our duties as mothers our children will respect and obey us." —Jane W. Bates, Sec. Page 364 RS. ESTHER HOBART MORRIS was honored recently when an eight-foot bronze statue of her was placed and dedicated to her memory in the United States Capitol's historic Statuary Hall. Mrs. Morris lived in South Pass, Wyoming, and was a noted pioneer in the West's struggle for woman suffrage. No State may have more than two pieces of sculpture in Statuary Hall. _This is the first one placed for Wyoming. EVERAL contributors to The Relief Society Magazine, all residents of Salt Lake City, Utah, won honors and awards at the biennial convention of the National League of American Penwomen held in Washington, D. C. In early April. Wilma Boyle Bunker was clected first vice-president of the organization. In the junior book class, Olive W. Burt won first prize with a 25,000-word book Pal of the Hills, and she also received first prize in the tiny-tot stories classification. Grace S. Cozzens placed second in detective stories, and Roxana Farnsworth Hase placed third in the same group. Mabel S. Harmer won third place in stories for adults with a story "The Apricot Tree," which appeared in The Relief Society Magazine in April 1958, and placed third in stories for juniors nine to twelve. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon REPRESENTATIVE KATHRYN E. GRANAHAN | is chairman of the Postal Operations Subcommittee of the House Post Office Committee, which is making an examination of obscenity in motion pictures and motion picture advertising accepted by newspapers and carried through the mail. A number of influential newspapers of wide circulation have adopted codes of standards for acceptance of movie advertising. They ban illustrations such as those showing people in suggestive dress, using alcohol or narcotics, or "showing a high state of violence." ORENE H. PEARSON, a novelist of Santa Fe, New Mexico, is one of three water commissioners for the ancient aqueduct "Acequia Muralla." Mrs. Pearson is the only woman to hold this position in the 150 years since this historic irrigation ditch was first in use. Mrs. Pearson's other accomplishments and hobbies include: designing houses and assisting in their construction; carding, dyeing, and spinning wool; baking various kinds of bread in an outdoor adobe oven; designing and sewing a_ beautiful line of patio dresses; raising fruits and vegetables and drying and canning them; and tailoring coats and suits for men and women. Page 365 OQ-—> EDITORIAL c~© VOL. 47 She 130th Annual Church Con erence HE 130th Annual Conference of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was held in the historic Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 3, 4, and 6, 1960. President David O. McKay conducted all the general sessions, and all of the General Authorities of the Church were present, except Elder Alvin R. Dyer, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, now serving as President of the European Mission. The throngs attending conference rejoiced in their renewed privilege of meeting together under the sacred influences of prayer, hymns, and anthems, and the prophetic words of uplift and inspiration from those appointed by the Lord to direct the Church in this perilous time of earth history. The Conference messages were carried to a vast audience by twentyfive television stations and twelve radio stations, so that tens of thousands in distant places rejoiced in the words of everlasting truth and felt the spirit of strength and unity within the Church. N his opening address, President David O. McKay expressed his hope and his faith that members of the Church everywhere would resist the temptations that weaken the body and destroy the soul. Appealing particularly to the youth of the Church, the beloved President spoke of eternal values and eternal life: I have confidence in our young people. Page 366 It is our duty to show them a _ proper example. Most of them today will follow it, notwithstanding the fact that they are living in an age full of mysteries and discoveries never before known in the world. Man holds dominion over earth, sea, and air, and is now intent upon conquering space.... The more man learns of Infinity, the more convinced he should become of the possibility of rising above a mere animal existence.... There is a force... Higher and greater than man, greater than the whole universe — that is that God is the Creator of it all. The duty of the Church is to teach and practice the fundamental principles of the good life. Obedience to the gospel of Jesus Christ, no matter what the financial or physical conditions may be, will bring peace to the soul.... It requires little or no effort to indulge in anything physical or animal-like. But to be born out of that world into a spiritual world is advancement that the Lord requires of each of us.... This may be done in two ways: First, by seeking the truth and living in harmony with it; and, second, by resisting every influence, every power that tends to destroy or to dwarf in any way the religious sentiment. PRESIDENT J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Of the First Presidency spoke of the single road that leads to exaltation. He summarized the scriptural teachings which designate the pathway that the Lord would have his children follow in obedience and with faith: I come to you with this simple message: There are not many roads that lead to heaven. There is one and one only, and that is the road that we profess to travel and should be traveling. It is the road that is restored to us by the restoration of the gospel and the restoration of the JUNE 1960 NO. 6 EDITORIAL Priesthood. Do not be misled by the professions of men.... Beware of the idea that you do not have to live the gospel in order to obtain the salvation and exaltation that are promised.... I believe that bad acts, bad thoughts, inaccurate beliefs do not develop the spirit; but on the contrary, they may retard or dwarf it. I believe that all that we do that is good, builds us up and helps us to prove ourselves, that we teally are living our second estate. Brethren and sisters, do not be misled, do not stray, do not imbibe the tendency of the age that it does not make any difference what you do. It makes all the difference in this world and in the hereafter. It makes the difference between salvation and exaltation and damnation... You cannot afford so to jeopardize the hereafter. PRESIDENT Henry D. Moyle declared that it is the avowed purpose and mission of the Church to prepare mankind for the second coming of Christ that the Savior's eternal mission may be fulfilled in his promised reappearance upon the earth: All that man has accomplished, and all further advancement in every realm of human activity made by man will aid in the accomplishment of God's ultimate purpose for us here in mortality — that is to say, the establishment of his Church and Kingdom here upon this earth, preparatory to the advent of the second coming of the Savior of mankind.... Science and religion alike are entirely obligated to God, and so are we all. Neither science nor religion can successfully refute the second coming of Christ. The evidence is too complete, too convincing, too much a part of the great eternal plan of God.... We know he will come, even as he ascended, a material being, a living Personage, separate and apart from the Father, with an immortalized body of flesh and bones. This is our work — to prepare for 367 the second coming of Christ. This is the dispensation of the fullness of times, spoken of by Paul, the apostle. We have in our hands, with which to work, all that has gone before in all generations of man. We deny final consummation of his mission here upon the earth if we deny his second coming. Thus only can the revealed gospel of Jesus Christ be presented in its fullness.... N presenting the Church Statistical Report on Wednesday morning, April 6, President Clark stated that the membership of the Church, December 31, 1959, was 1,616,088, and the membership of Relief Society at the same time was 203,752. In his closing address on Wednesday, President McKay expressed gratitude for the beautiful and inspirational music presented at the various sessions of the Conference — the Tabernacle Choir on Sunday, under the direction of Richard P. Condie, with Alexander Schreiner at the organ; on Monday the Mormon Choir of Southern California, under the direction of H. Frederick Davis; and on Wednesday the Brigham Young University Combined Choruses under the direction of Dr. Newel B. Weight, and Dr. Don L. Earl, and other musical selections of praise and rejoicing. In his closing message to the Church, President McKay - said: "This has been in a_ remarkable manner, an outstanding spiritual Conference." We have had testimony that God is a living Being. We have had_ testimony that Christ is at the head of his Church.... We have had testimony of the Spirit that he has revealed in this dispensation the gospel of Jesus Christ to the Prophet Joseph Smith.... God bless those who have given the messages of this Conference. They have risen to heights sublime. —V. P. C. Notes TO THE FIELD Program for the Tlovemtber Sast Sunday Evening ITleeting HE special program for the Sunday evening meeting on Fast Day, November 6, 1960, "Home the Heart of Happiness," has been mailed to stake and mission Relief Society presidents. We urge that these programs be distributed to the wards and branches without delay. Hymn of the Mlonth—Semi-Annual List July to December 1960 HE Church-wide congregational hymn singing project, inaugurated by the Church Music Committee, will be continued during the coming six months, and all auxiliary organizations have been invited to participate. The purpose of this project is to increase the hymn repertoire of the Church members and to place emphasis on the message of the hymns. Stake Relief Society choristers and organists are requested to give assistance at leadership meetings to ward choristers and organists in carrying out this project. An analysis and story of the hymn will be printed each month in the Church Section of The Deseret News. Following is a list of hymns approved for the six months July through December 1960: No. July Thanks for the Sabbath School — Willes-Murray 177 August Sweet Is the Peace Morton-Durham 191 September Lead Me Into Life Eternal Widtsoe-Schreiner 141 October With All the Power Watts-Durham 216 November Come, Ye Thankful People Alford-Elvey 29 December I Heard the Bells Longfellow-Calkin 219 Page 368 You Wy Always Be Rich Betty Lou Martin ARGO Hanseen stood by the M living room window which overlooked the valley. A wave of love surged through her being as it always did when she gazed at her valley. To her, the majestic mountains rising in the distance and the beautiful fields stretching before her, meant warmth and security. She always felt a sense of well-being, as if she were coming home after having been away a long time. Spring was coming to the valley. It was in the air everywhere. The birds chirped the message all along the way. 'The cows in the pasture bellowed contentedly, and the ducks down by the stream quacked the happy news to the world. A wonderful time to be alive, thought Margo as she finished dusting the living room, and then went to the front door. "My, it's warm enough today to leave the door open for awhile," Margo mused. The clean, fresh air of spring spread through the house, and Margo stood in the doorway drinking it in. She gazed down at the path that led to the barn and saw her husband Jed and her sixteen-year-old son Randy coming toward the house. She knew that they, too, were experiencing the wonder and beauty of an_ early spring day. "What time do you expect Susan's train to be in?" John inquired. "We don't want to miss our little girl, My goodness, Margo, do you realize that it has been five years since we have seen her?" "IT know, dear," Margo said, half to herself and half to Jed. Margo felt the same bewilderment overcome her as it had earlier when she was dusting and cleaning. Would Susan accept them? After all, she had been living in Europe for the past four years. 'The Hanseens had never had many of the material things in life, but they had been blessed with a richness of spirituality and love for one another. 'They knew how to find joy in life through giving of themselves to others. 'They each shared a love for God and were thankful for the opportunity that they had of serving him. Margo had brought Susan up to appreciate and love God, as she had brought up her other three children to do the same. Their oldest daughter, Joan, had married and lived on the other side of the valley. 'Their son Jim had built himself a home a half mile from them and was content to help Jed with the farming. Randy was still in school; however, after a mission and college, he, too, wanted to settle down close to his folks. When Susan Hanseen had married Tony Cartwright, Margo's fear had begun to develop. She liked Tony very much, but, after all, he had come from a family of considerable wealth. The Hanseens had very little in common with the Cartwrights. When Mrs. Cartwright had first come to visit the Hanseens, she hadn't seemed to relax, and Margo found herself on edge, too, although she had never had any difficulty making people feel at ease before. Susan had been living in Europe Page 369 370 since her marriage, where Tony had a high position representing the Government. Now Susan was coming home for a visit. Margo hoped and prayed with all her might that Susan would not have changed. The past five years the farm had just barely paid its way. The family still drove the same car, had the same furniture, and the same old radio that had to be hit on the side to make it play. The only new addition was the television set, which was the pride of the family. They did not believe in going in debt. If they did not have the money to buy, then they waited until they did. S Margo dressed to go to meet Susan's train, she thought of all the royalty and titled people and officials that had entertained Susan and Tony. Once again the icy hand of fear gripped her. She looked at her gray suit. It was old. She had bought it just before Susan was married, but it was clean and neatly pressed. She looked at herself again in the mirror. She was only slightly plumper, and her dark Brown hair was streaked here and there with gray. Yes, after all, she was five years older. "Are you ready, Jed?" Margo called to her husband. "We don't want to be late." Jed walked into the room, and Margo looked at her husband with love. If only we could have afforded him a new suit. I can get by with my clothes, but his are getting so old. Susan can't help but remember that suit. Margo kept these thoughts to herself. She did not want her husband to think that he looked shabby. She wouldn't hurt his feelings for anything in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 world. When Randy entered the room, Margo felt very proud of her goodlooking son. He carried himself proud and straight, and his cleancut features only added to his immaculate appearance. "Oh, Randy, Susan won't know you; you have grown up so much." Margo gave her son a loving pat as she straightened his collar. Margo took one last look around as she pulled the door shut. She had done her best to have the house in order. It was neat and clean; the rest would depend upon Susan. The drive to the city relaxed Margo somewhat as the beauty of the valley spread before her. Then, as they approached the station, her uneasiness began to come back. Jed, sensing her dilemma, reached for her hand and held it gently in his. "Margo," Jed spoke softly, "I know how uneasy you are about meeting Susan. You are worried that she will not accept us for what we are. But remember this, she knows what we are, how we live, and we cannot change our lives just to please her. She must accept us the way we are. We accept and love her the way she is, just as we do our other children." Margo smiled up at Jed. "T know it, dear. It is just that a little farm in the middle of a little valley may seem insignificant compared to the places that she has been and the things that she has done." HE train pulled into the station on schedule, and a beautiful, smiling Susan ran from the train into the arms of her parents. "Let me look at you. Oh, you are just YOU'LL ALWAYS BE RICH the same as when I left, except you, Randy. My goodness, how you have grown." Susan stood back now, surveying her family. Margo felt stunned by her daughter's remark — "You are just the same as when I left." How does she mean it? Margo wondered to herself. "You look wonderful, Susan," Margo said sincerely to her lovely daughter. Susan was even more striking than ever with her golden blond hair combed smartly back into a French twist. Susan hugged Margo again as they started for the car. "You look wonderful, Mother. I do like that suit on you." As they drove toward the farm, Susan chatted excitedly about the plane trip over, the parties she had attended, and the people she had met. When they reached the farm, she jumped out of the car and ran toward the house. When Margo went inside, she didn't see Susan. She needs a few minutes to herself to look around, Margo thought as she went to the kitchen to prepare supper. Soon she heard Susan coming down the stairs, and when she turned around she was. Startled. Susan was dressed in a plain pink cotton skirt and blouse. Her golden hair waved loosely to her shoulders, and her lips were just barely touched with pink lipstick. She looked very much like the same happy Susan who loved spring in the valley, and, cried when the old mother cat died. "Oh, Mother, the place hasn't changed a bit," Susan spoke as she went to the cookie jar. "Hmmm, niy favorite cookies, I see." "No, Susan, things haven't changed too much. I guess that we seem to have stood still after all the 371 places that you have lived and the many interesting people that you have met." Margo felt her heart sink. Susan got up and went to the kitchen window. "Spring in the valley; how I have dreamed about it. Tony wanted me to wait and come home in the summer, but I just had to sec my valley in the spring. Remember when [ was a little girl how I used to wake up real carly and run to the window to see if it was spring?" "Yes, I remember, Susan." Margo sighed, remembcring. ""lhose were wonderful years. We are not very rich, dear, but...." "Oh, Mother," Susan chided as she stood directly in front of her mother, "you'll always be rich. Maybe not in the things of the world, but in the things that really and truly count. I just hope that I can instill in my children the things that you and Daddy have tried fo teach me. And I hope that J can make my children as happy as you have made me. I know that Jim, Joan, and Randy feel the same as I do." Margo flung her arms around her daughter. "Oh, Susan, I was so afraid that you 'would change and grow away from us.' "Change? Grow away from you?" Susan was crying as she spoke. "Why, the very "day that 1 'eft, Tony made the remark that he hoped you would save a little space for us so that we, too, could build here some day." Margo and Susan dried their eyes and together they walked down toward the barnyard, and Cuddles, the little terrier, trotted happily beside them. He was glad that Susan was home, too. Sor a Flo ver Leone H. Simins N spring, at the home where I was a little girl, we had lilacs and apple blossoms, but, as summer came on, there were practically no flowers. Just across the street, however, the whole south side of our neighbor' s yard was a mass of bloom. I especially remember the poppies nodding their gay red, pink, orange, and white heads at me in the gentle summer breeze. Some of them even poked their heads through the fence — coaxing me to pick them. I have always had a deep love for flowers, and an urge to pick them, touch them, and bury my nose in them, and so on many a day I almost broke the stem of one, and sometimes my fingers stroked the petals. One day I asked my mother if she thought it would be all right to pick just one of those that were sticking out through the fence, and was disappointed when she told me "no," though in my heart I'd known all along that "no" was the night answer. "But," she went on, "you may go over and ask our neighbor if you may have one, and remember to thank her." If you could see our neighbor as I used to, with my timid little girl eyes, you would know how big and frightening a thing this seemed to me. She wore her hair pulled straight back from an unsmiling facc, and her voice sounded gruff and harsh. I know she was a good woman, often harried by the cares of the day, and striving to keep things the way they should be, but still I was afraid of her — not that Page 372 she would harm me, but that she would be cross with me. But I did want a flower, so I summoned all my courage and walked across the street. When the gate creaked as I opened it, I almost ran back home, but took a fresh hold on my retreating courage and went on in. When she answered my knock, I managed to say, "Could I please have a flower?" and I wasn't too surprised, but was crestfallen, when she answered gruffly, "No, you can't," and shut the door. Resigned but depressed, 1 walked back across the street and told my mother what had happened. I've wondered since, just what were her thoughts. She had been trying to teach me the night thing to do, and it had not brought the results she had expected. However, whatever they were, she just said something soothing, and we both went on into the afternoon — she at her work and I hanging around the kitchen watching her. But now comes the part of my story that turns it into a happy one with a lovely ending. In a little while there stood our neighbor at our door and her face didn't look cross at all. In her hand she carried a big bouquet of her lovely, beautiful, wonderful flowers and handed them to my mother. "TI guess I was a little hard on the girl," she said, and explained that so many children had bothered her flowers that she had felt impatient at the time. It was as if the sun had chased that cloud right out of the sky and out of my day, and everything was wonderful once more. Josef Muench SUGAR PINE IN SEQUOIA NATIONAL PARK, CALIFORNIA t Sound in Summer Renie H. Littlewood There are two sounds in summer lovely to me — The wind in the top of a tall pinc tree, Sighing or singing a soft melody, Lulling the day's endless cares tenderly Into the limbo of sleep. The music of streams as they wash over stone, Purling of rapids, and thunderous drone Of falls as they plunge down to depths unknown, To swirl without pause into channels, moss-grown, Leading to meadows below. Lovely sounds, Summer sounds. Page 373 Orchids in the Snow CHAPTER 2 Rosa Lee Lloyd Synopsis: Sharon Haskell marries Sam Wynter, an engineer, and plans to go with him to make their home m Fairbanks, Alaska. At the wedding reception Sharon's Aunt Jewel catches the bride's bouquet. T was almost noon when Sharry and Sam arrived in Anchorage the following Wednesday. The airport was buzzing with activity as they left the luxurious nonstop airliner that had brought them from Seattle in less than seven hours. The transparent blue-spring darkness had faded, and the sun loomed brilliantly above the eastern summits. Today was June fifteenth, the beginning of summer in Alaska. Every living thing seemed vital and full of energy Sharry noticed how friendly the people were, smiling and greeting passengers with "Hi, there, fellow, glad you're home again." "They're just like us!" she said to Sam. "Some wear hats and some don't. Oh, look! There's an Eskimo." "Why, sure!" Sam laughed back. "You can see anything up here. Remember McFarland told us that it's high time we people from the United States should be informed about the real Alaska. It's a great, big, fabulous, lovable country, and well worth the seven million dollars we paid for it in 1867." "Look at the dogs!" she exclaimed. "I've never seen so many dogs anywhere." Page 374 Who takes care of them, she wondered, watching a little blond wirehair with swollen eyes limp forsakenly past them as though looking for someone. Sam had already made arrangements for their flight to Fairbanks, but there was time to eat before their plane left. She held Sam's arm tightly as they walked toward the Big Hand Cafe that Angus McFarland, one of the airplane passengers, had told them about. She felt safe and secure when she was near Sam. Yes, even though Alaska was just as fascinating as McFarland said it was, there was also something strange about this far north country that almost frightened her. Maybe it was because she hadn't been away from home before except on summer vacations with her family. "I wish we had invited McFarland to have luncheon with us," she said, thinking of the tall lean man who had asked them to drop the "Mister" and call him McFarland. "He is so friendly and humorous. And his position as manager of that big salmon company in Bristol Bay interests me. He knows so much about the faraway places of Alaska. And yet he's just like one of us.' "He surely is," Sam agreed. "He's a fine man, But he must be lonely up there. His daughter is grown up now, and his wife died when she was only three years old." Sharry said, "She's twenty-one now. My age. He expects her to ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW fly in from Fairbanks to meet him here for a visit. She's taking home economics at the University there. I surely want to meet her. I must make new friends — now that I've left all my old ones." Sharry hadn't meant to let her voice drop wistfully. She didn't want Sam to know she was homesick already. He did not speak for a moment. "I mean — [Il bet she is a nice girl," she added quickly. "McFarland adores her. You can see that when he tells what a good student she is." "IT wonder why he hasn't married again, Sam?" she asked him. '"He's a good Latter-day Saint. He goes to Utah twice a year for conference. You'd think he'd meet someone he'd like to marry." SAM nodded thoughtfully. "Maybe he hasn't met the right one," he said. "Meeting girls at church or parties, dancing and having fun is all right, but asking someone to marry you and live in a place like Bristol Village is quite a different story. It means a woman has to love a man above all others. It means sacrifice and privation and loneliness for the life she has been used to and the dear ones she has left behind. McFarland told me a little about himself and his work — enough so I can fit the pieces together. I'm just lucky, Sharry, to have you — love me — enough." His voice stumbled and Sharry pressed his arm close to her side. "T do love you, Sam. Enough for anything. But Fairbanks isn't like Bristol Bay up there in the Aleutian Islands. McFarland says Bristol Village is the tailpiece of the 375 world — the storybook land of Gulliver's Travels. Its population is mostly Aleuts and Eskimos with very few white people. That's different from Fairbanks," she assured him, confidently. Sam did not answer. He quickened his step. "Look! 'There's McFarland on the corner. Let's ask him to eat with us." McFarland was standing on the curb as though waiting for someone. He was holding a small dog in his arms. It was the little blond wirehair that Sharry had noticed before: He accepted their invitation gladly, on one condition. "TIl pay for my own meal," he laughed. "You kids will have to learn to go Dutch. Everybody in Alaska totes his own load. I learned that when I came here as a boy in 1930. Anchorage was just a little railroad town then. Now it's the hub of aviation up here." His eyes went over the crowds of people on the sidewalks, the busy taxicabs, the up-to-date automobiles. "Anchorage has plane schedules to all parts of the country. These crowds will get worse, now that we're a State. Watch the country grow." Suddenly E looked tenderly at the little dog he was carrying. "Tl park this little fellow and get him some chow while we're having dinner. Most of these cafes have accommodations for your dog for about ten per cent of what they charge people. Are you sure you want to eat at the Big Hand?" he questioned. "Anchorage has some real ritzy eating places — everything 376 from wild hen under glass to finger bowls. How about one of those places?" Sharry shook her head. "'Let's try the Big Hand," she said, thinking that would please Sam. She noticed that he was looking carefully at the little dog, then back at McFarland, whose pine-green eyes had a pensive yearning look this morning as he watched Sam and Sharry. He was a good-looking man in his middle forties; his face was long, with high, bony planes and _ his shoulders were strong and loose and strained his black woolen shirt. His hair was still dark, with sprinkles of gray at his temples. 'There was a hunger and loneliness about him that touched Sharry's heart. "Is this your dog?" Sam asked him as they neared the care. "No, just picked him up,' McFarland answered. "Poor little guy looked lonesome and homesick. So I guess he's mine if nobody claims him. My daughter Marie loves dogs. Her plane is due soon. She'll come to the Big Hand." "The dog's eyes need attention," Sam said in his straightforward way. "And that bite on his throat does, too." "Yes, he's been in a fight," McFarland agreed. "These little fellows have it tough up here unless they belong to someone. Dogs are just like people. They have to belong to someone to be happy. I'll ask them to clean him up before he gets his grub." Sharry looked at Sam, happy that she belonged to him. She had so much to be grateful for, she was almost ashamed of the homesickness that nagged at her every time she remembered how far away she was from home. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 Suddenly she felt something warm and wet on her cheek. 'The little dog in McFarland's arms had bent his head toward her and touched her cheek with his tongue. "Well! What about that!" McFarland laughed. "He's taken a shine to you, Sharry." She stopped and cuddled him in her arms. He nuzzled down contentedly. "Let's name him Nuzzle,"' she said. "It just suits him." "It sure does!" he agreed. "Nuzzle it is!" Sam was watching with an indulgent grin. HE cafe was crowded when they entered. People were waiting for tables, so while McFarland parked the dog, Sharry and Sam held a place in line. "Smells good in here," McFarland said when he came back to them. "This place is noted for broiled muskrat and all wild game meals. You should try some, Sharry. Get used to it. It's one of the main meat dishes up there in Fairbanks and all through that country where youll be working, Sam. Most beef is too high-priced for ordinary use, unless you're a millionaire." Sharry pulled a face. She would rather starve, she thought. "It's as tender as young pork," McFarland went on. "Delicate flavor, too. That's what thcey're cooking now on the broiler." Sam touched her hand, understandingly. ""There will be other kinds of food," he told her. But when they were seated and she looked at the menu, she wasn't so sure about it. "How about some caribou or rein- 3508 ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW deer or porcupine?" he suggested, teasing her. "Porcupine is a luxury up here," McFarland told them. "We save them for the fellow who is stranded. We don't hunt them commercially or just for sport. Porcupine meat saved my life one time. I was stranded alone in the 'Talkeetas without firearms or a knife of any kind. I had to find something I could kill with my snowshoe and a porcupine was the only thing. So I value them." Sam asked the waitress if they had anything as ordinary as ham and eggs, explaining that his wife didn't like wild game. "Td like grapefruit, too," Sharry added. "We have ham and eggs but no grapefruit," she replied. "We can't get it often and when we do it's airborne from outside. We have to charge high prices for it. Our wild berries are very good, though." And they are very good, Sharry thought later as she ate the luscious, crunchy berries that reminded her of Utah blueberries with a dash of spice. Sam had ordered a caribou steak and seemed to be enjoying it. "THEY were nearly finished when McFarland, looking surprised, stood up, excused himself, and hurried toward a small, oldish woman who had just entered the cafe. She seemed lost and bewildered until she saw him, then her weatherbeaten face crinkled into a luminous smile, as though she had found what she had been searching for. "Is she a native?" Sharry whispered to Sam. "Her hair is still black, although her face is very old." Sam looked puzzled. 377 "No—I think she's a white woman. But I'm not sure." Sharry was fascinated with her appearance. Her hair was parted in the middle with a single braid down her back. She wore a skirt made of white hide with white mukluks to match. Her blouse was a_ loose parka of the same material, heavily beaded, and was, no doubt, Sharry concluded, her very best dress. Everything about her, even the white mukluks, was spotlessly clean. McFarland, after a short conversation with her, escorted her to their table with his arm_ protectingly around her shoulders. "This is my dear friend Susan Elge from Bristol Village," he said to them. "She flew here last week to bring her husband to the hospital." "T have looked here for you every day at noon," she told him. "Herman asks for you. He needs your encouragement, your prayers." McFarland patted her shoulder, consolingly. "I'm sorry I've been away so long, Susan. I meant to return right after April conference, but I got tied up with a big salmon deal in Seattle." Susan said, "It is good you are here now. You will stay in Anchorage — until we know...?" McFarland nodded. "T will stay, Susan," he answered, simply. "Thank you," she murmured. Sharry felt a vibrant courage in Susan's voice, although her thin, toilworn hands were laced together, and her dark eyes were stricken with anxiety. "You must eat," McFarland said, kindly. "Only soup. Reindeer soup. Will 378 you order for me while I wash my hands?" After she had left the table, McFarland told them about Susan. She had been born in Alaska of white parents but had been to college in California. 'There she had met a Swedish fisherman, Herman Elge, married him, and gone with him to brave the wild frozen barrenness of Bristol Village. 'They had reared one daughter, Zora, and a son, Swenson, who was now in New York studying to be a doctor. Herman and Susan and several other white people in the village were loyal Latter-day Saints, meeting together in each other's homes. For many years Susan had been an angel of mercy to everyone who needed her. It was Susan who had helped McFarland rear his baby girl, Marie, after the death of her mother, and it was Susan who had nursed McFarland through pneumonia after he was stranded in a boat for three hours in a violent storm on the Bay. "Her daughter lives in Sitka since her marriage," he went on. "Her son has six months longer in his residency before he can come home. Susan wonders if he will want to live in Bristol Village after New York. Alaskans always worry about that when their children go outside for any length of time. Susan has given much to make life easier for others." His voice was very gentle. "Now she needs our love and our help. Herman is very ill — lung surgery — tomorrow...." HARRY saw a young girl hurry- ~ ing toward them, her eyes shining. "Daddy!" she called gaily. "Oh, Daddy, you're here!" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 "Baby!" McFarland folded her in his big arms, lifting her off her feet. "Look dear, meet my new friends, Sam and Sharry Wynter. They're going to live in Fairbanks. This is my daughter Maric." "Oh, hello!" she laughed, and Sharry thought she had never seen a jollier girl. Although she was not pretty, she was bright and wholesome, and her laugh bubbled with joy. Her straight, plain, brown hair was cut short like a boy's, and her face was splashed with freckles. She brought the sunshine with her. It was in her clear blue eyes, on her freckled skin, in her voice. Sharry liked her at once. She wore a straight, dark blue skirt with a white collarless blouse. A light blue sweater hung carelessly from her shoulders. 'The way the girls dress at home, Sharry thought, feeling overdressed in her light gray linen traveling suit that was part of her trousseau. Her own elegant little hat seemed pretentious in the presence of this natural-looking, bareheaded girl. "T wanted to meet you at the airport," Marie said to McFarland, "but my plane was twenty minutes late on account of the head wind. Then I had to check my bag and park my dog before I came here." McFarland explained that he had bought Marie a small plane of her own, which was not uncommon in Alaska. "Airplanes are the best way to travel up here," he went on. "There are more airplanes in Alaska, per capita, than anywhere else in the world. Everyone uses them, even the primitive people in remote regions like Bristol Village where I live." ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW Sharry winced. Coming up here by air had been a new and bewildering experience for her. How would she ever accustom herself to air travel? When the waitress brought Susan's soup and put it on the table before her empty chair, McFarland answered Marie's questioning eyes. Quietly he told her that Susan Elge was here in Anchorage and of her trouble. "Dear Mama Sue," Marie said, lovingly. "Uncle Herman must get well, Daddy. He has always been so strong — the strongest man in the village, except you — and Swen. Uncle Herman loves music and good books. We all need him...." ER head came up with a little jerk. "Mama Sue must send for Swen," she said. 'He is a doctor now — a new doctor with all the newest methods." McFarland shook his head. "You let Mama Sue decide that, Marie," he said firmly. "We will just stand by when she needs us." "But we must help her the way she helped us!" she remonstrated. "T know, dear, but not with advice until we are asked," he said, resolutely. When the waitress came again, Marie ordered a caribouger and French fries. McFarland smiled at Sharry. "They are like your hamburgers, only made of ground caribou meat. Very good. You'll like them." Sharry did not answer. Sam was 379 looking at her, and she read the message in his eyes: they should leave before Susan returned so they would not intrude. "Our plane leaves in fifteen minutes," Sam said, standing up. "We're mighty glad we met you finc people, our first friends in Alaska. Be sure to look us up in Fairbanks, Marie, as soon as you return. We'll stay at the Brideway Hotel until we get a house." Marie's eyes widened in surprise as she looked up at them. "You mean you don't already have a house to go to? Oh, no! Don't tell me that! Fairbanks is running over with people. They're living in tents and wanigans, even under old bridges. They should have warned you!" Sharry felt her throat tighten. She looked at Sam. His jaw had squared off, determinedly. "We'll be okay," he said, steadily. "Sharry and I will be okay anywhere in the world together, even if we do have to live under a bridge!" Sharry heard the honk and hum of the traffic outside, the whirr of a huge plane in the sky overhead, the bark of a dog in the distance, and the quickened beat of her own heart. This was Alaska, thousands of miles from home. "Take my key!" Marie was opening her bag, writing on a piece of paper. "Here's my address. Use my apartment — please do!" (To be continued) -_ Pra yer Grace Ingles Frost Prayer is the key divine That may open the door To the house of God. ANNUAL REPORT FOR 1959 SELECTED DATA hse CHURCH-WIDE compilation of the Relief Society Annual Report for 1959 reveals the faith and works of more than 203,000 devoted Relief Society sisters throughout the world as they have given loving and tender service to their fellow men and have participated in the meetings and activities of this great Society which was established under divine inspiration and has been Priesthood guided throughout its history. It is gratifying to note that from its original charter members of eighteen women in 1842, Relief Society has now grown in numbers to 203,752, an increase of 10,199 sisters over 1958. Of this total membership, 166,809 reside in stakes of the Church and 36,943 reside in missions. This Relief Society membership is distributed throughout the fifty States of the United States, the District of Columbia, and fifty-one foreign countries. As of December 31, 1959, there were officially organized Relief Societies functioning in 2,624 wards and branches in the 289 stakes of the Church and in 1,826 branches in the forty-seven missions of the Church. This represents a total increase of 129 Relief Societies over 1958. A total of 134,024 sisters in the stakes and missions gave of their time and talents in positions of leadership and service as officers, teachers, or visiting teachers. Opportunity for musical expression and development was enjoyed by approximately 46,165 sisters, who participated in 3,126 Singing Mothers choruses, which was an increase of 7,269 participants and 562 choruses. During 1959, The Relief Society Magazine, the official voice of Relief Society, was placed in 7,961 more homes than in 1958, thus extending the influence of Relief Society into the homes of 162,589 subscribers. Visiting teaching, an important phase of the program of Relief Society, "typifies the friendly spirit and concern of Relief Society for the physical and spiritual well-being of families in the Church." Through this service 87,592 visiting teachers made a total of 3,529,477 visits to families in 47,822 visiting teacher districts to observe instances of need and to carry a spiritual message into the homes. This was an increase of 179,675 visits, which represented an average of 8.43 visits during the year to each Latter-day Saint family. Under the direction of Relief Society, 313,041 visits were made to the sick and homebound and the equivalent of 34,827 eight-hour days care of the sick were given by Relief Society sisters where needed. Assistance was also given at 7,982 funerals and in 733 instances Relief Societies were called upon to help dress the dead for burial. \ RELIEF SOCIETIES REPORTED IN 1959 ANNUAL REPORT As an aid to the bishops, ward Relief Society presidents made 74,/31 visits to families under the direction of their bishops, to determine needs. A total of 671,501 hours were contributed to the Church Welfare Program by females upon assignment by Relief Society. As welfare sewing and other sewing done under the direction of Relief Society, there were completed 476,765 sewed articles which included 63,808 articles of women's clothing, 47,361 articles of children's clothing, and 171,549 items of household furnishings, together with men's clothing, quilts, and other miscellaneous sewed articles. Increases have been made in attendance at all of the regular Relief Society meetings, i. E., theology, work, literature, and social science, with the greatest increase being in attendance at the work meeting, at which the sisters receive training in sewing and homemaking skills. Through the program of Relief Society the organization is continuing in its role as a service and educational organization for the women of the Church. As a result of the faithful service given by the sisters, they, too, have been the recipients of rich blessings. Through their participation, Relief Society "has contributed to the personal development of Relief Society members, has widened their sphere of influence, and has qualified them better to serve their fellow men. It has developed their skills, and has made them better homemakers. It has given them a broader understanding and a deeper appreciation of life. It has built and strengthened their testimonies of the gospel by increasing their knowledge of gospel principles and doctrine, and has influenced them to hold fast to gospel truths." 4. Be Taher General SecretaryTreasurer 1959 GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS AND MEMBERS In Stakes In Missions Totals Location OrganiOrganiOrganizations Members zations Members zations Members UNITED STATES Alabama 18 346 18 "346 Alaska 7 193 7 193 Arizona 144 8,325 8 116 152 8,441 Arkansas 7 117 7 117 California 387 25,605 37 1,070 424 26,675 Colorado 4] 2,124 18 444 59 2,568 Connecticut 4 125 4 125 Delaware 3 66 3 66 District of Columbia 3 176 3 176 Florida 27 921 23 551 50 1,472 Georgia 14 445 14 287 28 732 Hawaii 18 1,000 40 786 58 1,786 Idaho 349 22,225 4 69 353 22,294 Iinois 11 444 26 530 37 974 Indiana 1] 383 14 305 25 688 lowa 21 340 2) 340 Kansas 6 242 ~ 16 267 22 509 Kentucky ] 27 23 390 24 417 Louisiana 16 378 7 104 23 482 Maine 13 240 13 240 Maryland 6 320 ] 39 7 359 Massachusetts 13 311 13 311 Michigan 9 355 7 134 16 489 Minnesota 20 412 20 412 Mississippi 9 172 10 198 19 370 Missouri 9 315 15 223 24 538 Montana 37 1,239 27 567 64 1,806 Nebraska ] 34 13 258 14 292 Nevada 47 2,871 ] 1 48 2,882 New Hampshire 4 90 4 90 New Jersey 3 145 9 19] 12 336 New Mexico 28 1,19] 32 440 60 1,631 New York 6 300 2 520 3] 820 North Carolina 2 47 38 902 40 949 North Dakota 6 92 6 92 Ohio 9 2713 25 550 34 823 Oklahoma 24 477 24 477 Oregon 56 3,407 24 '581 80 3,988 Pennsylvania ] 46 28 603 29 ' 649 Rhode Island 2 37 2 37 South Carolina 13 536 10 137 23 673 South Dakota 12 182 12 182 Tennessee 7 320 7 320 Texas 5] 1,560 48 TID 99 DEBS Utah 1,086 80,764 1,086 80,764 Vermont 9 160 9 160 Virginia 14 582 2) 382 35 964 Washington 82 4,040 YW 203 aS 4,243 West Virginia 13 230 13 230 Wisconsin 4 156 10 204 14 360 Wyoming 50 2,872 10 342 —C«; 60 3,214 Total—United States 2,201 163,520 788 15,917 3,339 179,437 In Stakes In Missions Totals Location OrganiOrganiOrganizations Members zations Members zations Members OTHER COUNTRIES Argentina 26 927 26 927 Azores ] 6 ] 6 Australia 33 986 33 986 Austria 6 186 6 186 Belgium 9 95 9 95 Brazil 29 430 29 430 Canada 5/7 2,145 85 1,79] 142 4536 Chile 5 145 5 145 Cook Islands 1 24 ] 24 Costa Rica 3 47 3 47 Denmark 20 435 20 435 E! Salvador 4 lD 4 Wh) England 78 1,487 718 1,487 Ethiopia I 3 l 3 Fiji Islands ] 9 ] 9 Finland 17 400 17 400 Formosa 4. 40 4 40 France 19 170 19 170 Germany 163 5,329 163 5,329 Greece ] 3 ] 3 Guam ] 28 | 28 Guatemala 15 216 15 2716 Honduras 3 719 3 79 Hong Kong, B. C. C. 8 139 8 139 Ireland 5 82 5 82 Italy ] 4 1 4 Japan 36 438 36 438 Korea 2 53 2 53 Libya 1 12 l 12 Mexico 4 153 98 1,797 102 1,950 Netherlands 26 340 26 340 New Zealand 1] 363 68 1,001 79 1,364 Nicaragua ] 16 | 16 Norway 20 282 20 282 Okinawa 2 13 2 13 Panama Canal Zone 2 31 2 31 Philippine Islands ] 7 ] 7 Paraguay ] 24 | 24 Peru ] 42 | 42 Puerto Rico 2 20 2 20 Samoa 6l 720 61 720 Scotland 6 102 6 102 Spain 2 36 2 36 Sweden 36 544 36 544 Switzerland 28 40] 28 40] Tahiti 12 292 12 292 Tonga 42 754 42 754 Turkey | 8 ] 8 Union of South Africa 19 289 19 289 Uruguay 2/ 512 27 572 Wales 5 64 5 64 Total—Other Countries 73 3,289 1,038 21,026 1,111 24,315 Total—United States 2,551 163,520 788 15,917 3,339 179,437 GRAND TOTAL 2,624 166,809 1,826 36,943, 4,450 203,752 dA DOSS SOaan5 BASSES 2 045. VA AD AIRURVSA SVS SS TARR R/S, /8 2 ¢ Ava PO MOOAAAR Ee OOOAR RR IN MISSIONS 'N STAKES TOTAL MEMBERSHy >» 1958 34,970 Rs MEMBERS 1959 36,943 R S. MEMBERS 1,973 INCREASE 1958 158,583 Rs MEMBERS Los FAMILIES 1959 1958 Increase 1959 1958 Increase Ward and Branch Executive Officers 16,67] 16,08] 590 L Ds Families (Total) 41855] 387, 23g 31,313 Other Officers 8,674 8,298 376 In Stakes 342099 317,356 24743 Class Leaders 1681) 16,064 747 In Missions 76,452 69,832 6,570 Visi ting Teachers 87,592 81,939 5,604 ORGANIZATIONS 1959 1958 Increase SINGING MOTHERS ceo Heels) —~ ase Stake and Mission Orgonizations (Total) 336 316 20 1959 1958 Increase Stake 239 270 19 Ward and Branch Singing Mission 47 46 ] Mothers Choruses (Total) 3126 2564 562 Ward and Branch Organizations (Total) 4,450 432] 129 ' Stakes 2313 1,939 aa In Stakes 2,624 2517 107 In Missions AB "8 as In Missions 1,826 1,804 22 ' Approxima te Number of Singers (Total) 46,165 38,896 7,269 In Stakes 37,750 32 48g 5,262 LEADERSHIp In Missions 8415 6,408 2007 134.024 Relief Society Members S€rved gs leaders in the Society during 1959 and 126 38) in 1958, 1959 958 Increase MAGAZ] NE Stake Officers 3.275 3,098 177 1959 Ee) eee Mission Officers 1,00] 852 149 Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions 162589 154 62g 7,96] VISITING TEACHING 1959 1958 Increase Visiting Teachers 87,592 81,988 9,604 Visiting Teacher Districts 47,822 43 448 4374 Family Visits (Total) 3,529,477 3,349,802 179,675 Home 2,338,921 2,238,136 100,785 Not Home 1,190,556 1,111,666 78,890 Per Cent at Home 66.26% 66.81% Communications in Lieu of Visits 68,628 66,740 1,888 An average of 8.43 visits were made to each L. D. S. Family in 1959 An average of 8.65 visits were made to each L. D. S. Family in 1958 COMPASSIONATE SERVICE 1959 1958 Increase or Decrease Visits to Sick and Homebound 313,041 293,876 19165 Days Care of the Sick 34,827 35,787 -960 Bodies Dressed for Burial 733 783 -50 Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted 7,982 8,/37 -7155 Wards and Branches Maintaining Lists of Nurses (Total) 2,731 2,716 15 In Stakes 2,028 1,927 10] In Missions 703 789 -86 CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE 1959 Hours Contributed to Church Welfare Program by All Females Upon Assignment by Relief Society 671,501 Family Visits Made Under Direction of Bishop 74,731 Sisters Serviced Who Sewed for Themselves and Families 3,394 Hours Contributed to Church Welfare Program by Sisters Serviced by Relief Society Under the Direction of the Bishop 223,907 SEWING SERVICE AT MEETINGS Articles Completed (Total) 476,765 Kinds of Articles: Quilts 22,198 Children's Clothing 47,361 Women's Clothing 63,808 Men's Clothing 3,667 Household Furnishings 171,549 Other (Miscellaneous) 168,182 Sewing Machines Owned by Societies (Total) 4 430 In Stakes 3,152 In Missions 678 477,896 57,379 3,394 116,302 429,125 21,630 4\,717 59,963 3,565 151,660 150,590 4,093 3,563 530 Increase 193,605 17,352 107,605 47,640 568 5,644 3,845 102 19,889 17,592 337 189 148 Number TOTAL MEETINGS HELD 22] 807 Relief Society General Conference ] Stake Relief Society Conventions 16] Stake and Mission Meetings (Total) 6,240 Stake and Mission District Board 3,545 Stake and Mission Leadership 2,695 Ward and Branch Meetings (Total) = 215,383 Regular Meetings for Members 145,983 Visiting Teachers Meetings 27,292 Preparation Meetings 20,826 March, November Fast Sunday and Other Special Meetings 15,158 Annual Relief Society Conferences = 3,/55 Officers Meetings Prior to Conferences 2,309 VISITS BY STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS Visits to Wards and Branches (Total) 33,05] To Wards by Stake Officers 26,186 To Branches by Mission and District Officers 6,265 1958 Number Increase or Dec rease 215,474 ] 160 5,178 3140 2,638 209,509 141,020 25,507 22,450 14.643 3,625 2,264 31,138 24,665 6,473 6,333 1959 1958 NumPerNumPerber cent ber cent Increase AVERAGE ATTENDANCE or Decrease Regular Meetings for Members (Total) 16919 37.8 73,381 = 37.9 3,538 In Stakes 61,180 36.7 98,425 36.9 2,155 In Missions 15,739 42.6 14,956 43.0 783 Theology 83,103 40.8 79741 41.1 3,362 Work 16,650 37.6 72,404 374 4 246 Literature T3IN6® "35.9 69,968 36.1 3,148 Social Science 74,808 36.7 T1415 36.8 3 393 Visiting Teacher Meetings 44767 5).1 43291 528 1476 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Receipts and Disbursements Cash Balance on Hand, January 1, 1959 ooo eee eee eee$1 509,025.05 (SCS) Se a 2,684,576.26 Wotan$4,193,601.31 Disburs@Ments........2.. C.:. C---c--cccecceececeececececeecseecceeeceseeeeseeeteseeceseesesestseneneee$2,565,628.26 Cash Balance on Hand, December 31, 1959 oo... Cceeeeceeteeceseneeeeeeeees$1 627,973.05 Assets — December 31, 1959 Cash Balance on Hand, December 3] oo... Ececececceecesceceececeeeceececesececeeeeees$1 627,973.05 Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishops Office........ Eee 422,912.22 Other Invested Funds (Savings Bonds, etc.) oo... -eecccceecceeececeseeceeceeeees 68,320.83 Real Estate GNd Buildings....... Esscecceseeescesesesecoecececeseescesesececesecesctesesesees 11 7,091.9] Torell Ass ne)$2,236,298.01 Menus for Special Dinners Ruby K. Smith PECIAL dinners for Sundays, holidays, anniversaries, family gatherings, and other occasions may be made appetizing and attractive by planning the menu and preparing most of the food the day before the dinner is to be served. The casseroles in the following menus may all be prepared the day before the special dinner and stored in the refrigerator over night. 'Then, thirty or forty minutes before the time for serving the dinner, the casseroles may be placed in the oven, with the' thermostat set at moderate heat (300° to 350°). By the time the quick-cooking green vegetables are done, and the salads and fruit cups have been served, the main dish will be ready. DINNER FOR Famity — MeENnu No. 1 Minted Fruit Cup Chicken Casserole de Luxe Candied Sweet Potatoes Asparagus Tips with Hollandaise Sauce Golden Glow Salad Jiffy Applesauce Dessert MintTeED Fruit Cup Add crushed mint candy to canned fruit mix, or to any combination of diced fruit prepared at home. Should be added just before serving. Canned clingstone peaches, pears, and pineapple — topped with a maraschino cherry — will make a good combination. If diced bananas are used, they CHICKEN CASSEROLE DE LUXE 3 c. Cooked rice 1% c. Butter or substitute 5 tbsp. Flour 1% c. Chicken stock or bouillon, mixed with 1 c, evaporated milk 1 tsp. Salt 2 c. Cooked chicken, sliced, or 2 7-ounce cans boned chicken 1 small can mushrooms 2 tbsp. Shredded pimento % c. Shredded green pepper % c. Slivered blanched almonds While preparing cooked rice according to directions on package, make white sauce of shortening, flour, and liquid mixture. Arrange one-half the drained rice in a well-greased baking dish. Next arrange a layer of mushrooms, then the chicken. Arrange remaining rice, and cover with remaining over rice. And green pepper over chicken. Add salt and any other desired seasoning. Pour half the sauce Sprinkle pimento sauce. Sprinkle slivered almonds over top. Bake in moderate oven 30 minutes. CANDIED SWEET POTATOES 4 c. Cooked sweet potatoes 1 c. Brown sugar 3 tbsp. Butter Page 390 Y% c. Water % tsp. Salt MENUS FOR SPECIAL DINNERS 391 Cut sweet potatoes lengthwise and arrange in greased baking pan. Cook remaining ingredients over low heat until sugar melts, stirring constantly. Pour mixture over sweet potatoes. Bake in a moderate oven for 30 minutes. (This recipe may also be used for candied yams.) Asparacus Tips Break upper, tender portions of fresh asparagus from woody base. Cook in covered saucepan with %4 cup boiling, salted water for 15 to 20 minutes. Scrve with hot Hollandaise sauce. SPpuR-OF-THE-MOMENT HOLLANDAISE Carefully heat % cup mayonnaise, stirring constantly. Thin with cream or evaporated milk. GoupEN GLow SALAD 1 envelope gelatin % c. Lemon juice % ¢. Sugar 1 c. Finely shredded carrots " tsp. Salt 1 c. Pineapple, diced or crushed % c. Boiling water % c. Broken pecan meats Y% c. Cold water Mix gelatin, sugar, and salt. Add boiling water and stir until gelatin is dissolved. Add cold water and lemon juice. Chill until partially congealed. Add remaining ingredients, and set in individual molds. Serve on lettuce with salad dressing. Jirry Applesauce DEssERT Spoon canned or fresh applesauce over individual servings of uniced cake, and top with scoop of vanilla ice cream. Dinner For Famity — Menu No. 2 Frozen Fruit Cup Golden Brown Chicken en Casscrole Scalloped Potatoes Frozen Peas Quick Buns Waldorf Salad Mold Lemon Chiffon Pie Frozen Fruit Cup 1 c. Peaches, drained % ©. Water 1 ¢c. Sugar lemon juice Boil sugar and water for 5 minutes to make a syrup. Whip peaches until smooth in mixer or blender. Add syrup and 1 tablespoon lemon juice. Pour in tray and place in freezer until firm. To serve, place in sherbet glasses and pour lemon juice or ginger ale over each serving. (Other fruits, such as pears, apples, or pineapple, may be used in this recipe.) GOLDEN Brown CHICKEN EN CASSEROLE 1 frying chicken " ¢c. Fry meal mix Cut chicken in pieces for frying. If dry, slightly moisten in cool water. Shake off excess moisture. Put fry meal in paper or plastic bag. Add chicken and shake in 392 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 bag until chicken is thoroughly coated with meal. Place pieces of chicken, cut side up, in pan (without rack), and brown under broiler heat. Turn over each piece, and continue broiling until skin side is golden brown. Place chicken in casserole, cover, and store in refrigerator over night. Before serving, bake in moderate oven (325°), 30 oF 40 minutes. SCALLOPED POTATOES 6 medium-sized potatoes 1 tsp. Salt % c. Butter or other fat % tsp. Pepper 4% ¢. Flour 2 tbsp. Minced onion 2 c. Milk Cook potatoes in jackets until almost tender. Peel and slice thin. Heat minced onion in melted butter, then blend in flour and gradually add milk and cook until it boils, stirring constantly. Place alternate layers of potatoes and sauce in greased cassetole, and cover. Before serving, reheat in moderate oven, 20 to 30 minutes. Uncover to brown the last 10 minutes. (Grated cheese may be blended into white sauce.) Frozen PrEAs Heat % cup salted water to boiling. Add peas and separate with fork. Bring to boiling point again, and cook until peas are tender — 5 or 10 minutes. Add butter and serve immediately. Quick Buns 1 pkg. Dry yeast or 1 yeast cake 1% c¢. Currants or raisins % c. Water % tsp. Cinnamon 1 egg, separated powdered sugar, as needed 2% c. Biscuit mix Soften yeast in lukewarm water. Add egg yolk, biscuit mix, currants, and cinnamon, and beat vigorously. Knead on floured board (25 strokes). Roll % inch thick. Cut with 2% inch biscuit cutter. Shape into buns and place in 11 x 7 inch baking pan. Let rise until almost double. Brush with egg whites. Bake 12 to 15 minutes at 400°. Add '% teaspoon vanilla and powdered sugar to remaining egg white to coat the top. Serve cold, or reheat just before serving. WatporF SALAp Mo. Lp 1 package lemon-flavored jello 4 unpeeled red apples 1 c. Hot water 2 c. Diced celery 1 c. Cold water % c. Chopped walnuts Dissolve jello in hot water. Add cold water and chill until partially set. Add remaining ingredients and put in individual molds. Chill until firm. Serve on crisp lettuce or any preferred green, and top with salad dressing. LEMON CHIFFON PIE 1 tbsp. Gelatin 4 eggs, separated % c. Cold water % c. Lemon juice 1 ¢. Sugar 1 tsp. Grated lemon rind. 1 baked pie shell Soak gelatin in cold water. Beat egg yolks until very light. Add one half of sugar, juice, and rind. Beat until smooth and cook on low heat until custard coats the spoon, Remove from heat, add soaked gelatin, and stir until dissolved. Chill mixture MENUS FOR SPECIAL DINNERS 393 until partially congealed. Meanwhile, beat egg whites until very light, gradually adding remaining half cup of sugar. 'Then carefully fold cooled mixture into egg whites, and pour into baked pie shell. Chill thoronghly, and serve with whipped cream. Burret DINNER For LARGER FAMILY GATHERINGS Hot Tomato Juice with Whipped Cream Classic Meat Loaf Creamed New Potatoes and Peas Candied Yams Buttered Bread or Rolls Garden Ring Salad Deviled Eggs Assorted Relishes Peach Paradise Hot Tomato Juice witn Wuirrep CreAM (May be served in living room during last-minute dinner preparations) Add one bouillon cube to each quart of tomato juice. Scason to taste with salt, sugar, and celery salt. Serve hot, adding one teaspoon whipped cream to each serving. Cxassic Meat Loar 2 Ibs. Ground beef 2 c. Milk 1 Ib. Ground pork 1 c. Chopped onions 4 c. Fine dry bread crumbs 2 tsp. Salt 2 eggs, well beaten 2 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce Combine all ingredients and mix thoroughly. Pack in greased loaf pan. Bake in moderate oven (350°) for 1 hour. Refrigerate over night. Return to oven before serving, and bake another 30 minutes, Serves 8-10. CreaAMED New PoratTors AND PEAS 4 to 6 c. Cooked new potatoes, diced 2 to 3 c. Cooked peas 3 to 4 c. Well-seasoned white sauce Combine ingredients in one large or two small casseroles. Refrigerate over night. Before serving, heat in moderate oven 20 to 30 minutes. Canpiep Yams Use recipe given above for candied sweet potatoes. Garven Rinc SaLaD (Bright vegetables captured in gelatin) 2 envelopes gelatin 1 c. Shredded carrots ""c. Sugar 1 c. Shredded cabbage with 1 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Slivered pimento 1% c. Boiling water % c. Shredded celery 1 c. Cold water % c. Slivered green pepper "% ¢. Lemon juice Mix gelatin, sugar, and salt. Add boiling water until gelatin is dissolved. Add cold water and lemon juice. Chill until partially congealed. Place alternate half-cup portions of the different vegetables into a 6%-cup ring mold. Carefully pour in gelatin. Chill until firm. 394 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 Courtesy American Institute of Baking PEACH CAKE WITH WHIPPED CREAM To serve, unmold on a large round platter, and garnish as desired. Deviled eggs with parsley may be served in center. Devitep Eccs 6 hard-cooked eggs % tsp. Prepared mustard % c. Melted butter or mayonnaise 1 tsp. Onion, finely minced "4 tsp. Salt % tsp. Curry powder (optional) dash of pepper Cut shelled eggs into halves. Wéith teaspoon, carefully remove yolks to a small bowl. Set whites aside. Mash yolks very fine and crumbly. Blend in butter and other ingredients. Generously refill hollows in whites with yolk mixture, slightly rounding each. Pracu PARADISE 1 large round cake 2 ¢. Sliced clingstone peaches (chiffon or angel food) 1 c. Shredded coconut, toasted 1 pkg. White frosting mix Cut cake in two, horizontally. Spread frosting on lower layer and arrange % cup diced peaches evenly over it. Replace upper layer and spread the rest of the frosting over top and sides of cake. Sprinkle toasted coconut generously around outer side of the dessert. Refrigerate overnight. Just before serving, arrange well-drained sliced peaches in swirl pattern over top of cake. To toast coconut, spread thinly in shallow pan, and toast in moderate oven (350°) until delicately brown — about 5 minutes. Stir once or twice, to toast evenly. Fiddlers 'Three Lula Walker USAN Eldon tossed restlessly S in her big walnut bed. Sleep was slow in coming tonight. The arthritis in her hands was bothering her. 'The sliver of light she could see from the living room meant that Myra, her daughiter-inlaw, was still at her mending. Susan always felt guilty when Myra was mending. 'That had been her own task before this trouble with her hands. It was hard to bear this awful feeling of uselessness that weighed upon her. She heard the outside door open and close. That would be_ her grandson Vance home from evening orchestra practice in town. She could hear his eager chatter about commencement which was _ only three weeks away. "Mr. Rogers from Midland College was at school today signing up some of the seniors for next year," he was telling his mother. "Ned and Harvey are both going." Susan caught the wistful note in his voice as he named his two closest friends. If only Vance could go, she thought. And then Myra spoke. "IT wish you could go," she said, "but even with good crops we couldn't manage it with the interest due this fall. 'There doesn't seem to be any way." Myra's tired voice was lifeless. "There is a way," Vance burst out excitedly. "Mr. Rogers visited orchestra period. After my solo he came around and talked to me. He plays himself and knows instruments. Right off he noticed my violin. He said it was worth several hundred dollars. Just think, Mom, I could sell it and get a cheaper one for practice. 'That would give me the extra cash I need for school." Sell the violin! The words stabbed Susan like a knife. Sell the violin that his grandfather had cherished above every other possession! She was aghast at the idea. "But you couldn't!" It was Myra speaking. "What would your Grandmother say?" "It's mine, isn't it?" Vance gave back heatedly. "Grandfather gave it to me. Besides," he added more quietly, "Gran's a good sport. She wants me to go to college. Music is what I've always wanted. Midland has the best music department in the State. T'll work part time. I can't miss my chance. I just can't!" "Maybe — maybe — when the?? Fryers are sold, I might.... The soft closing of a door cut off Myra's words, but Susan could guess what Myra had in mind. The precious money from her fryers that was to build a new chicken house might be used for Vance's tuition. Myra must not do that. The new house was a necessity if Myra continued to raise chickens. And raising chickens made an important addition to the family income, with the returns from farming activities so uncertain. But what of the violin? That must not be sold. It was heartbreaking to think of such a thing. Page 395 396 But Susan didn't blame Vance. A boy of seventeen didn't see things as a woman of seventy. But some day he would see and be sorry — when the violin was gone. She remembered how William, her husband, used to play it een he had brought her to this house fifty years ago as a bride. Lilting, lively tunes he would play when he was happy, mournful ones when he was in low spirits. The violin had been a sort of barometer of his feelings. 'Those early years had been hard, but she could not imagine William ever parting with his violin. He would probably have sold the cookstove first, if that had been necessary. O, the violin must not be sold, but Vance was demanding his chance, and he must have it. His father Phillip had missed his. She could not let that happen to Vance. Phillip had worked hard here on the farm, but when it came to farming, he had been a square peg in a round hole. His interests had been in books and music. He had hoped for college, but she ard his father felt they could not afford it, and Phillip had lacked the drive to work his way through. She realized now they. Could have managed it some way. She must find a way for Vance. Involuntarily, she passed her hands across the satiny smoothness of the walnut headboard. 'The touch of the wood always seemed to bring comfort when she was troubled — like the touch of a loved one's hand. But tonight it was like a sting, a sharp reminder of how simple it would be to save the violin and provide for Vance's need. But surely, she thought, there must be some RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 other way besides selling her lovely old walnut set that was a wedding gift from her mother. In the moonlight she could see the outline of the beloved bureau and the stately old highboy in the corner. Her niece Margaret was eager to buy the set any time Susan would say the word. And Margaret had made a substantial offer. But there must be some other way, Susan kept saying over and over to herself. She was still wide-eyed when she heard the clock strike three — with no solution yet to her problem. HEN Susan woke, the bright May morning sun was streaming through her bedroom windows brightening the faded pink roses of the worn Wilton carpet. Quickly she passed her fingers across the headboard of the four-poster. Yes, her bed was there, and the matching bureau, and the old highboy. She had dreamed her treasured set was gone, and in its place the ugly fumed oak pieces that were in the attic. She heard the clock striking eight. Goodness, she had overslept a couple of hours. In nervous haste she began to dress, her stiff fingers all thumbs as she fumbled with the buttons of her blue gingham. A slight, girlish figure, Susan stood trim and neat before the oval mirror of the walnut bureau. As quickly as her cramped hands would allow, she brushed her wavy gray hair. She must hurry. It was long past breakfast time and Myra never liked to hold a meal. Put her back for the whole day she said. And with a poultry meeting scheduled for today she would be in a rush. Myra, a dark stoutish woman in her mid- FIDDLERS THREE forties, was at the sink washing the cream separator parts when Susan came into the kitchen. "T slept scandalous late," she apologized. "My hands bothered me for a while. But they're all right now," she hastily added, "you go ahead and get ready. I'll do the dishes." "I slept poorly, too," Myra confessed. The reason Susan could easily guess. Myra was worrying about the viokn, too, and probably trying to decide whether to give up her long cherished plans for a chicken house. "Myra's | dream house," Phillip had nicknamed it. Myra had planned for it as other women plan for a home. She was the practical type — almost devoid of sentiment, Susan had once thought until she had come upon her one - day fondling a stray dog. Susan had slipped away without letting Myra know she was there. It would have embarrassed Myra. Susan served the oatmeal from the double boiler on the back of the range and sat down to the oilcloth covered table. How she hated oilcloth — and always eating in the kitchen! Only for company or hired help did Myra bother about the dining room. If only she were not so practical, thought Susan. But she had been a good balance wheel for Phillip, no doubt. Susan was thinking now of Phillip's graduation from high school. He had played a solo on his father's violin, this same violin Vance wanted to sell. "Dipping into the future," had been the subject of his valedictory. Susan had dipped into the future, too, that night, with some rosy dreams for Phillip that had not materialized. 397 ND Susan was remembering another night — when they went to Danville to hear Kreisler. Myra had thought it an extravagance with tickets at three dollars each, but Susan had insisted it was her treat. The money for the tickets had come from the sale of a prized pair of candlesticks to her niece Margaret. But Susan had not regretted her sacrifice while she watched her men during the concert — her silveryhaired husband intent on catching every cadence of the instrument, and Phillip leaning forward with a wistful look on his face. Phillip's interest in music had perhaps been as strong as Vance's. It still tore at Susan's heartstrings to think how Phillip had drifted ito a vocation for which he was not fitted. At an early age Vance had shown a talent for the violin. With his father and grandfather to help him, he could play simple tunes at six. Ile had played at the dedication of the new church when he was eight. Susan could see it all now — Vance, a dark-haired, cager-eved boy, standing calm and confident beside the bishop as the clear strains of "Abide With Me," came from his violin. When he had finished, old Captain 'Thornton, lifelong family friend had leaned over to whisper to her husband, "Fiddlers three, Bill, fiddlers three!" Yes, "fddlers three," Susan thought with misty eyes as she cleared away the breakfast things. Back in her room, she surveyed her bedroom suite. Never had it looked lovelier — the graceful curves of the bed, the perfect symmetry of the bureau and highboy. And what memories were bound up in the old pieces! In the lower bureau drawer 398 she had kept her wedding dress. Here, too, had lain the little clothes her baby daughter never lived to wear. Never had she expected to part with this furniture, the only good pieces she had left. One by one, she had disposed of the other pieces as some financial crisis arose — the gate-leg table when Vance had pneumonia, the ladder-back chair when Phillip had an operation, the cherry wardrobe when an interest payment on the farm was overdue. Surely, she was entitled to keep the walnut bedroom set, Susan thought with a dry sob in her throat. The soft breeze that stirred the window curtains brought the fragrance of lilacs from the big bush Susan had set out so long ago. She could see Philip and Myra preparing to leave, Myra carrying the coop to the car, with her handsome white Plymouth Rock rooster. Poultry experts would score him today Myra had said. 'Too restless to sit still, Susan started clearing her closet. Up the steep stairs to the attic she trudged with winter clothing to put away. 'There, dusty and covered with cobwebs, was the ugly oak bed and dresser Myra had once purchased at an auction for Vance's room. Substantial and roomy, Myra had countered when Vance _ protested that the dresser was ugly and the mirror mottled. Vance had his own set now that he had made in manual training. The oak pieces were no longer needed. Good enough for an old woman, Susan told herself, but she rebelled at the thought of opening her eyes each morning on these atrocities. But she could do it — to save the violin. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 HE went downstairs and put in a call for Margaret. She tried a second and third time, but there Was no answer. Perhaps it was meant to be this way. At least she had tried. Then she remembered that Margaret was planning a trip. Possibly she had already gone. Susan became panicky at the thought that she might have missed her. Perhaps a turn in the fresh air might help. As Susan walked about, she looked at Myra's hens. Scattered here and there and snipping the young grass, they made a pretty sight. No wonder Myra was proud of them and eager to have something better than the ramshackle old chicken house. No, she must not sacrifice her "dream house" that was so badly needed. Right over there by the old apple tree, now fragrant with blossoms, was the spot she had picked for it. Susan went into the house tresolved to learn, if possible, whether Margaret had gone. She called Margaret's neighbor, Alice Fleming. No, she had not seen Margaret, but she had intended to leave today on her trip, Alice reported. Trembling, Susan replaced the receiver. She had waited too long. Why, oh, why had she delayed? Margaret had wanted the furniture for a long time. When she returned, she might not want it. She might have found something else. And Vance was impetuous. With his heart set on college, he might sell the violin any time — today even, she thought with a start. She darted into his room. Thank goodness, the violin was there. Faint with relief, she sank down on the couch. She had tried so hard to hold back her feelings, but now FIDDLERS THREE she broke into a torrent of weeping. She must have cried herself to sleep, for it was the telephone that roused her. It was Margaret. "Alice said you called. Thing wrong?" "No, no!" Susan was struggling to keep the tremor out of her voice. "Everything's fine. I just wanted to tell you I'm ready to let you have the furniture." "Are you sure, Aunt Susan?" she asked, with a note of happy excitement. "T'm sure." Susan's voice was firm now, the tremor gone. "And could you come for it today? Myra's getting ready to houseclean." "We'll be there," Margaret promised. Quickly Susan emptied the orderly contents of the drawers, trying to think only of what it would mean for Vance. Is any- 399 Two hours later, the walnut set was gone, and in its place the old oak set from the attic. "You shouldn't have done it," Myra said when she learned of Susan's action. "And why not?" Susan asked. "A young man's future is more important than an old woman's whim." "You're a good sport, Gram." Vance's voice was husky when he found at his plate that evening a check in an envelope with the notation, "A graduation gift — for Vance." "Tl practice harder than ever. And am I lucky to have a fine violin like Grandfather's. I intend to keep it always. And guess what, Gram? When school's out, ''m going to give that old oak furniture such a work-over, you won't know it." ~>—- Summer light Maxine R. Jennings I breathe deep-toned enchantment, and explore The velvet folds of cool, star-studded night. A wandering wind waits just outside my door, With breath rose-scented, and a voice as slight As whispered music in the pale half-light Of guardian stars; nasturtiums, gold by day, Wear shadow lace of navy, woven tight, While crickets move in lyric roundelay, Singing of summert's silver-patterned flight. I drink the hour's fullness, and review A finite world from my heart's highest hill! Was day too cluttered to be truly blue? I let small cares, like grating pebbles, spill Into the darkness that they cannot fill, Grateful that grass can grow and buds unfold, And stars and seasons heed no human will, Rejoicing that the wheel is heaven controlled, That Who created earth creates peace still. Needed By Someone (Continued from page 363) hospital, and the children will be with me. We could talk about the illustrations." The young man's face lighted, then he sat down dejectedly. "We can't keep imposing on you, Mrs. Bigelow." "You're not," she laughed. "You just don't know how large my house seems with my family all gone." "Could we, Daddy?" Caroline chimed in. "I'll help Grandma." "My wife was night," he said. "T think you are an angel." BY nine o'clock, they were all settled in Carsonville. Mr. Freeman rushed back to the hospital for a few minutes, Caroline and Davey were in bed, and Agnes picked up the receiver and placed a call to Mr. Adams. "Tm sorry I couldn't make the appointment," she explained when she heard his voice on the other end of the line. Mr. Adams was silent a moment, then without hesitation, "I'll drive by Carsonville on my return home. I understand it isn't far out of my way," he answered amiably. "Thank you, Mr. Adams. I'd like you to meet the man who is going to do the illustrations, too." Five minutes later, the phone rang, and it was Christine. "Mother darling," her voice sounded excited. "I have the most marvelous news. I thought you'd be going to the writer's conference, and come by here." Agnes explained meeting the Freeman family. "So I didn't go to Bill City, but Mr. Adams is coming by here tomorrow. You haven't Page 400 told me the news. What is it?" "You're going to be a_ grandmother." "Oh, Christine, that's just wonderful — that's just...." "We thought we'd come over for a few days." Christine laughed happily. "You know a girl needs her mother to talk to." Agnes swallowed. "Make it soon, dear, I've plenty of room and you'll love the Freeman family. I'm so happy, dear." Agnes hung up the receiver and walked to the bedroom to check on the children. "Y'm awake, Grandma," Caroline said, sitting up in bed and flipping on the light over the bed. "Why are you smiling?" "I was just thinking." Agnes sat down on the side of the bed and looked about the room. "Yesterday I felt lonely, no one needed me, I even began to think no one really cared about me. You know, dear, to feel needed by someone, helps one to be happy." "Does it? Am I needed?" the girl asked innocently. "Indeed you are." Agnes ruffled Caroline's curly hair. "You'll never know what you and your family have done for me. Everyone is needed by someone if she'll just open her hands wide to the opportunities." "Oh," the girl answered, a little puzzled. "And right now," Agnes tucked the covers around her little friend, "I need you most to get me used to being called Grandma." "Can J always call you Grandma?" Caroline asked seriously. "Of course you can, darling. Goodnight," and smiling happily, Agnes closed the door softly behind her. K lary Sorenson Johnson Finds &nough Hobbies to lake Her Happy ARY Sorenson Johnson, Milford, Utah, finds much happiness in her multiple hobbics, and shares this happiness with her friends, her family, and her neighbors. She has crocheted tablecloths and bedspreads for cach of her children, has made fourteen stoles, crocheted the edges for hundreds of handkerchiefs, has made many metal trays and hundreds of corsages. She also makes baskets and rugs and is an excellent seamstress. Her community activities have included serving as a director of the Milford Chapter of the American Red Cross, and during the depression she was appointed official distributor of surplus commodities. Long active in Relief Society, she has served as secretary-treasurer, counselor, and president in her ward, and is now work mecting leader. For many years she faithfully cared for the sick and made burial clothes and assisted at funcrals. At present she is a visiting teacher in the Milford Second Ward. She is the mother of six children, grandmother to fourteen, and great-grandmother to thirteen. <> <r SK orecast Evalyn M. Sandberg My child, weather-wise, Learns the climate of my heart By searching my eyes. Page 401 My Mlother and Her Hemstitching Mlachine Fay McCurdy Bailey T= hemstitching machine just plain wore out, and no wonder. I remember when Mother purchased it, and it was delivered to our home. It was huge, and was to do many wonderful things that other machines could not do. That was thirty-five years ago, and oh, the yards of hemstitching my Mother has done in that time! Being big and noisy, it sat in the "back'"" bedroom most of the time by a south window, where the light was good. Since there were six children demanding Mother's care, she would rise early to do her sewing. Very few mornings in my life do I remember ever waking up to any sound but the hum of the hemstitcher. A large spool board spaced with nails, over which a spool of thread could slide easily, was made by Daddy. Thus, Mother had somewhere to keep the numerous spools, in various shades that she would need. Her hemstitching scissors always fascinated me, and they still do. They were small and shaped like a bird with a long, pointed bill. They were "special" and were to be kept just for Mother's work. In a drawer in her machine, she kept a small notebook. In this she would write the name of the person whose sewing she had done, the number of yards hemstitched, and then how much it would cost. It certainly wasn't an elaborate bookkeeping system, but it satisfied her. Her reputation of doing good work kept her busy, for she always Page 402 had pieces to be done. Many packages came in the mail from people all over the country, and I don't remember her ever charging postage when she returned the finished work. For many years she charged six cents a yard for straight work and eight cents for scallops. Then, later on, as times were better, she charged eight cents and ten cents, and she furnished the thread. OMETIMES Mother did work for people whom she knew couldn't afford to pay what it would cost. Then she just didn't charge full price. No one will ever know the yards and yards she has done for Relief Society sewing in our Church. This was always her contribution. No one could ever fix her machine if it acted up. I remember a repair man coming and spending hours trying to fix it, and it still wouldn't work right. Then Mother went to work on it. She'd tinker and fuss, and how she ever could repair the complicated thing, I'll never know. But she never gave up, and, eventually, it would be humming along again. Because Mother did sewing, someone was always coming to the house to leave some work or pick up some. Many fine friendships started while Mom finished some work. Because of this machine and the wonderful things my Mother could do with it, I had an advantage over many of my girl friends. She sewed beautifully and made all my clothes, which were finished with hemstitch- ing. The sashes on my dresses were always edged in picots, not hemmed. Any seamstress appreciates not haying to "fine hem" a sash. So often in the life of a young teenage girl, she feels she just has to have a new dress for a special occasion — and many the night my Mother sat up to finish one for me! I never truly appreciated what she did till now — as I do the same for my teenage daughter. During the depression years of the thirties, 1 know Mother's "pin money" from her hemstitching bought us many things we never could have had otherwise. It seemed as if she always had a little money coming in to mect the many demands. This big, noisy hemstitcher is interwoven into all my memories of home. As I look back, they are dear, pleasant memories. Now it has stopped. SmokeWVarm Grasses Eva Willes Wangsgaard I had forgotten wind's way with June grass, Smoke-purple, smoke-warm, Rolling along the edge of foothills Like clouds in storm. But loneliness seeks lonely places Low-hung with blue, And here I lie in the smoke-warm grasses While peace flows through. Ursta Linnie F. Robinson I took my youthful wounds along a path, Searching for refuge from the hurts of day, When suddenly I came upon a birch Whose golden hanging lace enwrapped my way; My eyes were lifted to the wondrous sight — My hand caressed its silken bole, And somehow healing came to me; perhaps It was that beauty fed and made me whole. And now that I am grown, when sword thrust comes The vision of that tree pervades my mind, Seeing, I cannot despair of such a world; Nor can I lose the treasure of that find, For I who fled in youth from rude intent Look now beyond the thorns and am content. MY MOTHER AND HER HEMSTITCHING MACHINE 403 Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. Sce regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Julia N. Barg PIONEER STAKE (UTAH), RIVERVIEW WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY RELEASED Left to right: Elsie M. Warner, Hirst Counselor; Enid T. Stroud, President; Geraldine R. Morris, Second Counselor; Mary Bywater, Secretary. Julia N. Barg, President, Pioneer Stake Relief Society, reports: "On February 7, 1947, the Riverview Ward of the Pioneer Stake was created by a division of the Twenty-fifth and Twenty-sixth wards, and on January 24, 1960, was dissolved on account of the Freeway going through the castern part of the ward, making what was left too small to function as a ward. The sisters in the above picture were in office at the time the ward was dissolved." Page 404 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 405 iF Wigicerayh submitted by Virginia Cc. Newbold GRANT STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, February 5, 1960 Seated in the front row, tenth from the left: Bodell Jensen, eldest member of Grant Stake Relief Society. Back row, beginning seventeenth from the left: Rhea H. Simmons, Secretary-Treasurer; Vera Kocherhans, First Counselor; Virginia C. Newbold, President; Edith Jackman, Second Counselor. Sister Newbold reports: "Approximately 220 attended the convention and saw the film 'Unto the Least of These.' One hundred fifty-three visiting teachers were honored for periods of service ranging from ten to fifty four years. All were presented with blue ribbons engraved in gold, showing the number of years of service as visiting teachers. 'The sisters who had served for twenty-five years or more were presented with Relief Society pins." Photograph submitted by Marguerite Wright MIDVALE STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, February 21, 1960 Front row, beginning third from the left: Ada Lennberg, director (in dark dress); Marguerite W right, President, Midvale Stake Relief Society. Standing back of the pulpit at the right: Donna Davies, Secretary, Midvale Stake Relief Society. Third row, thirteenth from the right: Helen Burgon, First Counselor, Midvale Stake Relief Society. Back row at left, Gloria Buck, organist. Sister Wright reports: "There are seventy Singing Mothers in this chorus, representing all seven wards of Midvale Stake. They furnished music for both sessions of Midvale Stake Quarterly Conference, February 21, 1960, and for the Midvale Stake Visiting Teachers Convention, March 11, 1960. LuJean Carver, Second Counselor, was not present when the picture was taken." 406 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 Photograph submitted by Della H. Teeter DENVER WEST STAKE (COLORADO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE AND RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, March 29, 1960 Front row, beginning second from the right: Venna Yeates, chorister; Gladys Hansen, organist; Millie E. Richardson, First Counselor; Della H. Teeter, President; Yvonne Nelson, Second Counselor. Sister 'Teeter reports: "This group has a membership of fifty sisters and they are the mothers of eighty children. This is their first presentation as a chorus of the newly created Denver West Stake. At the Stake Visiting Teachers Convention the film 'Unto the Least of These' was presented, with the Stake President Thomas L. Kimball giving the main address. The stake visiting teacher message leader, Laura Cutler, introduced the visiting teacher messages for the summer months, with the chorus singing 'Come Ye Blessed of the Lord.' A solo was sung by Virginia Lee, stake literature class leader." Photograph submitted by Mona Watson DALLAS STAKE (TEXAS) FASHION SHOW HELD IN CONNECTION WITH LEADERSHIP MEETING, March 1960 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 407 Left to right: Dorothy Titus, stake work meeting leader; Arla Beck; Opal Burch, stake Magazine representative, Dovie Goalsey; Edleweis Arrington; Rita Jane Holland; Joan Elaine Gunn, Debbie Wallace; Marsha Knight; Evelyn Wallace; Phyllis Ann Gilchrest; Janice Purcell; Flossie Rousseau; Jeanene Johnson, Althera C. Mulkey, Second Counselor; Emily Louise Gurley, First Counselor; Myrl B. Whiting, President. Sister Whiting reports: "' 'Home sewing — Creative, Attractive, and Economical' was the theme for the fashion show presented by the Dallas Stake Relief Society at the March leadership meeting. The fashion show was under the direction of Althera C. Mulkey, Stake Work Director Counselor, and Dorothy Titus, stake work meeting leader, and the clothing was made by Relief Society sisters for themselves or their children. Twenty-six models represented nine wards. Not all of the models are shown in the picture. Also displayed were articles made in the work meeting department during the year. We are attempting to put more emphasis on sewing and learning to sew at our work meetings. 'This is our second annual fashion show. "At noon the Relief Society presidency and board members served a lovely luncheon celebrating the 118th Relief Society birthday. A beautiful birthday cake in our blue and gold colors was decorated by Arla Beck, Fort Worth Ward Relief Society Secretary-Treasurer. The cake was used as the centerpiece." Sister Whiting has recently been released, and Sister Mona Watson is the new president of Dallas Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Helen H. Hawkins SPANISH FORK STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR NUMEROUS OCCASIONS Seated in the front row: Emma Jex, conductor, at the right; Blanche Nielson, accompanist, second from the right; Helen H. Hawkins, President, Spanish Fork Stake Relief Society, third from the right. Sister Hawkins reports: "Our Singing Mothers group has sung for many occasions. They presented music for our Visiting Teachers Convention and closing social in May, and also our Relief Society Convention the same month. We presented six numbers for our Stake Quarterly Conference in August. One of the numbers was "Still, Still, With Thee," composed by our beloved sister, Florence Jepperson Madsen. We were especially pleased and honored to have Sister Madsen present at that conference to hear us sing. Each ward Singing Mothers group sings at their November and March Relief Society services. They also sing at least once each year at our monthly leadership meetings, and are always very willing to respond when asked to sing at funerals. We are grateful for our Singing Mothers groups throughout the stake. They give unselfishly of their time and talents and lift us spiritually with their voices in song." 408 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 Photograph submitted by Elnora R. Loveland WEST BOISE STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS DRAMATIZATION "LEGACY" March 17, 1960 Left to right: Barbara Tenny; Laurel Hegstrom; Thomas Daniels; Barbara Clarke; Delpha Mathewson; Mildred Perkins; Beverly Merrill; Irene Neilson; Elaine Daniels; Alene Hendren. Elnora T. Loveland, President, West Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: "This dramatization was directed by Elna Johnson, stake literature class leader (inset). The Singing Mothers furnished the music for the occasion, fifty-seven participating, under the direction of LaRue Campbell, with Barbara Ossmen at the organ. Wendell Stout painted the backdrop." Photograph submitted by Ruth R. Reeder FRENCH POLYNESIAN MISSION, PAEA, PAPENOO, PAPEETE, AND FRENCH BRANCHES OBSERVE THE ANNIVERSARY OF RELIEF SOCIETY AT PAPEETE, TAHITI, March 17, 1960 Ruth R. Reeder, President, French Polynesian Mission Relief Society, is seated in the center on the second row; Edna Poroi, President, French Branch Relief Society, who conducted the anniversary observance, is seated in chair at the right. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 409 Sister Reeder reports: "Our anniversary party celebrating the organization of Relief Society was very successful. The party was held in the afternoon in the recreation hall. A lovely program was given under the direction of the French Branch, and refreshments were served to cighty Relief Society women. 'These women are lovely. And we had a nice time together. Each woman made a garland of flowers to wear on her head, and some made extra ones for me, my daughter, and the lady missionaries. We felt the spirit of oneness, and I was so grateful for this experience. I gave the branches a Relief Society Building Souvenir Plate. The women will weave a holder and will hang the plate in their Relief Society room. 'They seemed very pleased, and I am sure it will be an inspiration to them for many years." Laks8 * Photograph submitted by LaVerda O. Lloyd MOUNT JORDAN STAKE (UTAH), DRAPER SECOND WARD FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT LUNCHEON AND PROGRAM, March 15, 1960 Front row, seated, left to right, former Relief Society presidents: Nettie Boulter; Mina Mickelsen; Merna Smith. Back row, standing, left to right: Phyllis Smith, present President; Rogena Roden; Erma Vawdrey; Geneva Hansen; Phyllis Howlett. LaVerda O. Lloyd, President, Mount Jordan Stake Relief Society, reports: "Relief Socicty members honored the eight former presidents of Draper Second Ward Relief Society at a luncheon and program on March 15, 1960, commemorating the anniversaty of Relief Society. All former Relief Society presidents, except Grace Payne, who has moved out of the State, were present for this occasion. Each of the seven former presidents was introduced in verse, and each responded with outstanding events, humorous and otherwise, remembered from her service as president. Draper Second Ward was organized August 11, 1935. "The luncheon tables were decorated with African violets and a large birthday cake. Special guests were the Stake Relief Society President LaVerda O. Lloyd and eight of her board members. After the luncheon and program, the regular literature lesson was given by class leader Marjorie Landeen." 410 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 Photograph submitted by Bertrude S. Mitchell PAROWAN STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS LITERATURE DRAMATIZATION "LEGACY," March 17, 1960 Left to right: Anna Dalley; Evelyn Davenport; Elaine Adams; Cleora Bayles; Nina Robb; Constance Halterman; Maryetta Orton; Gaytha Benson; Florence Sherrett; Oscar J. Hulet, narrator; Howard D. Knight, President, Parowan Stake. Bertrude S. Mitchell, President, Parowan Stake Relief Society, reports: "This program was presented on the Relief Society anniversary for all adult members of our stake. All six wards are represented in the picture, and all willingly helped with the making of the colonial costumes. It was a very beautiful and colorful presentation, and many said that it was one of the nicest affairs we have had in our community in a long time. Our Singing Mothers did an excellent job with the background music. "Taking part in a theology dramatization 'Instructions and Promises,' presented on the same day, were Jane Bentley, theology class leader; Elder Hulet, President Knight, and other members of the Priesthood." Give Mle the Mesa Maude Rubin Often the way divided... One way climbed Toward the clouded mountains, mystery of distance. My ears were tuned to hear a music timed To the beat of eagle wings, whose loud insistence Would drown this pulsing note of a meadow lark, Bright bubble of sound that floated toward the sky Across my heart's horizon! Gone those stark White peaks, too cold for breath. Where eagles fly Is not my earthborn climate. I need wind, This sea of grass, wild crocuses in May; I need this prairie earth, where winter-thinned, New tides of life flow green, let summer stay Serene and reticent on mesa loam Where meadow larks and I have found our home. — <a Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1960-61 Elder Roy W. Doxey HE; eight lessons for study during this year, the fourth series on The Doctrine and Covenants, come from five sections of this wonderful book of scripture. All of these revelations were received by the Prophet Joseph Smith during the months of February and March of 1831. This was an eventful period for the Prophet, for the Lord had commanded that he go to Ohio where further instruction would be received for the continued growth of the Church. The background for the movement of the headquarters of the Church into Ohio was studied last year. With the rapid growth of the kingdom of God in that area, as a direct result of the missionary labors among the settlers by those who were assigned to the Lamanite mission, the time had come for the Lord to reveal many of his purposes for the welfare of the saints and more detailed information concerning important future events. Although the Prophet resided in Kirtland, Ohio, where a_ thriving branch of the Church was raised up, and the revelations making up this year's lessons were received, he also continued farther west into Missour during the year. Returning to Ohio, the Prophet received many revelations now contained in The Doctrine and Covenants. One of the most important revelations given in this dispensation is to be studied this year. The material in Section 42 contributes to five lessons in this series. 'This revelation, known as the law of the Lord to the Church, has many direct applications to daily life. 'These teachings arc eternal. Some of the moral commandments given in the beginning and reiterated by Moses on Mount Sinai are emphasized in this revelation, They form the basis of orderly government in society and the foundation for entrance into the celestial kingdom. In addition, the solution to a number of problems confronting the Church at the time and for the edification of those in the ministry were made known. The background for understanding the first lesson is the fact that at this early period elders called to preach the gospel had to be instructed in the way they should teach. The instructions of the Lord relative to an authorized ministry and Page 411 412 the need for divine guidance were not known clearly by many. It was necessary, therefore, that these members of the Priesthood should understand the spirit in which they should function as missionarics and of their true calling before the world. In the next two lessons the members of the Church are given a better understanding of their responsibilitics in being a light to the world. 'There follows a lesson on the principles of a socio-economic order which is yet to be lived by Latter-day Saints as a part of the celestial law. The final lesson from the law of the Lord to the Chureh provides an opportunity to learn many principles pertaining to the important practice of administration to the sick. A lesson last vear gave general consideration to some events of the future. Two of these subjects are discussed in detail this year. The final lesson for the year comes from an important revelation setting forth special blessings for the faithful members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In general, this year's course covers many important lessons to be applied to life situations. The 1960-61 series of lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 25—A Promise Fulfilled (D & C, Sections 41; 42:1-17) Objective: To understand that the law of the Lord is to be taught with faith and by the Spirit. Lesson 26—The Law of Moral Conduct (D & C, Section 42:18-20, 79, 84-85) Objective: To realize that the comRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 mandments "Thou shalt not kill" and "Thou shalt not steal' forbid acts which are an offense against God and society. Lesson 27—The Law of Moral Conduct (Continued) (D & C, Section 42:21-26, 80-83, 86) Objective: To learn the consequences of lying and unchaste practices. Lesson 28—The Law of Consecration (D & CG, Section 42:30-42, 53- 557 70°73) Objective: "And inasmuch as ye impart of your substance unto the poor, ye will do it unto me..." (D&C 42:31). Lesson 29—The Law of Administration to the Sick (D & C, Section 42:43-52) Objective: To learn some principles of the law of administration to the sick. Lesson 30—The Past, Present, and Future (D & C, Section 45:1-42) Objective: To learn some reasons why obedience to the Lord's will is necessary, and of the need of being aware of the signs in preparation for the Lord's second coming. Lesson 31—The Second Coming of Christ (D & C, Sections 43:8-35; 4543-75) Objective: To learn of events associated with the second coming of Christ. Lesson 32—The Gifts of the Holy Ghost (D & C, Section 46) Objective: To understand what the gifts of the Holy Ghost are and why | they are given. Visiting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Preview of Lessons for 1960-61 Christine H. Robinson HE "Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants" which constitute the visiting teacher messages for 1960-61, form a pattern of principles and guides which, if followed, will lead us to happier, more purposeful living. These messages emphasize the importance of keeping all of the Lord's commandments and not just those which appeal to us. We are reminded that if we would enjoy fully the blessings of the Lord, we must have thankful and grateful hearts. We are further instructed to develop our God-given gifts and talents for the good of all. 'The messages admonish us to _ grow in grace and in the knowledge of the truth. They advise us to guard against speaking evil of another and to avoid the futility of idleness. These truths from modern day scripture are interrelated and interdependent. For example, when we serve the Lord we are, in reality, serving ourselves and others, and through unselfish service we develop our God-given gifts and talents and also can avoid the evil and futility of idleness. Furthermore, when we keep all of the Lord's commandments, we build our knowledge of the truth, and we establish safeguards which assure us that the Lord and his influence will be in our midst to comfort and guide us. When we are occupicd constructively in keeping the Lord's commandments, we should have no time nor desire to speak or think evil of othcrs. Rather, we recognize the glorious truth that when we serve others and do good even "... Unto the least of these..." (D & C 42:38) as the Savior has told us, we are actually doing good unto him. Four of these "Truths to Live By" come from one section in The Doctrine and Covenants. This Section, Forty-T'wo, deals specifically with the laws of the Church. These laws, we must remember, do not restrict or inhibit us, but rather they are the principles and rules without which we cannot find true happiness or peace of mind. These 1960-61 messages form a coordinated structure of truths which have been emphasized over and over again by the Lord's prophets since ancient times. 'They are so important to our happiness that the Lord has again given them to us in these latter days with the admonition that if we will observe them, they will serve as a sure foundation to joyful, abundant living. The messages and their objectives for the year 1960-61 are as follows: Message 25—"If Thou Lovest Me Thou Shalt Serve Me and Keep All My Commandments' (D & C 42:29). Objective: To emphasize the fact that we serve the Lord, others, and ourselves best only when we keep all the commandments. Page 413 414 Message 26—"And Ye Must Give Thanks Unto God in the Spirit for Whatsoever Blessing Ye Are Blessed With" (D & C 46:32). Objective: To enjoy fully the blessings of the Lord, we must have thankful and grateful hearts. Message 27—"... Every Man Is Given a Gift by the Spirit of God... That All May Be Profited Thereby" (D & C 46:11-12). Objective: We have a divine responsibility to develop our gifts and _ talents and to use them in the service of others. Message 28—"Thou Shalt Not Be Idle..." (D & C 42:42). Objective: To avoid being idle, we must be actively engaged in a good cause. Message 29—"Wherefore, I Am in Your Midst, and I Am the Good Shepherd..." (D & C 50:44). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 Objective: To persuade us that Jesus is with us and, if we live righteously and will seek him, he will guide, sustain, and comfort us. Message 30—"... Ye Must Grow in Grace and in the Knowledge of the Truth" (D & C 50:40). Objective: The gospel is a plan of salvation through progress. Only by growth in grace and truth can we move toward eternal life. Message 31—"Thou Shalt Not Speak Evil of Thy Neighbor, Nor Do Him Any Harm" (D&C 42:27). Objective: We must guard constantly against idle or evil words which might harm or undermine another's character. Message 32—"For Inasmuch As Ye Do It Unto the Least of These, Ye Do It Unto Me" (D & C 42:38). Objective: If we would do the work of the Lord, we must be actively engaged in helping others. WVork Tleeting—Caring for the Sick in the Home Preview of Lessons for 1960-61 Maria Johnson NFORTUNATELY, in every home, sooner or later, there is someone who needs care following an injury or during sickness. The wise mother will accept this fact and prepare herself to meet the situation intelligently and calmly. We hope to bring to you in the lessons this year a few basic understandings that will give you a greater sense of security in meeting illness when it comes. As we care for the sick, our goal is to help the individual regain and maintain the highest level of health that is possible for him. Health is much more than not being sick. There are degrees of health just as there are degrees of illness. We say a person is mildly ill or seriously ill. We might say he has a low level of health or a high or optimum level. Since the beginning of the century as our knowledge has increased our concept of health has widened. We passed from the era of curative LESSON DEPARTMENT medicine, concerned mainly with the cure of physical diseases, to the era of preventive medicine, when sanitation and immunization made possible the prevention of many diseases, such as smallpox, diphtheria, typhoid fever, whooping cough, to name a few. Curative and preventive measures are still important, but medical and _ scientific research have taught us they are not enough. The new concept of health is well expressed in this definition formulated by the World Health Organization — "Health is a state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity." Our health authorities, today, point out to us that emotional attitudes, our pet beliefs, our prejudices, our superstitions, and fears stand in the way of health as surely as do bacteria, improper food, or poisons that are not eliminated. In each lesson as we demonstrate and discuss various skills used at the bedside, we hope better to understand both the emotional and physical needs of the sick patient. These lessons do not take the place of courses such as the Red Cross Home Nursing or those for the training of practical nurses. Your instructor will tell you where to get information about accredited nursing courses. The lessons and objectives will be as follows: Lesson 1—Safeguarding the Health of Your Family Objective: To help each one to become more alert to the need for applying simple, well - established principles for the prevention of disease and for safeguarding the health of the family. 415 Lesson 2—Manifestations of Illness Objective: To learn to recognize, observe, and report symptoms of illness. 'To learn to read a thermometer and take a temperature and pulse. Lesson 3—Moving and Lifting the Patient Objective. To learn good body mechanics (to use the body properly) when moving and lifting a patient in order to hasten the patient's recovery, to prevent accidents, and to protect the worker from unnecessary strain and fatigue. Lesson 4—Making the Patient Comfortable Objective—To become aware of the importance of good posture for the patient in bed and the need for frequent change of position. To learn how to arrange pillows, make the patient's bed, and use improvised equipment and other devices that will help to hasten the patient's recovery. Lesson 5—Routine Comfort Measures — The Patient's Bath and Care of the Mouth and Hair Objective: To learn the importance of these measures in meeting the needs of the patient, and to learn the key points in giving this care. Lesson 6—Elimination of Body Wastes Objective: To help us recognize the great importance of the elimination of body wastes. To demonstrate skills used in helping the sick person meet these needs. Lesson 7—Feeding the Patient— Oral Medications—Hot and Cold Treatments Objective: To give a few hints that will help in efforts to stimulate the 416 sick patient to take the nourishment he needs; to present basic rules for the safe administration of oral medications; to discuss safety measures needed in giving hot and cold treatments. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 Lesson 8—The Chronically Il and Aged Objective: To point up the special needs of these patients and to consider how we can help mect them. Of sterature—Ametica's Literature Comes of Age (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York) Preview of Lessons for 1960-61 Elder Briant S. Jacobs VEN before the battle smoke had cleared, the new America had been forced to establish many new patterns and traditions by which her people could live; had she hesitated she would have perished, despite military victory. Regardless of individual whim or regional differences, each day products had to be bought and sold; property nights had to be defined, that laws might be enforced, criminals punished, justice done; taxes had to be levied, collected, and spent; personal rights of speech, assembly, and worship demanded immediate assertion. Other patterns were proposed and accepted only to be changed as the need arose. The Articles of Confederation kept mutual jealousies among the colonies ablaze by guaranteeing to each most of the autonomy it enjoyed before the war, a distressing situation remedied by the Constitution of 1787-89. Because no such emergencies existed in the social, cultural, and literary lives of the newly hatched American citizens, the pre-war status quo remained unchallenged and dominant until the 1820's and 1830's. The values of "mother England" were the only valucs; no conflict was possible since there WETE, with minor exceptions, no native American writers or playwrights. Roughly, until the War of 1812, everyone was happy with things as they were. But when the new Nation won the second war against the great world power that was Britain, a growing crescendo of nationalism made increasing demands that distinctively American values be immortalized in the words of her own inspired sons. Proclaiming their independence of both European ideas and literary forms, ideally they were to create literature as majestic as America's mountains, as peaceful as her prairies, as vast and comprehensive as were her new peoples and territories. Not until Whitman — in the decades preceding and following the Civil War — did American literature attain its fullest stature by embodying such a dream, when the belief in her "Manifest Destiny" left as deep an imprint on her native writings as upon her laws: The first generation of American literary men — Irving, Bryant, Cooper — wrote LESSON DEPARTMENT what pleased their fancy or expressed their mood or dream, though later in his critical writings Bryant began striking hard for a native American literature. It was in the militant writings of the giants of American Literature — Emerson, Hawthorne, 'Thoreau, Melville, and Whitman — that the clarion call for complete literary independence from Europe was first sounded with sustained vigor and sincerity. In these writers (the last three to be studied after this year) the American conscience found for the first time enduring identity; in them the American imagination ripened and bloomed as it gave first expression to fears, hopes, conflicts central to her culture from the days of John Smith and Jonathan Edwards up through Franklin and Jefferson. And great themes unique to the new country were central therein: who is the new American man? Who in relation to the European past; to myriad millions of acres still virgin and unexplored; to trade and government and nature and woman; to reform and slavery and pride, to aristocracy and democracy; to the shining vision of the future? How were free men to know what freedom was, or should be, unless told by their own voices? Who was man to be if he fully realized his destined identity? These great themes were common to the Nation and to its great literature. But whereas the themes had been deepening and expanding for centuries, it was in the decades preceding the Civil War that voices emerged of sufficient depth and vision and courage to give them form and body. Once form and content merged, the classic age of American 417 literature was produced, otherwise known as the American Renaissance. Thus our concern this year is American literary greatness, both forerunners and proclaimers. Lesson titles and objectives follow: Lesson 17—Expanding Horizons (Text, pp. 161-192) Objective: To outline how new and complex relationships within the new Nation expressed themselves through its literature. Lesson 18—Washington Irving, Polished Paradox (Text, pp. 193-220) Objective: To relate the writings to the man, and both to the dynamic beginning period of the Nation out of which they grew. Lesson 19—James Fenimore Cooper, Critic (1789-1851) (Text, pp. 221- 223) Objective: To increase Cooper's significance for us by exploring the interrelationships tying together his aristocracy, his artistry, and his Americanism. Lesson 20—Natty Bumppo, Amewcan Fiction-Hero (Text, pp. 221- 223) Objective: To acknowledge Cooper's Natty Bumppo as creating and symbolizing the wild beauty of primitive America. Lesson 21—William Cullen Bryant (17941878) (Text, pp. 236-249) Objective: To become more appreciative of Bryant both as an influential creator and as a revered representative of nineteenth - century America. 418 Lesson 22—Ralph Waldo Emerson, American Idealist (Text, pp. 250- 303 ) Objective: To recognize Emerson as the nucleus of American literature during its classic period preceding the Civil War. Lesson 23—Emerson, the Spokesman for His Age (Text, pp. 250 303) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 Objective: To relate Emerson's philosophy to the basic idea his art expresses. Lesson 24—Nathaniel Hawthorne, Haunted Autobiographer (Text, 304-349) Objective: To reconsider the dual nature of mortality, as exemplified in Hawthorne's short stories. Social Science —Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Preview of Lessons for 1960-61 Elder Blaine M. Porter HE world continues to increase in complexity, the traditions and beliefs of the past continue to be questioned with increasing intensity, and the task of finding meaning and purpose in life is as great a challenge as ever. In this scientific age the goal of living harmoniously and peacefully with our fellow men in one world has become not only desirable but necessary, if our civilization is to survive. Last year we discussed the spiritual road which we should all walk in order to travel in the direction of the abundant life as taught and lived by our Savior, Jesus Christ. We studied the nature of emotional and religious maturity and emphasized the necessity of these characteristics in order to be capable of truly living the teachings of Christianity. This year we wish to focus upon additional elements which are equally important in the religious life of man. In order to understand ourselves more fully and to enrich our lives, we will focus upon widenin our religious horizons. Within this framework we will discuss concepts of God, pointing out that even though we worship the same God, we have significant differences in our concepts regarding the nature of God. The manner in which these concepts affect our lives and our relationship with God will receive major consideration. Next, we will analyze our concepts of man, once again recognizing the several approaches which we have regarding the nature of man. Since establishing harmonious and creative relationships with our fellow men is one of the cornerstones in the foundation of building a world at peace, seeking ways of improving these relationships is extremely important. Therefore, man's relatedness to the world will be studied, and ways in which we can widen our religious horizons will be suggested and discussed. LESSON DEPARTMENT To achieve peace and brotherhood on any secure, permanent human basis will require all the ingenuity, understanding, and charity which we can muster. It will require that we not only implement the principles of Christian living, but that we also effectively teach them to our children in order that they will be prepared to assume the leadership of furthering this cause. If religion is to be allocated its rightful dignity and be allowed to make its potential contribution in our lives, we must dedicate our whole self to that which is highest and best in infe. In order more fully to understand the manner in which religious qualities develop, we will explore the stages of religious development. For purposes of analysis, these will be studied under the headings of 'The Religion of Childhood, Religious Development in Adolescence, and The Religion of Mature Adulthood. Considering the various stages of religious development may be a new expericnce for many of us. We hope that it will contribute to our understanding and effectiveness as parents and teachers in more appropriately timing the presentation of religious concepts to our children. Since values play such a major tole in our lives, as well as in our religious philosophy, we will study the growth and meaning of values. Our main objective will be to help us carefully examine the values we have, recognize our value conflicts, and evaluate how adequately we have internalized the values which we feel are most important. How we develop and grow these values for ourselves and for our children is particularly significant, and 419 therefore, our attention will be directed toward growing religious values in the home and family. We will recognize that in order for an individual to develop permanent values with high quality, he must first have developed a value for himself and for the dignity of man. The family, of course, assumes a very significant role in the growing of values in persons of all ages. Despite all the sorrow and pessimism in the world, there seems to be an unquenchable tendency toward growth, goodness, understanding, truth, and freedom. This truth will not be found in mysteries, or in someone else taking responsibility for us, but rather through our efforts of self-realization and _preparing ourselves to live a religion of maturity, love, and understanding of God and his children. We must realize that religion is what we do, not what we profess. This second year's series, then, will focus on additional human characteristics which will help us to expand our religious horizons and increase our spirituality in an age of great challenge. May the following lessons prove to be stimulating and enriching. Lesson 8—Expanding Our Religious Horizons—Part I—Concepts of God Objective: To discover how our concepts of God influence our potentialities for spiritual living. Lesson 9—Expanding Our Religious Horizons—Part I]—Concepts of Man Objective: To discover how our concepts of man influence our potentialities for spiritual living. 420 Recommended Music for Relief Society Choruses Ladies Three Part ( ) Come Ye Blessed of My Father—Madsen...20 ( ) Forth in Thy Name, O Lord I Go—MadSON oo. Ceeeeecceeeeeeeeseeeeeeceee.20 ( ) Go Ye Forth with My Word—Madsen...25 ( ) Incline Your Ear— Wilkes ou.... Eceeeeceeeeeee 25 ( ) In Thy Form—Mad- 0.20 ( ) Let the Mountains Shout for Joy— Stephens _....0.....222-......20 ( ) Lord, We Dedicate this House to Thee— Madsen.......0.2.0.------.20 ( ) Music—Marsden.......20 ( ) My Redeemer Lives —Gates eee.20 ( ) O Lovely Land, America—Madsen.....20 ( ) Open Our Eyes— Macfarlane _. W..0002.. 25 ( ) Send Forth Thy Spirit—Schuetky.......20 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank 1 15 E. Ist South! Salt Lake City 11, Utah ' I \ t Please send the music indicated above. | 1 On Approval OJ Charge ' OO Money Enclosed! Ame i ddress "! 1 ity & State Salt Lake City 11, Utah Or Zz RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 Lesson 10—Expanding Our Religious Horizons — Part IIT — Man's Relatedness to the World Objective: To discover how our philosophy of man's relatedness to the world influences our potentialities for spiritual living. Lesson 11—Stages of Religious Development Objective: To understand more fully the manner in which religious qualities develop. Lesson 12—Values—Their Growth and Meaning Objective: To increase our understanding of what values are, how they develop, and the meaning which they have in our lives. Lesson 13—Growing Religious Values in the Home Objective: To explore the processes by which religious values may be grown and developed within the framework of the home and family. Lesson 14—Abundant Living for Our Day Objective: To review the topics of this two-year series of lessons and emphasize the role they can and should play in helping us live abundantly today. > ee Totes on the Authors of the of essons HIS year one new writer is represented among the authors of the lessons and introduced to readers of the Magazine. A biographical sketch of Maria Johnson follows: NOTES ON THE AUTHORS OF THE LESSONS MARIA Johnson, author of the Work Meeting Lessons, "Caring for the Sick in the Home," was born in Springville, Utah, a daughter of Mont and Amelia Thorn Johnson, both of whom were born within five years after their parents made the pioneer trek to Utah. She is a granddaughter of Bishop Aaron Johnson, leader of the company of pioneers who settled Springville. Sister Johnson received her carly education in Springville, and, after graduating from high school, studied at the Brigham Young University and the University of Utah to qualify for teaching. After a successful career of eight years, she obeyed a long-cherished desire to enter the field of nursing. Here she has found challenging and satisfying opportunities for service. She was graduated from Dr. Groves Latterday Saints Hospital in Salt Lake City. For a few years she served as a school nurse, then enrolled at Teachers' College, Columbia University, where she received a Bachelor of Science Degree in public health nursing. She spent the next four years as a ficld representative and one year as assistant to the Director of Nursing Service in the Pacific Branch area of the American Red Cross. Her subsequent experiences have been broad and varied, including public health nursing, visiting nursing, teaching, and administration. She soon found a correlation between her training in two careers, teaching and nursing. She took postgraduate courses in nursing education at the University of Utah, the University of California, and Colorado Aand M. She returned to Dr. Groves Latter-day Saint Hospital as 421 HAWAII June 1960 MEXICAN TOURS June 1960 Also student tour in June 1960. Visit Book of Mormon places. NORTHWEST TOUR June 20, 1960 BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY July 2nd through 9th, 1960 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July 22, 1960 Twenty-three days, including Boston, Washington, New York, and Chicago. Top broadway show will be seen. Church historical places will also be visited such as Nauvoo and Adam-OndiAhman. GUATEMALA Mormon Archeological Tour leaving August 20, Book of Sites. 1960. ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460-7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phone: EM 3-5229 Superintendent of Nurses and Director of the School of Nursing where she served sixteen years. Among her many activities she has held the office of board member and president of State nursing organizations, Chairman of the Advisory Committee for the Nursing Program of the University of Utah, and has also served as a national committee member. She has been a member of the State Board of Nurse Examiners during three administrations and is at present a member. Feeling the great need for morc and better qualified practical nurses, she accepted the call to organize and direct the Department of Practical Nursing at the Central Utah Vocational School. Following that experience, she was, until recently, 422 Wedding Napkins Names Imprinted in Corner best quality cocktail size napkins $2.25 per hundred postpaid: Your choice of white, pink, yellow, light blue, dark blue, light green, dark green, red, turquoise or brown $2.50 per hundred postpaid: Bride and Groom Style or Wedding Bells Choice of foil colors: bronze, orchid, red, turquoise, green, blue metallic, dark blue, black, silver or gold Choice of inserts between the names: wedding bell, Salt Lake Temple, or heart with arrow Wedding books priced from $2.50 Wedding guest books from $1.95 games, gifts, favors, music, Church books. Send your check or money order to: PRIDAY'S OFFICE SUPPLY 60 West Main American Fork, Utah Phone SK 6-447] e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 0 35 150 to 300 miles 5 300 to 600 miles... 600 to 1000 miles 1000 to 1400 miles 1400 to 1800 miles ed uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1960 State Consultant for Practical Nursing Education in Utah. For biographical sketches of the authors of the other lessons, see: Elder Roy W. Doxey, author of the theology lessons, The Relief Society Magazine, June 1957, page 410. Christine H. Robinson, author of the visiting teacher messages, June 1957, page 12. Elder Briant S. Jacobs, author of the literature lessons, July 1949, page 471. Elder Blaine M. Porter, author of the social science lessons, June 1959, page 411. Ethel Jacobson Oh, but she's a gypsy In her swirling scarlet dress, Dancing straight from Romany lore Through the door and across the floor, With a homemade cardboard tambourine And five petticoats, no less! With a small snub nose and wide blue eyes And curls as yellow as butterflics, With her mother's best gold earrings, And a familiar chubbiness — But, oh, a real live gypsy, A whirling, twirling gypsy, A strange, mysterious gypsy In her swirling scarlet dress! _> Mountain Cabin Marian Woodbury Gold Wend over the desert Where the sagebrush smells clean; Cross over the river Where the willows grow green; Wend over the mountains With boulder-strewn streams, Then home to the cabin — We find all our dreams. Anticipation Zara Sabin All day my heart had been singing A lovely lilting tune, And my thoughts went gaily winging Rhyming moon and June. It sang as I washed the dishes And polished the silverware, And I thought of some special wishes As I dusted your favorite chair. The house and J are ready, The hour is growing late, And I await with hands unsteady The click of the garden gate. — Her Load Ys Shared Ida Elaine James I cannot bear her grief for her, Bring back his vanished kiss, Relieve one tear to slowly blur The ache. But I'm sure of this: Her load is shared. My knowing heart Shall never once be free. Though pitiable and small, this part Is not denied to me. ~~ Candle of Life Catherine B. Bowles The candle of life burns brightly When for others it lights the way To nobler deeds and actions So they do not go astray. To corners where sorrow lingers It lightens the burden there; It heals the broken-hearted And soothes their every care. Shine, shine, candle of life, Bring joy and peace and right And let your blessed radiance Shine through the darkest night. HAWAII TOURS June 4, June 13, June 29, November 21, 1960. All tours are especially planned for either' ship or air. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July 29, 1960 — Two Weeks July 30, 1960 — Three Weeks NORTHWESTERN TOUR June 25, 1960 — Two weeks DISNEYLAND TOUR AND LOS ANGELES June 11th through 17th Write in for children's fare EUROPE August 1960 to October 1960 Price: $1,650 This price includes round trip transportation from Salt Lake City, Utah. Ask for folders of our many other tours MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 So. 23rd East, Salt Lake City, Utah Phones CR 7-6334, AM 2-2337, IN 6-2909 LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah Page 423 VIDA FOX CLAWSON TRAVEL SERVICE 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: DA 8-0303 We are authorized agents for all planes, ships, all trains and buses. As everyone knows we _ originated the HISTORIC HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOUR and as every well-informed person knows there are NO Historic Tours that can equal ours. If you want the best for the least, write for our HISTORIC HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOUR PROGRAMS, priced from $199.00. Write or Phone for Itineraries: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: DA 8-0303 Apple O; cha rd Christie Lund Coles Coming upon these white rows, blossoming Like satin chalices held up By some slim, impervious hand, Offering the sky a perfumed cup, I catch my breath in sudden joy, Thinking how drab this acre was Before this blooming touched each bough With petals soft as tinted gauze, Becoming by some miracle This breath-taking, bright bouquct, Of waxen flower and fragrant scent, On this bee-buzzing, crystal-clear day. Page 424 Birthday Congratulations Ninety-six Mrs. HANNAH S. JONES Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Bett Fetr Youne Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Bertua Moyre Gray Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Serina Beppous KELsEy Springville, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Lizzie A. WHITEHEAD Santaquin, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Bopett CuristiNnE HANSEN JENSEN Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Laura Furness KELLY Roy, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. AmeniA HALvERSON WRIGHT Sacramento, California Mrs. IsaABELLA Y. CHRISTENSEN OVERSON Richfield, Utah Mrs. Annie Marcrerua MILLER OTTOSEN Price, Utah Ninety Mrs. May McF arcane Brinton Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. EvizasBetu TaBirHa STEVENS PEDERSEN BIGLER Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Ipa Mare LINcoLNn Ridott, Illinois Mrs. Exiza Linrorp DENIo Huntington Park, California Mrs. EvizaspetH Munson FarnswortTH Salt Lake City, Utah current LDS books 1. YOUTH OF THE NOBLE BIRTHRIGHT These are the Series of Fireside Chats given throughout the Church by the General Authorities the first thirteen weeks of 1960. They include President McKay's talk on "Courtship and Marriage," and twelve other discourses by Mark E. Petersen, Marion D. Hanks, Spencer W. Kimbal!, Howard W. Hunter, and Harold B. Lee. Thirteen full-page illustrations and a frontispiece of President IY Co) ©$1.75 2. STORIES FROM MORMON HISTORY Alma P. And Clea Burton Dozens of unusual and many little known stories from early Mormon history are now compiled in this single volume for absorbing reading and as illustrative material for speeches or lessons. Selections include a variety of incidences such as Kar! G. Maeser's conversion, William Clayton's description of a buffalo stampede, and others...........-....-.---.-- $3.50 3. HANDCARTS TO ZION LeRoy R. Hafen and Ann W. Hafen Courageous story of the handcart pioneers, from 1856 to 1860, who walked over thirteen hundred miles of wilderness country. Includes Handcart Songs, complete roster lists, excerpts from original journals and diaries. Truly a magnificent book! Pioneer Edition...................$4.95 44 East South,-Temple -- Sait Lake City, Utah DESERET BOOK COMPANY. 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you wll find [] cneck [] money order 0 I have an account. Please charge.. Amount enclosed $.............. For encireled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 * Name.. « Address City Zone State Residents of Utah include 212% sales tax. strawberry A shortcake adds appeal to any meal 5 ibs. Met eergat gs When it comes to family-pleasing desserts, nothing quite compares —— ow to strawberry shortcake. Fluffy golden shortcake topped with whipped Strawberries also are delicious in fruit cups, fruit salads, Fe gelatins, ice cream, cobblers, pies, or just with cream and sugar. Wee 4 Preserved or made into jam, you can enjoy them all year around as spreads, or as topping for pancakes, puddings and ice cream. Check up on your sugar supply now and make am such sure you have plenty of pure white U and I on hand. Not only is U and I Sugar as fine a sugar as money can BUY, but it's made close BY. The beets are grown in Le \ Salt Lake Valley and refined in U and I's plant ', at West Jordan, Utah. B cream and juicy ruby-red strawberries adds appeal to any meal. MP ANTEe.: WR ota OS ere ES a tem yes, pe Se Song for ly Country Margery S. Stewart Out of vou bursts The splendor of your giving, My Land, my Mother, Fields flowing with bread, Forests with houses, Rivers with turning wheels. You are turbulent with love, Your hands hold the grapes Of your kindnesses, Your earth encircles my spirit. What child is worthy of you? Is there a generation great As you are? Let me seek them out.... The foster children come Humbly with the gold Of their gratitude. Your sons come secretly To lay the swords of their Hearts before you; Your daughters remember you Gladly to their children.. We seek to become very strong, All who love you.. Prayers wing out wider than All defenses for you My Land, my Mother, The Cover: Monument Valley, Utah From a Color Transparency by Willard Luce Frontispiece: Bounty on the Land Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Srom Near and Sar I want to thank you for all the lovely things I have read in The Relief Society Magazine. Some are exceptionally beautiful, and I find a world of pleasure in the Magazine. I have been guided by the Magazine when troubled, and I bless the day I started to be a subscriber. The covers are so lovely now, and I did so much enjoy "The Fishbite Story'" by Dorothy Clapp Robinson (third prize story) in the March issue. For many years I have read the Magazine to my friends, to my grandchildren, and to women whom I have been privileged to nurse from time to time. —Frances R. Stoker Ogden, Utah In the May issue, I particularly liked Caroline Eyring Miner's poem "Your Sacred Presence," although I enjoyed all the poetry. "Second Baby," the story by Dorothy S. Romney, was both well written and timely. It is easy to neglect "the next to the baby" with sad results. We can be justly proud of our Magazine, and I am sure all Relief Society members are appreciative of the fine way in which it is edited. —Matia McClelland Burk St. David, Arizona What treasures the Magazine holds! Only a small book, but there is more wisdom, friendship, and courage between the covers than perchance in six other magazines of different caliber. —Annie Laurie Shaw Ipswich, Massachusetts I would like to tell you how much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. This dear Magazine, with its many messages, is always a joy and an inspiration to mc. I have received the Magazine as a gift for many years from my husband's wonderful mother (Mrs. W. A. Fisher). Many thanks to the dear mother we are privileged to have for ours, and to all those who make The Relief Society Magazine possible. —Mrs. Eugene Fisher Salt Lake City, Utah Page 426 Our May Magazine gave me a wonderful thrill today and added another precious ingredient to my testimony. I refer to the article entitled "I, Too, Want to Be Useful," by Aslaug Vaieland, page 318. A few years ago, in Winnipeg, Canada, she and I, both converts to the Church, and both facing much opposition, spent many hours crying, praying, and laughing together. Now, both our lives have had many changes, and all for the better. She is in Murray, Utah, and I am in Phoenix, and we hope to see each other very soon. My most sincere thanks for printing her article. —Helene Prychun Phoenix, Arizona I would like to say how much I have enjoyed visiting this beautiful land of Zion. I have worked in Relief Society for over thirty years and have always been thrilled to have the Magazine each month. I could never express the help it has given to me in my work. I love the beautiful new covers. When I gazed at the Relicf Society Building in Salt Lake City I just marveled at its structure. I go home tomorrow. —Rhoda S. Tinson Stapleford Nottinghamshire England (Letter written from Alameda, Idaho) Please renew my subscription. I enjoy our Magazine. Besides being small and handy-sized, it has lots of good material in it. —Mrs. Lucille Turley 'Tillamook, Oregon My sincere congratulations to all concerned with The Relief Society Magazine, which I call "a little magnet." Its beautiful cover is so intriguing that one is obliged to peek inside, and, before realizing it, the whole book is read, filling the reader with such renewed hopes and ambitions. It is a regular spiritual rejuvenator. —Marion Baron Carnation, Washington THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spatford - - - - - = a President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Christine H. Robinson Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny S. Kienitz Edith S. Elliott Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Elizabeth B. Winters Florence J. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron LaRue H. Rosell Leone G. Layton Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt Jennie R. Scott Blanche B. Stoddard Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Alice L. Wilkinson Evon W. Peterson Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen LaPrie] S. Bunker Aleine M. Young Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Marie C. Richards Josie B, Bay Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Irene W. Buehner RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor = = 2 2 c 2 S - 5 - = - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - = = = S - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spatford VOL. 47 JULY 1960 NO. 7 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES History Turns Back Its Pages — The Bee Hive House Restored a ln Seen Helen Young Spencer Williams 428 Summer Picnic eeLeone E. McCune 445 FICTION No Comments, Please oot ceeceeceeseeeeeeees. Dorothy Clapp Robinson 435 In Memory of Miss Ollie ou. - RePauline L. Jensen 447 Where Is Johrmy? Oon cececeeceecscccececcnessceiceseeecseceeee sasescescaessesecacsseeseeeseuceseaesscesessesacseeeeceeseeeessFrances C. Yost 452 Orchids in the Snow — Chapter 3....... Ee = Rosa Lee Lloyd 459 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far we. 426 Sixty Years Ago. - a 440 Woman's Sphere Editorial: Family Vacationing..... Marianne C. Sharp 442 Special Feature Section Postponed eee, 443 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities.... A: Hulda Parker 465 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Bazaar Sewing — Multi-Purpose Bag...0000 ww... Jean R. Jennings 450 Yarn Stitched Bag Made of Chair Webbing.. Cee a i Melba Larson 456 Anna M. Jensen Begins Housekeeping — Again — At Eighty-Nine..... 458 JOY OF SOLOW occ eeccccccecceeeesesseceeceesenecensvesenesenseeee:. Celia Luce 495 LESSONS FOR OCTOBER Theology — A Promise Fulfilled 2000. NaRoy W. Doxey 470 Visiting Teacher Messages — 'If Thou Lovest Me 2.. Ceessecescceeeeee Christine H. Robinson 476 Work Meeting — Safeguarding the Health of Your Family...... Eecsccccceseseseeeee: Maria Johnson 478 Literature — Expanding Horizons oo... E. Cccccecceceeecececececeseseeeeesseneee Briant S. Jacobs 482 Social Science — Expanding Our Religious Horizons... EeBlaine M. Porter 487 POETRY Song for My Country — Frontispiece o. C. Ce cece cee ccccececccscescececenenceccersecssseeeeeesMargery S. Stewart 425 Her Patterned Lace ooo. Eee ceeee cee eeeeeen. Tris W. Schow 443 Frontier Garden oo... Eee Alice Morrey Bailey 444 POVeErty _. Eeeeceeseeeee cece —— eecceececee — Grace Ingles Frost 446 To a Pioneer Mother;.. ES ssMabel Jones Gabbott 449 Testimomy oes eeeeeeeceeeeeececeeeee eee en a veseesseseeseeeee--.... Marvel Sharp Crookston 458 Solitude 22...... Catherine B. Bowles 464 Pioneer Woman................ Enn ne raecencveacansnancnsennsneeettoors Christie Lund Coles 464 Eva M. Bird 481 The Sunflowers Hill Quail ee i Matia McClelland Burk 494 SUS SCS EC CEKatherine F. Larsen 494 BB Xo (<9 50 0) (- ———eeRoberta L. Theobald 495 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 427 History Turns Back Its Pages THE BEE HIVE HOUSE RESTORED Part I Helen Young Spencer Williams Secretary, Bee Hive House Restoration Committee TE history of a people is recorded in many ways. Its pages are written in the kinds of homes they built, the buildings, the churches they erected, the monuments raised, and the families they reared and loved, as well as in written and spoken word and deeds. "One cannot escape history," said Abraham Lincoln at the very time the Mormon pioneers were crossing the country to establish homes and a commonwealth, unmolested and free from persecution in what later became known as Utah Territory in Great Salt Lake Valley. Now, after one hundred years, schools, churches, theaters, temples, and homes erected in a_ barren desert are evidence of the culture and determination of a great people. Their true greatness in achievement began with an honest purpose in life, an unswerving belief in the goodness of God, in education in all fields, in progression, and the seeking after all those things which are lovely, praiseworthy, and of good report. Thus was laid the foundation on which the Latter-day Saints made history in this desert land. The first band of pioneers was admonished by President Brigham Young to erect schools, to plant and harvest, and not to seek wealth or fame until they had established themselves and their families in homes built to stand. Page 428 The Bee Tlive House on the corner of State and South Temple Streets in Salt Lake City, Utah, is in the same block with the stately Church Administration Building where the General Authorities of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints today have their offices. In the early days South Temple was known as Brigham Street, and State Street was called Theater Hill. The Lion House, where some of Brigham Young's families lived, and the Bee Hive House are joined by the small office from which the Territorial history, State history, and the early Church administration emanated. 'The Bee Hive House was built by President Brigham Young as his official residence as the Governor of the Territory of Utah, by Presidential appointment, in which capacity he served for two terms, from 1850 to 1858. From his memories and love of the beautiful old colonial mansions in Vermont, his birthplace, the home he wanted to build was pictured in the mind of Brigham Young. In his youth he had been an expert cabinetmaker and undoubtedly had unusual natural architectural ability. With Truman O. Angell, a trained architect of great ability and reputation, to visualize his descriptions and desires and materialize his HISTORY TURNS BACK! TS PAGES Courtesy Don Carlos Young BEE TIVE dreams, the Bee Hive House became a reality within a year's time. In 1854, seven years after the first band of pionccrs entered the Great Salt Lake Valley, the historic house was begun, and one year later, in 1855, it was completed and ready for occupancy. When one considers that this house was built in the heart of a desert, a wilderness, and stil] stands as a monument to the past, it bears evidence that those stalwart men who planned and built were craftsmen and master builders. In the conception and completion of this wonderful old home which reflects the Greck and colonial traditions in architecture is the historical proof that among those carly converts were superior men and women. There were cabinetmakers, masons, painters, carpenters, plasterers, stonecutters and architects. Many had received their knowledge and trainHOUSE WITH THE ORIGINAL NINE-FOOT WALL AND THE EAGLE GATE, SALT LAKE CITY, COBBLE-ROCK UTAH ing in the old country. They understood the making of adobe. The glaziers were experts. Many of the cabinectmakers and architects had their training in the finest universities of the times. Looking back, one realizes that with all the traiing and knowledge, had there not been a willingness and a deep spirit of co-operation, the task of building in those early days could never have been accomplished. The wood was plentiful in the canyons, but it took willing hands to cut and haul The stone and rock had to be quarried under difficulties hard to comprchend in this day of modern facilities. HE large square Bee Hive House, with its white pillars reaching to the second story, was built of adobe brick, plastered, then calcimined in pale yellow. Above the second 430 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 VIEW OF THE LION HOUSE (LEFT) AND THE BEE HIVE HOUSE, WITH THE WHITE HOUSE AT THE UPPER RIGHT Showing the small office which connected the two buildings Photograph Taken About 1860 story were two small rooms with half diamond-shaped windows on the east and west sides. On top of the house was built a square cupola with a replica of a large Bee Hive from which the house was named. "Deseret" was the Jaredite name for the "honey bee" and denotes "industry," and undoubtedly the Bee Hive was used as a symbol of the needs of the people when Utah was known as the Territory of Deseret. One cannot help but wonder if the captain's walk, with its quaint fence, which surrounds the Bee Hive on top of the house, does not tell a story of the need for watchful protection which was vital in those early days, for the pioneers had traveled far to escape persecution, and they had been menaced by the Indians as they crossed the plains. Perhaps the 'captain's walk was added to denote protection and give assurance that families might live and love and worship unmolested. The Bee Hive House, the Governor's office, and Lion House stood behind a nine-foot cobble-rock wall which was built to serve a_threefold purpose. It was a protection against the rushing waters from City Creek which flooded down Theater Hill; it gave the unemployed work, for Brigham Young maintained that "an idle brain is the devil's workshop"; and it was a safeguard for his families against unfriendly Indians. In those early days these were matters of real concern. Even though Brigham Young insisted that the Latter-day Saints should befriend and feed the Indians, it was several years before they became fricndly. Many true storics are told about them coming to the HISTORY TURNS BACK ITS PAGES Bee Hive House gates, at first demanding food and clothing, then gradually begging and pleading for sugar and flour. The old cobble wall had many gates and entrances — some for carriages, others which were kept locked and guarded at all times. Only the gate in front of the private office of the First Presidency remained open, but this was always guarded. Inside of the cobble wall was a lovely garden. Old-fashioned flowers, rosebushes, and arbors covered with grapes filled the air with sweet fragrance in spring and summer. There was a beautiful cherry tree, 431 laden with blossoms in the spring, which bore the oxheart cherries to be preserved later for winter use. The fruit from the peach and apricot trees was dried in the attic rooms. Near the rear door of the Bee Hive House stood a_ lovely locust tree which Clara Page Decker Young (one of the women who was with the first company which came into the Valley) had planted from the seeds she brought from Nauvoo. Its beautiful branches shaded the kitchen doo. WO lilac trees planted by Lucy Decker Young, in 1861, in the southeast corner of the garden still John A. Spencer, Jr. AUTHENTIC WALNUT CHAIR AND TABLE BELONGING TO PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG The fruit compote on the table belonged to President Young's set of "'goldband"' monogrammed with the initials "B. Y." 432 remain to herald the springtime with their lavender blossoms. Silkworms werc raised, and in the upper garden, fruits and vegetables were cultivated for the use of the families. The original Bee Hive House was just a story and a half at the back and two stories in front. As it was built for the official Governor's house, one that could be used for entertaining as well as for a home for the family who resided there, the rooms were spacious. 'The furnishings were beautiful and lovely in their simplicity. All that went into the Bee Hive House depicted a cultural appreciation of fine, beautiful things. 'The fabrics used in the draperies and upholstery were rich in texture and color, and yet were practical. HERE were two parlors, the downstairs one, opposite Brigham Young's bedroom, was known as the sitting room. The walls were a soft shade of green. Nottingham lace curtains were at the windows, a four-ply ingrain carpet covered the natural pine floors. Against the west wall of the sitting room stood a beautiful square grand piano made by the United Makers. Often a violin rested on top of the piano. A harp stood nearby. In this room in the evenings there was always music and singing. A Lady Franklin stove stood in front of the fireplace, and there were casy and wooden chairs made by Wilham O. Bell. In this downstairs sitting room, Brigham Young always ate his breakfast at ten o'clock while he would counsel with those who came to him on the pressing problems of the day. He always RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 Courtesy Deseret News THE ORIGINAL DOORBELL OF THE BEE HIVE HOUSE It still hangs from the ceiling in the front hall. This bell was attached to an opening outside by a little wire. Ate his dinner at four-thirty in the Lion House with his families. The upper parlor ran the full length of fifty feet and was called the long hall. There were graceful, rounded coved ceilings and coved moldings. The couches and chairs were upholstered in deep raspberry silk brocade. Walnut tables and chairs furnished the rooms, and at the windows were rose lambrequins and gold cornices. The natural pine floors were covered with four-ply ingrain gray carpet designed with roses and green Icaves. At the end of this room hung a full length gold-framed mirror with a basket of flowers beneath made of shells. It was a parlor in every sense of the HISTORY TURNS BACK ITS PAGES 433 John A. Spencer, Jr. ORIGINAL LADY FRANKLIN STOVE AND MANTEL IN THE RESTORED BEE HIVE HOUSE Two original Lady Franklin stoves have been presented to the restored Bee Hive House. The stove presented by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. And his family originally belonged to C. R. Savage, father of President Clark's wife, Luacine Savage Clark. 'The other Lady Franklin stove was presented by Elizabeth Bennett Winters, and originally belonged to Rachel Ivins Grant, mother of President IIcber J. Grant. Word. Lady Franklin stoves stood in front of the two wooden mantels. The room was lighted by two chandeliers, each fitted with three coal oil lamps. HE south front door with the small panes of glass framing it opened into the entrance hall. At one side of the door there was a small opening where one would 434 press his finger and a bell would ring inside. 'This bell was attached to the little opening with a pulley wire. Up in the ceiling of the hall the little cowbell, for that is what it looked like, peeled forth with a resonance that resounded in every nook and corner of the Bee Hive House. It still hangs from the ceiling in the front hall. The walls of the hall were painted in tans and browns to represent Tennessee marble, and on the east wall a long staircase led upstairs to the landing on the second floor, then the stairway became a spiral leading up to the attic and the two small rooms on the east and west. One of these rooms was used as a studio where some of the children were taught painting. Up there in the attic hung the luscious Black Prince grapes to dry and to be used for raisins later on. In the north end of the Bee Hive House on the main floor was the store which was kept well stocked for family use. 'The counters and shelves were laden with calicoes, braid, notions, and staples of all kinds. There were drugs, dried peas, and apples. In large square glass jars were maple sugar, syrup, rock and peppermint candy, and sometimes even white lump sugar which, to the children, was a real treat. Altogether there were fourteen rooms, not counting the cellar, where cupboards were filled with huge jars of preserves. Here in the cellar hung the swinging milk shelves with their ten-quart pans RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 of rich milk, topped with thick cream which was churned into rolls of butter. All the supplies that had to be kept cold, were kept there. What a wonderful place that cellar must have been! 'There was the homey old kitchen with its big black cookstove and tin-lined sink, a cupboard that would hold fifty pies, wooden chopping — bowls, utensils and dishes to serve at least thirty people daily. Always there were sixteen to eighteen helpers to be boarded, besides the men who worked on the estate, as well as Lucy Ann's and Brigham Young's seven children who lived in the Bee Hive House. 'The help ate in a large room known as the men's dining room. Throughout the house the woodwork was painted and grained to simulate bird's-eye maple. The windows originally were all small panes, for the small squares of glass were the only kind that could be shipped into the Valley during those early days. Thus stood the old Pioneer Mansion, built within a year's time, its foundation firm, its walls solid, and its architecture picturesque. With its spacious rooms, its wide stone veranda, its high colonial pillars surrounded by the old-fashioned garden, it remains as a monument to the history of the past. It was a residence for a Governor, for Presidents of the Church, and a home for ideal family life. All who lived there learned to love it and to remember it always as home. (To be continued and concluded next month) No Comments, Please Dorothy Clapp Robinson ANDRA Baker hummed merS rily in time to the whir of her sewing machine. Sandra loved sewing. She loved this soft rose corduroy. When made into rompers for baby Cindy, it would make an angel of her for sure. She even loved this sunny — what was it called? — bay window. No matter what service it had given in the past, right now it kept this creepy secondfloor apartment from being the worst. Oh, it really was a beautiful morning. The window recess was large enough for a small table. Sandra could use it for her typewriter, or, as now, for a work table for her sewing. Without moving, she could look up and see, not too far away, the roofs of the university buildings where Van at this moment was struggling with law books. And, though she could not see it, the building where Van worked after school was closer still. There was always something interesting or amusing to be seen from this window. People, all kinds and ages, were forever climbing the steep grade on which this made-into-apartments house stood. And just as many people were going down it into town. There, now, was the little old woman who climbed it each morning at this time. She walked bent forward as if her shoulders could help her poor old legs. Sandra laughed aloud at a man who had pitted his dignity against the force of the wind and slope of the walk. Cindy, aged eight months, cried out from the living room. 'Temper. "Be nice, darling. Mama _ will soon have one of these...." Sandra stopped short. No. It couldn't be — but it was. Her mother-in-law was tripping up the sidewalk as effortlessly as a twentyyear-old girl. And the very insouciance of her walk — oh, dear. Why today? In two seconds the machine was closed and every trace of the rose corduroy had disappeared. It was not that Sandra disliked Gracie, but she felt so frustrated and inadequate beside her. No matter what Sandra planned, Gracie got there first with the best. There was the matter of baby clothes. Was she allowed to do that anticipated sewing? No, by the time she had found money to buy material, Gracie had made or purchased enough clothes for three babies. When they moved into this apartment there had been no drapes at the front window. A girl friend who did textile painting needed drapes also. 'They planned to make them together, from unbleached muslin. Sandra was to do the sewing and Marlene the painting. After an afternoon hunt for a_ suitable design for painting, Sandra came home to find her drapes bought, made, and hung. Also paid for. They were so beautiful and exactly right for the room, but it was a long time before Sandra could look at them without a flare of temper. There were dozens of other little Page 435 436 things that she refused to remember, but if Gracie brought another present for Cindy she, Sandra, was going to scream. GRACIE did not bring a present, but there was something in the wind besides dust, Sandra told herself. She met Gracie at the head of the stairs. "May I fix you something to eat?" "No, thanks, dear. I have eaten." They went into the living room and Mrs. Baker swept Cindy off the floor into her arms. Cindy was the first girl in the Baker family so it was no wonder her grandmother worshiped her. Not that she was called Grandmother, that and Mother Baker were strictly for the birds. She wanted to be called Gracie. "T don't think you should let her on the floor, Sandy. There is a cool breeze out, and this old house is full of drafts." When the wind blew hard the house was drafty, but Sandra had thought today's wind was mild and rather pleasant. She was puzzled. Excessive gaiety. Usually meant something — could it be something about the house? "Are you sure you don't want lunch?" "No. Thank you. I met Mildred Oliver and we had lunch together. We hadn't seen each other for years, but they have moved back to town. She has a new granddaughter, too. We had the most wonderful time making plans." I guess you did. For an instant Sandra thought she had said the words aloud. Her face flushed, but Gracie was too involved in her plans to notice. She was so sweet and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 kind, Sandra thought, but in any project involving the two of them the senior Mrs. Baker immediately became commander-in-chief. Sandra had yearnings toward that position herself. "Mid told me about the new Clover Arms — grandest apartments just being opened for rent. We went to look at them. I just couldn't resist." "Why would you want an apartment?" Sandra asked. She knew the Bakers owned their home. "Are Bill and Doris coming back?" For just an instant Gracie's face clouded. Sandra knew why and really sympathized with her mother-in-law. Bill had taken a less desirable position in another town "so they could live their own lives," quote Doris. "Oh, no." Gracie recovered her poise quickly, but she kept her head turned. She was tieing a lace on Cindy's shoe. "I was thinking of you and Van." "T like this apartment." Sandra kept her voice level. "It is close enough to school that Van can walk, and we both have positions in the ward." RACIE swept the objections aside. "You would soon be put to work out there. I hear they are just organizing a ward. And Van could do without a Church position until he is through school. He would have to drive back and forth, but the Clover Arms is so new and exclusive, and the living room of the one 1..." her voice broke but she hurried on, "is large enough for a piano." "You didn't rent us an apartment?" NO COMMENTS, PLEASE "No.... [just asked him to hold it until I could come talk to you." "But we haven't a piano," Sandra's voice was beginning to show strain, "and we are in no position to buy one. Are you sure you wouldn't like a cookie and a glass of lemonade?" "No, dear. I must watch my weight, remember? I was going to say, if you had that larger apartment, you could have my piano. Van could keep up with his music." Sandra, ignoring the "larger apartment," started to say that between school work, and Aaronic Priesthood responsibilities, Van would have no time for practice, but Gracie hurried on, "Besides there is Cindy." "What do you mean?" "She must have lessons. 'That is why we must start planning early. See, her fingers are long and slender like her Daddy's." For a second Sandra was beyond speech. "Why... Why," she spluttered, "Cindy is only eight months old." "T know, but there is a new music professor living at the Clover Arms. He is a refugee, but already has a waiting list of pupils. It is not too soon to get Cindy's name on the liste" Sandra's voice rose in spite of herself, "When Cindy is ready for music lessons, I will find a teacher. You don't want us to be a family, at all...." Instantly Sandra regretted her words. It was awful to see Gracie's bright gaiety fade so quickly. Without a word, Gracie put Cindy on the floor and went fumblingly down the stairs. From the window Sandra watched her go down the street. She almost looked her age. 437 I shouldn't have spoken so. I should go call her back and apologize. But Sandra made no movement to do so. Then, when the drooping figure was out of sight, she thought, anyway it is the truth. But being the truth did not help much. It did not take away the memory of Gracie's face nor the droop of her shoulders. Nor did it bring peace to Sandra. When she had Cindy down for her nap, Sandra tried to study a Bee Hive lesson, but finally had to close the book. She went to the window and looked out. 'The wind was blowing, she noticed. She took out the rose corduroy, but she made so many mistakes she soon put it away. Gracie would be such a wonderful woman if only she would not spend so much on them, would not try to dominate their lives. That she could afford to give was beside the point. N her own home Sandra had been held to a very strict accounting on the matter of money. Whatever she received, be it only a dime, must be divided into three parts. One cent went into her tithing bank, five cents went into her savings, and the other four pennies she could spend as she wished. It wasn't that her folks had been particularly hard up. They were frugal and saving. "Why, honey," Van had said to her once after shopping for groceries, "I didn't know I had married such a beautiful Scrooge. We shall be rich some day." As the afternoon waned, Sandra's anger waned and her confusion increased. Van would never approve 438 of what she had done — but he didn't know half of what went on. There was the sweater, for instance. Van had been in need of a sweater. Sandra, without telling him, did some typing for a woman downstairs. Each page she typed she laid aside with the exhilarating thought of the surprise and pleasure Van would know on his birthday. She had priced sweaters carefully and lovingly. 'The one she wanted to buy was $39.95. The one she finally bought was $24.95. Placed beside the more expensive ones it looked shoddy, but when she compared it with cheaper ones it looked quite respectable. Van's parents had dined with them that evening. When Sandra had seen the box Gracie brought, her spirits had panicked. Surely Gracie had not brought a sweater. She just couldn't — but she had, the very one Sandra had wanted to buy. Sandra had slipped her box back into the closet and kissed Van and told him that was her present to him. Over and over all the little disturbing details of her association with Gracie marched through Sandra's mind, but the words she had said to Gracie overshadowed everything. On a sudden impulse Sandra went to the telephone. Her mother would understand and say words that would take the bitter taste from her tongue. "Sandy, has something —happened?" It was wonderful to hear that voice. It was easy to pour out her story. When she had finished, there was silence at the other end of the line. Sandra hastened to her own defense. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 "Can't you see, Mama? I had to say something. She wants to do everything for us. I couldn't stand it any longer." "Is that why you called me? To assure me you had to say what you said?" "Yes, but — but, Mama, don't you see...." "I see that you did something very rude and now you want my approval." "But — Mama...." "You have a problem, that I will admit," Mrs. Shelton went on, "but you will never solve it by such actions. I think you should go and look out of your big window for awhile." GANDRA did go stand by the window. She looked at the buildings. She could sce only parts of the close ones, but those farther away could be seen in their entirety. It was some time before she knew why her mother had asked her to do this. "How are my two best ladies?" Van had much of his mother's happy disposition. He swung Cindy into his arms and hugged Sandra at the same time. Instead of returning his kiss, Sandra buried her face in his shoulder and burst into sobs. "Hey, what goes? Sit down, nuisance, while I investigate." Cindy did not want to be put down. She added her protests to her mother's sobs. Van tried to turn Sandra's face, but she refused to look up. "Let's have a stop to this — right now." He used both hands to lift her face and his tone stopped both sobs and protests. "What is wrong, NO COMMENTS, PLEASE sweetheart? 'Tell me what happened." As Sandra told her story, Van pressed her close against his shoulder. "Please," he said at length, "give me credit for having a little perception. I know how mother takes over. I even know about the sweater, but," his voice hardened, "we have a long time to live together and we won't have feelings. It was pretty dumb, don't you think, to go so far out over something six or eight years in the future?" "But she is having an apartment held for us." "So what? We don't have to move, but you didn't have to be tude to her. Don't you think you owe her an apology? After all, she is my mother — and a wonderful one." Sandra nodded without speaking. "Then go wash your eyes and put on your face while I put Cindy into her togs." "But — but dinner is ready." Sandra was a little awed by the note of authority in her husband's voice. It was the first time she had heard it, and for some reason it lifted her = spirits. "Couldn't te, ae og "We are going now." Sandra did not entirely erase the effects of her unhappy afternoon, but she helped her looks. Van had Cindy in one arm and started for the stairs when his parents walked in. Sandra stared at her father-inlaw. The kind, gentle look was gone from his face, and she knew instantly where Van got that tight muscle around his mouth. "Mama has come to apologize," 439 Mr. Baker said without preamble. "We were just leaving for your place,' Van answered, "Sandra wants to apologize." "Mama will apologize." Sandra looked from father to son and back again. She could not believe what she was secing. She looked at Gracie and saw the same thing she felt. She started to giggle, then the two women threw their arms around each other and laughed hysterically. 'The men looked bewildered and lost. When Mr. Baker muttered, "Ridiculous way to apologize," Van started to laugh. They had finished the delightful dinner Sandra had prepared when Mr. Baker reverted to the subject of the dispute. There was no tension in his voice and none in the room. "It was my fault, really. I knew Mama _ was going overboard, but it was so casy to agree with her. Give and take in moderation is the word from now on." Sandra turned to see how Gracie was taking the pronouncement. Gracie's face was glowing, she was really beautiful. "I bought some lovely rose corduroy with the money I saved from the sweater, Mother Baker. Will you help me make rompers for Cindy?" "I'd love to. All my life I have wanted a little girl to sew for." "Dad said it was a ridiculous way to apologize," Van said, later that night, "I think it was more ridiculous to dispute over music lessons for a child eight months old. The way you women...." Sandra put her lips on his. "No comments, please." S txty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1900 "For riz RiguTs OF THE WoMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL NATIONS" REMEMBERING THE PIONEER TRAIL: We had prayers in the morning, in fact I am sure it was faith in God we depended on to bring us safely along.... Looking backward I can recall a few bright mornings when something unusual broke the monotony, or the scenery was more picturesque, or we had seen a beautiful deer, perhaps two or three or half a dozen such beauties, so graceful in their movements. There was order in the camp, men stood guard at mght and we slept soundly in the open air.... How marvelously we were guided to this land.... —Aunt Em THE DAWNING OF A BRIGHTER DAY: Looking at conditions now it seems uscless to allude to such a time; and yet it is nevertheless the prophecy of the future by the greatest men and women — poets, sages, seers and philosophers and why should we not believe in the best for the human race? Tennyson foresaw it; Isaiah foreshadowed such a time, and when even the beasts of the field, the lamb and the lion should lie down together. And, therefore, women need not despair though all seems dark today as far as peace among the nations is concerned; yet the silent forces that are working and the heartfelt prayers of the tens of thousands of mothers that are offered daily will reach the ears of the Omnipotent, and truth and righteousness will eventually triumph, the earth will be redeemed and Satan will be bound.... —lTditorial MORNING IN CAMP Lo a mighty host of Jacob, Tented on the Western shore, Of the noble Mississippi, Which they had been passing o'er, At the last day dawn of winter, Bound with frost and wrapped in snow. Hark, the cry is Onward! Onward! Camp of Israel rise and go.... —Eliza R. Snow AUNT ZINA'S PARTY: On Tuesday afternoon, July 26, a number of the sisters met at the residence of Sister Zina D. H. Young, to show their love and appreciation of this Mother in Israel.... Sister E. B. Wells made a few remarks and referred with love and appreciation of the many sisters who had been wont to meet with us on similar occasions who were now on the other side of the veil... Vilate Kimball, Mary Ann Young, Emma Smith, Eliza R. Snow, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, and later whom all present would remember, Phebe Woodruff, Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth Howard and many more... We should not allow thcir names to be forgotten, for they had helped lay the foundation for others.... —New Note BEAR LAKE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: President Julia P. Lindsay... Said she had much pleasure in meeting in conference, had never yet performed a duty without receiving blessings. Spoke... On the great blessings we enjoy in this goodly land, and the promises made the sisters by the Prophet Joseph, if they would be faithful.... —Nancy H. Allred, Stake Sec. Page 440 PRINCESS MARGARET ROSE, sister of Queen Elizabeth I] of Great Britain, became the bride of Anthony Armstrong-Jones, May sixth in Westminster Abbey. This is the first time in more than four hundred years that a member of British royalty has married a commoner. At Princess Margaret's personal] request the Beatitudes were read (very solemnly and impressively) just preceding the ceremony, and the word "obcy" in the bride's promises to the groom during the nuptial ceremony was retained. MBS: EMERALD LUCY BARMAN ARBOGAST, of Los Angeles, California, was named 1960 American Mother of the Year. She gave remarkable help to her youngest of six children, who was retarded. She also established two schools for retarded children, to help others. She believes children should have freedom, but under strict supervision. MB:. ERNEST (GRACE WATKINS) SONDERREGER, 66, of Midway, Wasatch County, was chosen Utah Mother of the Year. Eight of her ten children are still living, fine citizens and successful persons. Left a widow at the age of thirty-nine, she and her children worked together to pay off the mortgage on their farm. Also they managed so that each received Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon a good education. Mrs. Sonderreger has been active in Relief Society for many years, having served as organist, teacher, counselor, and president in her ward. MB: GRACE STEVENSON McDONALD FILLERUP, a native and former resident of Utah, but presently of Lovell, was chosen the Wyoming Mother of the Year. Still active in teaching (especially handicapped children) at seventyone, she has attended four universities and has received many honors in the fields of both education and politics. She has been active as a Relief Society ward president and also stake board member. MBS. SHIRLEY BROCKBANK PAXMAN is the wife-mother member of the Monroe J. Paxman clan numbering seven children and chosen in April as the Utah Family of the Year, and in May this family placed third in the national competition. Juvenile Court Judge Paxman is nationally noted for his work with delinquents and_ their parents. Mrs. Paxman, a registered nurse, is a brilliantly original, imaginative and clever mother. The Paxmans recently published locally a book, Family Night Fun, which is now being published nationally by Prentiss Hall Publishing Company, New York. Page 441 EDITORIAL cm~© VOL. 47 SFamil y (Vora eerr ing HE word vacation means different things to different people. To some it means doing nothing; to some, a change of routine; to others, travel. To many parents it offers one of the greatest opportunities to weld family members into unity. Select three children and ask them what they did last vacation time. One may answer, "Aunt Edna stayed with us and Mama and Dad went away"; a second may reply: "I visited my grandmother in the country"; the third may answer, "Oh, we all did something together and was it fun! Last year we went and..." and his voice goes on and on recalling the happy time. If parents intend to spend the father's vacation time as a family activity — one that will ever be recalled by the children with pleasure, it is well to set a family pattern while the children are young, ready to enter wholeheartedly into the family planning. An instance is recalled in which the parents felt they never had enough money to spend on a family vacation, and by the time they felt they could afford it, the interests of the children had become so diversified that a vacation together was unsuccessful. If careful economy throughout the year has not provided extra money for a vacation, then special family fun may be generated within the home with a few extra treats because father is home. Children Page 442 could take turns planning special vacation occasions. Older children could choose places which they would like to have visited, and through descriptions, programs, and food, they can strive to create reality. One family began with the first child to go on a camping trip to a beautiful lake quite near home. At first they stayed in a cabin, and then each succeeding year they acquired additional sleeping bags, utensils, air mattresses, and larger tents. As the children grew older, there were swimming, boating, and hiking activities in the adjoining mountains. It was a change for every member, as father helped with the outdoor cooking and initiated the children into the skill, thus relieving mother of some of her duties. Every member relaxed amid different surroundings, far from the telephone and everyday duties. Another family planned and saved for three years to make a trip far from home. The car was filled to overflowing as the family started out, and all the preparations and studies, which the older ones had made of the interesting and_historical places to be visited, gave lasting and indelible impressions. 'These were reviewed and relived and provided a never-ending source of satisfaction as the years thinned the beloved members from the hearthside. Interested parents with the enJULY 1960 NO. 7 EDITORIAL thusiastic help of older children can carefully map out and plan visits to new industries and ventures close at home. It is an unusual countryside today which does not offer interesting developments nearby. It takes very little money to bring a feeling of accomplishment and satisfaction to children. 'The fact that the entire family is going someplace together is usually enough to ensure a good time. Such an outing teaches children to give and take and learn to share and do things together. Wise parents will make vacations fit into the family budget, so that when the vacation is over the enjoyment is not marred by debts. Planning within the budget is a les- 443 son needed by every family member. During the long winter evenings ahead, happy remembrances of last year's vacation at family hours will mingle with animated discussions on the forthcoming one. Father and mother may draw every member of the family closer as they unite on planning a vacation which will exemplify family standards and ideals. As the children grow into their teens trips to gambling meccas and high priced entertainments will not be a glamorous allurement. Instead, a vacation will mean careful budgeting and obtaining values of eternal worth. —M. CS. Special cleature Section Postponed The General Board regrets that through circumstances beyond its control, the special surprise feature for the July Magazine which was announced in the April 1960 issue had to be postponed, and is now scheduled to appear in the August Magazine. Watch for the August Magazine, and be sure that your subscription is up to date so that you will not miss this special feature issue. PS > Her Patterned ace Iris W. Schow Designs Grandmother knit into her lace, The fan, the double rose leaf, and the shell, Remain like fossil imprints one can trace In ancient stone, and have their tales to tell Of days not idly spent. I pause to look, And feel as if I saw recorded there The mild bow of her smile, the open book Of purity that was her life, her hair Parted and curving back like silver wings. I sense the light touch that she left, who laid Aside the garden tools and milking things For needles; changes found her unafraid. Age brought her toil-creased hands, not rest's confinement, But free expression of her soul's refinement. Page 444 PIONEER HOME OF MELISSA JANE BIGLER LANMBSON AND ALFRED B. LAMBSON This home stood on the northeast corner of North Temple and First West Streets, Salt Lake City, Utah. Gleaner Gar en Alice Morrey Bailey Great-grandma's garden grew unplanned From traded "slip" and "start," Mementos of a distant land Still verdant in her heart. Sweet williams edged the pieplant stalk; The squashes' prickled vine Ran riot with the hollyhock. Beans vied with columbine. Too long she knew the desert's thirst, Its ruthless hunger-need, To choose a lilac's beauty first Above corn's nutricnt seed, But vines can arch with climbers' grace The crudely handmade beam, And weld with Queen Anne's silver lace The lean-to's awkward seam. No matter what her walls and roof— Adobe, log, or stone— With flower and Icaf her moral proof, She claimed this spot her own. Summer Picnic Leone E. McCune E ACH year when our valley finally emerged from _ its blankets of snow and _ ice, and the first signs of spring — crocuses and buttercups, thrust their yellow heads upward on the cold damp hills, I would begin to dream of summer days when I could go with Papa to our farm, about six miles from our home. I was the eldest of the family of five and should have been a boy, I guess. My little brother would grow up in time, though. School was wonderful, but as the spring days grew warmer, these dreams intruded themselves more and more often across the pages of my textbooks. Papa had always been patient with his three little girls, who frequently waited for him at the top of a hill about two blocks from our home. From a vantage point in our back yard, Mama would keep an eye on us. Papa would jump down from his high load of sweet smelling hay, when he saw us waiting. He would boost each one of us up on top, then spring up beside us, and we would go merrily off on our short ride to the barn. In the mornings, if his chores kept him around the garden or barns later than usual, we sometimes wakened early enough to ride in the empty wagon to the hilltop. After he had lifted each one of us down, we would watch until he disappeared out of sight down the long lane. Then, gathering mayapples on the grassy walk, we would eat the pungent little yellow balls on our way home to breakfast. Now I was more grown-up and school was out at last. June — dandelion and plum blossom laden, arrived. 'There was no more beautiful place in the world than our farm in summer. The valley was surrounded by green wooded hills. Two sides of the farm were almost enclosed by green willows that grew along the banks, their tips trailing in the streams. Lucerne, with its purple-blue flowers, covered the undulated land like a blue and green carpet. Across these acres on the south side, a field of wheat was growing. In September it would be a waving carpet of gold. And over it all was the inverted bowl of blue sky. Sometimes I stayed all day at the farm, riding the hay rake, the mowing machine, or whatever Papa was working that day. If I did not go for the whole day I drove my little brown pony hitched to our buggy, taking Papa a hot lunch, which we enjoyed together. Then we would try a little fishing before starting to work. There were two streams running through our farm, one swift and filled with delicious little brook trout, easy to catch. The other stream was larger, and in one place logs and stones caused an obstruction, creating quite a good sized pool. A clump of trees grew here, and the water was quiet and clear. We could see large fish swimming around, speckled herring, Papa said. We would bait our hooks and lie flat on our stomachs, fascinated, scarcely daring to breathe. "See," he would whisper, "that fellow was here last year. The same Page 445 446 ones come back every year." We would watch, I hoping to catch one, yet half hoping they'd be smart enough to refuse our bait. We never caught any of the large ones. HEN the days were extremely hot, Papa urged me to take a test under the trees and read my book, which I always brought along. I would sink down on the grassy bank, where I could smell the water and the fish, Always the fragrance of growing things, the hay newly cut, pervaded the air with sweetness. Sometimes, deep in the pages of Little Women, Good Wives, Robinson Crusoe, and many others, I would forget where I was until some sound brought me back to reality. Then, apologetically, ''d go out to join Papa. He never seemed to mind. I was probably more of a nuisance than a help, anyway. He just liked having me around. If a storm threatened and the work piled up, he could always hire Jens to help us out, as he frequently did. Such joyful summer days they were! And the most special were the days when Mama brought the children and a hot meal out to Papa and me. We would spread a redcheckered tablecloth on the grass in the shade. Each child carried something to the picnic table from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 the buggy. Papa unharnessed the mare and let her graze while we ate. There before us were spread Mama's home-baked bread and the butter that she had churned, little new potatoes and green peas in white sauce, string beans, beets in sweetened vinegar, and roast beef hot from the pan. All the vegetables were from our garden. There was milk from our cow, kept cold in the cellar. Mama's white cake with chocolate icing topped the meal that has never to my mind in all the years following found its superior. It was such a joy to see Mama and Papa relaxing and having fun with the family, however briefly. They were such busy people, except on Sundays when all the work waited while we went to church. After the picnic was over Papa hitched up the mare, and the children carried the dishes and utensils under Mama's supervision to the buggy. Papa helped the little ones up into the seats, and Mama left for home to put the little ones to bed. Then Papa and I worked until it was too dark to see any longer. On these rare evenings when we stayed, the big moon came up over the hills and flooded us with its glory as we turned the horses' heads toward home. _— Poverty Grace Ingles Frost Not to see the gold that gilds the sun, Not to hear rare tones in brooks that run Buoyantly with beauty's rhythmic voice, Not with blithesome songsters to rejoice, Not to share in children's lightsome glee, fs naught but abject poverty to me. In Memory of Miss Ollie Pauline L. Jensen O one ever knew the reasons why Miss Ollie and her parents chose to settle in our small mid-Western town. It was, indeed, a far cry from the Massachusetts coastal village where Miss Ollie's father had plied his trade as a sea captain. The town seethed with curiosity, and the most popular belief, and one that endured through the years, was that Miss Ollie had been disappointed in love, and that her parents had taken her as far from the scene of sorrow as was possible. Bred in the tradition of New England, Miss Ollie kept her counsel, and if she cherished any grief, it stayed within the confines of her heart. There certainly was nothing to indicate a grieving maiden about Miss Ollie. With her small, erect figure, and dark, sparkling eyes framed in heavy lashes, she was the embodiment of beauty as portrayed by the artists in the years just preceding the twentieth century. Her blue-black hair was pulled severely back from the oval face and fashioned in a bun at the nape of her neck. This only served to accent her patrician features and emphasize the luminous quality in her eyes. It was just before the turn of the century that Miss Ollie and her parents settled down in the neat white house on Elm Street. The town, a river port, was rough and well supplied with taverns, but short on culture. The thing Miss Ollie missed the most was a library. With the help of a small group of Born and: friends, and backed by several of the civic organizations, she set up a small "book exchange," open to the public, tending it herself, and receiving no remuneration in a financial way. The popularity of the "lending" library brought home to the city fathers the need of something better. An outgrown, abandoned tworoom schoolhouse was commandeered, and it was there that Miss Ollie began her career, which was to last for over forty years. Right from the start, Miss Ollie knew her patrons' likes and dislikes, in the book world. She also guessed, and accurately so, the possibilities that lay within each person. In confidence she heard their woes, their joys, their fears, and dreams. Miss Ollie listened well. "We got some new kittens, Miss Ollie," a child would say. Miss Ollie's eyes would brighten. "Then you want this book. It's about a cat, Miss Muffett, and it tells how she teaches manners to her babies." A happy child would trudge off clutching tightly the book that would increase her knowledge of the animal world. "Ma is sick, and wonders would you pick out some books for her to read?" a lad would question. Miss Ollie knew the kind of books Ma liked — light love stories. She would choose a few, and then pick up one of the classics. Casually, she would say: "I wonder if your mother would like this one? It's one of my favorites. I read it over and over and never tire of it." Miss Ollie knew the message Page 447 448 would be repeated word for word. Like as not Ma, herself, would return the books, and would shyly sav, "I liked that book. It was real nice. Have you another something like it?" Miss Ollie had, and got it for her promptly. OMETIMES it was a pre-teen child, bored with the limited number of books available in that bracket. Miss Ollie would hold aloft a book of Dickens, and look thoughtful. "Now here is one, but Vm afraid it's much too hard for you." Curiosity would bring the child closer. Then Miss Ollie would nod her head and state, "No, I don't think it is too hard! You're a bright child, and I think you'd understand it! Anyway it's fun to look words up in the dictionary." A beaming child would clasp the book to her. Indeed she would read it. If Miss Ollie thought she could understand it, then she could! A shame-faced boy would face Miss Ollie across the dark oak desk. "Pa says I can't take out any more books. Says it's just a waste of time." Miss Ollie sat in silence for a moment. She knew Pa's guarded secret. He could barely write his name, and could read only a dozen words or so. "Why don't I send some books to your Father?" she said, gathering up a few. "It might be that he would get so interested in them that he'd understand how much reading means to you." Pa, himself, returned the books and took out more. Until his death, Pa never missed a week of getting books at the library. He RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 would walk down Main Street, the books conspicuously displayed, as he stopped and chatted with friends. Miss Ollie not only listened well, but kept other people's secrets. For all her kindliness, Miss Ollie was not one to be imposed upon or treated disrespectfully. The roughest and the toughest high school boys quailed before the look she gave them when they had infringed upon a library law. And the culprit who defaced a book was brought swiftly to justice. "Books," Miss Ollie said, "are to be loved and cherished. They give so much and ask only gentle treatment in return." Miss Ollie's saddened eyes upon the torn or marked book were harder for the guilty one to bear than a fine or hard scolding. The rich, the poor, the lettered and unlettered, the young and old, all made their way to Miss Ollie's haven. "Miss Ollie, I'd like to be a teacher, but I have no money," a high school student told her. "There'll be a way!" Miss Olhe's voice was confident. 'There was a way. On graduation, the student found a scholarship and part-time job awaiting her. M55 Ollie carefully scrutinized the bandage a teen-age boy had applied to his dog's swollen leg. "I cleaned the wound out real well, and now the swelling's down a lot." Miss Ollie nodded. "You did a good job. You'd make a fine doctor!" "That's what I'd like to be, Miss Ollie. But I don't know — maybe I'm not smart enough. Besides, it costs a lot of money." "You're smart enough, and some- IN MEMORY OF MISS OLLIE how you will find the money." And thus the seeds were sown, which came to fruit some fifteen years later. "Miss Ollic, do you have a book of poems?" a chubby, pig-tailed little girl inquired. Miss Ollie smiled with pleasure, and piled the books into the waiting arms. Could she have had any inkling that throughout her life this child would love poetry, and writing would become her vocation? The years sped so quickly that at times it seemed unbelievable to Miss Ollie that she was now serving second and third generations. But, mostly, she was far too busy to think in terms of time. Retirement had no meaning to her. The townspeople would no more think of retiring Miss Ollie than of burning down the new, enlarged library. Then, suddenly, Miss Ollie's fortysixth anniversary as town librarian was there. It was a gala occasion, and all day people made their way 449 through the library doors to pay homage to a gracious lady, seated regally in a big chair that engulfed her small figure. All dav the gifts, the telegrams, the visitors poured in. From far and near they greeted her, recalling to her mind the years that seemed but days ago. When it was all over, Miss Ollie got down from her chair. "Please," she said to friends who lingered to take her home, "just leave me alonc here for awhile. I want to think of all that today has brought, and live again some of those memories that have been reviewed by today's events." And that was where they found her a few hours later, when they called back to get her. She was seated in the swivel chair behind the desk, with hands folded. Miss Ollie had left her heart where it belcnged — in the small town library, where her wise and kindly influence had helped to shape, for better, the lives of many people. Jo a Pioneer Mother Mabel Jones Gabbott Sun-streaked for centuries and soaked with heat The valley floor was fire, even to feet Torn and toughened by the weary walk Down prairie grass and mountain sage and rock. Within a thousand miles, there were no shoes.... What did you do, little mother? What did you use? The earth was dust and waste. No greening plant Freshened your wary gaze; the food was scant; Prudently, mile by mile, you had weighed Each child his meted share. Were you afraid? How did you teach your little ones to care For sego lily roots and cricket fare? What did you do, little mother, when the wind blew cold About the dugout home? It was hard to hold The canvas door against the snow, piled Like hoary wolves; the elements were wild And ruthless and untamed. "I kept the faith for you." Little Mother? What did you do, (Bazaar Sewing — Multi-Purpose Bag Jean R. Jennings AZAARS! — Bazaars! — Bazaars! What shall we do about bazaars? Everyone has them. Problem is "How can we improve them?" That is, how can women spend less time in making more profit and eliminate wasted effort? Obviously, this would involve bazaar items that have a small initial cost and take a minimum of time to make. 'Too frequently women spend precious time making fussy things that bring only a small revenue. Some thought should also be given to the possible usefulness of the articles to the buyer. This bag is useful, appealing, and involves a very minimum of expense to make. In addition, it is simple enough even for beginning sewers and takes little time. This is a bag designed as a travel case for jewelry. It could also be turned into a party bag for teenagers and young women. Enlarged, and made of sturdier material, it would serve as a tote-bag and double for carrying handwork. Make this bag as lovely or elegant as you can from scraps of material left over from dressy and formal dresses. If vou don't have pieces, collect some from friends and neighbors who have made brocaded or embroidered gowns. Fabrics with silver or gold threads woven through are effective to use. Line the bags with gay pieces of contrasting or blending satins, taffetas, or crepes that you may have bundled up and saved. For large-sized tote bags, unearth drapery or upholstery remnants, or pieces of decorative denim or chintz. Page 450 The big Line these with the same fabric or pieces of gingham, muslin, or polished cotton. For the jewelry-size or party-size bags you will need circles of cloth as follows: One circle each of fabric and lining 12 inches in diameter. One circle each of fabric and lining 9 inches in diameter. One circle of cardboard 3% inches in diameter. In addition, the bag calls for 1% yards of cord or narrow ribbon for drawstrings and 4o inches of beading or open braid to serve as casing for draw-strings. Small rings may be sewed on the edge in place of braid. If so, 16 will be needed. O make the bag, begin by sewing the circles of lining to the circles of fabric, right sides together. Take ¥% inch seams and leave three inches unsewed to allow for turning. Then turn circles right side out, slip stitch together unstitched portions of the edges, and baste and press seams flat. Next center the cardboard circle on the lining side of the large circle of fabric. Place the smaller circle over it with the lining against the cardboard. Baste in place and then stitch around the cardboard on the machine as close as possible. See illustration. Now make pockets to hold earrings or small jeweled pins by stitching on the machine as shown in the illustration. If the bag is to be used as a party purse, pockets may be made in sizes to fit comb, compact, lipstick, etc. 'The center section of BAZAAR SEWING 451 ¥~ START ONE DRAW RINGS FOR DRAW. STRINGS LINEO O"Sl LINE {2"CIRCLE OF CLOTH RCLE OF D CLOTH / t + 32" CIRCLE OF CARDBOARD-SEWED L \ BETWEEN 2 LARGER | CIRCLES ~ / mA s, \ \ STITCHING LINE 2 ee ee ey ge me me ee a ee FOR POCKETS Os START ONE DRAW C) STRING HERE Na the bag, made either way, will hold larger articles. Sew beading or braid to the edge of the larger circle, cut ribbon or cord in half and thread through for drawstrings. 'Tie ends of each together. If rings are used, sew them to the edge, spacing them evenly. A casing may be made for drawstrings by sewing the lining to the outside, making a channel all around the edge. If this is done, the large circles should be cut an inch wider to allow for it. A few beads or sequins, placed attractively, can do much to dress up the bag made to carry for formal parties. It would be unwise to spend a great deal of time doing this, as it may not add enough value to warrant the time and energy used. When this pattern is enlarged and used for a sturdier bag, remember to use firmer cardboard for the bottom. When enlarging the circles, be sure they keep the proportions approximately the same. Pockets may be stitched in sizes to fit the purpose for which the bag is made. Rings are better to hold the strings on larger bags, since the circle is too large to close with beading on the edge. Bone and metal rings are available in drapery departments or at notion counters. Where Is Johnny? Frances C. Yost OSE Ella Higbee wished she knew contentment as did most of the pioneers in the Great Salt Lake Valley. 'Truc, she was glad to be at last settled in a warm log cabin in the promised land. Brigham Young had said "This is the place," and deep in her heart she knew it was. But she knew also that she would never know real contentment until she found Johnny. She walked over to the loom in her parents' home and started weaving more carpet. "Goodness, Rose Ella," her mother said, "'you've made enough carpet to cover a good sized sitting room, and you've raised your own flax and corded it and made it into nice tablecloths and scarfs and bed linen. When are you going to start using these things?" Here it is again, Rose Ella thought. She smiled sweetly at her dear, tired mother, but her heart was not in her smile. "I'm waiting for a man, Mama." "You could have Jens Larsen with the crook of your little finger. How many times has he begged 'for your hand in marriage, Rose Ella?" "T don't remember, Mama, after the first half dozen proposals, I stopped counting." "Rose Ella, Pll never understand you, turning down a good young man like Jens Larsen with all those fat cattle and hogs." "T turned him down, Mama, because I want more than a home and possessions. He is selfish, look at Page 452 the way he eats up your meager staples." "If you would marry Jens, Rose Ella, why then perhaps he would share with his kin." "Oh, Mama, marriage means more than food on the table. I just don't love Jens Larsen, and it wouldn't be fair to him. So let's not talk about him, Mama dear." Rose Ella smiled, then continued on with her weaving. Mrs. Higbee sighed, and shook her head. "I wish, darling Rose Ella, that you would stop hoping your dream boy will come to you out of thin air." "Please, Mama, about that, either." Rose Ella's fingers, lke moths, flew at the weaving loom, and as the bright dyed rags worked their colors into the pattern, she gave her mind free rein. It traveled the rugged path of memory back to that last evening at Winter Quarters.. Let's not talk w OK Kk OK HERE'S a dance in the bowery tonight, Ma. It's in honor of all of us who are leaving in the morning for the promised valley." Isaac Higbee had just come from the solemn assembly. "Then we ought to go," Mrs. Higbee stated. "Is the dance for young folks my age?" Rose Ella asked excitedly. "Why I would think it would be," Mrs. Higbee stated. 'You're seventeen, almost, practically a WHERE IS JOHNNY? Grown lady. Rose Ella, wear your paisley dress, and come walk over to the bowery with Pa and me.' It was during the Circle All, that Rose Ella first saw Johnny. The first time around they just smiled at cach other. The second time around they said, "hello." The third time around, quite by coincidence, the caller chose that moment to say: "Waltz Time." Johnny put his arm around Rose Ella's waist and they drifted over the packed hard ground of the bowery. "What's your name?" "Rose Ella, what's yours?" "Johnny." The caller then shouted: "Take your partners for a square dance!" "You're my partner, Rose Ella," Johnny said. Rose [Ella listened to the deep musical voice of the dance caller. "Say, where do you live here at Winter Quarters, Rose Ella?" "Oh, we're all packed. We leave in the morning for the Great Salt Lake Valley. We're in the Hooper Company. Are you going to the Valley?" "No, we'd like to go, but Pa has to stay on here at Winter Quarters. Brother Brigham Young asked him to stay. We're the millers." The dance man shouted: "Choose a partner for the next square dance." "I choose you, Rose Ella." "But we're supposed to change partners, Johnny." "But I don't want to. I want to dance all evening with you, Rose Ella." There wasn't any time for conversation during the dancing, and all too soon it was ten o'clock. "Tl walk you, Rose Ella, over to your wagon," Johnny stated. "T'll 453 see you in the Valley someday, Rose Ella." "Someday, Johnny." Then he planted a shy kiss on the back of Rose Ella's hand, and was gone into the night.... * OK OK OSE Ella, busy at the loom, fought a tear which wanted to break through. That wasn't much to bank her dreams on, she had to admit. One evening of dancing, and one goodnight kiss on the back of her hand, as they stood by the wagon tongue. But her dream of Johnny Miller was better than all the Jens Larsen men she had ever met, and if she had to spend the rest of her life living with Papa and Mama and weaving carpets for someone else's house, well she would do it, if she didn't find Johnny. Whenever a company of Mormons arrived in the Great Salt Lake Valley, Rose Ella tried to go meet them in the hopes that Johnny Miller would be among them. But somehow her search had always been in vain. 'Then one day quite by coincidence Rose Ella met President Brigham Young on the strect in front of the Lion House. "If it isn't little Rose Ella Higbee, and you're looking well, and how is Zion treating you?" Rose Ella felt her heart flutter. To think President Brigham Young recognized her. Of course he knew Papa well, but she was so insignificant, and yet he had known her name, had spoken to her. She must find her tongue and remember the manners Mama had always taught her. "Why, I'm fine, President 454 Young... And yet...." Her voice faltered. "And yet what, my dear? Tell me your problems." He laughed softly, "Everyone else does." "Ym looking for a Johnny Miller," Rose Ella stated shyly. "Johnny Miller." The great leader's eyes closed slightly as he pondered. Then, peering seriously into Rose Ella's eyes, he asked: "What's he done? Does he owe you money?" "No, no, President Young. He's just a friend I knew at Winter Quarters." There was a long pause, and Brigham Young stroked his chin in deep thought. "I'm sorry, Rose Ella, but I don't recall the name." "Thanks anyway, — President Young. Thank you so much. I'm sorry I have wasted your time." "Why goodness, my dear, my time is everyone's time." 'The great leader gave her shoulder a fatherly pat and went into his office. Rose Ella picked up her skirt, and hurried across Brigham Street. Now almost blinded by tears, she entered the Zion's Mercantile. She looked at the yardage on the shelves until she had control of herself enough to go home. She would tell Mama that she had been to the Z. C. M. I. To look at the yardage. But wild horses would never draw from her the fact that she had talked to President Brigham Young, and bothered him about a... A dream boy.... OSE Ella worked faster and faster at the loom. Her fingers, like moths, darted in and out, and the tears which fell on the multicolored carpeting did not show. At length Papa's steps could be heard at the door. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 "What's wrong, Pa? Don't you feel well? You don't usually leave your work in the fields in the middle of the morning like this?" Mama's face registered concern. Rose Ella looked up from the loom to see if Papa were ill. "Nothing's wrong, Ma. Fact is everything's running so smoothly, I thought I'd run the wheat over to the mill and get it ground into flour. I want to clean out the bin ready for another harvest, come fall." "May we ride to the mill, Papa?" Prudence and little Isaac asked simultaneously. "Well, now, little ones, I believe I took you the last time I went to the mill," Isaac Higbee said cheerfully. "I believe it's Mama's turn to take a ride." "Isaac, take Rose Ella this time. Poor dear, she sits and weaves her life away. The ride will do her good, and the fresh air, and sunshine will bring some roses to her cheeks." "Want to go Rose Ella? I won't be so long," Papa invited. "Why, Papa, I would like to go, if mother can spare me." Rose Ella brushed the wrinkles from her dress, then put on a dainty white collar and the new red sunbonnet she had just made. "I'm ready, Papa." 'Then, later, from the top of the buckboard she shouted, "Goodbye, Mama, Prudence, and little Isaac." Rose Ella waved at the little ones as they drove from the yard. Spring had reached out her gentle fingers and touched the valley. Now willow trees in the canyon crevices of the mountains were a_ tender green, while the oak brush on the ridges chose a darker tinge. Rose WHERE IS JOHNNY? Ella, taking it all in, on this trip to the mill, knew why the pioncers enjoyed sweet contentment here. "The air is so invigorating and the scenery is so beautiful, I've been wondering why I've never driven to the mill before with you, Papa?" "You'll have to come more often, daughter," Isaac Higbee answered. T length they arrived at the mill, situated at the mouth of Big Cottonwood Canyon. Rose Ella held the reins while her father went inside the mill to see about getting the wheat ground. It's pretty here at the very foot of the mountains, and the sparkling water gurgles over the rocks, as it runs down the canyon, Rose Ella thought, then aloud, but softly to herself she said: "It would be fun to have a home built above a mill like this one. Why it would be sort of like the treetop playhouse I had back home in Vermont. I wonder why they have a house over the mull and a nice big log cabin, too?" At length Papa came out of the mill, and a young man came to help him carry the wheat sacks inside to be ground. What was Papa saying? "Rose Ella, I want you to meet John here. John, this is my oldest daughter, Rose Ella." Rose Ella stared at the young man standing before her. He stared at her for a moment, then his face broke into a wonderful smile of recognition. "I believe we know each other, Mr. Higbee. Yes, I know Rose Ella very well." He was reaching up to her now, and helping her down from the high wagon. "I've looked at every lady in the valley," Johnny said, "and I 455 never could find you, Rose Ella. You see, I forgot to ask your last name that night at Winter Quarters." "Johnny, I've been hunting for you, too. I went to President Young, but he didn't know a Johnny Miller, he said." "Johnny Miller!" John looked bewildered. "But you said..." Rose Ella began. "IT said, we're the millers. We are. We grind most of the flour for all the settlers, and make the cereal, but my name isn't Johnny Miller, it's John Weaver." Suddenly they were laughing, good warm laughter that rewards the heart. Just then John's father came from the mill. "Show Miss Migbee around, John, [ll run this wheat through." "Tll help," Isaac Higbee offered, then followed Mr. Weaver into the mill. Then it was Johnny took Rose Ella up to the little apartment above the mill. "While I waited and watched for you, I built our little home, Rose Ella. I hope you like it. See there are cupboards and a pantry and everything." Rose Ella was measuring the rooms with her eyes. Why she probably had enough carpet warp for the big sitting room floor already. The lovely braided rugs would be cozy in the bedroom, and the nicest one she would place right in front of the fireplace. She had so much to tell Mama when she got home. Why she hadn't wasted a minute of her time weaving after all. It was well shie knew how to weave so well if she were going to be Mrs. John Weaver. Ail ait: HI THe i CHEE i We te = ~~ ° icy tone = SSS 5 Me yale de a > £2 abet scat iat natin ae dt Tom Elliott YARN STITCHED BAG Yarn Stitched Bag lade of Chair Webbing Melba Larson MatTeriaLs NEEDED: 3% yards chair webbing. 1 skein dark-colored yarn—black, brown, or green. 1 skein light-colored yarn—turquoise, pink, yellow, or red. Step No. 1 Embroider three strips thirty-two inches Jong for the body of bag. Embroider one strip twenty inches long for the handle of bag. Embroider one strip fifteen inches long for the bottom of bag. Step No. 2 Machine stitch the three thirty-two inch strips together. Page 456 STEP No. 3 Do yarn stitching to cover the machine stitching Step No. 4 Sew the thirty-two inch strip ends together, to form body of bag Step No. 5 Sew on the twenty inch handle piece and fit in the fiftcen-inch bottom piece Step No. 6 Sew in lining. Use material to match the light shade of yarn used SteP No. 7 Sew on beads if desired. As EY il: i}=—— HANDLE 20" hn yY 4 i Eva USE SAME COLOR: y i 4 LINING AS THE in A LIGHT COLOR ADD BEADS Stezeseexel Malleesetq YARN USED HERE IF pS ppp: py > | DESIRED —itiereonsneeee seam SSeaakeet ee adalat ob eee THREE " Sb doppia?" STRIPS 32 OIINONT s scaneedaatacaiae »7< IS" BOTTOM ih ROUND CORNERS WHEN SEWING TOGETHER YARN STITCHED BAG MADE OF CHAIR WEBBING 457 res Beasennee, Anna I Yensen Begins Housekeeping _ Again — at &ightyline AM M. Jensen of Cornish, Utah, two years ago, at the age of eighty-nine, decided that she would like to live alone in a home of her own and be her own housekeeper again. Several years ago Mrs. Jensen was so seriously ill that she was persuaded to give up housckeeping for herself and make her children happy by having their mother with them so that she might receive constant, loving care. However, as soon as she was well again, and young again, as she said, she went back to housekeeping for herself. Wer Relief Society sisters in the ward had a "household shower" for Sister " Jensen, and she invited her old friends to come to her home for the long-remembered treats of Danish cooking. She is shown in the picture at her "shower." This was part of a pattern of independence established by Anna M. Jensen when she became a widow thirty-scven years ago. She supported herself and her family by weaving rugs and doing other types of "handwork and housework. Many rugs were presented as gifts to the young people of the community, and her neighbors among the newlyweds could count on receiving one of Grandma Jensen's rugs. Mrs. Jensen, once a counselor in the Relief Society in Copenhagen, Denmark, still attends her meetings regularly, and in her own life practices the charitable ways so dear to her heart. Three of her eight children are living; she is grandmother to fifteen and great-grandmother to twenty-two. > Tost mon y Marvel Sharp Crookston As ebb and flow of water on a beach, My testimony strengthens or recede, In rhythm to the way I live my life; Directly in accordance with my deeds. Page 458 Orchids in the Snow CHAPTER 3 Rosa Lee Lloyd Synopsis: Sharon and Sam Wynter, newlyweds, on their way to Fairbanks, Alaska, meet Angus McFarland, a widower, on the plane, and when they arrive in Anchorage, they are introduced to his daughter Marie who has arrived from Fairbanks. The young couple also meet Susan Elge, from Bristol Bay in the Aleutian Islands, who has brought her husband Herman to Anchorage for an operation. AM unlocked the door of S Marie McFarland's apartment, shoved the suitcases inside, then lifted Sharry in his strong arms. "Over the threshold for you, little bride," he said gaily. "Thank you, Mr. Wynter," she laughed. "I like a man who temembers tradition. And this is our first little home in Alaska!" He put her down in the middle of the living room, kissing her tenderly. "Aren't we lucky to have this apartment to come to even if it is one room, bath, and kitchenette?" he asked. "The hotel room reserved for me was ten dollars a day for one person." "Where did they think you'd park your wife?" Sharry asked, wideeyed. "With the huskies?" Sam shrugged. "They did well to get a room anywhere, I guess. But I'm glad Marie insisted we use this apartment. It's only two blocks from the university." Sharry looked up at him. "The university is four miles west of Fairbanks, I found out. I'm learning fast, don't you think?" "You're a smart girl,' Sam said. "T learned a lot about Fairbanks while I was waiting for you today,' she went on. "One newspaper said this town is supported seventy-five per cent by military installations, twenty-five per cent by mining and the university and everything else!" "Umm," Sam said, lifting an eyebrow. "One magazine editor said that without the military, Fairbanks would fold up and silently steal away!" "Very poetic," Sam chuckled indulgently. "And, no doubt, very true. But let's forget statistics and think about dinner. I'm a starving man, Mrs. Wynter." "He also said," Sharry grinned impishly, "that Alaskans who need false teeth generally have to make a trip to Seattle." He pulled a long face. "That's serious," he said. "But we have our own teeth, so how about something to chew on?" "Like a juicy steak,' she suggested. "At three dollars a pound!" He shook his head. 'We'll walk over to that supermarket on the corner. Maybe they'll have something halfway reasonable." Ten minutes later the prices in the market had Sharry and Sam holding their breath. "Sam, am I seeing straight? Does that sign say eggs are one dollar a dozen?" "Yes, one dollar a dozen. And milk thirty-four cents a quart. But Page 459 460 it's pasteurized. All milk up here must be pasteurized. No wonder McFarland said it is the cost of living that makes life in Alaska so different. But there's one advantage — my salary is three times as much as I could have made at home." "We'll need _ it," Sharry _ said, reaching for a pound of butter. "Tl cream chipped beef with frozen peas and make some popovers. They're so good with honey. Where do they keep the honey?" "Let's ask that clerk over there," Sam suggested, looking at a young fellow with a crew-cut. He was putting cans on a shelf. "Honey?" The young fellow repeated with an amused smile. "You must be Cheechakos? That means just arrived." "That's right," Sam laughed. "We've just arrived from Utah." THE clerk's face was a big smile. "I'm Oscar Jensen," he said cordially. "My mother came from Utah thirty years ago. She's president of the branch Relicf Society. Are you members of the Church? I know she'd love to meet you." "Yes, we are. Oh, we do want to meet her," Sharry exclaimed, "teal soon!" "Give me your name and _address," he said. "She'll call on you." 'Sam wrote the address on his card and handed it to him. "How about that honey?" he asked. "We don't have wild honey bees in Alaska," Oscar explained. "We import bees during the summer, They produce large crops of honey from our wild flowers. That's what's happening now at this season, but RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 we won't have the honcy ready for awhile. The bees die in the winter up here. We can import honey, of course, but we'd have to charge too much for it on account of freight. Ninety per cent of our food is brought in anyway." "How about jam?" Sharry questioned. "Popovers are good with jam." "Our wild currant and berry jam is really tops," Oscar said, walking toward another shelf. "Reasonable, too." They put the jam in their basket and said goodbye to Oscar. "Wasn't he friendly!" Sharry exclaimed as they walked back to the apartment. "We've made another friend. Shopping won't be a lonesome job now." "The world is really a friendly place," Sam agreed. Sharry looked up at the brilliant sky and the tall, forest-draped mountains looming in the distance, "Six-thirty," she said. "And the sun is still shining like noontime. Won't it seem funny to have the sun shine all night." "We'll get used to it," he answered. "A fellow I met today told me that even sunstroke is not unknown up there almost under the Arctic Circle. It gets awfully cold there in the winter, though—ten degrees colder than anywhere in the U. S. A. — even in Montana or the Dakotas. But there's plenty of coal here in Fairbanks, thank goodness. It comes from the Healy River fields west of here." "But some parts of Alaska are mild," Sharry said. "I'd like to go to Ketchikan real soon. We could fly there for the week end. They have a wonderful bathing beach, and ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW in July the temperature is about fifty-six. Even in January it seldom gets colder than thirty-three above zero. Can we go next month, Sam?" Sam looked at her, curiously. "Did you study the map today?" he asked. "Well — no — not really," she admitted. "Ketchikan is way down there almost to Canada, barely into Alaska. We're in the central part now. There are plenty of places around here for a week-end trip. Harding Lake, for instance." Sharry's cheeks pinked up. "I just wanted to be interesting. I thought you'd want me to study about Alaska." "I do, honey. Of course I do. I think it's great. But we can't take a long trip next month. We want to save for a home, don't we? It takes one third down on a home up here. Even a small ordinary home costs twice as much as homes outside. I want a nice home for you, darling. I know you've been used to lovely things. Tl work night and day to get them for you, but we can't take an airplane trip to Ketchikan next month. We have to find a place in which to live and get settled, and pay for that secondhand car we bought this afternoon. 'That takes money." His chin squared off determinedly. Sharry knew he was right, but she still wanted to go to Ketchikan. How did you reconcile your heart to what your head knew was right? Sam was older and wiser than she was — and more saving, she thought grimly. 'This was really their honeymoon. Why couldn't they spend a little money for a good time? But Sam's chin had set in a stubborn 461 line. She must not argue with him. She would kiss his scowl away. FTER Sam had left for the university the next morning, Sharry looked through the advertisements in the newspaper. The only house listed for rent was a three-story, twenty-room mansion on Edgeriver Drive for two hundred and fifty dollars a month. The doorbell rang. Sharry put the paper down with a sigh. A smiling, sweet-faced woman greeted her. "I'm Rachel Jensen, Oscar's mother," she said. "He told me you are newcomers here. So I hurried right over!" "Oh, Sister Jensen, come right in. How nice of you to come so soon. We liked Oscar so much." "He's a fine boy." Sister Jensen sat down in the comfortable chair Sharry offered her. "He goes to the university mornings and works in the store afternoons and evenings. The store stays open all night this time of year. People work night and day to catch up after the long winter." "It's all so strange to me," Sharry told her. "After my husband left for work this morning, I felt so — all alone. Even homesick. I haven't been away from my mother before. She has always been near to help me and advise me." Sharry hesitated. She was pouring out her heart's secrets to a stranger. And yet Sister Jensen didn't seem like a stranger. She had kind, understanding brown eyes and the most gentle voice Sharry had ever heard. "T know, dear," she said, touching her hand. "Try to realize that your mother's love is always with 462 you. She is lonely for you, no doubt. I know how it is. When my daughter Betty was married last year and went way up to Nome to live, I had to realize that love and marriage were right for her. I had prayed for her happiness and when it came through a fine husband, I asked our Heavenly Father to make me strong enough to let her go joyfully into her new life. Write often to your family. You will find the miles between you melt away when a letter comes from them." "IT will, Sister Jensen," Sharry promised, "I'll write this very day!" HE picked up the morning paper, pointing to the advertisement for the big house. "Tt's the only one in the paper," she said. "We have to get a place right away. But two hundred and fifty dollars a month is ridiculous!" "That's the old Clairmont home," Sister Jensen explained. "It's one of the show places in our country. It was built right after the big gold tush up here in nineteen four. At that time it was the most beautiful house in. 'Tanana Valley. Most of the Clairmonts' have died. The place is now-owned by a niece who lives in San' Francisco. It doesn't sell: because she wants too much money for it. It's too large and expensive for a family — the university should take it for a dormitory." "We must find a place real soon," Sharry said again. "This is our friend's apartment — Marie McFarland." "Yes, I know. Marie," Sister Jensen said. "And we've 'met her daddy. 'She comes to church regularly when she's in town." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 "She's such fun," Sharry said. Sister Jensen looked at Sharry as though studying her. "T've been wondering, dear. About a house, I mean. I do know of a place...." "You do!" Sharry's eyes were luminous. "How wonderful!" "Tt's not what you think," she answered quickly. "It's not wonderful. But it could be fixed up until you build a house of your own. It's an old log cabin across the river from town. It belongs to us. We lived there until we built our new home about a block away. When my husband was living, he let our farm helpers live there in the summertime. I don't use it now. It's an old place — run down...." Her voice trailed off, almost apologetically. Sharry felt a surge of tenderness for her kindly offer. "T'd like to see it," she said. "Tl tell Sam about it when he comes home. We're expecting to get our secondhand car sometime today. So we'll drive over this evening." "Anytime." Sister Jensen stood up. "But please don't expect too much, Sharry. I don't want you to be disappointed." UT Sharry was disappointed when she saw the cabin that evening. "Tt does look awful, I know," Sister Jensen was saying as they walked from the long board-walled living room into the kitchen. Sharry's eyes blinked when she saw the old worn-out sink and the coal range. They looked like something out of a junk yard. The linoleum had huge, ragged bare spots. Sam's eyes were going over every- ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW thing in his quiet, calculating way. "It could be fixed up," he said. Sharry gave him a startled glance. Sam was scrious. He was really considering living in this place. She could tell by the look in his eyes. "New linoleum won't cost very much," Sister Jensen suggested. "You can look through the wishbooks and find lots of things cheaper." "W ish-books?" Sharry questioned. "Our mail-order catalogues," she explained. "We call them our wish-books. Women are always wishing for something new. They help us get what we need." "We could calcimine _ these walls,' Sam said. "Sharry likes color. She can have her choice of colors. There's a new sort of calcimine now that dries in a few hours." Sharry pretended she didn't hear him. How could he consider living in this run-down old place? How could he! And yet, looking at him now, as he went from room to room, sizing it up, she knew he was considering it. "The floors in here could be oiled,' Sister Jensen said as they went back into the living room. "That old lounge won't look half bad with a bright new cover. The chairs and table are old, but they're an interesting style. They could be lacquered." The sun slanted through the windows, showing up the cracks in the old wooden floor. How ridiculous to think of living here, Sharry thought. She would die of loneliness in a place like this. The memory of her beautiful gold and pink bedroom at home struck across her heart. She felt almost sick. 463 "The bedroom is small," Sister Jensen was saying. "But there is a good bathroom, with a shower. My husband. Was a contractor — he built many of the homes in Fairbanks. One thing he insisted on was good plumbing fixtures. Even this cabin has good plumbing. Of course, the water comes from a well down below. You must not drink the water as it tastes of vegetables. We all buy our drinking water." Sam said, his eyes clear and steady with his engineer look: "The place is well built. I think it would be quite livable. We can get some sort of floor covering. Sharry is used to carpet. I want her to be comfortable." ISTER Jensen smiled. "Forgive me if I give you too much advice — I am just cager to help you. I had thought my own daughter and her husband would live here for awhile — then he got this fine position in Nome...." Her voice trailed off, wistfully. "T was thinking about carpet," she went on, in a moment. "It's too expensive to use unless the house is a permanent home. Some of these new linoleums with scatter rugs would be comfortable and pretty. If you want to use the cabin until you build, you can have it for almost nothing — I would enjoy having you nearby." Sharry couldn't breathe. She felt trapped and smothered. Sam was looking at her. What was the question in his eyes? What did he expect of her? "It's up to my wife," he said to Sister Jensen. "I think we could do all right here until we buy a home. But I want Sharry to be contented. It's up to Sharry." 464 There was an ache in his voice. A yearning for something. Sharry bent her head, trying to swallow the sob in her throat. Her brother Kenny's teasing voice came back to her: "Sam is used to roughing it on long, hard engineering jobs. He's used to living in a trailer or a tent. He'll expect a real woman to make a home for him. And what'll he get? A doll baby!" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 Slowly she lifted her head and met Sam's anxious eyes. Her heart reached out to him, loving him, wanting to be a good wife to him. She had to prove she could make a home for him even in this ramshackle old cabin. "Let's take it, Sam," she heard herself saying. "I'll try, darling — to make it — lovely — for you." (To be continued) Solitude Catherine B. Bowles The silence of Cumorah's hill Stole over the place, quiet and still. Through the woodland I wandered alone With trials, troubles, a cross of my own. A tranquil spirit soothed my fears, Calmed my heart and dried my tears. Through nature's garden I walked unseen, Feeling his presence, peaceful, serene. Pioneer Woman Christie Lund Coles Into the too-small wagons, loaded deep, (With things most precious from the young years spent Acquiring treasures that the heart would keep) She puts the most valued, those that are meant To last a lifetime in an alien place... Tokens, perhaps, to bring back memories Of warmth and comfort, each familiar face Left in a world of happiness and ease. Across the miles she rides as stoically As one born to the hardship and the tears, Rather than to a mild gentility, And loving assurance through her tender years. Upon her lips she tastes the gray of dust, Yet faces proudly everything she must. FROM THE FIELD J <¢ Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for 'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Adele S. Willden YAKIMA STAKE (WASHINGTON) FIRST FULLY ORGANIZED RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD Left to right: Ruth Peabody, organist; LaVern Jackson, work mecting leader; Almira Ferrell, theology class leader; Barbara Blackhurst, Secretary; Leona Wood, First Counselor; Adele S. Willden, President; Ann Johnson, Magazine representative; Miriam Werner, social science class leader; Jean Christensen, literature class leader; IIclen Allen, organist; (two members absent). Sister Willden reports: '""Yakima Stake was organized in May 1959, and the stake Relief Society shortly after. 'This is the first time that our board has been completely organized. 'Two members were absent when this picture was taken, because of illness, Arda Mae Kidman, Second Counselor, and Dora Ellis, visiting teacher message leader." Page 4€5 466 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 Photograph submitted by Lillie Cowley MISSOULA STAKE (MONTANA) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION March 24, 1960 Front row, seated, left to right: Rosalyn J. Feild, Secretary-Treasurer; Lillie Cowley, President; Carrie L. Maughan; Thelma Browning, First Counselor; Eula Foust, Second Counselor. Second row, standing, left to nght: Bernice Allred; Sara Dilworth; Evelyn Follett; Alice Loving; Yvonne Gunn; Florence Vargo; Claire Farley; Jane Colman; Alene Crist; Pheobe Wells. Sister Cowley reports: "Sister Carrie L. Maughan (center front) of St. Ignatius Ward, was honored as a visiting teacher. Sister Maughan had 100 per cent visiting teaching, 100 per cent attendance at sacrament meetings and visiting teacher meetings, and ninety-six per cent attendance at Relief Society meetings, having missed only one meeting during the year. Sister Maughan is president of the St. Ignatius Relief Socicty." i Photograph submitted by Pear] R. Haddock CACHE STAKE (UTAH), SIXTEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR MARCH 1960 SUNDAY EVENING PROGRAM Front row, left to right: Peggy Lindquist, accompanist; Ardith Carlson; Gloria Cook; Eleanor Hale; Dora Hayward; Leah Carlson; Ruth Peck; Lillian Morrell; Barbara Gilgen; Dora Larsen; Leona Williams; Oretta Tate; Vivian Harris; Ann Davenport; Hazcl Mattson, director. Back row, left to right: Elizabeth Nish; Joyce Roundy; Lila Anderson; Sharleen Poppleton; Marilyn Lundstrum; Rhoda Humphreys; Hannah Rosine; Minnie Jones; NOTES FROM THE FIELD 467 Melpha Squires, Counselor; Etheleen Hall; Arleen Gill; Peggy Coburn; Joyce Niederhauser; Afton Stuart; Leona Sorenson. Pear R. Haddock, President, Cache Stake Relief Society, reports: "This group of Singing Mothers has been very active in ward activities. 'Their lovely music has been heard at November and March Sunday evening meetings, at funerals, stake Relicf Society leadership meetings, and other Church meetings. The officers of the Sixteenth Ward Relief Society are: Mabel Quayle, President; Melpha Squires, First Counselor; Ann Green, Second Counselor." Photograph submitted by Inez L. Pendlebury SOUTH BLACKFOOT STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT CONVENTION, March 30, 1960 Front row, seated, left to right: Margaret Monson, who has served as a visiting teacher for sixty-one years; Carrie Larson, fifty-seven years; Afton Norman, forty-cight years; Mary Lim, thirty-five years; Myrtle Spencer, thirty-four years. Back row, standing, left to right: Hortense Stander, twenty-five years; Elder Seth W. Brown, High Council representative; Cassie Brown, thirty-six years; Inez S. Pendlebury, President, South Blackfoot Stake Relief Society; Elder Lawrence T. Lambert, President, South Blackfoot Stake; Elizabeth Olson, who has served as a visiting teacher for thirty-two years. (Not in the picture was Sister Mary Watt, who was seriously ill, and who passed away the next day.) Sister Pendlebury reports: "The visiting teacher from each ward, who is still active, with the longest record of service, was honored with a gift presented by Abbie Godfrey, stake visiting teacher message leader. "Included in the convention program was the film 'Unto the Least of These,' which was truly an inspiration to our visiting teachers. It was a source of much encouragement and enlightenment to them, and we have had many favorable comments about it. Our stake Priesthood authorities, President Lambert and Elder Brown, gave very fine talks, and the music was furnished by the Singing Mothers from Blackfoot Third and Riverside Wards. The: number sung by Blackfoot Third Ward was entitled "The Visiting Teacher's Song,' the words of which were written by Marie M. Anderson, daughter of Teresa Manwaring, director of the chorus. Following the program, a social hour was enjoyed, with refreshments served by the stake board." 468 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 Photograph submitted by Rella B. White FRESNO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Front row, left to right: Marguerite S. Davis, First Counselor; Viorene I. Wardle, Second Counselor; Martha B. Richards, former president. Leida Anderson, chorister, stands second from the right on the second row, and Mary Thompson, organist, stands first from the right on the second row. At this conference Sister Richards was released. The new Fresno Stake Relief Society President, Rella B. White, stands second from the right on the front row. Fifteen wards and branches of Fresno Stake are represented in the Singing Mothers chorus. 'They sang at two stake conferences in 1959 and one stake conference in 1960. At the last stake conference they sang "Peace I Leave With Thee" and "My Redeemer Lives," PhoteesRonreubmuitled by Witty: REDONDO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS AND HONORED GUESTS AT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, January 29, 1960 Front row, seated, left to right: Ruth Witty, President, Redondo Stake Relief Society; Laura Birch, honored guest, from Hermosa Beach Ward, the oldest visiting teacher, cighty-thrce years old; Susannah Carr, honored guest, from Hermosa Beach Ward, who has served for the longest period of time as visiting teacher, sixty-two years; Pauline Sessions, organist, Redondo Stake; LaDeane Cobabe, chorister, Redondo Stake. Sister Witty reports that all the visiting teachers of the stake, their husbands, and special Priesthood officials were invited to this convention. "The Singing Mothers sang two numbers: 'When Mothers Sing' and 'If Christ Came Back.' The film 'Unto the Least of These' was shown, and was especially dear to us, as there were a number NOTES FROM THE FIELD 469 of Singing Mothers from our stake who participated in the film. Priesthood guests were very impressed by the film. Dora Carlson (not shown in the picture) from Redondo Second Ward, had the most consecutive years of 100 per cent visiting teaching, thirty-seven years." Photograph submitted by Lenore C. Gunderson VALLEY VIEW STAKE (UTAH), VALLEY VIEW FIFTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS PAGEANT "THE GOLDEN YEARS," March 17, 1960 Standing, left to right: Elaine Franklin as Emma Hale Smith; Alberta Hintz as Eliza R. Snow; Norma Searle as Zina D. H. Young; Vera Fisher as Bathsheba W. Smith; Sue Strong as Emmeline B. Wells; Alice Rudd as Clarissa S. Williams; Agnes Murdock as Louise Y. Robison; Velma Holladay as Amy Brown Lyman. Seated at the table: Ruby Huntington as Belle S. Spaftord. Lenore C. Gunderson, President, Valley View Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Valley Vicw Fifth Ward presented a pageant entitled "The Golden Years,' March 17, 1960, m Relief Socicty meeting. It depicted the first Relief Society, organized 118 years ago by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Members of Relief Society portrayed the eight former presidents and President Spafford and gave interesting and spiritual aspects of their lives. A choral group composed of Relief Society sisters spoke scripture readings. Special musical numbers were presented. The pageant was narrated to background music and showed the growth of Relief Society from eighteen noble, Godfearing women to ovcr 200,000 strong. It portrayed the 'Golden Years' of this society golden in loye, trust, faith, and harmony, all working together for one cause, a human cause, and from it all has come the greatest women's organization in the world today, of which every member of this society owns a share. The pageant was written and narrated by Wylene Fotheringham." pre e—ee Sheology— The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 25—A Promise Fulfilled Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 41; 42:1-17) For Tuesday, October 4, 1960 Objective: To understand that the law of the Lord is to be taught with faith and by the Spirit. The Prophet and Kirtland, Ohio ROM our history of the Church and other sources, we learn of events in the Ohio valley to which the saints had been instructed to gather. From Section 38 we learned that when the saints gathered to the Ohio, they would receive the law of the Lord. With the great increase in Church membership in that area, it is clear that many problems would arise. 'This condition would make necessary the presence of the Prophet Joseph Smith to direct the activities of the growing kingdom of God. The Prophet's first visit to Kairtland brought forth an event which is an example of the seeric powers possessed by Joseph Smith. Briefly, it is recorded that in company with his wife Emma, Sidney Rigdon, and Edward Partridge (the latter two having been converted as a result of the Lamanite mission, see Lesson 22, Relief Society Magazine, December 1959, pp. 839-841), the Prophet Page 470 walked into the store operated by Whitney and Gilbert. He approached Newel K. Whitney and said: "... Newel K. Whitney! Thou art the man!"... Whereupon, Mr. Whitney replied: "... You have the advantage of me.... I could not call you by name as you have me....' 'The Prophet then said, "... Lam Joseph the Prophet.... You've prayed me here, now what do you want of me?" (See D. H. C. 1:146.) An indication of how the Lord prepared the way of the first muissionaries into the Ohio valley and the visit of the Prophet later is told in the experience of Mr. And Mrs. Whitney. As members of the Campbellite faith, they desired to know how they might obtain the gift of the Holy Ghost. "One night," says Mother Whitney, "it was midnight — my husband and I were in our house at Kirtland, praying to the Father to be shown the way when the Spirit rested upon us and a cloud over- LESSON DEPARTMENT shadowed the house. It was as though we were out of doors. 'The house passed away from our vision. We were not conscious of anything but the presence of the spirit and the cloud that was over us. We were wrapped in the cloud. A solemn awe pervaded us. We saw the cloud and felt the Spirit of the Lord. Then we heard a voice out of the cloud saying, 'Prepare to receive the word of the Lord, for it is coming. At this we marveled greatly, but from that moment we knew that the word of the Lord was coming to Kirtland" (Jenson, Andrew: L. D. S. Biographical Encyclopedia I:223). Conditions in Kirtland The Prophet learned when he arrived in Kirtland that some very strange things had been developing in that branch of the Church. Let us keep in mind that the members there, all recent converts, had been associated with other churches, consequently theological ideas and practices were understood by them differently. In the words of Elder George A. Smith, it is reported that ",.. A society that had undertaken to have a community of property..." and had been called "... The Morley family..." being "... Located on a farm owned by Captain Isaac Morley... Had not yet been instructed in relation to their duties....' These members developed some "... Extravagant and wild ideas..' The Prophet Joseph Smith taught the people the true order of the Church which resulted in the apostasy of some members who continued to be deceived. Among these was Wycom Clark, who "... Got a revelation that he was to be the prophet — that he was the true revelator..." and with a few others organized the "Pure Church of Christ." (See Journal of Discourses 11:3-4.) 47| Section 41 A knowledge of these conditions helps us to understand the following verses which introduce this section, the first revelations received in Kirtland: Hearken and hear, O ye my people, saith the Lord and your God, ye whom I delight to bless with the greatest of all blessings, ye that hear me; and ye that hear me not will I curse, that have professed my name, with the heaviest of all cursings. Hearken, O ye elders of my church whom I have called, behold I give unto you a commandment, that ye shall assemble yourselves together to agree upon my word; And by the prayer of your faith ye shall receive my law, that ye may know how to govern my church and have all things right before me (D & C 41:1-3). Notice the emphasis put upon the law of common consent; namely, that the brethren were to "... Assemble... Together to agree upon my word." As they came together for this purpose they were to meet "... By the prayer of your faith..." in order to be prepared for the law which had been promised earlier. (See Section 38:32.) It was only a few days later that this promise was fulfilled when the Lord gave Section 42, which is known as "The Law of the Church." In continuation of preparation for this event, the saints are advised that: He that receiveth my law and doeth it, the same is my disciple; and he that saith he receiveth it and doeth it not, the same is not my disciple, and shall be cast out from among you; For it is not meet that the things which belong to the children of the kingdom should be given to them that are 472 not worthy, or to dogs, or the nes to be cast before swine (D & C 41:5-6). These words bring out clearly who is the true disciple of the Lord. He who professes to believe and be the follower of the Christ is deceiving himself and also those who follow him when there is nonacceptance of what the Lord reveals as his law. 'There were members of the Church in Kirtland who considered themselves true disciples, as there have been since the days of Joseph Smith. Unless members continue to obey the law of the Lord, they are not disciples, and a judgment awaits them. (See John 8:31-32; Mt. 7:21-23.) On the other hand, the promise is given that the Spirit will be with the true believer. (See Ether 4110-12.) With the growth of the kingdom, the Lord called Edward Partridge to be the first bishop in this dispensation. In this call by revelation, there are established the important steps in all calls to service in the Church. This procedure is: first, the call by the authorized servant of the Lord; second, appointment "by the voice of the Church"; and third, ordination by those in authority. As pointed out in a former lesson, these three steps also constitute a key against the claims of those who seek to deccive Latter-day Saints. (See Lesson 18, Relief Society Magazine, August 1959, page 546.) Bishop Partridge was to devote his entire time to the office of bishop. His work as bishop was to be confined to those things "... As it shall be appointed unto him in my [the Lord's] laws in the day that I shall give them" (D & C 41:10). This thought is important to remember: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 when one receives an office in the Church, he is to function only within the calling he has received. Compliance with this important principle maintains order in the kingdom and prevents disharmony, regret, and, in some cases, even apostasy. In closing this revelation, the members of the Church are informed of the necessity to obey the words given; otherwise, they will be answered upon their souls in the day of judgment. (See D & C 41:12.) President Brigham Young had this to say about such a situation: Those who do not profess to know anything of the Lord are far better off than we are, unless we live our religion, for we who know our Master's will and do it not, will be beaten with many stripes; while they who do not know the Master's will and do it not will be beaten with few stripes. This is perfectly reasonable (Journal of Discourses 16:111). The Promised Law (Section 42) Including this and the next four lessons, there is an opportunity to examine the important teachings of the law of the Church. Although there are different ways that this revelation might be divided, it seems that this division is a practical one: the law of propaganda (preaching the gospel) (D & C 42:4-17); the law of moral conduct (D & C 42:18-29); the law of consecration (D & C 42:30-42); the law of administration to the sick (D & C 42:43-52); the law of sundry dutics (D & C 42:53-69); the law of remuneration of services (D & C 42:70-73); and the law concerning transgressors (D & C 42:74-93). Introduction to the Law The Church is told to hearken obediently to the instructions given LESSON DEPARTMENT in this revelation (D & C 42:1-4). The twelve elders in whose presence this revelation was given, are to go forth to teach the gospel by the power of the Spirit. The preaching or dissemination of the gospel may be called the law of preaching the gospel. The Law of Preaching the Gospel Missionaries of the Church are to travel "two by two." The reasons for doing this are apparent when onc considers that the testimony of two or three witnesses is the Lord's way of making known his marvclous work. There is also protection, both moral and physical, afforded the missionarics against those who would seek to do them harm. In the sixth verse of this revelation, the elders are told that they are to declare "... My word like unto angels of God" (D & C 42:6). In this same year of 1831, the Lord reminded the elders that: And now, verily saith the Lord, that these things might be known among you, O inhabitants of the earth, I have sent forth mine angel flying through the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel, who hath appeared unto some and hath committed it unto man, who shall appear unto many that dwell on the earth. And this gospel shall be preached unto every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people. And the servants of God shall go forth, saying with a loud voice: Fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come; And worship him that made heaven, and carth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters (D & C 133:36-39). When one compares these verses with what was proclaimed by the 473 apostle John in foretelling the restoration of the gospel by an angel (Sce Revelation 14:6-7), the part italicized by the writer suggests that the divinely commissioned missionaries are to carry the angel's message to the world. 'This message becomes more meaningful when it is understood that when the elders speak by the Holy Ghost they are speaking with the "tongue of angels." (Cf. 2 Nephi 32:2-3; 31:11-14.) Ordination Necessary In order to preach the gospel and officiate in the ordinances thereof, the person must be ordained by one having the proper authority, "and it is known to the church that he has authority' (D & C 42:11). Those who go forth representing the Lord are to teach the principles of the gospel as contained in the books of scripture available at that time—the Bible and The Book of Mormon. Later, The Doctrine and Covenants and The Pearl of Great Price came into existence as books of scripture. Experience has shown that the Bible and 'The Book of Mormon are better adapted for missionary use. Occasionally the Lord has pointed out that the world is to receive the milk of the gospel first and later the stronger teachings which have been compared to meat. (See D & C 19:22.) Again, there is suggested that The Book of Mormon contains the "... Fulness of the gospel." The meaning of this expression is simply that it implies (a) sufficient knowledge for salvation, and (b) the necessity of the Priesthood. (See Lesson 13, Relief Society Magazine, November 1958, page 760.) 474 The missionaries are not only to proclaim the gospel from these books of scripture, but they are to observe the "... Covenants and church articles to do them..." (D & C 42:13). By this it is meant that other sources of truth, as contained in later revelations through prophets, are to be practiced as well as taught. 'The teaching by the missionary is to be done under the influence of the Spirit (D & C 42:13). If this is done, there will be given sufficient to influence the investigator, and the missionary will not be led astray in what he teaches. The Prayer of Faith There follows in this revelation the statement of a great truth for both the set apart missionary as well as the teacher in the auxiliary organizations of the Church. And the Spirit shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith; and if ye receive not the Spirit ye shall not teach (D & C 42:14). In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, where so many members have an opportunity to teach the gospel, there seems to be reason for knowledge of and emphasis upon this truth. To receive any blessings from the Lord the necessity of exercising faith in the Lord is a truism. The Prophet Joseph Smith learned this as a lad when he read the words of James that if one lacked wisdom, he was to ask of God. "But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed" (James 1:6). 'The faith required is that of full trust in the Lord, recognizing from the depths RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 of one's soul that the desired result will follow. Prayers for divine assistance sometimes are words expressed in prayer language, but they lack the faith intended in the expression "prayer of faith," which we are admonished will bring the blessings of the Lord. An example of this contrast is found in the case of the Zoramites in The Book of Mormon. 'Their set prayer was meaningless because it was uttered to gain the favor of men and for religious ritual only. (See Alma 31:15-22, 34-38.) Some of the essentials in obtaining the "prayer of faith" and to receive the influence of the Holy Ghost were given by President Brigham Young, as follows: Let us be humble, fervent, submissive, yielding ourselves to the will of the Lord, and there is no danger but that we shall have His Spirit to guide us (Journal of Discourses 13:155). But what is there to say about the growth of faith necessary for one who wants to exercise the "prayer of faith'? Alma spoke of the need to "... Arouse your facultics, even to an experiment... And exercise a particle of faith, yea, even if ye can no more than desire to believe, let this desire work in you, even until ye believe..." (Alma 32:27). But what if the individual does not feel the need to pray at a given time for the assistance of the Lord? The following gleanings from President Brigham Young are pertinent to obtaining the spirit of prayer: It matters not whether you or I feel like praying, when the time comes to pray, pray. If we do not feel like it, we should pray till we do.... You will find that LESSON DEPARTMENT those who wait till the Spirit bids them pray, will never pray much on this earth (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 44). Receive the Spirit Every member of this Church may have the privilege of enjoying the Holy Ghost, which is the Spirit referred to in the admonition before us (D & C 42:14). The Spirit will be received to the degree that the member of the Church is diligently secking to keep the commandments of the Lord. Worthiness of life, coupled with prayer and faith, will bring forth the Spirit. (See D & C 63:64.) The Spirit and Teaching Why should a person have the Spirit of the Lord to teach, as admonished in our text? (See D & C 42:14.) The Lord has specifically informed us that we are to have his Spirit. Fundamentally, the person having that Spirit will be able to distinguish between the truth and error. Is not the Holy Ghost the giver of truth? (See John 14:15-17.) To some of the missionaries of this dispensation, a reminder was given that they should preach by the Spirit of truth: Verily I say unto you, he that is ordained of me and sent forth to preach the word of truth by the Comforter, in the Spirit of truth, doth he preach it by the Spirit of truth or some other way? And if it be by some other way it is not of God (D & C 50:17-18). To those who receive the word of truth, is it received by that same Spirit—truth, or in some other way, Spirit—truth, or in some other way? These missionaries (D & C 50: 19). If the teacher and the hearer receive 475 the Lord's word under the influence of his Spirit both are enlightened and rejoice together (D & C 50:22). But what if the member of the Church, as a teacher in an auxiliary organization or in the capacity of the member who tells others, members or nonmembers, of the gospel, does not feel adequately prepared of the Spirit? Certainly, no one may have all of the knowledge necessary, nor the fulness of the Spirit to accomplish the call at hand. This feeling of inadequacy may also be present among many who are called to preach the gospel as missionaries. In a revelation given to two missionaries, there is found this encouraging word: "... Declare the things which ye have heard, and verily believe, and know to be true" (D & C 80:4). However, those who do have the responsibility of teaching are under the definite obligation to prepare themselves in knowledge and also to have the Holy Ghost. Source of Knowledge The law of preaching the gospel is concluded with these words: And all this ye shall observe to do as I have commanded concerning your teaching, until the fulness of my scriptures is given. And as ye shall lift up your voices by the Comforter, ye shall speak and prophesy as seemeth me good; For, behold, the Comforter knoweth all things, and beareth record of the Father and of the Son (D & C 42:15-17). Although the Lord had not yet made known many important principles and ordinances of the gospel by the year 1831, this was not to 476 prevent the missionaries from preaching the gospel. They were to go on their missions relying upon the. Holy Ghost for guidance. More revelation was forthcoming that the Lord's representatives might also more effectively teach the plan of salvation. 'The Doctrine and Covenants Comunentary (page 238) gives an example of the way in which the Spirit directed some of the early brethren in their activities. President George Q. Cannon said: I remember hearing related Brother Parley P. Pratt's first interview with the Saints at Fayette, Seneca County, where the Church was organized.... On that occasion he was called upon to speak; the Prophet Joseph was not present at the time. He brought forth from the prophecies of Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and other prophets, abundant proofs concernRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 ing the work which the Lord had established through His servant Joseph. <A great many of the Latter-day Saints were surprised that there were so many evidences existing in the Bible conccrning this work. The Church had then been organized some five months, but the members had never heard from any of the Elders these proofs and evidences which existed in the Bible (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 238-39). Questions for Discussion 1. Give some examples of how the Lord prepared for the Prophet's visit to Kirtland, Ohio. 2. What do you consider to be the most important messages from Section 1? 3. What is meant by the "praycr of faith" or what do you understand the "prayer of faith'? To mean? 4. Discuss: The Spirit of the Lord is necessary to teach the gospel effectively. (siting SSeacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 25—"If Thou Lovest Me Thou Shalt Serve Me and Keep All My Commandments" (D & C 42:29) Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, October 4, 1960 Objective: To emphasize the fact that we serve the Lord, others, and ourselves best only when we keep all the commandments. NE of the basic facts of human behavior is that if we truly love someone we will do everything possible to please him and to conform our lives to his wishes. If this ls true in our attitudes towards each other, how much more it should apply in our relationships with our Father in heaven. This fact is emphasized in The Doctrine and Covenants quotation, "If thou lovest me thou shalt serve me and keep all my commandments" (D & C 42:29). If we truly love the lord we will serve him and do all that he requires of us. We will live his commandments and by so doing merit his love and earn for ourselves eternal joy. In order to do all that God requires of us we must, of course, know and understand his commandments. Since man was first placed upon the earth, the Lord has given LESSON DEPARTMENT him commandments, either directly or through his prophets. 'These commandments are contained in the scriptures. If we will search the scriptures, as Jcsus has instructed us, we will know the Lord's will. The Lord's commandments are given to us as guides to abundant and joyful living, not only in this life but in the world to come. Contrary to what some people believe, these commandments are not restraining orders which are laid down to restrict our lives, rather, they are principles upon which fruitful, happy lives may be built. In explaining the reasons why he made the motion picture, "The Ten Commandments," Cecil B. DeMille once said, ""The Ten Commandments are not rules to obey as a personal favor to God. They are the fundamental principles without which mankind cannot live together" (Instructor, August 1957, page 231). The Doctrine and Covenants' quotation emphasizes the fact that to lay the foundation for an effective life we must keep all of the Lord's commandments. 'This means that we do not have the privilege to choose only those that appeal to us. This fact was beautifully dramatized by the Savior when he answered the rich young man who inquired of him what he should do to inherit eternal life. Jesus replied: Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Defraud not, Honour thy father and mother. And he answered and said unto him, Master, all these have I observed from my youth. Then Jesus beholding him loved him, 477 and said unto him, One thing thou lackest: go thy way, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, take up the cross, and follow me. And he was sad at that saying, and went away grieved: for he had great possessions (Mark 10:19-22). The scriptures do not complete the story and tell us what happened to this young man who did not have the courage to live all of God's commandments. We can be sure, however, that had he possessed the strength to follow Jesus, he would have had treasures in heaven and would have becn greatly blessed. Even the strongest of us, at times, may find ourselves thinking that it is difficult to obey certain of the Lord's commandments. When we encounter these difficulties, we can take comfort in the fact that the Lord does not ask anything of us without preparing the way for us to do that which he requires. This fact was expressed by The Book of Mormon prophet Nephi, when he said:. I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them (1 Nephi 3:7). If we will hold fast to this conviction, we will always have the courage and the strength to do whatever the Lord asks us to do. When we keep the Lord's commandments we truly serve him. Furthermore, as recorded by the beloved apostle John: He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him (John 14:21). Vork ITleeting—Cating for the Sick in the Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson | — Safeguarding the Health of Your Family Maria Johnson For Tuesday, October 11, 1960 Objective: To help each one to become more alert to the need for applying simple, well-established principles for the prevention of disease and for safeguarding the health of the family. New Frontiers of Health Just as we are learning more of nature's laws in the exploration of outer space, so we are discovering more of nature's laws for the development and health of man. As the frontiers of health expand, these new and exciting discoveries bring new challenges. What we need to stress today, our health authorities tell us, is the application of the health knowledge we already have. Knowledge does not insure health. It is how we apply this knowledge that counts. Sanitation is important. It began with the disposal of body wastes and filth, and then with providing safe water supplies. With the invention of the microscope, man found that he was surrounded by living organisms so small they could not be seen with the naked eye. Many of them were found to be our friends; others, our enemies and responsible for communicable or catching diseases and infections. The next great discovery was immunization. Programs of sanitation and immunization have made remarkable achievement since the turn of the century and make possible the control of all but a very few of our communicable diseascs. If these programs were done away with, epidemics of all these diseases would soon reappear. Modern public health agencies are carrying on immunization proPage 478 grams and a_ never-ending battle against the spread of disease-producing germs. The programs have to do with safe drinking water, safe milk supplies, garbage and sewage disposal, inspection of meat and public eating places, and insect and rodent control, to name but a few. The effectiveness of these programs depends upon the understanding and co-operation of the citizens of each State and community. Failure to support these programs comes not from lack of knowledge, but lack of a feeling of one's personal responsibility. Even today, with all our knowledge, much unnecessary sickness exists. Accidents in the home are also the cause of many preventable disabilities. Most of these accidents would not happen if each home applied the safety rules such as were discussed in the safety lessons presented in Relief Society last year. Seeking Medical Advice Early Again, much serious illness could be prevented by secking medical advice early when symptoms first appear. Much suffering could be alleviated if such diseases as cancer, tuberculosis, and diabetes were brought under early treatment. 'The repair of your body, as that of your car, needs to be made when the trouble starts rather than after it has broken down. Here we need a LESSON DEPARTMENT word of caution — don't become a hypochondriac, one who has a morbid and fanciful anxiety over one's health; neither become a_ faddist or a fanatic. These safeguards to health: sanitation, immunization, safety measures, and early medical advice are first lines of defense. 'They are old frontiers of health that have been crossed as far as knowledge is concerned, and will never lose their importance. But application is still a problem. New Concept of Health 'Today new frontiers of health are being explored. Our concept of health has widened. It is no longer merely the absence of disease and infirmity but a high level of health with complete physical, mental, and social well-being. In other words, health with vitality, energy, emotional stability, zest, and enthusiasm for life. High on the list of health problems being studied in our research laboratories are mental illness, the need for emotional health, viruses, degenerative discases, and senility. The intensive study of viruses had to wait for the invention of the electronic microscope. Today many discoveries pertaining to the treatment of virus diseases are encouraging. Perhaps the most challenging and exciting discoveries are being made in the field of mental illness and in the part the emotions play in the health of every individual. Here, as in other fields, it is not enough to learn of our emotional needs. We must also put into practice wholesome emotional habits. Emotional health is our safeguard against 479 mental illness and the key to optimum health. The emotions, such as worry, fear, anger, or hatred may be as injurious to the normal functioning of our vital organs as are bacteria (disease germs). Physical needs are tangible things that we can usually see and understand. Emotions, on the other hand, are feelings, not things. They are hidden and complicated, hard to recognize, and still harder to understand. We are living in a scientific age but living is more than a science; it is an art. Good mental health has been defined as a state of harmony that an individual achieves with himself and his environment which includes both other people and one's surroundings. Health rescarch has discovered that it is not, usually, because people are overworked that they break, but because the mental and emotional stresscs of modern life are too much for them. 'The difference in stresses of life that come to each of us as individuals is not so important; it is the way we meet them that counts. Life without emotions and tensions would be dull indeed; still, for health and happiness we need to strive for emotional maturity. This has been defined as the ability to react to life situations in ways that are beneficial rather than with emotional stress. Maturity is developed through study and practice. The body and mind work together. Whatever affects the one affects the other. Doctors have found that more than half of the persons who visit their family physician for treatment of a physical ailment suffer emotional difficulties which often explain their physical symptoms. The pain or disturb- 480 ance from an emotional illness must be found. One must first recognize that he is emotionally disturbed and then try to decide why. 'This is not easy and many need medical advice. It helps to think of something else, play the piano, sing, scrub a floor, clean the cupboards, straighten and organize a closet; do anything that will help you forget, for the time, the thing that is disturbing you. No matter how conscientiously one may strive to protect the health of himself and family, sickness sooner or later enters the home. A member of the family has to take care of the patient. Have you not wondered why doctors and nurses do not hesitate to care for patients, especially those having communicable diseases? Just remember that it is the application of health knowledge that counts. As has been pointed out, scientific research has discovered most of the health problems connected with the spread of communicable diseases. You will find that the doctors and the nurses are making use of this knowledge. They depend chiefly upon immunization and such sanitary measures as disposal of wastes and effective hand washing. Let's consider how we can apply these two very practical sanitary measures in our homes. Safe Disposal of Waste Material Waste material, such as dressings or cotton swabs from the sick room, and that from a cough or sneeze or nasal discharge, may carry infection and should be disposed of safely and with as little handling as possible. A paper bag makes an ideal container as it can be burned or disposed of without handling the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 soiled materials it contains. Any paper bag will do. A good one can be made from newspaper. To make a paper bag: 1. Place a folded newspaper sheet so that the fold is toward you. 2. Grasp the upper sheet of paper at the top and bring it down to the center fold. Crease to form cuff. 3. Turn the paper over. Keep the fold toward you while making the bag. 4. Fold the entire paper in thirds from the sides and crease firmly. 5. Tuck the one side under the cuff of the other side to hold the bag in shape. 6. Fold the top part of the paper down over the cuff. 7. The opening of the bag will be on the side that is down, so turn the bag over and put your hand in the opening. Shape the bag and stand it up or fasten it on the side of the bed. The Over-All Apron When caring for the sick, an over-all apron is an added protection for the family and attendant. It is a must if the disease is catching and is desirable in any situation. Always leave the apron in the patient's room. Do not wear it for other housework or cooking. When removing the apron, first wash your hands, then untie or unfasten the gown, try to keep your hands away from the contaminated side and hang it up with the contaminated side out. Keep the clean side, the one next to your dress as clean as possible. Wash your hands again. Effective Hand Washing Among the greatest protectors against infection is our skin. Few disease germs attack the skin, but untold numbers are always waiting for a chance to enter the body through the body openings or breaks in the skin. Our hands are the greatest offenders in carrying disease germs to our mouths, so hand washing is considered an important line of defense in protecting the LESSON DEPARTMENT patient, the family, and one caring for the sick from harmful disease organisms. Here are a few important rules to remember about our hands: 1. Keep your hands away from your face. 2. Kecp peneils, or other objects out of your mouth. 3. Always wash the hands before eating. 4. Wash hands before preparing a meal or handling food. 5. Wash the hands after going to the toilet. 6. Wash the hands before and after giving nursing care. 7. Do not put the stopper in the hand basin. 8. Wash your hands under running water. G. If tap water is not available water may be poured from a pitcher. Remember to: 481 Make a good lather. Take time to rub well between fingers and around nails. Wash under running water. Repeat the soaping when necessary. Rinse well and dry well. NOTE: The presence of germs should not be the only reason used in teaching the child how and when to wash his hands. The child need not know the reason. He is taught this as a part of the family pattern; everyone does it. References Red Cross Home Nursing, page 137. "Tome Care of the Sick," U. S. Department of IIcalth, Mducation, and Welfare, Public Health Service, Health Information Series, No. 21. For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, United States Government Printing Office, Washington, D. C., 5¢ each and $2.50 per hundred. She Su nflo Wers Eva M. Bird All faces cast in the morning, To follow the course of the sun. All faces west in the evening, To tell us that day is done. aii oraiienee renee Literature Comes of Age Lesson 17—Expanding Horizons Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 161-192) For Tuesday, October 18, 1960 Objective: To outline how new and complex relationships within the new Nation expressed themselves through its literature. ROM the times of John Smith through Jefferson, feelings of hope and fear and hatred and faith continued to accumulate with mounting acceleration and density until the crescendo became fury. Armed conflict with oppressive fellow Englishmen appeared inevitable, though never desirable. Likewise, the Nation's unpremeditated preparations for more than a century and a half found it unprepared to declare suddenly that it was sufficiently mature to emerge overnight as a self-justifvi ing, self-sustaining fledgling in the world community. Rash though such headstrong action appeared to the sovereign powers as well as to tens of thousands of Loyalists who fled or abstained, actually there was no choice. Access to greatness was suddenly thrust upon the colonists. Either they acted at once to achieve their new identity or they perished. That the American colonies succeeded in winning the war is miraculous, a miracle which ever renews and brightens itself the farther we are separated from it in time. Once peace treaties were signed in 1783, the colonies had a moment to examine their separateness and to ask who they were. Even while rejoicing in their dearly won freedom, they were also somewhat disconcerted by their own audacity, yet Page 482 proud of it. By the end, in 18165, of the War of 1812, called by opponents, "Mr. Madison's War," national pride not only triumphed over other emotions, but burst forth in soaring poetry and tinseled oratory as dazzling as "the rockets' red glare" over Fort McHenry which inspired Francis Scott Key to set his inspiration to music — the music by his contemporary Englishman, John Stafford Smith. Likewise, when Samuel Francis Smith composed his "America" in 1831, the music he chose was "God Save the King." How aptly, then, do these two most "American" patriotic songs demonstrate the strong tics which bound the new Nation to Mother England: habitually, unconsciously, and with no apparent objection or incongruity, English tunes were employed to immortalize the United States' independence from her! Although during the Revolutionary War years General Washington was plagued by such problems as loyal Massachusetts volunteers who threatened to quit and go home before they would be commanded by officers from foreign New Jersey or New York, predominantly the war compelled the colonies to unite as they met a common foe. But once they no longer fought for survival, but only for dominance or a sense of station among themselves, LESSON DEPARTMENT they were nearly destroyed by heretofore concealed differences. Lifelong patterns of loyalty to personal and inherited values changed most reluctantly. Having publicly declared abroad that "... All political connection between them _ |the United States of America] and the State of Great Britain is and ought to be totally dissolved..." (The Constitution of the United States — Its Sources and Application, "The Declaration of Independence," page 269), this great problem became even more troublesome: "In every realm save that of politics," was asked, "to whom, to what, shall we newborn, liberated states cleave? How can we obey our own 'independent' traditions of building? Dressing? Cooking? Marrying? Buying? Entertaining? Singing? Dancing? Feeling? Thinking? Worshiping? We have no such traditions uniquely our own." From whence were such patterns to come? From England and Europe? Many agreed. From their present and future selves? Others so hoped. During the final decades of the eighteenth century, the new politically unified colonies realized that, in every sense, they had themselves on their own hands. The eminent British critic, Sydney Smith, (1771-1845) taunted the new Nation for having made no contnbutions to world culture and thought. An increasing number of its own strongest voices also asked in ominously louder tones why Mr. Smith was right, why nobody read an American book, not even Americans themselves? However the War of 1812 had given Americans the feeling that they were entirely separated from England and the hope that they would develop, eventually, 483 a worthy and an independent culture. (See text, page 161.) With their hearts still longing for any news or fashions from Europe which they might display as "the latest thing" within their own local circles, at the same time Americans were outwardly and sincerely impatient to prove their equality, even superiority, in relation to the Old World, so much so that impulsively American critics often overpraised or "puffed" American scenes, deeds, and authors. And as the country doubled, then quadrupled in size with the acquisition of the Louisiana Purchase in 1803, followed by two-fifths of the country of Mexico in 1848, these and similar problems were compounded rather than simplified. By 1820, the population was close to 10,000,000. (See text, page 162.) Inward Conflicts Stated as an oversimplification, the problem of eighteenth-century America was to create itself; its nineteenth-century problem was to know itself. As it sprawled across the continent, growing in mechanical effectiveness, in agricultural, mineral, and commercial wealth to match its emergence as a physical giant, the inward conflicts likewise kept pace. When, through the decades of the century, the lines separating these opposing factions became increasingly clear, then undefined pressures in more and more areas of human influence and feeling became more evident. To name but a few, which of the following opponents finally were to dominate? What measures were to be taken to curb or extinguish the 484 losers? 1. Agricultural South vs. Industrial, commercial North; 2. Federal control vs. States' rights; 3. Hard-money Wall Street vs. The expanding West's livestock and mining; 4. Abolitionists and Free-soilers vs. The solid slave-holding South; 5. Puritanical Calvinistic strictness vs. Transcendental, Unitarian liberalism; 6. Yankee shrewdness and utilitarianism vs. Southern and Western friendly unconcern; 7. Poor, ignorant immigrants vs. Wealthy, educated "native stock"; 8. Tradition vs. Innovation; g. Capital vs. Labor; 10. Native "American" Indians vs. Imported Anglo Saxon "Americans"; 11. Plow vs. Branding-iron; and 12. Civilized law vs. Frontier justice. These and many other growing pains were the living issues of the century, difficult to define, even more so to resolve. As we now begin to define and study them some fifty to 150 years afterward, our greatest advantage is that time has given us some degree of objective distance; our greatest disadvantage, that some of these conflicts are still so very much alive that our present biases and _ self-interests may prevent us from their impartial consideration. Of necessity, our text abridges nineteenth-century American literature. Because space and time are limited, only those few authors have been included who spoke to their ages significantly, thus fairly representing it. 'To us moderns who would understand the American past, such literary leaders are indispensable. But perhaps our editors have chosen them, one might remark, not because of their contemporary significance, but because RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 they tell us what we would like to believe was dominant in America's past. Or as Joseph Conrad reminds us, "The dead can live only with the exact intensity and quality of life imparted to them by the living." Notwithstanding this possible danger, the editors appear worthy of trust since, with the possible exceptions of Thoreau's Walden, Melvilles Moby Dick, and Emily Dickinson's poems, those works found in our text are those which enjoyed the greatest popularity among serious audiences in their own time. We are then ready to agree that the best means for knowing ages past is to view them through the eyes and words of their acknowledged spokesmen; the best way to judge a people is through its leaders. Other approaches to historical truth concern themselves with statistics and graphs; the concern of literature is to enter into the feelings, hearts, minds, and souls of individuals via the great and living words from their leaders which recreate, in artistic form, the texture of the times. Classic Period of American Literature The nineteenth century is, with justice, referred to as the classic period of American literature. During this period its literature came of age, just as did the life of the Nation which it mirrored with depth and power. Further, we should recognize in serious literature the attempt to catch permanently the reality of its time. Thus, to choose only timeless reality amid the confusion of the present was the constant concern of these writers. LESSON DEPARTMENT Reality, however, has many faces; always to different contemporary authors it varies widely. Nevertheless, three schools or patterns of reality seem to dominate the preCivil War period, often heavily intermixed in its literature even within one man's own writings. It is to a consideration of these patterns of reality and belief that we now turn. 1. Security, the pattern of the past and the status quo. Writers in this group are often nostalgic Romantics. 'They seem to find somber delight in recalling the past, or exotic places, or even dream-worlds wraithed by clouds of mystery and sometimes horror, these moods often merely hinted at amid surroundings of decaying mansions or ancient castles which conceal ghosts, elves, or visionary spirits. 'The contemplation of death is also a favorite theme. Prominent figures in this pattern are Washington Irving, William Cullen Bryant, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, and Edgar Allen Poe. A closely related strain is the love of the picturesque, either past or present. To picture in the mind's eve scenes of noble deeds and exciting adventure, the grandeur of unspoiled nature, the colorful tableaus of the everyday, simple life, either amid rustic surroundings, the harmless domesticities of village and town, or the sweet tranquilities of home and fireside — all unmarred by unsolvable conflict or harsh strife — these yielded to the nineteenthcentury American vicarious excitement or transport. Finally, they yielded him an inner warmth, peace, and a predominant sense of security in a world that is good now, but 485 which in the past might well have been better. Cooper best exemplifies pursuit-escape-suspense adventure laid in the historic past; he also feels the beautiful loneliness and vastness of untamed nature with contagious power. In addition to James Fenimore Cooper, Washington Irving, William Cullen Bryant, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, John Greenleaf Whittier, and James Russell Lowell best represent this strain. (These authors will be studied later. ) By and large, those who found these securities to be most real were heavily influenced both by scenes depicted from the European past and by English language patterns and literary fads. The specific words used, the cadence of phrase both in prose and poetry, and the over-all tone and intent of such writings won their American authors praise and acceptance, not only because their audiences at home really enjoyed their writings in their own right, but also because they were reassured to realize that what they found pleasurable in these local writings was also being well received by English audiences. 2. Destiny, the militant pattern of idealism and the future. From the beginning of its colonial period the country offered rich lands free for the taking, in an atmosphere free from traditional patterns of thinking, acting, believing. ""Westward the course of empire takes its way," wrote Bishop Berkeley in 1720, and many, on both sides of the Atlantic, agreed with him that from the time of the Phoenicians, the Greeks, and the Romans, hope and the future have lain always 486 further west. Long before the Revolution, many Americans were well aware that theirs was the land of destiny. In 1760 the basically practical, conservative Franklin wrote to Lord Kamas in England this conviction, "I have long been of the opinion that the foundations of the future grandeur and_ stability of the British Empire lie in America." Crevecoeur defined America as "the asylum of freedom, the cradle of future nations, and the refuge of distressed Europeans," an attitude which dominated American hearts and hopes both before and after the Revolution, strongly perpetuated by Jefferson. Latter-day Saints know that the Government of the United States was one of destiny, a Government under which the gospel could be restored. The Lord said to the Prophet Joseph Smith at Kirtland, Ohio, in December 1833:.. It is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another. And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood (D & C 101:79-80). Here, for this newborn race called "Americans," free trade and freedom from the grinding dominance of governmental and religious institutions finally made possible the rebirth of man in this veritable Garden of Eden. Here man's essential goodness, his ability to achieve the promised life both within himself and in relation to group forces, was limited only by his own dreams. Out of this newly formed combination of all peoples, virtues, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 freedoms which is the United States of America came a noble creation of both God and man: a true American. Representative of his high vision of America's future are the words of William Gilpin, participant in the Mexican War, first Governor of Colorado, and dedicated promoter of the transcontinental railway and the Mississippi Valley, the great heartland of the Nation. The following was written in 1846: The untransacted destiny of the American people is to subdue the continent — to rush over this vast field to the Pacific Ocean — to animate the many hundred millions of its people, and to cheer them upward — to agitate these herculean masses — to establish a dynamic new order in human affairs — to regenerate superannuated nations — to stir up the sleep of a hundred centuries — to teach old nations a new civilization — to confirm the destiny of the human race — to carry the career of mankind to its culminating point — to cause a stagnant people to be reborn — to perfect science — to emblazon history with the conquest of peace — to shed a new and resplendent glory upon mankind — to unite all the world in one social family — to absolve the curse that weighs down humanity, and to shed blessings round the world (Smith, Henry Nash: Virgin Land). While Cooper was driven by a strong sense of America's destiny, basically he felt that her chance had been lost. But his was a minor voice, soon forgotten amid such booming affirmations as Mr. Gilpin's. Those in literature who most vigorously proclaimed this pattern of belief were Bryant, the editor; Whittier, the Abolitionist; and those brightest torchbearers: Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry David Thoreau, and Walt Whitman. 3. Ambiguity, the pattern of LESSON DEPARTMENT searching beneath surface appeatrances for values priceless to man's peace and progress, yet values neither clearly definable nor even eventually obtainable. While granting that the suffocating past must be denied, as must former deadening influences, for a few lone writers the promise of hope in America's future did not follow. Though they agreed that the prime responsibility of the representative American was to ask all questions about man's ultimate destiny, they asserted that finally he does not know cither himself fully or his place and destiny in his own world or in time. 'Though shades of this pattern appeared in James Fenimore Cooper, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Oliver Wendell Holmes, and Wait Whitman, its major spokesmen in the pre-Civil War period were Edgar Allen Poe, Nathaniel Hawthorne, and Herman Melville. I hear America singing, the varied carols I hear.... (—Wuitman, WALT: "T Hear America Singing'') wrote Walt Whitman at mid-cen- 487 tury, as a deep, full-throated chord of sustained dominance and richness soared upward to fill the brightstarred heavens. 'Throbbing new harmonies jarred traditional ears; surging rhythms, cadenced to fit only America's unique situations, rose in waves of majesty and vastness to give voice to new complexities. No longer need America portray herself as imitative of any other or previous culture; no longer need she portray herself as predominantly awkward, self-conscious, or raw. At last, in maturing youth's full vigor, her literature imaged a complex Nation but recently come of age. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why is an over-all view of conditions within a Nation helpful as an introduction to a study of its literature? Discuss. 2. Do contemporary writers vary widely in their characterizations of the age in which they live? If so, is it possible to discover, in their writings, trends which are dominant in that particular period? Discuss. 3. Is it natural for new conflicts to arise and increase in number as a nation expands in size and population? Discuss. Social Science —Spititual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 8 — Expanding Our Religious Horizons — Part I: Concepts of God Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, October 25, 1960 Objective: To discover how our concepts of God influence our potentialities for spiritual living. Introduction HE meaning and focus which spiritual living has for us depend significantly upon many factors, among which are included our concept of divinity, our concept of man, our understanding of the purpose of life, and the value we 488 place upon people. The concept which we have of God determines the type of relationship which we establish with him. Since relationships with God and others form the core of spiritual living, the type of relationships we establish must, of necessity, be of major concern to persons seeking the spiritual life. Importance of Learning About and Worshiping God There would be little controversy, if any, among Latter-day Saints regarding the importance of worshiping God and seeking to keep his commandments. Such passages of scripture as, "... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind" (Mt. 22:37); and "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent" (John 17:3) are commonly known and subscribed to by all of us. But what does it really mean to love God, to know God? Man cannot begin to know all there is to know about God. In fact, what we presently know is probably a minute part of all there is to know and that we may some day come to understand. Nevertheless, all of us have certain basic beliefs and feelings about God. We have obtained and developed these beliefs and feelings from many different sources and many different experiences. Even though we worship the same God and have been taught from many common sources, it is quite probable that the nature of God and our relationship to him takes on a slightly different meaning for each of us. We would now like to explore some general ways RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 of looking at God and consider the influence of these concepts and beliefs upon us and our behavior. Nature of God God is far greater than we can adequately describe. His whole nature and character are beyond our comprehension. Learning to know him, therefore, becomes a major challenge to us. It behooves us to be cognizant of the many factors which color the interpretation and concept which we have of God. 'The difference between what God is and our view of him is indicated in the following scriptures: Seck ye the Lord while he may be found, call ye upon him while he is near: Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts (Isaiah 55:6-9). Believe in God; believe that he is, and that he created all things, both in heaven and in earth; believe that he has all wisdom, and all power, both in heaven and in earth; believe that man doth not comprehend all the things which the Lord can comprehend (Mosiah 4:9). It is impossible in our present state of being to know the nature of God fully, but it is important for us to take a careful look at the concept of God which we have and the influence this has upon our perceived relationship with God and, in turn, the influence which our LESSON DEPARTMENT perceived relationship with God has upon our relationship with our fellow men. As Latter-day Saints we believe in a personal, living God who is an omniscient (all-knowing) and omnipotent (all-powerful) being, but beyond this, what? Note the following quotation from Lowell L. Bennion which describes the way in which varying concepts of God may arise. There is a marked difference between that which a man is, his character, and that which people think him to be, his reputation. In the latter instance, opinions are quite as divergent as are the appraising individuals themselves. If this is true of man's judgment of man, it is much more true of his idea of the Supreme Being whom he knows even less. The varying concepts of Deity, entertained by the children of men, confusing though they may be at first sight, need not be too disconcerting, for God is what he is, regardless of what men conceive him to be. Any human characterization of the nature of God will be limited and colored by man's restricted experience. God is greater than man can adequately describe. His full nature and sublime character are beyond our complete grasp. Learning to know him is an eternal quest. Cognizant of the difference between that which He is and that which men conceive Him to be, and realizing the tremendous difference between his world and ours, we approach the subject of the Mormon concept of God in a spirit of humility and reverence, acknowledging that the loftiest picturization of God is but suggestive of the sublime reality it secks to portray. Were it not for the significance of man's view of God to his teligious life, one would not have, as mortal man, the audacity to describe and characterize his Maker as fully as is here attempted. Our knowledge of our Heavenly Father 489 is limited. We are sure of some things; other questions and possibilities defy even our power of imagination. That which we do know about God is very important, something in which we can trust and on which we can build our lives. We can assume in some respects a similar relationship with God as a small child has with his father here on earth. Though the child comprehends but a part of the total life of his parent, yet that partial knowledge may well be sufficiently valid and extensive to enable him to build a satisfactory relationship with his father, with the assurance that year after year, with increased experience and undetstanding, he will understand his father more fully. Though our understanding of God is restricted by our own limited experience, just as is that of the child in relation to his parent, yet there is within that experience a sufficient basis of truth to enable us to establish a satisfactory relationship with Him, one on which we can build permanently and with confidence. While the restored Gospel of Jesus Christ does not give us a complete understanding of the Creator and while it does not answer all questions about him, it does teacli us, most positively, many important and definite concepts concerning the character and work of the Creator and his relationship to men (BeNN1on LoweELt: The Religion of the Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City, Latter-day Saints Department of Education, 1940, pp. 26-27). Concepts of God Latter-day Saints hold to the belief that God is a personal being with body, parts, and passions. We believe that man was created in the image of God, physically as well as spiritually, and therefore God in appearance is similar to man without the frailties and limitations of man. God is much more than man, but man is in his image. 'This belicf is founded upon many passages of scripture, but because of the limitations of space, only the following three will be cited here: 490.. When the light rested upon me I saw two Personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake unto me, calling me by name and said, pointing to the other This is My Beloved Son. Hear Him! (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:17.) The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's; the Son also; but the Holy Ghost has not a body of flesh and bones, but is a personage of Spirit. Were it not so, the Holy Ghost could not dwell in us (D & C 130:22). But he [Stephen] being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up steadfastly into heaven, and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the nght hand of God, And _ said, Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of man_ standing on the right hand of God (Acts 7:55-56). Latter-day Saints not only believe that God is a person with a tangible body, but we also conceive of him as a living, conscious, all-wise Being. He thinks, creates, acts, loves, he is Creator, Judge, Helper, and Father. Having thus described God, we must push our explorations further to try and discover the type of Being or individual we consider him to be. Any of us could describe our earthly father as an individual with a body of tangible form; as a living, acting, loving person who expetiences disappointment, etc. But when we think of our own father, we go beyond this and recall our feelings and attitudes about the kind of person he is or was, and reflect upon the feelings we had or have about him and towards him. Let us, now, pursue these kinds of feelings in respect to God and consider various approaches to God as held by different sects. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 Fear. One approach to God is to regard him as one might regard a tyrannical father, someone to fear because of his superior power, to plead with, to bribe with sacrifices, to appease as one would appease a touchy and unloving parent. In much common conversation —between parents and children regarding God, he is presented as prepared to inflict punishment on those who disobey their parents or who tell a lie. Hustory records numerous incidents in which man has cloaked his actions in the disguise of carrying out the wishes of God. Note, for example, the inquisitions and the burning of witches at the stake in our own early American history. In the latter case, the fanatical citizens of Salem took cighteen lives on Gallows Hill while the Reverend Cotton Mather quoted the Bible verse which says, "And thou shalt not suffer a witch to live" (Exodus 22:18). Why do some people believe in a God of fear? For one thing, because it has been to the advantage of men with power to control the thought patterns of those over whom they ruled. The efforts of many religious leaders have more often been dedicated to the preservation of their particular form and power than to the pursuit of significant truth. This was one of the characteristics of the Jews which made Christ angry. Power over other people — as distinct from competent leadership — can most easily be maintained through fear, a condition which many religions produce by threat of punishment, both here and in the hereafter. The product of such a religion is a cocrced and therefore LESSON DEPARTMENT false saintliness. A frightened person cannot be a sincere person, and, therefore, the elements of hypocrisy, fear, and guilt are introduced. True religion is faith in God, not fear of God as the word, fear is used today. 'The following quotation bears on this subject: We know that the Lord is merciful and kind and that lie does not rejoice in causing fear in the hearts of the righteous; nor does he command them to approach him in the spirit of fear in the sense in which this term is usually interpreted. It is true that the wicked will fear and tremble before him in that great day of judgment and that he is angry with the wicked, and dreadful fear and trembling will fill their hearts at his coming. The fear spoken of in these passages in connection with the spirit of obedience, and the seeking of knowledge is quite a different thing. Such passages have no reference to fright or terror wherein they are coupled with the principle of faith and obedience. The dictionary reveals several interpretations of the use of the word fear. The interpretation of its use in the passages enumerated is "to have _ reverential awe...." So we see that the word fear, as it is given in the English translations of the Bible in the passages under consideration, means reverence with humility.... Love and reverence are both essential in the worship of our Heavenly Father and his Son Jesus Christ, but those who keep his commandments and are worthy to stand before them need not fear, but in humility they may and shall bow the knee in great joy and reverence in the spirit of perfect worship (Smith, Joseph Fielding: "The Meaning of Fear,' Improvement Era, May 1953, page 310). Magic. A second approach to God is to regard him as a magical helper. This concept causes us to think of God as the controller of destiny to the extent that he could end pov- 491 Use this advertisement as your order blank Recommended Music for Relief Society Choruses Ladies Three Part ( ) Come Ye Blessed of My Father—Madsen...20 ( ) Forth in Thy Name, O Lord I Go—MadCY |.20 ( ) Go Ye Forth with My Word—Madsen...25 ( ) Incline Your Ear— Wilkes 20.2.0... 25 ( ) In Thy Form—MadSON oeececeecceeeecceeeceeeeeeccee.20 ( ) Let the Mountains Shout for Joy— Stephens 0....20 ( ) Lord, We Dedicate this House to Thee— Madsen...............22-22---.20 ( ) Music—Marsden.......20 ( ) My Redeemer Lives —Gates 0..20 ( ) O Lovely Land, America—Madsen.....20 ( ) Open Our Eyes— Macfarlane................ 25 ( ) Send Forth Thy Spirit—Schuetky.......20 Music Sent on Approval 15 E. Ist Sout Salt Lake City 11, Utah 1 ( t i] | Please send the music indicated above. | (J On Approval (J Charge. CO Money Enclosed I I 1 I {!! Address.. City & State TTT: 15 E. Lst South salt Lake City 11, Utah 492 COM OOK ZIM'S Established 1932 The BEST in handicraft supplies ANYWHERE! V/V Lowest Prices! V Newest Ideas! \V/ Largest Stocks! V Most Variety! ALUMINUM TRAYS— Complete etching supplies— tier handles, etc. FOAM AND TOTE BAGS— Largest Stocks — Lowest Prices — New Ideas MOSAIC SUPPLIES— Inexpensive, easy projects — also colored, crushed rock DECORATIVE SUPPLIES— Styrofoam balls, eggs, sheets, Chenilles, Ribbons, Foils, Glitter, Christmas Corsage and Centerpiece materials FLOWER SUPPLIES— All leaves and centers — Wood Fibre — new low price — Plant Plastic and molds for all flowers JEWELRY SUPPLIES, SHELLS, BASKETRY, POPSICLE STICKS, COPPER TOOLING, BEESWAX, CANDLES, BRIGHT BLEND TEXTILE PAINTS, COPPER ENAMELING, BOUTIQUE MATERIALS — EVERYTHING IN HANDICRAFTS! SEND FOR OUR FREE CATALOG Or come in and see our new ideas for Bazaars and Fall Handicrafts. Wholesale to Dealers Discounts to Groups ZIM''S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah xO OOOO OOD es sea ss sO OOOO OOS OO oO Oo Oo Og Og Og Og OO a Oo Og Og gb a Og gt a tg Og gg Oe tg OO gO tt att bg On & gt a aw RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 erty, war, famine, etc. Anytime he wanted to. Such a concept attributes to God the power to violate or set aside the laws of the universe, or to reach down and by magic preserve us from the consequences of our own acts. Many want a God of magic and of supernatural power to make their personal experiences different from the rest of the world. Insofar as we can discover, God always obeys his own laws. President Brigham Young has stated that "... The Lord cannot violate his own law; were he to do that, he would cease to be God" (Discourses of Brigham Young, "Free Agency," 1941 Edition, page 62). Love. In addition to the concept of a God of fear and a God of magic, there is a God of love. 'The God of love docs not use the coercion of fear or the enticement of magic to secure his following. God loves all men. His desire is not to condemn the children of men, but to lead them into paths of truth and righteousness. Worshiping a God of love encourages an individual to establish a close, meaningful relationship with God based upon understanding and an optinustic, yet realistic hope for the future. It adds dignity to one's concept of man and of oneself and stimulates the desire to grow and develop in order to cxperience the potentialities within oneself. 'The individual then looks upon God with a conviction of his love, and of his desire for man to grow into an cmotionally mature being who has the true feeling that he is following in his steps. To know God involves trying to understand him and his ways, to LESSON DEPARTMENT imitate the characteristics and attributes which he has, to travel the way to perfection so that eventually we may become as he is. In the words of Elder George Q. Mortis: The obligations are such and our relations to him [Jesus Christ] are such that it is our most serious duty in life to know him and love him and keep his commandments and thereby know and _ love our Father in heaven and keep his commandments, because he is the messenger from the Father; he is the one chosen of the Father to represent him in the earth, chosen of the Father to be the Redeemer of the world, chosen of the Father to be the Creator of the world. Into his hands the Father has placed all things, and we are in his hands. One day we will stand before him to be judged, and we will be judged as to our relations to him and our attitude towards him and whether or not we have listened to his word and kept his commandments. We will all come to that day and to that accounting, and so will every man and woman in_ the world... (Morris, Grorce Q., 125th Annual Church Conference). Summary Religious symbols dedicated to a God requiring appeasement or to a God who is a magic helper seem real enough to anyone who has been brought up to respect them. Approaching God in fear of his power or in want of his magical help are not the alternatives which can be held by a religiously mature person secking to lead a spiritual life. Rather the profound conviction of a nearness to God, a feeling of mutual love for one another, not only widens one's religious horizons, but provides the opportunity for the Kind of personal growth and development which we Latter-day Saints believe inherently exist in man. 493 GET FULL HOUSEPOWER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY July 2nd through 9th, 1960 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT Twenty-three days, including Boston, Washington, New York, and Chicago. Top broadway show will be seen. Church historical places will also be visited such as Nauvoo and Adam-OndiAhman. GUATEMALA Book of Mormon Archeological Sites. Tour leaving August 17, 1960. Will be back in time for school. LABOR DAY Tour to Bryce and Grand Canyons and Glen Canyon Dam, Sept. 3rd, 4th, and 5th. ROSE PARADE TOUR Taking reservations now for March 1961 Hawaiian Tour. ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Ave. Phone EM 3-5229 Mason & Hamlin Beesley Music Co. 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH The Strodivari of Pianos EVERETT PIANOS Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built THE WORLD'S FINEST Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Pioneer Piano People e BEAUTIFUL a handsomely bound cover. E HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—-$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles 2000. 150 to 300 miles __.......20 0.. 300 to 600 miles 000. J 600 to 1000 miles.... 1000 to 1400 miles.... 1400 to 1800 miles.... Over 1800 miles Rate Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 494 Thoughts for Discussion 1. What does it mean to love God, to know God? 2. We are all aware of how one's reputation develops and how it varies from one person to another. Discuss how our concept of God develops in our minds. 3. Give additional examples or experiences which illustrate the concepts of a God of fear, a God of magic, and a God of love. 4. How does our concept of God affect the kind of relationship we establish with God? 5. In what specific ways does the concept of a God of love widen our religious horizons? 6. How can we teach our children to know and love God? _. Fill Quail Matia McClelland Burk So many sounds of my childhood Come to my memory's ear — Some soft and half-forgotten, But one that's always clear Is the strange cry of the hill quail I remember in the fall. And clear as it was to a barefoot child, My heart still hears that call. How I long to return to the old ranch, When cottonwood leaves are falling, Where far in the distance I'll hear again The hill quail calling, calling. Galen Race Katherine F. Larsen A gray road calls me When bnght summer sun Thickens the lane's pale dust, And all the tasks undone Oppress me through the noontime heat; Oh, then my feet would run Shoeless, scuffing the hot dust Of the road; Would flail a slope, and spurn the rocks To know the summit won! YIndelible Roberta L. Theobald As clouds of flaming gold Become a leaden shroud For the dusky mountain, So the warm pain of farewell Hangs a gray mantle on my heart. Oh, let me remember not How, when your hand touched mine, My heart took wings. Let me no longer dream dreams, Or hope, or whisper, though my heart Is waiting to hear your name. Remember not ecstacy? Indelible, it marks the soul. Now, though into oblivion Goes part of my heart, There is no bitterness; I asked to know. And I must remember; Remembering brings an afterglow. ' Yoy or Sorrow Celia Luce Wé speak of the great joy that must have filled the hearts of those who knew and loved Jesus when he was on earth. We also wonder how anyone could have cast him out and tortured him. Yet we have the same decision to make, with the same rewards or regrets. God is near me, wanting to guide my life and let his influence be felt. He wants to surround me with his love. I have only to learn the great love which he asks. Then I, too, will feel him very close to me, filling and guiding my life. I, too, may reject and cast him out. If I live by hate, not by love, I drive him from me. Since he loves me, I give him wounds of unhappiness. Some on Golgotha did not know what they were doing. I do. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July 29, 1960 — Two Weeks July 30, 1960 — Three Weeks DISNEYLAND TOUR AND LOS ANGELES July 9th Write in for children's fare EUROPE August 1960 to October 1960 Price: $1,650 This price includes round trip transportation from Salt Lake City, Utah. Ask for folders of our many other tours MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 So. 23rd East, Salt Lake City AM 2-2337, IN 6-2909 Beginning and advanced classes start soon. Type your letters, minutes, reports, genealogy sheets, ete. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main — EM 3-2765 Salt Lake City, Utah Page 495: Vida Fox Clawson travel service announces HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS priced from $199.00. You will greatly appreciate these tours which have leaders such as Dr. T. Edgar Lyon who has such a fund of historical knowledge. HAWAII will mean more to you and you will have more fun if you travel under the leadership of Dr. C. Lowell Lees of the University of Utah. This tour departs July 22nd. For complete details, contact Vida Fox Clawson Travel Service 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City, Utah Telephone DAvis 8-0303 SONG FOR RELIEF SOCIETY Sunday Evening Meeting in November "The Old Refrain" Kreisler — Page — SSA — Price 25¢ Use this as your order. How many............. Following is list of numbers to be used by special group Singing Mothers in October Conference. These are fine numbers for your regular use. How lovely Is Thy Dwelling Place, SSA, Brahms, No. 2897.................30 Jesus Our Lord, We Adore Thee, SSA, James, No. 8870...000000... 25 Come, Ye Blessed of My Father, SSA, Madsen, No. 1816.....0.0........ -20 Lord God of Our Fathers, SSA, Elgar-Armsbruster, No. CM-7146...25 Twenty-third Psalm, SSA, Schubert Saar, No. CM-5106 uu....25 Oh, May | Know The Lord as Friend, SSA, Madsen, No. R-3200.20 Let Not Your Song End, SSA, Cain, No, 83238 ooo. Ooccccceccceeeececeeeeeeeee ee.20 The Lord Is My Light, SSA, Allitson-Samuelson, No. 1470...........-.20 Glen Bros. Music Co. 246 So. Main Salt Lake City Page 496 Birthday Congratulations Ninety-eight Mrs. RozeLua StrincuamM GRANT Glendale, California Ninety-seven Mrs. Anry Hinton GENT Nottingham, England Ninety-five Mrs. CarouIne PETERSON PUTNAM Ogden, Utah Mrs. BuerniniMi CAROLINE PETERSEN Brown Coalville, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Lucretia Pue irs PomMERoOY Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Marcaret SorRENSON ANDERSON Bear River City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Mary JANE Eape CatTEN Magna, Utah Mrs. Lournge CLawson YOUNG Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Annie MarcretuA MILLER OTTESON Emery, Utah Ninety Mrs. Mary ALice ANDERSON FARNSWORTH Centerville, Utah Mrs. Anna Tripe BOSHARDT Los Angeles, California A new book by MARK E. PETERSEN Toward a Better Life MARK E. PETERSEN A wealth of inspiring counsel and advice is contained in this volume collection of Conference Addresses and articles by Elder Mark E. Petersen. He speaks on problems that beset youth today, respect between husband and wife, Temples and genealogical work, and many other timely matters. He is frank, provocative, challenging, practical, but always positive and uplifting. The popular discourse he gave at April General Conference, "On My Honor," is just one of many to appear in this volume. All selections are easy to read and appeal to all Latter-day Saint famee ort DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple - Salt Lake City, Utah Enclosed you will find... Check,... Money order,... Have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed $......08. For.... Copies of "Toward A Better Life"' Name... 0... Cece cee eee eee tee eee nent terete Address... 0... Ccc cece ene teen ene ees City... Zone..... AF: | Cr ilies. $3.50 "Daddy, is Suzi®insuyéad! 06" Well, almost everybody is insured with Beneficial's Family Benefactor Plan. One low-cost easy-to-remember premium payment protects the entire family: Dad, Mom, and all the children... Including any future additions to the family. As your family increases, so does your insurance — but it costs you no more. This popular new family package will fit your needs whether you're just starting in the family business — or already have a houseful. Is this the life insurance plan for you? It's easy to find out. Just ask your Beneficial Life agent for details... Or mail the convenient coupon below. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. DEPT. E - 460 Beneficial Life Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Please tell me more about Beneficial's unique Family Benefactor Plan that will insure my entire family. BENEFICIAL LIFE Srsurance (Company @eseeoeseseeoeeoeoeoeaeeoeeeeeeod Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah With Ynner (Balm Alice Morrey Bailey Sometimes the troubled soul needs solitude Where pristine waters seek their natural course, To gain a day's untrammeled interlude Away from man's complex, impelling force. The mountain's majesty, the lone wind's mood, The cold spring, bubbling from its rockbound source, Can soothe emotion, lave the sense imbued With pain, and ravel thin the heart's remorse. For here the mind can turn unbent and free, In reasoned convolution gain the calm Of peace — much as the twisted tree Can heal its ruptured bark with inner balm— And here renew conviction, will, and then Return to meet the wondrous world of men. The Cover: Taxco, Mexico, View From Hotel Victoria Transparency by J. J. Steinmetz, Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. Frontispiece: Old Cedar Tree at Dead Horse Point, Utah Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Page 497 Srom lear and Sar 1 am grateful for the inspiring story about Sister McKay written by her daughter (Emma Rae McKay Ashton) in the June issue of the Magazine. For a long while T have wanted to know Sister McKay better, and this article has made her much closer and dearer to me. As a bride of less than a year, The Relief Society Magazine has certainly been a blessing. Both my husband and I look anxiously for it at the beginning of each month. I felt that I must write and tell you how much J appreciate it. —Mrs. Diana Andrus Inglewood, California For some time I have been wanting to write and tell you how happy it made me to see the picture of the sweet sisters of Dallas Stake, Fort Worth (Texas), Ward, in the July 1959 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. About two yeals ago we mov cd to Provo from Fort Worth, and now my husband is attending Brigham Young University. I have missed the Fort Worth sisters very much. Since my conversion to the Church in 1954, I have thoroughly enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine. —Tula Berry Provo, Utah I was very touched by the stories "Offerings of the Heart'? (by Frances C. Yost) and "With a Song in My Heart" (by Mabel Law Atkinson) both in the March issue of the Magazine. Having two small children of my own, I felt that Mrs. Yost's story "hit the spot." The little things children do for us are worth more than the most expensive gift, because we are left with a timeless memory of their priceless thoughtfulness. I am so very thankful for my sweet children. Mrs. Atkinson, in her story, brought out the way so many wives feel at times, and the story helps us to have a little more understanding for those we hold dear. So many people, young and old, look forward to our inspiring Magazine. —Mrs. Deanna Bryant Snowflake, Arizona Page 498 More than we ever expected, people seem to have appreciated the May issue of The Relief Society Magazine which featured our mission. All of the Magazines are so wonderful and so appreciated throughout the mission. —Daisy R. Romney President Western States Mission Relief Society May I take this opportunity to congratulate you on the Magazine. The covers are a joy to behold, and all my family appreciate their beauty. The articles and stories are fine, and the lessons are just wonderful. We all enjoy giving the lessons and hearing them. Relief Society has brought us closer to one another. —Mrs. Elena Neale Ylamorgan, South Wales I have now received the February and March issues of The Relief Society Magazie. 'The Magazines are really wonderful. Did you see that the story in the March issue was written by President Robinson's mother ("The Fishbite Story" by Dorothy Clapp Robinson, Third Prize Story)? President Phileon B. Robinson, Jr. Presided in this mission before President Warner was appointed. Some of the poems and stories in the Magazine are so good they almost make you cry. They remind me so much of things that have happened before. How much Grandpa Alleman was like the man in "Grandpa's Red Suspenders," (by Myrtle M. Dean, Second Prize Story, March 1960). I thought of how much he could have told us of old-time stories, and we never took the time to visit with him and listen. —John Alleman Hameenlinna, Finland I surely enjoy the Magazine here in Guatemala. It takes six wecks for the Magazine to get here from Salt Lake City, and I am surely grateful to my Aunt in Idaho for sending it to me as a Christmas present. The Relief Society here is small but always willing and cheerful. —Marilynne Fitzgerald de Lima Quetzaltenango, Guatemala THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Christine H. Robinson Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny S. Kienitz Edith S. Elliott Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Elizabeth B. Winters Florence J. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron LaRue H. Rosell Leone G. Layton Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt Jennie R. Scott Blanche B. Stoddard Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Alice L. Wilkinson Evon W. Peterson Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen LaPriel S. Bunker Aleine M. Young Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Marie C. Richards Josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Irene W. Buehner RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - = = - - 2 = = 2 = = - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - = - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - ~- - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 47 AUGUST 1960 NO. 8 Co ntents SPECIAL FEATURES The Sixth White House Conference on Children and Youth Marion D. Hanks 500 Alice Ludlow Wilkinson Appointed to the Genera! Board of Relief Society eae Lyman S§S. Tyler 504 — Sa... Zina Y. C. Brown 505 eee a veccseuseecesstsetsesetsesceestesseseteeeeeeeetiulda Parker 506 Handwork for Happiness (Detachable Insert) oo.... Eeecesesecescesesceceeeeccseececcesceeecceeeeeseesfollowing page 528 Handwork submitted by Irene C. Lloyd, Melba Larson, Ila C. Norton, Connie C. Madsen, Carol P. Daynes, and Norma M. Clark FICTION Orchids in the Snow — Chapter 4 a: ee Rosa Lee Lloyd 524 One of Them _ _ Betty Lou Martin 529 GENERAL FEATURES Sixty Years Ago wicccccsescsscccccecsssssssseseseseessssscesesesssscssscsesscecssssseassssosscesssecsosassecsessssesesesscasenceneneanessesssesencecenenecseseceeeers 920 Woman's Sphere ooeneeeeccececececssecessesssseseecececsenees sen Ramona W. Cannon $21 Editorial: The Value of Work... W.00000......, = Louise W. Madsen 522 Notes to the Field: The Annual Genera! Relief Socety Conference......... Ee 924 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities.. Hulda Parker 532 Birthday Congratulations. 964 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Cutting Patterns oe Evelyn Dorio 519 A Musical Hobby — Florence Bellows, 'Organist for Everything'' 531 LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER Theology — The Law of Moral Conduct an Roy W. Doxey 539 Visiting Teacher Messages — "'And Ye Must Give Thanks Unto God'' _—. Christine H. Robinson 546 Work Meeting — Manifestations of [mess. Oo.. EeeeceeecececccececececcceeseseccesececeseeceseetsescecesesMaria Johnson 548 Literature — Washington Irving, Polished Paradox oo. EeteeseccceeccseseececesesesseeeeseeeceesBriant S. Jacobs 552 Social Science — Expanding Our Religious Horizons — Part II: POETRY With Inner Balm — Frontispiece Day at Galilee.. Hasten Slowly Summer Night First Grandchild Close of Day.. Night Song in August _—Alice Morrey Bailey 497. ASylvia Probst Young 503 ——... A Roberta L. Theobald 518 Pe so snaseoe sete DieccsssssnsccvesseossassaseesresZara Sabin 523 eee vase w.... Maude Rubin 523 Soe CEOCatherine B. Bowles 547 a a. Beulah Huish Sadleir 564 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20e a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 499 From Near and Far oiieeeeeccecsececceccecccececececeecenccesccevscececeesecsessesesesceassscacesscaseaes Concepts Of Mar oie cecsecccccsscecesceccecsecscesscsseceesseesesssseceesesseneesessceseeeaces 498 Blaine M. Porter 558 The Sixth White House Conference on Children and Youth Elder Marion D. Hanks Of the First Council of Seventy [Elder Marion D. Hanks delivered one of the principal addresses on the opening day of the White House Conference on Children and Youth. —Ed.] HEN President 'Theodore W Roosevelt called the first White House Conference on Children and Youth in 1909, he initiated what has become an important tradition in the United States of America. Ivery ten years since then there has been a White House Conference concerned with the Nation's children and youth. Looking to the new decade ahead, President Eisenhower issued the call for the Sixth White House Conference to convene in Washington in March of 1960, a call responded to by every State and territory in the Nation. More than 7,600 delegates gathered in Washington at the appointed time. In addition to States and territories, there were present members and representatives of the Supreme Court, the President's Cabinet, Congress, national organizations, Government agencies, and more than 500 international guests. More than a thousand of the delegates were young people from sixteen to twenty-one, roughly the same percentage of that age group as in the Nation's population. The first White House Conference on Children and Youth fifty years ago concerned itself with dependent children. Subsequent conferences have emphasized child Page 500 welfare standards, health and_protection, children in a democracy, and children and youth at midcentury. One of the milestones in the tradition was the issuance of the well-known Children's Charter of 1930. 'This year's conference had as its objective ""T'o promote opportunities for children and youth to realize their full potential for a creative life in freedom and dignity." Whether or not this objective is realized, and to what degree, is not, of course, dependent on the meetings and speeches and reports and resolutions of the five days in Washington. Great expenditures of time and energy and effort have been made all over the United States for the past two years in local planning and preparation, and the inspiration and enthusiasm engendered by the confezence itself is just now beginning to be felt in the local communities, where alone can be accomplished the purposes of the White House Conference. The results of the research and reporting by local groups and individuals in every State and territory are available in many volumes of useful books, and are observable in the new and renewed effort being exerted in thousands of communitics in the cause of children and youth. WH House Conferences have traditionally had several purposes: To Review present conditions and circumstances affecting children and youth. To Report on the studies, findings, and recommendations of local, national and governmental groups, organizations, and agencies. To Exchange knowledge, ideas, and points of view across professional, geographic, and other special interest lines. To Evaluate progress and past performance. To Recommend action for the future. Obviously, the "resolutions" which came out of various groups in the conference are not the really important thing accomplished. It should be said that criticism against the conference on the score of unwieldiness and the nature of some of the "resolutions" adopted by some of the groups in the closing hours of the meetings is in the main not well founded. Notwithstanding the large numbers present at the conference, arrangements were so carefully and expertly programmed that every participant had more than ample opportunity for expression of his viewpoints in the many hours of small work group discussion. 'The larger "forums" and "theme assemblies" provided opportunities for the expression of varied opinion by experts and specialists, and the work groups of some fifteen to twenty-five individuals were characterized by free exchange over many hours of meeting together. While many of the "resolutions" passed by small voting groups do not represent my own viewpoint and, in fact, are directly opposite from my viewpoint and those of many others in attendance, this is not a major issue in evaluating the worth of the experience. Several nullion citizens participated in activities leading up to the conference. Millions more will be affected by the interest and enthusiasm engendered by the conference. My own experience was that the detailed and demanding preparations, the stimulus of learning and exchanging facts and ideas there, and the great challenge ahead in seeking to serve youth, together, make having attended the conference a most worthwhile and valuable experience. Members of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints were in attendance from at least seven different States, and many took leading parts in the programs. Relief Society members will be intcrested to learn that many of the Church's views about home, family, religious participation, parental responsibility and example, church and community youth programs, youth participation, and many other matters were reflected in the proceedings of the conference and in the recommendations. Utah and the Church were represented by some strong and able women who exemplified and presented our views most effectively. UBSTANTIALLY, every speaker over the five days of meetings affirmed faith in the family as the central unit and most important agency in our society, and_ proclaimed that "the integrity of the family is essential to our existence now and in the future." The conference called for "better parental example... Family discussion. Quality family relationships. Proper preparation for marriage... Family recreation. Recognition THE SIXTH WHITE HOUSE CONFERENCE ON CHILDREN AND YOUTH 501 502 of the function of the family to carry out its responsibilities to children according to the primary obligation of marriage under God... Rededication to the unchanging valucs which give meaning to life — reaffirmation of our belief in the dignity and worth of the individual, and that each child should be enabled to realize his full potentialities." Participants asked that youth "be given opportunity for leadership responsibilities — that they be given more occasions for participation in art, drama, literature, music, sports, and creative and cultural and social activities that programs for youth seek to heighten their understanding of God and their relationship to him and their fellow men.' Radio, television, magazines, and newspapers were encouraged to "'devote more space to positive accomplishments of children and youth... That emphasis on horror, crime and violence be avoided. That respect for life and people be encouraged by truthful portrayals of decency and the good in life.... And that the public make their opinions known to _ broadcasters throu gh letters respecting programs. The motion picture industry was "encouraged to produce and distribute appropriate pictures for children and youth... Not to exploit subjects such as narcotics and sexual perversion... To attempt to portray the solid majority of moral Americans faithfully." Recommendation was made during the conference that community organizations join forces to "acquaint children and youth with the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 causes of alcoholism, its effect on health, and related problems... To alert adolescents to the increasing evidence of casual relationship between smoking and lung cancer." During the conference support was heard for religious education, including released time, for greater emphasis in families on family worship and family participation in organized religious activity, and for the affirmation of the importance of personal faith in God and of moral and religious values. Interestingly, the conference called for "renewed manifestation by adult society of ethics, morality, integrity and love of fellow men, as prerequisite to effective juvenile delinquency prevention," and asked that "youth be assured by adult example of a system of definite moral and spiritual values based on religious faith, the dignity of man, and the established laws of society." The importance of work and of children being permitted to learn to work and to be taught the value of work were emphasized in the meetings. Working mothers who leave their children when they do not need to do so were criticized and the practice discouraged. There were many recommendations about education and vocational and employment opportunities, about human rights, the shifting population, about ideals and values in religion, welfare and_ health services, recreation, handicapped children, juvenile delinquency, community planning and co-ordination of responsible agencies, and on following up the information and experience acquired in conference participation and preparation. THE SIXTH WHITE HOUSE CONFERENCE ON CHILDREN AND YOUTH N summary, while there were some things said and some recommendations ultimately made with which many participants would have little or no sympathy, the overall experience was one of enjoyment and appreciation and enthusiasm. Earnest, sincerely interested adults from all over the Nation met in an honest effort to help the youth. All of those with whom I personally met in the conference were grateful and enthused with what was to be learned and with the animation and motivation available there. Perhaps one of the wonderful youngsters who attended this conference from Utah summed it up for us better than the rest of us could, when she said "This has been the greatest experience of my life. To see all these wonderful people who are so sincerely interested in serving and helping the youth. When I came here I thought I was > 503 grateful and that I loved my family and my country, but oh! I just didn't know!" Most of us came out of the conference with a strong sense of appreciation for our great heritage of principles, programs, and inspired leadership in the Church which have combined to bless us with what obviously is the very thing for which people from all over the country were secking. That a number of the members of the Church were privileged to help explain this to many of the participants provided a great missionary opportunity, perhaps second to none in its favorable circumstances and impressive form. Fathers and mothers and families in the Church have an even greatcr incentive now to provide the love and leadership and exampie which our young people need and which the solid majority of them really want. Day at Ga lilee Sylvia Probst Young On such a summer dav as this, A day of sky blue loveliness, When sunlight kissed the blue glass sea — He came to Galilee. He came when lilies blossomed fair, When breezes whispered on the air — He came with quiet, humble grace.... We looked upon his face. We saw the children at his knee, We saw him make the blind to see — The sick, the lame, the poor, oppressed By him were blessed. We heard the wondrous truths he eee We felt the gentle peace he brought. Among the favored ones were we Who found the Lord at Galilee. Alice Ludlow Wilkinson Appointed to the General (Board of Relief Society Lyman S. Tyler Director of Libraries, Brigham Young University LICE Ludlow Wilkinson was appointed to the Relief Society General Board, June 1, 1960. Over thirty vears of service have given her an abiding love for Relief Society. Born of pioneer ancestry in Spanish Fork, the eldest child of Nathaniel and Margaret Jones Ludlow, hers was the joyful life normally experienced in Latter-day Saint homes. She met Ernest LeRoy Wilkinson at Brigham Young University. After beginning their careers as teachers, they were married, August 15, 1923;; Both continued to teach in Washington, D. C., to enable Brother Wilkinson to receive his training in law. 'Theirs was the struggle experienced by countless young couples seeking higher education. 'Their eldest son was born during student years at George Washington University. Their five ania are: Dr. Ernest Ludlow, M. D., Marian (Mrs. Gordon F. Jensen), Alice Ann (Mrs. John K. Mangum), David Lawrence, and Douglas Dwight. There are nine grandchildren. During almost three decades in the Washington-New York area, the family remained close to the Church. Since student years, Alice has regularly held some Church assignment. She has had positions in the Primary, Latter-day Saint Girls Program, and the Mutual ImPage 504 ALICE L. WILKINSON provement Association. In Relief Socicty she served as ward literature class leader and counselor in New York and as ward president under three bishops in Washington, D. C. Since returning to Provo, her role as the President's wife has been filled with quiet dignity, but her warmth and devotion have endeared her to faculty and student body. When the original Brigham Young University Stake was organized, the young women welcomed Sister Wilkinson's appointment as stake Relief Society president. 'They rejoice in her new calling. LaPriel Strong Bunker Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Zina Y. C. Brown [_APRIEL Strong Bunker comes to the General Board of Relief Society with unusual qualifications. Her appointment to this position came June 1, 1960. She was born in Salt Lake City to William Hill Strong and Clara Ann Bishop, the youngest of twelve children. She was married to Bryan L. Bunker in the Salt Lake Temple on April 20, 1923. They made their home in Las Vegas, Nevada, with the exception of two years in Los Angeles, until they moved to Salt Lake City, Utah, in August 1959. Sister Bunker served as head of the Relief Society in the California Mission when her husband _presided over that mission. She had been president of the Moapa Stake Relief Society and had served previously as first counselor to two stake Relief Society presidents. She has served in class leadership in all departments of Relief Society. Her record of nearly thirty years as a visiting teacher is as remarkable as her twenty-eight years as ward and stake organist, which included her position as accompanist for the Singing Mothers. All this time given to the work of the kingdom has not barred her from being a wonderful wife and mother. Indeed, her first responsibility in this "work in the kingdom" has been to her noble companion and their seven sons, with whom this marriage was blessed. Three of these sons died in infancy. LAPRIEL S. BUNKER The eldest son, Bryan Allen, was graduated from the University of Utah. He married Merle Tietjen. Douglas Rich married Carol Rae Brown. He is receiving his Doctorate from Harvard University this summer. Garry, the third son, who is working on his Master's degree at Brigham Young University, martied Carolyn Marie Brown. David Sterling, the youngest, will enter the B. Y. U. This fall. Sister Bunker is truly all that the ideal Latter-day Saint woman should be. Her cheerful and buoyant spirit radiates love and good will wherever she goes. She is beloved by her husband, sons, daughters-inlaw, and her eleven grandchildren. Page 505 Tlarie Curtis Richards Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Hulda Parker General Secretary-Treasurer, Relicf Society MARIE C. RICHARDS MARIE Curtis Richards, appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, June 1, 1960, responds humbly to this new calling with a rich background of traming and of service and leadership in the Church. As a daughter of Lydia Badham Curtis and Heber Willis Curtis, she was born in Salt Lake City, but her childhood and school days were spent in Long Beach, California, where she graduated from the Long Beach Junior College, majoring in law and secretarial work. Sister Richards has a fervent testimony of the gospel and is a diligent Church worker. These qualities, she feels, are partially attributable to her noble heritage stemming from her Page 506 great-grandparents, converts to the Church, who lived in a small suburb of London, England. In the early days of the Church there, they accepted the gospel and, in order that their posterity could have a heritage near the heart of the Church, they sent their oldest and youngest sons (the latter Marie's grandfather, then just six years of age), to America with the missionarics. Her service in the Church has included a mission in the Eastern States Mission, secretary and guide at the Bureau of Information at Hill Cumorah, ward Y. W. M. L. A. President, secretary to the stake Girls Committee, and stake Junior Gleaner leader. Prior to her marriage, she worked as a legal secretary, as secretary to Elder John D. Giles, former business manager of The Improvement Era, and, later, as editorial secretary of The Instructor. Sister Richards was married in the Salt Lake Temple, July 1952, to M. Ross Richards. In February 1955, he was called to preside over the East Central States Mission, where he and Sister Richards have been serving for the past five years. As mission Relief Society president, Sister Richards won the love and respect of the members of this mission, and under her leadership commendable progress was made in the work of Relief Society. With a continued desire to serve the Lord with all her heart and soul, she will give freely of her talents and abilities in her new calling to further the work of Relief Society. rene Williams Buehner Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Conrad Harrison Member, Parleys Stake High Council RENE Williams Buehner was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, June 1, 1960, marking a new climax in her life of devoted service to the Church. Sister Buehner was born in Salt Lake City to Ben and Minnie Madsen Williams, who today live not far from the Buehner residence in Parleys Stake. The new board member graduated from the L. D. S. High School and Business College and attended the University of Utah for three years, with Home Economics as her principal study. She left school upon her marriage to Paul Buehner, May 29, 1935, in the Salt Lake Temple. Together they have created a warm and spiritual home for their five children, two of them now marricd and the mothers of the Buehners' five grandchildren. Linda is married to Grant IX. Marsh, and Joan (Penny) to Taylor S. Merrill, both of Salt Lake City. 'Timothy, who filled a mission to Samoa, Paul, and Carolyn are still at home. Sister Buehner brings a wealth of experience to her new assignment. For the past several years she has served in the Volunteer Auxiliary of the L. D. S. Hospital in Salt Lake City. She was president of the latter organization in 1959-60. Following the example of her mother and two grandmothers, Sister Buehner has dedicated a great share of her time to the Relief Society program. She taught the IRENE W. BUEHNER visiting teacher Icssons and_ later served as secretary and then counselor in the Relief Society presidency of Parleys Ward, where she now resides. Her wonderful influence also has been felt by the young people in her service as an officer and teacher in M. I. A. And as a teacher in Primary and Sunday School. To go with her many capabilities, Sister Buchner possesses a bright, sweet spirit, a deep humility, and a full and abiding testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Her warmth and wholesomeness, plus her genuine and sincere love for the Relief Society program, are among other possessions which will make her a valued General Board member. Page 507 History Turns Back Its Pages THE BEE HIVE HOUSE RESTORED Part II Helen Young Spencer Williams Secrctary, Bee Hive Iouse Restoration Committee "THE Bee Hive House was built and its architecture picturesque, a to stand for a hundred years. Landmark in the history and culture Its foundations firm, its walls solid, of Utah. Photograph Courtesy Connie Young Dorton BRIGHAM YOUNG AND MARY ANN ANGELL YOUNG AND THEIR FAMILY Standing at the back, left to right: Joseph Angell Young; Brigham Young, Jr., and Mary Ann (twins). In front, with her father, Brigham Young, Luna; Alice; John Willard, sitting on his mother's lap. Mary Ann Angell Young and her family lived in the Bee Hive House from 1854 to 1860.; The orginal painting for this photograph was made in Nauvoo, Illinois. Page 508 HISTORY TURNS BACK ITS PAGES cas i TN er IES A I, LUCY ANN DECKER YOUNG Wife of Brigham Young, who lived with her children in the Bee Hive House from 1860 to 1888. The Bee Hive House was first occupied by Mary Ann Angell Young, wife of President Young and the mother of a large family, all of whom were born before coming to Utah. She was always known as Mother Young to the rest of the families and was loved and revered by them. She and her family lived in the Bee Hive House from 1854 to 1860. Then, in 1860, Lucy Ann Decker Young moved into the Bee Hive House with her family, and Mary Ann took her residence in a home known as the "White House" which stood where the Elks Club is located now at 139 East South Temple Street. Lucy Ann, with her children, lived in the Bee Hive House until 1888. It was then that 509 she failed in health and sold the Bee Hive House to John W. Young, a son of President Young and Mary Ann Angell Young. President Brigham Young passed away in 1877. It was not until the home was sold to John W. Young that any major changes were made in the original plans of the house. He added a large rear wing. The front hallway was changed, and beautiful oak paneling replaced the quaint, old painted marble squares. 'The original spiral staircase which went from the door of the sitting room up the east wall to the third floor was removed, and a handsome oak staircase with a square landing, elegant carved railings, and newel posts with beautiful lamps were installed on the west side of the hall. Many other changes were made, as the house was remodeled throughout. A roof was added to the upper original open porch. Some partitions were removed and_ others added. The quaint old Lady Franklin stoves were replaced by handsome stone fireplaces and mirrors were placed over the ornate mantels. The original Brigham Young mantels were made of wood, simply carved, then painted to match the woodwork. A large formal dining room was added directly north of the downstairs sitting and sewing room. The woodwork was changed throughout from the painted grained pine to resemble walnut. The sixteen-foot ceilings were lowered, the narrow doorways widened and heightened, and sliding doors replaced the small original hinged ones that were of colonial design. With elegant furnishings, beautiful crystal chandeliers, and steam 510 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW Both of these Presidents of the Church lived in the Bee Hive House heated radiators, the interior of the house became transformed. 'The original small-paned windows were changed to large flat glass ones. 'The quaint old green shutters which opened back against the outside yellow walls were removed. In this beautiful remodeled mansion several prominent families, from time to time, lived after the time of John W. Young. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints eventually purchased the Bee Hive House as its official residence for the Presidents of the Church. President Lorenzo Snow lived there only a short time, then President Joseph F. Smith moved into the Bee Hive House and lived there with his wonderful family for nineteen years. President John Taylor and his family resided in the Gardo House across the street from the Bee Hive House. 'This PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH residence had also been purchased by the Church. What a superb environment for a growing family was the Bee Hive House, with beautifully furnished rooms and long halls, front stairs and back stairs, bedrooms and closets to romp through. Such a home for parties of all kinds, attics for hide-and-seek games, and lovely, spacious rooms for ideal family living. There were wide lawns and gardens to enjoy and in which to play. The families of the beloved Joseph F. Smith, as well as the friends of their children, have wonderful memories of the Bee Hive House. It was much more than an official residence — it was home to all who ever resided there. PRESIDENT Joseph F. Smith was the last President of the Church to use the Bee Hive House HISTORY TURNS BACK ITS PAGES as his official home. For some years after he and his family moved, the house stood vacant. After standing unoccupied for many years, it was then assigned to serve as a home for out-of-town girls under the direction of the Y. W. M. LA. Hundreds of different girls over a period of years lived in the Bee Hive House under the supervision and direction of motherly, capable women who made it a home away from home for girls who came into the city as strangers seeking employment until they acquired permanent housing. Many people expressed the feeling that as a girl's home it was a living monument to the early pioneers. The Y. W. M. LA. Presidency always 511 maintained the Bee Hive House beautifully and efficiently. The United States Government, in 1937, named the Bee Hive House in Salt Lake City, Utah, as a national shrine, so designated by the Historic American Buildings Survey under the supervision of the National Parks Service. An_ official plaque denoting this distinctive honor was placed in the Bee Hive House. The architectural plans of the Bee Hive House, at this time, were placed in the Library of Congress. In July 1959, the Presiding Bishopric, Joseph L. Wirthlin, Thorpe B. Isaacson, and Carl W. Buehner, with the authorization of President Courtesy Don Carlos Young, Jr. THE EAST SIDE OF THE BEE HIVE HOUSE Note the long veranda on the second story and the Bee Hive on top of the house. This photograph shows the nine-foot cobble rock wall after it had been lowered. John W. Young made extensive changes both in the interior of the house and on the grounds. 512 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 Boyart Studio THE FIRST PRESIDENCY OF THE CHURCIT AUTHORIZED THE RESTORATION OF THE BEE HIVE HOUSE Left to nght: President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., First Counselor; President David O. Mckay; President Henry D. Moyle, Second Counselor. David O. McKay and his counselors, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. And President Henry D. Moyle, decided to restore the Bee Hive House as it was from 1854, when it was built, until 1877 when President Brigham Young passed away. HE committee called to undertake the restoration of the Bee Hive House was comprised of Don Carlos Young, American Institute of Architects, as chairman; with George Cannon Young, Fellow American Institute of Architects, as supervising architect; Georgius Young Cannon, American Institute of Architects and American Institute of Decorators, supervising architect in charge of construction and interior decorating; Helen Young Spencer Williams as _secretary, and Gwen Young Wilcox, antiquarian and researcher. During those early meetings, in July of 1959, the Bee Hive House Restoration Committee made the decision, with the approval of the Presiding Bishopric and the First Presidency, that the restoration of the Bee Hive House would be done as authentically and as beautifully as possible. With this as the premise, the work has gone forward. Through research and through the unearthing and_ substantiation of evidence found, by tearing out and finding the original materials, such as the kinds of wood, adobes, stone, paint, etc., and the finding of imprints as to where doors, stairs, walls, and windows were placed originally, the house is now being rebuilt and restored as it was originally. Manuscripts written by Clarissa Young Spencer, daughter of Lucy Ann Decker Young and President Young, who lived in the Bee Hive House from the age of four years until six and one-half years after her marriage, have proved invaluable. These articles, written for her HISTORY TURNS BACK ITS PAGES children for their Treasures of Truth books, describe in detail the architecture of the house, its exact furnishings, the surrounding gardens and grounds. These detailed articles must have been written with inspiration, for they have been a key to the research. Changes and remodeling have been made according to her writings only as they have been authenticated with actual evidence, and through research. For example, her description of the spiral staircase on the east side of the front wall, proved to be exact when the original detailed drawings made in 1853 by Truman O. Angell, the architect, were found. These drawCourtesy Deseret News 513 ings showed every detail and dimension of the staircase, railings, and newel posts. Walls and ceiling heights, as described by Sister Spencer, were found to be exact. When the many, many coats of paint and plaster were removed from the walls, the old adobes came to view, and the imprints of the original doorways were indelibly marked. Also, partition marks were revealed, showing the exact dimensions of the various rooms. When the lowered ceiling in the front hall was removed, the doorbell described in Part I of this article was found. Gallons and gallons of paint remover have been used, and the original THE PRESIDING BISHOPRIC OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Under whose direction the historic Bee Hive House is being restored. Left to right: Bishop Thorpe B. Isaacson; Bishop Carl W. Buehncr; Presiding Bishop Joseph L. Wirthlin. 514 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE FOR THE RESTORATION OF THE BEE HIVE HOUSE Top picture, left to right: Don Carlos Young, Jr., American Institute of Architects, Chairman; George Cannon Young, Fellow, American Institute of Architects, Supervising Architect; Georgius Young Cannon, American Institute of Architects and American Institute of Decorators, Supervising Architect in charge of construction and interior decorating. Lower, left to right: Gwen Young Wilcox, Antiquarian and Researcher; Helen Young Spencer Williams, Secretary. Colors of the walls and moldings, so tic as possible. Many construction described, have been found. Samples problems had to be taken into of these colors have all been taken consideration for the safety and will be reproduced after new security of the building. Plastering is done throughout. 'The Bee Hive House, when the restoraHE floors will be replaced with tion is completed, will be as authenoriginal pine or fir. 'The front HISTORY TURNS BACK ITS PAGES part of the house and the office once again will be exactly as President Brigham Young had them. The large room directly back of the downstairs sitting room which was added by John W. Young, the large back hall, and the two rooms upstairs added by John W. Young will be restored in their period with original furniture from the Gardo House. John A. Spencer, Jr. Universal Microfilm Co. Donated by members of the John F. Bennett family. CRANBERRY GLASS COAL-OIL LAMP This was the house built for entertaining across the street from the Bee Hive House, and which was later called the Amelia Palace. John W. Young had exquisite mid-Victorian furnishings. With the many original pieces of furniture from the 515 Universal Microfilm Co. CLARISSA HAMILTON YOUNG SPENCER AS A CHILD Born July 23, 1860 - Married January 19, 1882 From the time she was a baby until she had been married six and a half years, Clarissa lived in the Bee Hive House. Her descriptive manuscripts of the memories of her life in the Bee Hive House have been a guide in the restoration of this historic old home. These memoirs were written for her children's "Treasures of Truth" books. Gardo House, with cornices, draperies, and carpets authentic to the period, these rooms which were added by John W. Young when he remodeled will be evidence of the period in which he lived. Many fixtures and original Bee Hive House pieces of furniture have already been acquired. These articles have been located in places and ways that have been remarkable and 516 John A. Spencer, Jr. Universal Microfilm Co. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 AUTHENTIC FURNITURE FROM THE GARDO HOUSE WHICH WAS BUILT BY PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG FOR SOCIAL FUNCTIONS AND ENTERTAINING inspirational. Samples of the original fabrics which covered the chairs have been found. Some were folded, wrapped in tissue paper, labeled in handwriting, and dated. Many people who have been made aware of the restoration of this lovely old home have donated generously. The finding of one article has also led to the location of others. Every gift received, every article purchased, has been acknowledged with a legal document, with the explanation that the names of the donors will not be attached to the articles given, because, when the house is finished, it is the hope of the committee that the house will give the appearance that a family and notable persons lived there. Those who have so donated, or sold some of their cherished possessions, seem to have caught the spirit of the endeavor and do not desire recognition for their gifts, but sincerely wish to help create the atmosphere of a home lived in and loved by President Brigham Young. The old store which was such an integral part of the Brigham Young home will once again be established. The same glass candy jars which filled the shelves have been found, as have many other articles that HISTORY TURNS BACK ITS PAGES once were there. Old time calicoes, laces, buttons, embroideries, and thread will line the shelves. HE heating and lighting systems through the office and house will be concealed. The illusion that the heat comes from the Lady Franklin stoves standing in front of the replicas of the original mantels, and the light, from the old pull down coal-oil lamps, will not be destroyed by modern fixtures. However, in the John W. Young rooms, which are being restored as he had them, the radiators which he installed will once again be put in place. One of the original Bee Hive House mantels of 1853 has been found and will be copied for placement throughout the home, for it was in front of these old wooden mantels that the Lady Franklin stoves stood. The outside grounds, with their rose and grape arbors and gardens, the flagstone veranda, the carriage drives, the fruit trees, and the oldfashioned flowers, as well as the old pump, will be replaced as nearly as possible. The wide green lawns and gardens and Bee Hive House grounds, however, have necessarily been greatly reduced for the convenience of modern traffic, in the name of progress, and for this reason the garden cannot be restored to its original size. Fifteen rooms will be restored with the furnishings and belongings typical of the original period from 1853 to 1877. Dishes, utensils, lamps, curtains, and carpets will again furnish the rooms. Dolls and toys and children's little chairs will be placed as if the little ones had 517 just left their play when called to supper, to prayers, and bed. Coverlets, Kensington tapestries, and many exquisite wall hangings, along with many other personal and authentic objects, will create the feeling that the families still live there and love the rooms. It is the sincere hope of the committee and the Presiding Bishopric, under whose direction this restoration has been made, that when the Bee Hive House is opened for the public to enjoy and visit, that the spirit of those who lived in the rooms may be felt, and that the atmosphere of wholesome family life of those who worked and played in the gardens and the house will be present. Zes Photograph by John A. Spencer, Jr. Courtesy Rehan Spencer West to the Bee Hive Restoration ORIGINAL KENSINGTON TAPESTRY WHICH HUNG IN THE BEE HIVE HOUSE This tapestry was presented to President Brigham Young as a gift of appreciation by the woman who made it. She was stranded with her family, on the way to California during the Gold Rush days, and was given lodging and provisions by President Young. The size of the tapestry is three by four feet. John A. Spencer, Jr. ORIGINAL PIONEER TOYS "One cannot escape history." The corded the history of the family life, Bee Hive House stands today after the spirituality, education, and culone hundred years as a monument. Ture of the early period of pioncer Within its walls and rooms is relife in the Great Salt Lake Valley. Flasten Slowly Roberta L. Theobald Hasten slowly, time. Let happiness wing to me quickly, Scttle softly, And linger long, oblivious of time. Let the midmorning blasts Mark time For progress and industry, But for the filaments of the heart, Nasten slowly, time. 518 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 Cuttin g Patterns Evelyn Dorio OR several years I had in my rose garden a small bush that produced only a few clusters of lack-luster roses each spring and then, for the remainder of the season, tried to grow long octopus-like branches over the wall behind it. All summer long as I trimmed off those useless branches, I'd say, "What an odd bush this is! A kind of garden non-conformist, it never amounts to anything, and it's so different from those other rosebushes that reward me with blossoms far into the fall. One of these days Yl just dig this useless plant up and replace it with a real bloomer." But last spring, when I did the yearly pruning, it occurred to me that perhaps this sprawling rose was really at heart, a climbing rose. Well, if it wants to climb, I decided, I'll let it climb and see what happens. Instead of pruning off the canes, I mercly pruned alongside their entire length, set up a trellis behind the main stem, and waited. Soon as the air warmed, the plant began to send out shoots in all directions, and before long they had reached beyond the trellis, to the edge of the wall, and even peeked over it. So lush was the leaf growth that it was almost blooming season before I noticed the dozens of scattered bud-clusters. But when those buds opened, the entire wall became transformed into an interior decorator's tich design of rose-patterned wallpaper! 'The canes were sturdy, the leaves glossy, as if varnished, and the blossoms, ripe-red. Except for the original root stem, the plant had no resemblance to the old bush rose. GOMETIMES, do we try to force human climbing roses into bush roses? Do we try to prune personalities into a pattern we have cut for them? Now if only that Mr. Gregg would have the same political beliefs I have. And if my neighbors' tastes and opinions agreed with mine, how much better they'd be! Or if Mr. Beach were just a bit more generous; or somebody were taller or shorter or different — to fit our pattern! There we go, pruning away at personalities! Perhaps we do this with our children, too. Johnny simply has to sing in the choir, because Grandpa did so all his life; Dick has to be mechanically minded, because it's handy for a boy in today's world; Sally has to be an "A" student, because we are happier and more proud if she is. Pruning away, pruning away at a child's basic personality, often removing the child's best growth, sometimes denying a youngster the fulfillment of being a climbing rose by cutting him down to a below-grade stunted bush rose! When we are willing to allow people to be themselves — their best selves — we have taken a forward step in our own growth and understanding. And, in addition, we have allowed others the right to turn their vitality into beauty and usefulness, and to grow and bloom according to their own inner potential. Both bush roses and climbing roses are necded to beautify the garden in their own ways. No individual can cut a pattern for another nor has he that right. Page 519 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, August 1, and August 15, 1900 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL Nations" A BRAVE WOMAN: There is no braver woman whose home is in the Capital City than Mrs. Peary, the wife of the arctic explorer. Mrs. Peary left her Washington home and sailed on the relief ship Windward in the middle of July to Etaw, Greenland, where, according to previous arrangements, if all went well, she is to meet her husband some time in August. Should she not find him there awaiting her she may come to the conclusion that he is not alive, but has perished in his latest attempt to reach the North Pole, for no tidings have come back from Greenland of any recent signs of Lieutenant Peary, and it is recorded that last winter was one of the severest ever known in the Arctic circle. Mrs. Peary is a woman of intrepid bravery and undying devotion. WOMEN IN EDUCATION: Miss Permeal French, State Superintendent of Public Instruction of Idaho, has been nominated for a second term on the Democratic and the Populist tickets. Miss Jessie Reilly has been nominated for the office by the Republicans. QUEEN VICTORIA: One is apt to fancy that the British Queen at home would be handsomely dressed, but such is not the case, for she... Is simply attired in a black dress, not always of silk, and wears a widow's cap with small lappets at the back, her silver hair plainly brushed on either side of her temples. Upon her fingers are plain memorial rings, and she invariably wears a bracelet having the portrait of her latest grandchild placed in it as a medallion. 'The Queen always has a handkerchief bordered with lace resting in her hands as they lie folded in her lap, the survival of an ancient fashion. A THREAD OF THOUGHT... Well! Here we are, my sisters, In the classes we came to fill; Learning our daily lessons, Doing our Father's will. He will clasp our hands with welcom When the mystic veil is drawn, And as conquerors we enter, Where we hailed the first Great Dawn. —L. L. Greene Richards ST. JOSEPH (ARIZONA) STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: | President Elizabeth Layton made opening remarks in which she expressed her appreciation of the attendance... Urged the presidents to see to it that their secretaries were alive to their duties, and portrayed the importance of each report being correct. Stake Aid Elizabeth Moody felt that we were greatly blessed by having our grain and fruit farms matured. Spoke to the sisters about dryimg and canning fruit and making it secure from moth that it might be kept for a time of scarcity.... Stake Counselor Adelia Curtis advised the sisters to study the articles of organization. Be generous and charitable towards each other and perform our every duty.... —Sarah Webb, Sec. Page 520 HE American woman has been honored by a new commemorative postage stamp issued in June 1960. 'The four-cent stamp depicts a mother and a young girl with an open book before them, "symbolizing women in the home." WO women have recently been appointed to positions of responsibility by Governor William Quinn of Hawaii. Mary Noonan has been appointed Director of the State Department of Social Services, and Rhoda V. Lewis was appointed to a judgeship in the State Supreme Court. ERTRUDE SUN, Taipei, Taiwan (Formosa), is sales representative for Northwest Orient Airlines in Taipei. On a recent visit to the United States, Miss Sun stated that the women of Formosa are entering many fields of employment and service formerly not open to Chinese women. Among these are medicine, business, journalism, and politics. HRISTIE LUND COLES, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, tied for first prize in a recent contest sponsored by the National Federation of Poetry Societies for a poem on an American poet. The subject of Mrs. Coles' entry was Edna St. Vincent Millay. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon OTH the National Democratic Committee and the National Republican Committee have recommended that women have equal representation with men on all major national convention committees. Mrs. Katie Louchheim is vice-chairman of the Democratic Committee and Mrs. Clare Williams is assistant Republican National chairman. 'T'o include women on all national policy-making levels would give to American women more influence and more responsibility. RS. BLANCHE STUART SCOTT, a diminutive, grayhaired, still-active air pilot of sixtyseven, became America's first woman pilot fifty years ago, at the age of seventeen. She says there are 4,900 trained women pilots in the United States and adds that women have set many altitude, distance, and endurance records and have proved their excellence as pilots for both private firms and the Government. BLANCHE KNOPF is the business associate as well as the wife of Alfred A. Knopf, considered by many as America's most eminent publisher (Alfred A. Knopf Publishing Company). After forty-five years of publishing as an independent company, the Knopfs are now merging with Random House. Page 521 EDITORIAL c~©2 VOL. 47 The Value of Work T is a wise person who accepts the will of the Lord and builds his life upon that acceptance. It is the will of the Lord that his children work. From the beginning when Adam and Eve were cast out of the Garden of Eden he decreed that "By the sweat of thy face shalt thou cat bread, until thou shalt return unto the ground..." (Moses 4:25). And so it has been and so it will continue for all time. The need to work and the blessings of work are ever present. "... I believe that we are here to work, and I believe there is no escape from it. I think that we cannot get that thought into our souls and into our beings too soon. Work we must, if we shall succeed or if we shall advance. There is no other way" (PRESIDENT J. REUBEN Crark, JR. —From an address delivered at B. Y. U. Assembly, May 25, 1960) Work is not a condemnation nor a harsh, unhappy provision by which to live, rather, it is commanded as a means for making fuller use of the span of time cach enjoys in this world. Creative, fulfilling, satisfying work is the discipline which trains, molds, and perfects. Usually work proves to be a blessing. It is a therapy in time of sorrow and has a calming influence upon agitated spirits. Nothing produces greater inner satisfaction than work well done. As work is a commandment and a blessing, so its opposites, idleness Page 522 and indolence, are sinful' Our grandparents used to quote the old adage, "An idle mind is the devil's workshop." Idle hands readily get into mischief. Certainly few things cause so much dissatisfaction and unhappiness and are so dulling to the incentive to be creative as unproductive idleness. Paul admonished the Ephesians (Eph. 4:1) to. Walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called." What is the worthy work of mothers? Are not homemaking and housekeeping the vocation to which they are called? From whence can Latter-day Saint women receive help in walking worthy of this vocation? Relief Society was organized for this purpose as well as for service and other educational purposes. How right it is, then, that one of the meetings of Relief Society be a work meeting. 'The value of work mecting to the sisters must be judged by the help it gives in making them more efficient homemakers, in magnifying their appreciation of this vocation, and in enhancing their pride in a beautifully managed home. If work meeting is to live up to its name, the sisters attending must, through it, increase their abilities in the art and skill required in making homes happier and more attractive. Certainly wisdom must guide the officers and leaders of Relief Society in the choice of activities. Time should not be wasted on AUGUST 1960 NO. 8 EDITORIAL activities or the making of articles unworthy of the time and talents of the sisters. Sometimes the search for something new and different to do clouds the judgment of the worth of the article produced. In some instances, in the effort to save money, precious time is spent on articles of little value just because they do not cost much to make. Greatest emphasis needs to be placed on the basic sewing and homemaking skills. All of the purposes in work, however, are not simply for oneself or one's husband and children. 'They also encompass services to others. Work meeting provides an oppor- —_, 523 tunity to give this service. Most Relief Societies have reason to be proud of the fact that their most beautiful sewing is that which is produced for the welfare of the less fortunate by sisters who are grateful for the opportunity to serve. In short, Relief Society work meetings should help Latter-day Saint women become as the virtuous woman described in Proverbs, who "worketh willingly with her hands," and "... Looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness" (Proverbs 31:13, 27). —L. W. M. Samer Tight Zara Sabin Wisps of wool sail siiently In a sea of cerulean blue; A silver moon spreads her silken scarf Over hill and valley, too. Far off, we hear a night-bird's cry And stars lean out of the sky. <i —<rSirst G randchild Maude Rubin Her head bends over muslin, pink and blue, As thoughtfully as though this were the first Small quilt she ever made; and softly new These time-repeated lullabies that burst Through dreams to mind, to lips.... Her voice serene, "My Joan will have her baby soon," she says. Her needle flashes silver out and in, Small stitches counting out their thousand ways To puff small patterned buds, embossed and soft. For though exactitude of new machines May make facsimilies of quilting-craft, This quilt is special. 'Tenderly she leans Closer to see pink petals burst to bloom — Then whispers, "Soon now!" Wonder fills the room. Yotes TO THE FIELD She Annual General Reliof Society Conference ue Annual General Relief Socicty Conference will be held Wednesday and 'Thursday, October 5th and 6th, 1960. The general session will be held on Wednesday, October sth from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle. It is suggested that ward Relief Society. Presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards the general session of the conference to which the day morning, October 5th, from io to 12 in the Tabernacle, and the departmental meetings to be held Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, October 6th, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, October sth from 7 to 10 in The Relief Society Building. A <> Orchids in the Snow CHAPTER 4 Rosa Lee Lloyd Synopsis: Sharon and Sam Wynter, sent it air express," newlyweds, on their way to Fairbanks, "Nama Sharry said. Alaska, meet Angus McI* arland, a w idower from Bristol Bay in the Aleutian Islands. In Anchorage they are introduced to MeFarland's daughter Marie, and also to Susan Elge of Bristol Bay who has brought her husband Herman. To Anchorage for an operation. Arriving in Fairbanks, Sharon meets Sister Jensen, President of the branch Relief Society, who shows them her log cabin that is for rent. The cabin one week later. Rachel Jensen stood in_ the doorway, looking from one corner Sec and Sam moved into to the other with a kindly, satisfied smile. "It's a miracle," she said. "As though someone had touched a magic wand. Only I know how hard you two have worked. Where did you get that lounge cover? Lve never seen a crazy quilt look so elegant before." Page 524 "She thought it was worth a little extra postage to get it here for our first day in the cabin. Mama is like that. She knows just when to give and when to save." "It brightens the whole place," Sister Jensen said. "It's just perfect with these pale green walls and the black lacquered furniture. I haven't seen a quilt like this for years. I had forgotten how unique they are." She touched the colorful triangles of fabric feather-stitched together with pale blue twist. "My grandmother designed it," Sharry explained. "Mama and Aunt Jewel helped her. Every piece is a memory. This cream-colored brocade was Mama's wedding dress — this heavy white linen piece was Aunt Jewel's first nursing cap. The red velvet was my first formal — it was such a darling dress — an¢ general public is invited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednes- ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW here's Kenny's Scout shirt and Daddy's blue striped tie...." Her voice trembled and she bit her lip. "Tm ashamed now that I see it's such a colorful treasure — I really didn't appreciate how much. Love aud effort went into it when I was growing up. I thought it was outof-date — sort of old-fashioned." Sister Jensen nodded. "T know, dear. Sometimes we're so close to all the really precious things of life we take them for granted. But we must learn to appreciate every little thing as we go along. Each day I ask God to help me see the beauty all around me, not to waste my time wishing for something different. I refuse to be a woman who wishes her life away. There's plenty to be done right where the Lord has placed us.' She stood up, smoothing her fresh linen dress. "This is my visiting day, Sharry. Will you come with me?" "There's so much to do here," Sharry objected. "Maybe next week," "A change will do you good," Sister Jensen said. "You and Sam have worked like beavers — scrubbing, painting, patching cracks. I'm so proud of you. I want you to meet the people in the branch who are shut-ins. We can spare an hour or two for them." "But dinner!" Sharry protested. "T have to build a fire in the range. Sam gets so hungry." "Have dinner with Oscar and me," she coaxed. "I planned on it. Oscar brought a roast home — a real beef pot roast. He knows you aren't used to our wild game yet." Sharry smiled, "You've been so nice to us," she said. "I told Mama 525 in my last letter how much you have helped me and encouraged me. I'm so truly grateful to you. I couldn't stay out here alone all day if I didn't know you were in the house across the bridge." "We help each other," she answered gently. "Iam lonely for my daughter. Having you and Sam here has been a blessing." Sharry looked at the clock on the shelf above the old rock fireplace. Almost noon. "TIL fix us a sandwich," "Then we'll go." she said. ISTER Jensen's car was a bright salmon pink with a white top. Sharry was delighted with it. "T told Oscar I wanted something gay,' she laughed as they drove away. "He agreed with me. ['m so fond of color. Look at the flowers, Sharry. Everything is in bloom this time of year. Flowers and vegetables of all kinds — even lettuce and radishes. We really have to make hay while the sun shines in this country. There isn't a moment to lose in June or July. We preserve and can and store away carrots, parsnips, and potatoes. It's our busy time." "But the winter," Sharry said. "I dread the winter when there isn't any sunshine. How can you live in the long darkness?" Sister Jensen didn't answer. She was busy parking the car in front of a little frame house. Most of the houses in Fairbanks were frame and small, Sharry had noticed. "This is where the Billings live," Sister Jensen said as she rang the doorbell. "You'll like Mary Billings." Minutes went by before the door was opened by a slender, fragile- 526 looking woman with the loveliest hair Sharry had ever seen. It was a white cloud around her face. "Is it Rachel?" she asked. "T've been hoping you would come today, Rachel. Come in." "T've brought a friend,' Rachel said. "Sharon Wynter, the little bride who is living in our cabin." "The bride!" Sister Billings said as she led the way carefully into the living room. "Tell me, Rachel, what does she look like. Describe her for me. I want to know everything." Sharry caught her breath. Mary Billings was blind! "Well now," Sister Jensen laughed as she sat down in a rocker opposite Sharry. "She's not very tall, Mary. About five three, I'd say. Her measurements might be twenty-three, thirty-two, thirty-five. Her hair is black and her eyes are brown. She has a sweet mouth — especially when she smiles. I like her smile — it's like a light turned on." Sharry's lips curved. Was Rachel going to mention that she pouted, too? "How is she dressed?" Mary wanted to know. "In a blue linen skirt and a white blouse," Rachel answered. "No sweater!" Mary exclaimed. "She'll freeze, even if it is June. You take a sweater with you, Sharon. Wherever you go in this country you need a sweater. The least breeze brings the bitter cold off the glaciers. Oh, Rachel, I was thinking today about Ada Hammond's garden. She took me over there yesterday. Her yard is a picture. I did enjoy it." Sharry and Rachel looked at each other. Mary spoke as if she had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 actually seen the garden. She went on, "Ada has a Talisman rose her niece sent air express from Portland. She planted it on the sunny side of her porch. And those bulbs she planted last year have bloomed on each side of the path, red and yellow. I love the summer with the fresh leafy smell of growing things. 'The air is so rich with flavor of beauty you can almost sip it." THERE was a breathless pause. "You know me, Rachel," Mary said at last. "I love the winter, too. The frosty air has a certain tang you can't find anywhere else in the world. As I told my husband George, life is so interesting." Mary turned in her chair so she could face Sharry. "Tell me about yourself," she said. "What have you done to that old cabin?" Sharry described everything in detail so Mary could picture it. "My husband is a mining engineer," she added. "He is always looking for pretty rocks and stones; even pebbles under water interest him. So last night he built a corner cabinet, then he lacquered it black like the table and chairs. It's real attractive. My mother sent a beautiful old quilt to cover the lounge. It's quite colorful." "T'm sure it is!" Mary agreed. "I can imagine how pretty it is. As soon as George has time we'll be over. But carpenters like George are really busy with all the building that's going on. They work night and day this time of year." "We'll love to have you," Sharry said. "Anytime." When she and Rachel were back in the car, Sharry asked wondering- ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW ly, "How does she keep so cheerful and so interesting when she can't see a thing?" "She sees with her soul and her heart," Rachel answered. "She even secs more than the rest of us do because she is so aware of everything and so appreciative of life itself. That's why I wanted you to mect her before I answered your question about our long winters. Everyone goes through a long winter one way or another. Mary has overcome hers in a wonderful way." "She talks like a poet," Sharry murmured. "I love to listen to her. How long has she lived in Alaska?" "She came here as a girl," Rachel answered. "About thirty years ago, I guess. She taught school in a little place way up north of here where the gas fields are now. Then she met George Billings, a young carpenter. After their marriage they traveled with a building crew from one end of Alaska to another. They were in that awful fire outside of Anchorage, in the wooded section; the one where smoke was a dark blanket for miles and lingered for almost a year. There are still traces of it. Engineers were called in to protect the mines. Mary and George were there. She went out to help the injured while George was fighting fire. She was caught in a dynamite explosion. Her sight was destroyed." Rachel drew a long breath. "There isn't anyone I admire more than Mary Billings," she continued in a low voice. "She is a light that shines for everyone who knows her. Living in Alaska is not easy for anyone. Women here must be spiritually strong and bravely courageous, as all pioneers have been, and must always be. 527 They are the women who have faith enough to look for orchids in the snow." Sharry couldn't speak because of the lump in her throat. Was she the kind of woman who could live in Alaska, she asked herself, or was she secretly planning to ask Sam not to sign his contract in the spring? GHE bent her head because she could not meet Rachel Jensen's eyes. "T want you to see this house." Rachel parked the car in front of a half-finished brick house. They got out of the car and picked their way across the tumbly yard. Building debris was heaped in forsaken piles; bricks, piles of sand, even boxes of window panes. "This place bothers me," Rachel said. "I wish they would get the estate settled so they could sell it. So many people need a home. This one is extra nice because it's brick. Most of our homes are frame, but Milly Cartwright wanted a_ brick home. Fred had promised her one when they came to Fairbanks from Denver. He was coach at the University before the accident this spring on Harding Lake. The whole family was drowned. Milly and Fred and their three little girls!" "How terrible!" Sharry gasped, staring at the half-completed house, a symbol of broken lives. Rachel said, "Everyone in Fairbanks will be happy when this house is finished and people are living in it. It was meant for a happy family." There must be hundreds of people who would buy it," Sharry said. "Who owns it now?" Rachel's brows drew together. "Ym not sure," she said. "There 528 is some legal controversy because there isn't a will. Let's go in. I want you to see it. Milly had such good taste and unusual ideas about a house." It was very different from other homes Sharry had seen in Fairbanks. "This is where the picture window will be," Rachel explained. "Milly loved to watch the mountains and the sky in wintertime. There is a lovely deep blue haunting magic in the morning. It doesn't get really dark until after three in the afternoon. Even then it's beautiful. Milly loved it after she got used to it. She wanted a double fireplace, right here, between this long living room and the den, one on each side of this brick partition. The kitchen and dinette were planned for comfort and_ utility. These French windows open onto a terrace with a sandpile below for children." "Tt's just charming!" Sharry said, thinking how perfect a home like this would be for Sam and _ her. Only she wouldn't want a permanent home in Alaska, so far away from her folks. And she couldn't live through months and months without sunshine. They would live on in the cabin until they left Alaska, she firmly decided. "Shall we go, dear?" Rachel asked, interrupting her reverie. "Oh, yes," Sharry answered, following her to the car. "I enjoyed seeing the house. I really did." HE next month was a busy time for Sharry. She was asked to be organist in the Sunday School and she and Sam were invited on hiking trips and Church picnics. They went to baseball games at night and swam in Harding Lake RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 under the amber light of the midnight sun. One morning in September, thcre was no sunshine when Sharry awakened. The world was a somber battleship gray. She ran to the window, trying to penctrate the pale, weird mist. Summer was gone. She could feel the new chill in the air, she could almost taste the frost in the icy wind from the mountains. She crawled back in bed, trembling, wishing Sam was home. Ie had been gone three days on an expedition. He couldn't tell her where he was going. Sister Jensen was in Nome for a visit with Betty and her husband. Now it was winter and it was only September, Sharry thought with a heavy sigh. This was full-moon time in Utah. Harvest time. Homesickness was a weight around her heart. Resolutely she sat up, swinging her feet to the floor. 'There was no use feeling sorry for herself. She had work to do and she had promised Rachel she would feed and water her canaries every day. She must write to her mother. Her head came up like a frightened deer as she heard the loud bark of a dog on the porch. Or was it a coyote? Or a wolf, she wondered with sickening dread? Sharrv heard another bark. This time she was sure it was a dog's bark. Someone was pounding on the front door. She got to her feet. Fear tightened her throat. Who could it be? Who knew she was alone in this awful darkness? Trembling, she started for the door. Whatever it was, she had to face it as bravely as she could. (To be continued) Hooking the Rug No easel or frame is required for a latch hook rug. We used a TV tray or card table. Start work at one end and work from left to right, leaving one inch for a hem all around. If there are raw edges bind them with tape. As you progress, the finished portion falls into your lap, and you may find it helps to lay a heavy book on the rug to hold it in working position. Learning to hook is. Easy, but a little practice will give you confidence. Follow these five steps: a. Slip the latch hook under two crosswise threads of one small square of your canvas. Push hook through until latch is free and open. 2. Lay one strand of nylon around shank of hook near handle, holding the two ends evenly together with the left hand, and lay ends to the canvas in front of the open latch. 3. Still holding the ends of nylon, pull hook gently back until latch closes on the stitch. 4. Now release held ends and allow hook to pull ends through, under, and up, through the loop on the hook shank, forming a lock-stitch around the canvas strands. 5. Pull stitch up with fingers and a to the left. Proceed with next stitch in next square and work on across your rug. Do not. Skip a. Square! You can check this by looking at the back. Do not work motifs separately! Work directly across the rug, changing colors as the design indicates. You can, as you gain skill, work three or four rows-at. A time, but you must always keep the bottonr rows four or five stitches ahead of the' next row above, or-you will have skips. To keep the surface even, trim as you -go or you may shear the whole rug after it is complete. You will need very sharp scissors, hold them level and do not gouge. Work on a table or over a chair back. Blocking a. To block, if your rug pulls askew, pin the rug evenly to the carpet and lay a heavy damp bath towel over it and allow the towel to dry twenty-four hours. Turn hem under, whip in place, and finish edge with adhesive rug binding. Making Your Own Designs To make your own design, and we hope you will, how would you like a scattered nosegay pattern, a toy animal for a nursery, autumn leaves, or even an ambitious family crest? Work out your design on paper, using patterns, pictures in magazines, or draw your own. Decide on colors to match your room. Transfer this design as a stencil to slick cardboard or stencil paper. Use a sharp razor blade or knife to cut out your stencil, working on an old magazine. We used only three stencils in our pictured rug, the scroll, corner rosebud, and _ large rose motif. Using repeat motifs gives unity and harmony to your design and saves making a lot of stencils. 'Turn stencils over for opposite sides. Using a yardstick to measure and mark your border and space the stencil designs, make a pattern on a piece of paper a little larger than your rug. Make any correction on this pattern. When you are satisfied, thumbtack the tug back to. This: pattern. ~ With your stencils, a stiff brush, and poster-or textile paints block in* your -design in colors directly on the: canvas. Let dry overnight, and you are ready to start hooking your own designs: One of Shem Betty Lou Martin ARGO Williams stepped M down from the ladder where she had been hanging curtains. Sighing, she surveyed her work approvingly. "Moving is always such a job," she speculated to herself. "I haven't minded it so much this time. With Robert out of town all of the time, at least it gives me something to do." Ever since Margo could remember, she had been alone. She had been an only child, and when she had married, they had hoped for children. However, the doctor had informed Margo and her husband, Robert, that they would never be able to have any children, and Margo had resigned herself to being alone. Robert's job took him out of the city during the week; consequently, they looked forward to their week ends together. The Williams had only moved to Harpersville a week ago, and Margo hadn't had an opportunity to become acquainted with anyone. She was a shy, retiring person who found it difficult to make the first move toward becoming acquainted with her neighbors. Thus, to her husband's chagrin, she kept to herself most of the time. Margo peered out the window questioningly as she observed the women walking toward the chapel down the block. They were neatly dressed and seemed happy and content. "I wonder where they are going?" Margo mused. Last 'Tuesday they went by here at this same time." She turned from the window and became engrossed in putting away some of their books. The next morning Margo was hanging some bedding out to air when a woman called to her. "Good morning. I'm Evelyn Christensen, your new neighbor. I wanted to come over and see you last week, but my husband insisted that I at least wait until you were a little more settled." "Hello," Margo said somewhat shyly. "P?'m Margo Williams." "T'm certain that you'll enjoy the neighborhood once you become acquainted. We've lived here for four years and we certainly enjoy it. I wanted to ask you to go to Relief Society with us yesterday, but I thought maybe you would rather get things put away first." Evelyn smiled as she spoke. "Relief Society? I don't believe that I know what you mean," Margo answered. "Oh, I'm sorry. I guess that I just took it for granted that you were L. D. S. You see I belong to the Latter-day Saint Church, and we women have an organization called the Relief Society. It's truly wonderful, and it has so much to offer. If you'd care to go, I'd love to have you come along," Evelyn ended sincerely. Margo was happy at the kindness of Evelyn Christensen as the days passed. She enjoyed talking to her and forgot her own shyness. She found herself telling Evelyn about her loneliness. For the first time in years, Margo felt that she had found a true friend, one who was sincerely interested in her. When the next Tuesday came, Margo dressed carefully for the ocPage 529 Handwork for Happiness Stuffed Toys Toys submitted by Irene C, Lloyd [Sce iMustration in color at the beginning Would make a smooth and durable toy. In g.: of this Seetion, dressing the to 'Ss many Kinds of Temnant __lands Satisfaction screnity, and contentment seem to be a part of Pieces of cloth' may be used — checked tunities. The following Suggestions and di ti P ff SS Oppormanner in which the cars, army, and legs panting, | fats and bonnets may be deof what may b,;. Nyo direc ions are offered aS samples of the toys are attached to the body by signed from old hats of felt or straw or vel. Ay € accomp ished When a designing woman explores the Wide bnttons sewed with strong string. "This vet and trimmed with feathers and flowers and durable. The heart of the proud POssessor of a cunA large varicty of interesting and loyning toy. The eyes and the mouth may be able toys may be made from the varions embroidered or machine stitched, or fab. Commercial patterns available, using odds rie Painted, and embroidery floss and some and ends of materials and Temnants of types of yarn and cording may be used various kinds, Favorite materials for makfor making hair, ing the bodies of the toys are terry towel. If you arc unable to locate 4 bunny pating, corduroy, Indian head, polished tern, the name and address of the com. Cotton, velvetcen, Percale, upholsterin mereial pattern, iMnstrated, will be sent fabries, coatings, and other materials, Stuff. Upon receipt of 4 stamped, self-addressed ings may be of sawdust, old nylon stockings envelope addressed to: The General Board Cut fine, kapok, cotton, wool, shredded of Relief Society, 76 North Main, Salt foam rubber, or other stuffing, which Lake City 11, Utah, Strawberry Trimmings for Sguare Picnic Basket Melba Larson [Sce illustration in color at the beginning 2. Seam the herries on the bottom, turn, of this section. ] and stuff with sawdust. Gather the top. Stiteh to the herry two or three lengths 1. Cut six strawberries (double) from of % inch wide green velvet ribbon for scraps of red velvetcen and six berry tops the stems. Slip the stems through the (single) from Scraps of grecn velveteen, hole in the berry top. Glue the green berry top to the berry. Sew small white heads to the berries, Arrange and fasten i One Sguare Equals Tyo Inches Which is given on this Page). As illustra. Muli Purpose Pinafore ted in the color Photograph at the begin [See iNtiaticn:; _ ming of this section, the Center motif of 8 section. } ished Cotton, printed cotton, are amnong hasket represents a Pineapple. This ee HE. The fabrics which may 5 he made by using gold-colored velveteen, Pattern iHustrated above, f; Y Dc used. € pin-; rf; Pinafore in - » for ore can be made Plain or tammed with and the segment markings on the pine. Ze ej;.. May be made j gnteen Months, Cmbroidered Cdgings, ruff] oF rickrack apple may he made with 2 fabrie Painting ide center pocket, as illustrated pen in a darker color, The leaf-shap: iT ay c € lusters at the top of the pine 1 \ to: a nae p g P Pineapple may ) eae Bthele With slacks, skirts, oy Or two side Pockets May be attached. "en® ni made of on uit Velveteen, ve Or pajamms bottoms, Ie made a a to Pinafore top may be made With or With, tional fruits in various sizes could be Ore. Nainvooke organd, an pine in the back. STRAWBERRY AND NULL basket, if a Varicty is desired, Instead of; grouping only Stran berri¢s 'round the Each square represents % inch, central Pineapple motif. Weaving and Stitching, crocheting and knitting, Creative and artistic ta]. Ents find an answer and an outlet in making artieles which beautify one's own home and the homes of beloved friends and relatives Christma birthdays, anniversaries, Relief Society basal ina endle stmas, and Wonderfy] Ways of handwork for happiness. 5 on My color at the beginning rayon, nylon, crinkled "tepe, gingham ol. Cept according *> ™ eine op hou be out q collar ang may be buttoned OF tied HE stuffed toys shown in the Picture gingham, floral prints, Plaids, plain colors were cut from commercial Patterns = — and the clothing may be trimmed with and made from terry toweling, A special lace, various other edgings, Tickrack, rib. Feature of this Particniar pattern is the bon. Buttons, beads, embroidery, fabric method makes the appendages Movable and beads — color and variety to delight pe feign on the pend front ae designed and arranged on the picnie Vegetables for Trimmung Baskets Melba Larson [Sce illustration in color at the beginning top of the grouped vegetables (peas, corn, Use scraps of orange and grecn velveteen, Corn Husks and Peas: Paste the wrong sides of two pieces of green velycteen together. Cut the peas and corn husks while the velveteen ls still damp. Shape the corm husks around the cars of com and let dry Fold the pea pods down the center and let dry. When dry, sew pearl beads down the center. ComCot the com cars from scraps of y/ WW heavy white material. Seam, tum inside N Ce | aN out, and stuff with kapak, dacron scraps, or sawdust. Sew rows of pearls on front Nl of carn car. Stitch on a few strands af / vanegated arange-coloted embroidery floss the back first, then on the sides of cach \ y | car af com, letting the side husks overlap the back one. Wi MV Carrots: Cut the carrots from orange: colored velveteen. Scam and tum. Stuff in the sune imanner as ditected for the cam cars. Make some honzontal ines with gold paint. If desired. Arrange on the basket. Add a green velvet bow to the Pattems for vegetables on shoppt basket: top Icft, carrot: right, corn. Low left, com husks: right, peas. One squ: Tepresents % inch. (Woven Embroidered Afghan Afghan Submitted by Ha C. Norton [See illustration in color at the begining of this section. | Tablecloths for Holidays and Special Occasions {See illustration in color at the beginning of this section.] Prestive tablecloths may be made in a variety of sizes and materials, and the detachable motifs may be made to fit the occaston — Christmas, New Years, Easter, Flag Day, the Fourth of July, Ptoneet Day, Halloween, Thanksgiving, birthdays, special parties, and numerous other occasions. Net, felt, Indian head, linen, rayon weaves, polished cotton, or other materials may be used for the tablecloths. In making the motifs, use materials that will harmonize in texture with the body of the tablecloth, selecting usually for the motifs a material somewhat heavier than the tablecloth. Patterns for a vyaricty of motifs are illustrated herewith. There are many other motifs which may be made from commercial patterns, or which may be cut from magazincs, catalogues, wallpaper, Christmas and birthday cards, or patterns may be made from drawings, or copicd from other pieces of needlecraft or faneywork which may already be in the home. ' | Cc a A r>—__] ery) <> 1. Afghan shown im the Picture was crocheting or stitching. Stitching, es article. The individual squares were made o} long weaximg needic. Similar weaving loom: available in vanons sizes and different materials trade names at five and ten stor catalogues. If yan cannat secure the names of firms hav ing them be reqnired for articles of ¢ Woven squares, in addition to makin blankets, bootces, sweaters, skirts of embroidery may he made ov decorate work say be commerce found in magazines or catalogues. 'he ar colors, or in hannoniing tones of ¢! Imilat size and desi & afghans, and many cr the squares, ial patterns, design ticles may he same color, made of woven squares fastened together | pecially cross-stitching, makes a more dural) na four-inch square weaving loom, using s, with detailed directions for their use, i These may be purchased under the ¢s and department stores, or they my be ordered from a weaving loom at Ics, 0 your local stores, or from catalogue for sale may. - arti; Board of Relief Society, =& Newh News be secured by writing to The Gener Only half as much yarn as needed for arti Lake City, Utah. Cles made from the woven units as woul gn made by knitting or crocheting. 'The thay be used for shawl, scarfs, stoles, baby other articles. Cross-stitch or other type and the patterns for this type of lS of your own, or taken from motifs be made in one color, in contrasting im we ey y Tr ATS IN Dax Crt iS las VF DAK DK by TABLECLOTH MOTIFS Covered Wagon and Cacti Original Design by Connie C. Madsen One square represents 2 inchics. Of this section.] on the bottam of cach ear to represent cam silk, Sew on corm husks. One on carrots) for a finished look.; { 530 casion. She was filled with curiosity aud some anxicty over her first Relief Socicty mecting. She combed her blond hair in waves about her delicate face, and her cheeks were flushed prettily with anticipation. ITTING quictly in the living room that evening, Margo's thoughts automatically returned to the events of the day. She was so excited and happy over her first Relief Society mecting that she could hardly restrain herself. She had completely lost her feeling of being alone from the moment that she had stepped into the meetinghouse. The warm, cheerful room was made even more warm by the friendly greetings that she received from the women present. When they asked her to return, she couldn't have been more pleased. She glowed happily as she walked from the meeting with Evelyn. In their discussion after meeting, Evelyn had learned how adept Margo was at sewing. "I'm work meeting leader in the ward, Margo, and if you wouldn't mind, I'm sure that some of the sisters would be pleased to learn how to make some of these hot pads. Would you mind coming and demonstrating to us?" Margo looked timidly at Evelyn. "I'd like to try, Evelyn, but I've really never done anything like that. Besides I don't believe that they're good enough." "Nonsense, they couldn't be more clever. You really have a talent, Margo. Now, how about joining us for supper tonight? Ld and the children would love to have you." Margo sighed contentedly. "Yes, it has been a good day. It was so wonderful the way that the women RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 accepted ime; just as if T were one of them. 'They were all so swect." When Robert came home that week end and Margo had told him about the events of the week, he couldn't have been more pleased. He hadn't seen Margo looking quite so happy in years. Saturday evening, Margo and Robert dined with the Christensens, and Robert, too, found himself captivated by their open friendliness. It was comforting to Robert to know that when he left Margo during the week, she would now have someone to visit. In the weeks that followed, Margo found herself becoming more and more engrossed in Relief Society activities. She had more friends than she had ever had before. She was included in everything. Days that were once lonely, were now filled with friends dropping in to pass the time of day. She and Evelyn did their shopping together, and often they would call on other neighbors. Evelyn only casually mentioned that Margo and Robert go to Sunday School with them some Sunday, but that was all that was necessary. Robert thought that anything that had made Margo so happy was worth investigating. 'They had thought that their marriage was worthwhile, but now it had taken on an entirely new perspective. When Robert arrived home each week end, he would find an enthusiastic wife awaiting him, happy and anxious to share the events of the past week with him. It was without any misgivings that Margo and Robert joined the Church. 'They had found the one thing in their life that could make it complete. 'They enjoyed serving ONE OF THEM others. Margo in turn felt needed. Their only regret was that they hadn't joined the Church sooner. A T'S hard to believe that I've been a member of the Church for seven years, Margo thought as she dressed for Relief Society meeting. Just as she finished combing her hair, the doorbell rang. "Hi," Evelyn called as she walked in. "Ready for Relief Society? Oh, Margo, I want you to meet Sister 531 Brown. She just moved into the ward last week. And, Sister Brown, I'd like you to meet our ward Relief Society president, Sister Williams." Margo took Sister Brown's hand warmly. "I'm happy to know you." As Margo walked to Relief Society meeting, her heart was full, remembering that first meeting for her seven years ago. Her loneliness had long since vanished, and she was secure in the knowledge that she was one with the saints. A Musical Hobby ane Florence Bellows 'Organist for &verything ' LORENCE Bellows, Lake Shore Ward, Palmyra Stake, Utah, has served as ward organist for more than thirty-seven years. Since she was fourteen, she has given her time and talent to the community, playing as organist in the auxiliary organizations, as well as serving as ward organist. She has been appreciatively referred to in her community as "organist for everything," but her special delight has been as accompanist for the Singing Mothers of Relief Socicty. She was a member of the Lake Shore orchestra for six years and has served as accompanist for many school and community entertainments. Her home has always been open to students who have needed a place to practice. The musical activities and interests of her friends and neighbors have long been centered in the home of Florence Bellows. Her three children are all gifted in music and all have played leading roles in school operas. 'There are now eleven grandchildren, and Mrs. Bellows looks forward to having many organists in her family. FROM THE FIEL Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ruby M. Blake HIGHLAND STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT LEADERSHIP MEETING, April 28, 1960 Front row, seated, left to right: Hazel Tingey; Reka Cummings; Nellie Parker, first president; Jennie Duffin. ' Back row, standing, left to right: Ruby M. Blake, present President; Josephine Jones; Zora Paulson. - Allie Barnes, Florence Holland, and Marjory Eldredge were not present when the picture was taken. Sister Blake reports: "Our presidency paid tribute to the former Highland Stake Relief Society presidents at the April leadership meeting. A lovely program was prepared, and brunch was served to all stake and ward workers in appreciation of their efforts during the past year." Page 532 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 533 Photograph submitted by Zelda S. Conrad SPOKANE STAKE (WASHINGTON) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, March 27, 1960 Standing in front of the organ, left to right: Marianne G. Bardsley, chorister; Pauline Quick, organist; Zelda S. Conrad, President, Spokane Stake Relief Society. Sister Conrad reports: "Over one hundred Singing Mothers, under the direction of Marianne G. Bardsley, furnished music for stake conference on March 27, 1960. The following wards participated: Bonners Ferry, Colville, Coeur d'Alene, Deer Park Sandpoint, and the First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Spokane Wards."? Photograph submitted by Phyllis Unbedacht SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD HONORS RETIRING PRESIDENCY AT LUNCHEON, April 13, 1960 Front row, seated, left to right: Mable Udell, former First Counselor; Leora G. Clawson, former President; Aurora Jones, present First Counselor; Phyllis Unbedacht, present President; Ina Ree Sparks, present Secretary-Treasurer; Ruby Finlayson, former social science class leader. Back row, standing, left to right: Barta Tolton; Grace Collette, present soctal science class leader; Leona Tarney; Joye Ann Dransfield, visiting teacher message leader; Eunice Kay, theology class leader; Elizabeth Moore, chorister; Laura Bronner, Magazine representative; Elva Jackson, work meeting leader; LaRue Smith, organist. Two members of the board were unable to be present when this picture was taken: Jane Cherry and Cemoria Frankman. 534 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 Photograph submitted by Helen W. Anderson NEW ZEALAND SOUTH MISSION, HAWKES BAY DISTRICT SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR MISSION CONFERENCE AND DISTRICT CONFERENCE, May 14, 15, 1960 Standing, back row, at the left: Rebecca Kamau Crawford, President, New Zealand South Mission Relief Society. Seated, fifth from the left: Hineawe Crawford Ferris, President, Hawkes Bay District Relief Society; Lillian Crawford Kershaw, music director; Rose Tare Puriri, Education Counselor. Helen W. Anderson, wife of the President of the New Zealand South Mission, reports: ""These sisters sang at the general mission conference (Hui Tau), in April, and at their district conference (Hui Paraba), May 14th and 15th, 1960, at the Relief Society session, as well as the morning general session. At the Hui Tau conference held in Wellington, they sang: "The Heavens Were Opened,' 'How Beautiful Upon the Mountain,' "These Lovely Things,' and 'If Christ Should Come Tomorrow.' " A ohn Be Photograph submitted by Lavona Hoopes ST. JOSEPH] STAKE (ARIZONA) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD AND GENERAL BOARD MEMBERS AT CONVENTION, April 19, 1960 Front row, seated, left to right: Lavona Hoopes, President, St. Joseph Stake Relicf Society; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relicf Society; Jennie R. Scott, member, General Board of Relief Society; Ella T. Lee, Secretary-Treasurer, St. Joseph Stake Relicf Socicty. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 535 Back row, standing, left to right: Marie Farley, chorister; May Weech, social science class leader; Angeline Alder, First Counselor; Florence Holladay, literature class leader; Lola Ferguson, Second Counsclor; Lela McBride, theology class leader; Nira Lee, Magazine representative; June McBride, work meeting leader; Bernice Stowell, organist. Clella Lines, visiting teacher message leader, was not present when the picture was taken. Sister Hoopes reports that most of these stake board members have been serving together ever since they were sustained nine years ago. Photograph submitted by MayRene Goul SAN FERNANDO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS WORKSHOP May 19, 1960 Front row, seated, left to right: Joyce L. Parker, Stake Secretary-Treasurer; Viola C. Clark, Stake Work Director Counselor. Second row, seated, left to right: Elayne Kuck, ward social science class leader; MayRene Goul, President, San Fernando Stake Relief Society; Joyce Hunter, stake work meeting leader. Standing, left to right: Lydia Wilde, stake literature class leader; Kay Baird, stake theology class leader; Irene Lee Wait, Stake Education Counselor, chairman of workshop; Arlene Keysor, stake chorister. Other participants, not in the picture, were: Maude White, Carma Fillmore, Naomi Gilmore, Janet Young, and Delores Kennedy. Sister Goul reports: "Instruction in how to use audio-visual aids effectively was the purpose of a special workshop conducted by San Fernando Stake Relief Society, March 19, 1960, under the direction of Irene Lee Wait, Stake Education Counselor. Sister Wait and her committee demonstrated the best ways to use such aids as chalk-board charts, picture posters, maps, diagrams, lettering, etc. Instruction was given on the use of the ditto machine, hectograph, and magna-jector, all of which are available to the wards through the stake. Special helps were given to the music leaders in a special department. Tables were set up in the recreation hall, and the ward sisters actually made a flannel board, pocket chart, and picture stands to use in their own wards. "The sisters in attendance were very appreciative of this workshop and of the opportunity it gave them to become more familiar with the appropriate and effective use of teaching aids." OREM STAKE (UTAH) HONORS ELDEST AND YOUNGEST VISITING TEACHERS, March 29, 1960 Left to right: Adella Cowley Gibson, ninety-one; Cynthia Whetten Peacock, eighteen. Ida S. Cowley, President, Orem Stake Relief Society, reports: "It was a beautiful spring morning, and potted plants brought a cheerful note to the atmosphere of the amusement hall. Nearly three hundred Relief Society sisters were in attendance. <A_ beautiful vocal duet was sung by Joan Harker and Valene Hansen, accompanied by Helen Allred. The song, "The Call of Love,' was especially fitting for visiting teachers. Roll call was made, and it was found that Adella Cowley Gibson, ninety-one, was the oldest visiting teacher, and Cynthia Whetten Peacock, eighteen, was found to be the youngest visiting teacher. These two sisters were given special recognition and acclaim from the group. As a tribute to all visiting teachers, the film 'Unto the bos 4 Least of These' was presented. LEveryphotograph submitted by one was touched by the beauty of the Ida S. Cowley film, and new enthusiasm for the calling of a visiting teacher was aroused." Photograph submitted by Margaret Weaver CHICAGO STAKE (ILLINOIS) VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT OPEN HOUSE, April 16, 1960 Front row, seated, left to right: Liby Tegtmeier; Wanda Hildebrandt; Emma Johnson; Josephine Moench. Standing, left to right: Bea Cardy; Pearl Russell; Magedene Steinmann; Clara Force; Gwen Swinyard; Mae Noelte; Elsie Crouch; Teresa Anderson; Marie Bischoff; Carrie Jensen; Mary Duke; Irma Mortensen; Caroline 'Tegtmcier. 536 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 537 Margaret Weaver, President, Chicago Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our stake board honored twenty-seven sisters at a visiting teacher open house Apml 16, 1960, in the new Chicago Stake house in Wilmette, Illinois. Citations were presented by Emma Johnson. 'The seventeen visiting teachers shown in the picture have served twenty years or more. Each received a Relief Society pin. Ten sisters who have served from ten to twenty years were presented with flowers. Every visiting teacher in the stake received a special invitation and 125 sisters assembled for the event. Minnie D. Warner gave a tribute to the visiting teachers. Forty Singing Mothers under the able direction of Bernice Lindsey sang two numbers. The film 'Unto the Least of These' was shown, with Veldron Matheson presenting the prologue. Refreshments completed a most satisfying event." Photograph submitted by Marjorie M. Reeve KANSAS CITY STAKE (KANSAS), INDEPENDENCE WARD SINGING MOTHERS The chorister Rose Marie Patton stands at the left, and the organist Phyllis Pope is seated at the right. Front row, left to right: Juanita Harris; Jean Pope; Leah Ann Adlard; Patricia Fry; Mildred Jameson; Jeanne Braden; Roxey Rogers, President. Second row, left to nght: Mary Emily; Gladys Preator; June North; Marian Grow; Vennice Barr; Luella Hansen; Ida Mae Burkhardt; Nellie Preator. Back row, left to mght: Ruby Harris; Hazel Lacki; Dorothy Keadle; Marjorie Ransome; Ollie Johnson; Ola Crumpler; Edith Wright; Frida Watter; Evo Gray. Marjorie M. Reeve, President, Kansas City Stake Relief Society, reports: '"Independence Ward has one of the largest Singing Mothers group in the stake. They meet evenings for practice. In this way the working sisters may participate in this activity." 538 ba Photograph submitted by Edith B. Hancock SOUTH AUSTRALIAN MISSION, SCARBOROUGH BRANCH VISITING TEACHERS MAKE THEIR VISITS BY MOTOR SCOOTER The Scarborough Branch Relief Society presidency, left to nght: Mary H. Grange, First Counselor; Helen T. Smith, Second Counselor; Margaret C. Jones, President. Velma N. Simonsen, President, South Australian Mission Relief Society, reports: "Distances in Australia are tremendous, and Church members are widely scattered. In spite of this, the Relief Society visiting teachers carry on the program faithfully." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 CENTRAL AMERICAN MISSION, GUATEMALA FIRST BRANCII ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL March 19, 1960 Idith B. Hancock, President, Central American Mission Relief Society, is shown cutting the anniversary cake; seated at the right is Edith Mata, wife of the former President of the Guatemala District. Sister Hancock reports: ""While the cake was being cut, those present sang 'Happy Anniversary' first in English and then in Spanish. An outstanding program was presented by the Relief Society sisters under the direction of Hortensia Torres, President of the Guatemala First Branch Relief Society." Photograph submitted by Velma N. Simonsen N DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 26—The Law of Moral Conduct Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 42:18-20, 79, 84, 85) For Tuesday, November 1, 1960 Objective: To realize that the commandments "Thou shalt not kill' and "Thou shalt not steal" forbid acts which are an offense against God and society. Study of the Law (continued) In last month's lesson the background for the study of Section 42 was givcn. By way of reminder, we learned that not long after the Prophet Joseph Smith arrived in Kirtland, Ohio, the Lord gave to him, as promised earlier (See D& C 38:32; 41:3), his law to the Church. The first part of this law is known as that of preaching the gospel (D & C 42:4-17). "Historical" Background In the world today there are at least two points of view concerning the origin of the Ten Commandments: first, that they are simply the crystallization of moral laws which have developed out of the experiences of an evolving civilization, which belief arises out of the notion that man evolved from a lower form of animal, known as organic evolution; and second, that this formulation of a code of moral laws was the work of Moses. As far as Latter-day Saints are concerned, the gospel teaches us that in the beginning the Lord gave commandments to Adam by revelation. One of the unique teachings of the restored gospel is that the gospel of Jesus Christ was upon the earth before the time of Jesus' mortal ministry. Included in this concept is the fact that God revealed his will to man and that man did not "make" the laws of salvation. In the plan of salvation are the Ten Commandments, which do form the very basis of the laws govering civilized people. Did the Ten Commandments come into being for the first time on Mount Sinai through the prophet Moses? No, the Lord provided laws and commandments for the salvation of his children in the gospel of Jesus Christ from the beginning. (See D & C 20:17-19.) Section 42 and Moral Laws In Section 42 some of the great Page 539 540 moral commandments are given; but the reader should not consider that all of the laws pertaining to moral conduct in 'The Doctrine and Covenants are found in this revelation. For our present consideration, however, the following laws are included in this lesson: Thou shalt not kill (D & C 42:18-19, 79), steal (D & C 42:20, 84-85, lie (D & C 42:21, 86), commit adultery (D & C 42:23-25, 74-75), speak evil of thy neighbor (D & C 42:27, 88), and thou shalt love thy wife (D & C 42:22). That more laws of moral conduct than the foregoing are a part of the gospel is made plain in these two verses: Thou knowest my laws concerning these things are given in my scriptures; he that sinneth and repenteth not shall be cast out (D & C 42:28). And if he or she do any manner of iniquity, he or she shall be delivered up unto the law, even that of God (D & C 42:87). The Single Standard The single standard of morality is defined as a law which applies to both sexes; whereas, the double standard of morality means that the male or the female may have a different rule of conduct from the other. In this revelation the Lord repeatedly emphasizes the single standard of conduct as his law to the Church. This is done by the use of "he or she" or "man or woman," particularly in verses 80 to 92. An example of this is given in verse 87, quoted above. "I Speak Unto the Church" As the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary (page 222) points out, the laws of moral conduct are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 given especially to the Church, as the Ten Commandments were given to ancient Israel. A distinction may be made, according to this same source, among various laws given to man. Some are binding because of peculiar conditions or relations that may exist, and cease to be binding with the end of those conditions. New conditions require new laws, Israel in a_ settled condition in Canaan needed many rules and regulations which would have been inapplicable to their national life while in the wilderness. Laws regarding property, marriage, etc., belong to this class (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Revised Edition, 1957, Ppp. 222-223). These may be classified as statutes. (See Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, pp. 222-223.) On the other hand, there are moral laws which are permanent. Concerning them, it is said: Some laws are binding because they are founded on the nature and attributes of God. If God is love, it is our duty to love Him and teach others. If He is just, merciful, pure, it is our duty to conform our lives to the divine standards of justice, mercy, and holiness. And from this springs another class of laws which are founded on the permanent relations of men in their present state of existence. They are called the moral laws to distinguish them from. Statutes, which are founded on temporary relations of man to man. Statutes may vary from time to time and in different countries. Moral laws are permanent (Doctrine and Covenant Commentary, page 223). An example is taken from an address by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., of a temporary law which prohibits the Israelites from eating sea foods "... That have not fins and scales..." (Lev. 11:10). A possible reason for this prohibrtion, President Clark points out, may LESSON DEPARTMENT have been because of the perishability of certain sea foods which would have generated poison harmful to the body, due to a lack of a means of food preservation. With our modern means of refrigeration and rapid transportation, there is no law against the use of this particular food. 'The Lord is concerned today, as anciently, with the health of his people. Thus the law that God's people must be clean and healthy has not changed, but the rule prescribed to secure obedience to the law has changed with the change in the manner of living (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 224). "Thou Shalt Not Kill" As explained by Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve, the reason for the injunction of the Lord against taking human life, has its basis in the plan instituted in the heavens before the earth came into existence. Every person is a spirit child of God for whom the Lord has planned to bring to pass his immortality and, if faithful, an eternal life. (See Moses 1:39.) Satan and his spirit followers rebelled against that plan and thus have sought to destroy all mortals by enticing them to commit sins. On the other hand, the Advocate of man with the Father is Jesus our Redeemer who gave his life that man might be able to repent and, eventually by man's faithfulness, receive eternal glory. One of the most serious of all sins and crimes against the Lord's plan of salvation is the sin of murder or the destruction of human Jife. It seems clear that to be guilty of destroying life is the act of "rebellion" against the plan of the Almighty: by denying an individual thus destroyed in mortality, the privilege of a full experience in this earth-school of op- 541 portunity. It is in the same category as the rebellion of Satan and his hosts and therefore it would not be surprising if the penalties to be imposed upon a murderer were to be of similar character as the penalties meted out to those spirits which were cast out of heaven with Satan ("The Sixth Commandment," Ten Commandments Today, page 88). As scriptural examples to indicate the nature of the penalties imposed, Elder Lee suggests the case of (a) Cain (Genesis 4:6-12), and (b) David in plotting the death of Uriah; and also the crucifixion of the Savior by the Jews. 'The Prophet Joseph Smith, as recorded in his history, discusses the case of David by stating that the murderer, one who sheds innocent blood, cannot have forgiveness. David sought repentance at the hand of God carefully with tears, for the murder of Uriah; but he could only get it through hell: he got a promise that his soul should not be left in hell...... And the Priesthood that he [David] received, and the throne and kingdom of David is to be taken from him and given to another... (D. H. C. VI:253). Concerning certain Jews, who, it appears, assented to the crucifixion of Jesus, the Prophet said Peter did not say to them "... Repent and be baptized... For the remission of sins..." (Acts 2:38). (See also D. H. C, Vl:253.) In commenting upon the commandment against taking human life, the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary quotes Jesus' injunction against this crime, (see Mt. 5:21-22), and of his condemnation of anger "without a cause." There is a difference between the anger that is but malice or thirst for revenge, 542 and the emotion that is felt in the presence of injustice and wrong. It is malice that is forbidden. To take the life of a fellow-being in order to gratify malice is the highest crime one human being can commit against another.... This commandment prohibits dueling, because dueling is but manslaughter, actual or potential. It prohibits suicide. Which is selfmurder. It condemns unjustifiable wars, which are but wholesale murders. There have been wars which are justifiable from the standpoint of one side of the contesting parties, but when the nations have courts of arbitration there will be no justification for any war, any more than there is for murder. The moral law must be applied to nations as well as individuals. "He that killeth shall die" (v. 19) (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 224). Military Service and Killing Is the Latter-day Saint who is called into the military service of his country guilty of murder as he takes human life while in that service? During World War II, the First Presidency addressed a message to the members of the Church at the 112th Annual General Conference, in which they considered this question. After quoting from the modern revelations concerning war, the following appears: When, therefore, constitutional law, obedient to these principles, calls the manhood of the Church into the armed service of any country to which they owe allegiance, their highest civic duty requires that they meet that call. If, hearkening to that call and obeying those in command over them, they shall take the lives of those who fight against them, that will not make of them murderers nor subject them to the penalty that God has prescribed for those who kill, beyond the principle to be mentioned shortly. For it would be a cruel God that would punish His children as moral sinners for acts donc by them as the innocent instrumentalities of a sovereign whom He had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 told them to obey and whose will they were powerless to resist.... In this terrible war now waging, thousands of our righteous young men in all parts of the world and in many countries are subject to a call into the military service of their own countries. Some of these, so serving, have already been called back to their heavenly home; others will almost surely be called to follow. But "behold," as Moroni said, the righteous of them who serve and are slain ''do enter into the rest of the Lord their God," and of them the Lord has said '"'those that die in me shall not taste of death, for it shall be sweet unto them." (D & C 42:46) Their salvation and exaltation in the world to come will be secure. That in their work of destruction they will be striking at their brethren will not be held against them. That sin, as Moroni of old said, is to the condemnation of those who "sit in their places of power in a state of thoughtless stupor," those rulers in the world who in a frenzy of hate and lust for unrighteous power and domination over their fellow men, have put into motion eternal forces they do not comprehend and cannot control. God, in His own due time, will pass sentence upon them (112th Annual Conference Report of Discourses, pp. 94°96). Penalty for Murder As part of the moral law, the Lord revealed in this dispensation: And now, behold, I speak unto the church. Thou shalt not kill; and he that kills shall not have forgiveness in this world, nor in the world to come. And again, I say, thou shalt not kill; but he that killeth shall die (D & C 42:18-19). The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints accepts capital punishment for this offense against God and the law of the land. And it shall come to pass, that if any persons among you shall kill they shall be delivered up and dealt with according to LESSON DEPARTMENT the laws of the land; for remember that he hath no forgiveness; and it shall be proved according to the laws of the land (D & C 42:79). "Thou Shalt Not Steal" Thon shalt not steal; and he that stealeth and will not repent shall be cast out.... And if a man or woman shall rob, he ot she shall be delivered up unto the law of the land. And if he or she shall steal, he or she shali be delivered up unto the law of the land (D & C 42:20, 84-85). The essence of the moral law of the gospel of Jesus Christ is summed up in the words of the Savior that his disciple will love God and his neighbor as himself. (See Mt. 22:37-39.) In a modern revelation, the Lord has again brought to the attention of his people that they arc to follow this commandment. After expressing the fact that one should love the Lord "... With all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength: and in the name al Jesus Christ thou shalt serve him," it continues, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Thou shalt not Beal: neither commit adultery, nor kill, nor do anything like unto it" (D & C 59:56). It "would not be difficult for one to understand that if there is love in one's heart for his fellow men, he will not steal, commit adultery, neither kill nor do anything that would injure his fellow man. The association of these three crimes with the love of God and neighbor in the modern revelation assuredly points up their importance in the sight of the Lord. Dishonesty in any of its forms, if uncontrolled or 543 unregulated by divine fiat and if accepted by man as the foundation of a civilized people, would lead to a state of chaos in civilization. The Nephites at one point in their history were told that their iniquity in casting out the prophets and thus disregarding the law of God would bring destruction upon them. Samuel, the Lamanite, prophesied of the time when the riches of the wicked Nephites would be lost because of a disregard for the property rights of others. Of the nation, the prophet said they would lament over their losses in a time of necd. (See Helaman 13:33-36.) The fulfillment of this prophecy came toward the end of the Nephite nation during the time of Mormon when "... No man could keep that which was his own, for the thieves, the robbers, and the murderers, and the magic art, and the witchcraft which was in the land" (Mormon 2:10). Types of Stealing Ordinarily, a person thinks of stealing as involving the taking of someone else's property without realizing the consequences of this act before the law of the land. The types of stealing and the penalties imposed by the laws of the State of Utah which do not differ very much from most States, arc summarized by Elder W. Cleon Skousen, former Salt Lake City Police Chief, as follows: Many people are astonished when they discover how severe the punishment can be for thievery. The reason the penalty is so severe is because stealing strikes at the very foundation of a community. It is lawless indifference to the property tights of others. There cau be no security when homes and stores are frequently 544 raided by thieves. And there can be no safety on a highway where hijackers and road-robbers operate. Because the criminal code in each state lays great stress on the seriousness of stealing, it is thought it may be of interest to list some of the different kinds of thievery mentioned by the state statutes. 1. Robbery. This kind of stealing consists of taking property from a person or from his immediate presence by means of force or fear. Robbery usually involves the use of a knife, a gun, or explosives. Therefore the penalty is very severe. [In Utah, for example, the penalty is five years to life.] (Utah Penal Code, 76- 51-2.) 2. Grand Larceny. This consists of stealing something which is worth more than $50 or stealing something (regardless of value) from a person or from his presence; for example, it would be grand larceny if a pick-pocket took $75 from a person's pocket. However, if the victim happened to catch the pick-pocket and the pick-pocket pulled a gun in order to get the money, then the crime would be robbery, because the victim would have been subjected to force or fear. Grand larceny also includes the theft of certain domestic animals (regardless of value), such as horses and cattle. The penalty for grand larceny in Utah is one to ten years and a fine of from $50 to $1,000. (Utah Penal Code, 76-38-6.) Petit [Pronounced Petty] Larceny. This includes other types of stealing not listed under grand larceny, such as shoplifting, chicken stealing, taking a bicycle, etc. These will usually come under petit larceny. The penalty in Utah is imprisonment in the county jail up to six months and a fine up to $300. (Utah Penal Code, 75-38-7.) 4. Burglary. This consists of breaking into a building, an automobile, trailer, railroad car, etc., for the purpose of stealing something or otherwise committing a felony. This type of crime may create a wave of hysteria in a community, particularly where burglaries are committed in banks, stores, or wealthy residences, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 nitroglycerine or other explosives are used to open safes or storage vaults. As with robbery, this is considered a very serious type of crime and thercfore carries a severe penalty. In burglaries of the above type the penalty is twenty-five to forty years. (Utah Penal Code, 76-9-2.) <A nighttime burglary which does not involve explosives carries a penalty of one to twenty years (Utah Penal Code, 76-9-4), and day-time burglaries which do not involve explosives carry a penalty of six months to three years. (Utah Pena] Code, 76-9-6.) 5. Forgery. This usually consists of getting money by altering the amount of a check or putting a false signature on it. There are many other kinds of forgery, but this is the one about which we hear the most. The penalty for this offense is one to twenty years. 6. Fraud. This is a method of stealing which might be described as obtaining something of value or gaining a particular advantage by deceitfully misrepresenting the true facts. 'There are many kinds of frauds, such as writing checks on a bank where the check writer has no account, or he may have an account but writes a check for a much larger sum than he has in the bank. The penalty for this kind of stealing may go as high as fourteen years in the state penitentiary. (Utah Penal Code, 76-20-11.) The fraud of burning property to collect insurance carties a penalty of one to ten years. (U. S. Penal Code, 76-33-1.) 7. Confidence Games. This is a special kind of fraud where the victim is told that he can make a fortune overnight by following certain instructions. The usual procedure is to ask some person with outstanding financial ability to participate in the scheme. The operators take his money and disappear before he realizes that he has been duped. Even experienced businessmen are occasionally taken in by these schemes. Members of the Church are cautioned never to deal with strangers who claim to have a marvelous scheme for getting rich quickly. If the scheme had any merit, the operator would take it to his friends. He would not be around selling such a "sure thing" to strangers. These people always say their schemes are LESSON DEPARTMENT "very secret," and the victim is cautioned against discussing it with anyone because they say others might try to "cut in on the deal" if the word got around. The penalty for stealing by means of a confidence game may go as high as ten years in the state penitentiary. (Utah Penal Code, 76-20-17.) 8. Extortion and Blackmail. This kind of stealing is usually done by writing a threatening letter, or otherwise inducing a victim to "'pay off' because of force or fear. In Utah the penalty may be as much as three years. (Utah Penal Code, 76-19-3.) However, if the mails were used to make a threat of extortion, the crime is a federal violation which carries a penalty up to twenty years in prison and $5,000 fine. (U. S. Code, Title 18, Section 876.) 9g. Embezzlement. This is a kind of stealing where a person appropriates moncy or property which has been entrusted to him. Jf the value of the property is over $50, then the penalty is one to ten years with a fine of $50 to $1,000. (Utah Pena] Code, 76-17-11.) If the value of the property is less than $50, the penalty is the same as that described for petit larceny. 10. Impersonation. This type of stealing is getting money, property, or some special advantage by pretending to be an officer or a person with special authority. In Utah the penalty for this violation may be as high as one year in the county jail and a fine of $1,000. If a federal officer is impersonated, the penalty may be three years imprisonment and $1,000 fine. (U. S. Cade, Title 18, Sections 912-913.) 11. Kidnapping. The stealing of either children or adults is one of the most vicious of all crimes. Sometimes the person is kidnapped for ransom, sometimes for a revengeful beating, sometimes for a life of vice and debauchery. After the kidnapping and slaying of the Lindbergh baby in 1932, the United States Congress passed a law against kidnapping which } permits the jury to recommend the death sentence where the kidnapped victim has been injured or killed. (U. S. Code, 545 Title 18, Section 1201.) Almost immediately the number of kidnappings for ransom fell off sharply. 12. Plagiarism. This is stealing someone else's writings, ideas or creative work and claiming it to be one's own. The penalty depends upon the damages suffered by the victim. However, this may also be a violation of the Federal Copynight Law. In that event the penalty is up to one year imprisonment and a one thousand dollar fine. (U. S. Code, Title 17, Section 104.) 13. Espionage. This is stealing information which will endanger the security of the nation. In peacetime the penalty may be as high as twenty years. In wartime, the crime of espionage is particularly serious and the court may impose the death sentence. (U. $. Code, Title 18, Section 791-797) (SKOUSEN, CLEON, The Ten Commandments 'Today, ""The Eighth Commandment," pp. 126-129). "Will a Man Rob God?" In the book of Malachi we learn that one who withholds tithes and offerings from the Lord is guilty of robbing God. "Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings. Ye are cursed with a curse: for ye have robbed me, even this whole nation" (Malachi 3:8-9). If we consider this stern rebuke in the light of the above discussion on stealing, what must we conclude concerning the tithing obligations placed upon us by the Lord? Would we not be in a similar situation as David on the occasion of the Prophet Nathan's visit? It was David who condemned himself unknowingly when Nathan approached him about a situation where one man was taking advantage of another man, at which time David became angry and said that the erring man 546 "shall surely die." In the end, David was informed that he was the erring man. (See II Samuel 12:1-14.) We also are guilty when we condemn stealing, and in the same instant say we love the Lord and yet rob him of tithes. Is it possible that we could love our brethren and yet steal from them? Can we therefore, without impunity, say we love the Lord and yet rob him at the same time? Questions for Discussion 1. What do Latter-day Saints believe concerning the origin of the Ten Commandments? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 2. Distinguish between the single and double standard of morality. How does Section 42 set forth the single standard as the Latter-day Saint rule of moral conduct? 3. Discuss: New conditions require new laws. (What is the difference between moral laws and statutes? ) 4. What does Elder Harold B. Lee say is the probable reason for murder being such a serious sin? 5. Is the Latter-day Saint who is called into the military service of his country guilty of murder as he takes human life while in that service? 6. Discuss: He who loves his neighbor will not steal, commit adultery, or kill. (isiting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 26—"And Ye Must Give Thanks Unto God in the Spirit for Whatsoever Blessing Ye Are Blessed With" (D & C 46:32) Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, November 1, 1960 Objective: To enjoy fully the blessings of the Lord, we must have thankful and grateful hearts. N one occasion, when Jesus was traveling to Jerusalem, he entered into a certain village and:... There met him ten men that were lepers.... And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass that, as they went, they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God. And fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? There are not found that returned to give glory to God, save this stranger. And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way: thy faith hath made thee whole (Luke 17:12-19). This account gives no details as to what happened to the nine who failed to express their gratitude for the wonderful blessing which had been bestowed upon them. The one grateful leper, however, was specially blessed and told to go his way, healed. As we think about this incident, one fundamental fact should be re- LESSON DEPARTMENT membered. Regardless of the nature of our blessings, the joy and satisfaction we obtain from them will never be complete unless they are received with genuine thankfulness and gratitude. The commandment that we must give thanks unto God for whatsoever blessing with which we are blessed, is not given purely for the Lord's benefit. Our Father in heaven knows that our own enjoyment of blessings cannot be complete unless it is accompanied with sincere gratitude. In fact, we cannot be truly happy unless we carry a sense of thankfulness in our hearts for our many blessings. We must humbly recognize that all we possess comes from our ever-loving Father in heaven. Thankfulness and gratitude are intimately related terms. President McKay expressed _ this thought beautifully when he said, '"Thankfulness is the beginning of gratitude; gratitude the completion of thankfulness" (McKay, David O.: Pathways to Happiness, page 103). To be sincere and genuine, both thankfulness and gratitude must involve more than mere words. They can only be demonstrated through concrete actions. One way to express our gratitude to the Lord is by being "kind to others. We can express our thanks by seeing that the: 547. Sunlight of our sympathy, tenderness, love, appreciation, influence, and kindness ever go out from us as a glow to brighten and hearten others (Jordan, William George: Great Truths, page 26). The importance of a_ thankful and grateful heart has been cmphasized by wise men down through the ages. The great prophet Alma admonished the people that ").. Every day they should give thanks to the Lord their God" (Mosiah 18:23). Shakespeare cxpressed the importance of a thankful heart when he said, "... O Lord, that lends me life, Lend me a heart replete with thankfulness" (King Henry VI, Part II, Act 1). Thankfulness for blessings _ received has been expressed by Godfearing peoples throughout the history of the world. True thanksgiving is aconstant thing. It cannot be confined to any one individual, time, or place, but should always be a part of our hearts. In true humility we should give thanks to our Father in heaven from whom all blessings flow, remembering that just as we as parents appreciate an expression of gratitude from our children, how much more is gratitude due our Father in heaven. If we would please the Lord and find happiness within ourselves we must follow his commandment and.. Give thanks unto God... For whatsoever blessings ye are blessed with" (D & C 46:32). Close of Day Catherine B. Bowles The clock is wound, the day is done; Trials vanished with the setting sun. As I reflect and kneel to pray Tm grateful for another day. Work IT lecting—Caring for the Sick in the Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 2 — Manifestations of I|Iness Maria Johnson For Tuesday, November 8, 1960 Objective: To learn to recognize, observe, and report symptoms or signs of illness. To learn how to take and record the body temperature, pulse, and respiration. Symptoms symptom such as _ headache, pain, or nausea is not a disease, but it may be an important warning that something is wrong and may be most helpful to the doctor in deternuning the cause of the illness. The doctor depends upon the individual attending the patient to report to him the symptoms she observes and those of which the patient complains. Just as a child puts together the various shapes and colors of a puzzle to make the picture complete, so the doctor puts together the symptoms that are evident. One symptom may be of little importance by itself; but, when associated with others, the group of symptoms may be very significant. Any of us might have a fever today, yet the disease or cause of the fever could be different in each case. Other symptoms that accompany the fever will be important in determining the cause. Warning signals that any one of us can recognize are numerous, for example, headache, dizziness, nausea, swelling, bleeding, rash. Different diseases usually have a different combination or grouping of symptoms, so we can sce how important our observations are to the doctor who is to make the diagnosis and treat the disease. In addition to the symptoms observed or reported, he may need X-rays or laboratory tests. Page 548 Reporting to the Doctor When you call a doctor, let him feel you need help and that you are not just a panicky woman. Describe the symptoms you have observed. For example, pain in the abdomen is sharp, comes and goes; the patient draws up her legs when the pain comes; it started an hour ago; or you might report the baby pulls at his ear and screams. Whatever you report, give the location, the character, when first noted, etc. If you have a thermometer, take the temperature and report it along with other observations. When the doctor comes ask him to write his orders for you, or you may write them. In either case go over them with the doctor and see that there are no misunderstandings. Never hesitate to ask for further explanation, if it is nceded. Household Planning in Caring for the Sick When the care of a patient is added to the daily responsibilities in a home, emotional tension easily builds up. To avoid this make a plan. Write down what is to be done for the patient and at what time. Then fit this schedule into your household plan. Other members of the family can relieve you, if there is a plan they can understand, LESSON DEPARTMENT 549: and each one can see where he or Today we will read thermometers she can give a helping hand. And take pulse. The Vital Signs Temperature, pulse, and respiration are often called the vital signs. 'They give the doctor important clues in determining a patient's condition. The thermometer for taking body temperature is called a clinical or fever thermometer and differs from other thermometers in that the mercury remains at the highest point until it is shaken down. The mouth thermometer has either a slender bulb or a short stubby one. The rectal thermometer always has a stubby bulb. Never use a thermometer with a slender bulb when taking a rectal temperature as it may break and injure the patient. The normal mouth temperature is approximately 98.6 degrees F. The normal rectal temperature will be a degree higher or 99.6 degrees F. A thermometer has three parts — a bulb, a stem, and a tip end. (See illustration.) To Read a Thermometer Important Steps Key Points 1. Become familiar with the scale and They appear on either side of the ridge numbers. Along the stem. 2. Shake down the mercury. It stays Grasp the tip end between the thumb at the last reading until shaken and forefinger, and shake with a snap down. Of the wrist. 3. Read the thermometer to the nearHold horizontally, in good light, with est tenth. The mercury will appear markings toward you. Do not touch along the ridge of the stem bethe bulb end. Rotate the stem between the numbers and lines. Tween the thumb and finger until you sce whre the line of mercury stops. 94 6 6 * 100 2 4 6 106 >) AVE RAGE — NORMAL y Fretted liebe teeta >) 94 6 8 * 100 2 4 S 106 98 99 Thermometers showing the average normal mouth temperature. Normal rectal temperature is one degree higher — 99.6. Mouth temperatures may be taken with either the long bulb thermometer or the stubby point thermometer, but rectal temperatures should be taken with the stubby bulb thermometer only. 550 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 To Take a Mouth Tcmperature Wait 20 or 30 minutes after a patient has had a hot or cold drink, or a tub bath, before taking the temperature. Equipment needed: Mouth thermometer Soap to clean the thermometer Cotton or tissue for wipes Important Steps 1. Wash your hands. 2. Take clean thermometer from clean container and shake down to at least 96° F. 3. Rinse the thermometer in cool water. 4. Place the thermometer bulb under the tongue a little to one side in the patient's mouth. Leave it for at least 3 minutes. S. Remove the thermometer and read. 6. Clean thermometer with soap and cool water and store in clean container. Record temperature. ~I 8. Wash your hands. Waste container Timepicce or watch with second hand Key Points To make it more pleasant to hold in the mouth, and so the mercury will not rise in washing. Have the patient keep the lips closed but not bite down. This will be the figure where the ribbon of mercury stops. Never put a thermometer away before cleaning it. Example — 98.6° — 97-5° 100° — 102.4° To Take a Rectal Temperature Equipment: Same as for mouth temperature, execpt use a stubby thermometer and add a lubricant such as vaseline or cold cream. Important Steps 1. Wash your hands, 2. Have adult turn on side — a child on abdomen. 3. Shake down thermometer and lubricate the bulb end. 4. Insert the bulb about one inch slowly and gently. Hold in place three minutes. 5s. Remove — wipe and read. 6. Cleanse and put in container 7. Record temperature 8. Wash your hands. Key Points So anus is visible. Put lubricant on clean tissue — never dip thermometer into a jar of lubricant. Always hold the thermometer for a child. Hold it for the adult unless he can hold it himself. Same as for mouth thermometer. Same as for mouth thermometer. Write (R) after figure to show it is a rectal temperature. LESSON DEPARTMENT 551 The pulse is the beat which is felt each time the heart contracts to force the blood through the arteries or blood vessels. We speak of the heartbeat or pulsation. The normal pulse usually has perfect rhythm and moderate rate. A marked variation in pulse sometimes is more serious than change in temperature. Do not take a pulse after excitement or exercise. The pulse is usually taken at the inner surface of the wrist on the thumb side? Where an artery lies near the surface and close to a bone. (See illustration.) You will need a watch or timepiece with a second hand. To Take a Pulse Important Steps 1. The patient should be lying down or sitting with the arm at rest on the bed or other support. N Place the tips of your first three fingers on the inner surface of the wrist on the thumb side. (Sce illustration.) Press just hard enough to feel the pulse distinctly. 3. Count the pulsation or beats for a full minute. 4. Record the exact number of beats in one minute and any irregularity. Key Points Exertion from holding the arm up can affect the pulse. Never take a pulse with the thumb, as there is an artery in the thumb, and you will feel your own pulse. If you press too hard you will be unable to feel the pulse. Use a watch or timepicce with a second hand. Observe any irregularity in thythm. (Does it skip beats? ) The normal pulse usually has perfect thythm. An irregular pulse will skip beats. Respiration Respiration is the process of breathing. Oxygen keeps the body cells alive. We get our oxygen by breathing in fresh air and get rid of carbon dioxide waste as we breathe out. It is important to report to the doctor if the patient's respirations do not appear normal. For example, you will observe if the breathing is too slow, if it is shallow, if it is difficult, if the patient finds it easier to breathe when sitting up. Respirations will change with exercise or excitement. eR ane neice': Literature Comes of Age Lesson 18 — Washington Irving, Polished Paradox Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 193-220) For Tuesday, November 15, 1960 Objective: To relate the writings of Irving to the man, and both to the dynamic beginning period of the Nation out of which they grew. ASHINGTON Irving, who became one of America's first cultural ambassadors to Europe, was born into a wealthy New York City merchant family, April 3, 1783. Although it was an age of patternmaking and expansion in every phase of the new Nation's existence, and although Irving became the first universally accepted literary symbol of the United States, yet never did he symbolize those driving forces which, in his own day, were at work to make his country unique and great. Everywhere read and enjoyed, acclaimed and loved, he was Mr. American Literature, Gentleman, both creator and symbol, yet the world his writings created was one of memory, legend, and _ security. America's real world was one of action, of reality, of destiny, and futurity; and it was increasingly to become one of conflict. This world Washington Irving — successfully avoided both in literature as in life. Between these divergent worlds, lie contradictions of a new Nation erupting into an identity which many of its citizens feared, others even refused to face. Yet then, as now, music and scene, gentle humor and soothing dream provide their own peculiar delights. Nor are these enduring values to be refused any more in our own nuclear age than they were Page 552 during the decades of momentous decisions and transitions which Irving could have known, but chose to ignore. In fairness we must esteem Irving for his considerable virtues, and for the great enjoyments still to be found in his early works. In literature he came as near to being America's patron saint as anyone; esteemed by his own age, he still yields gentle pleasure and lasting charm to our own. Background Historical Events Irving's seventy-six years made the grand span from the Revolution, which first gave the new Nation identity, to the Civil War, which so nearly destroyed it. On April 109, 1783, sixteen days after Irving's birth, Washington read to his troops the proclamation of Congress ordering "cessation of hostilities." A few months later British troops marched out of Irving's home town of New York after seven years of occupation. When Irving was five, the Constitution was ratified (1788). 'Thirteen years later Jefferson became President (1801), followed by the Louisiana Purchase in two years. In 1807, Fulton's steamboat confounded _ Irving's beloved Hudson River folk, and from 1812-1815 there was the War of 1812 with England, Irving serving briefly on the staff of the Governor of New York. In 1820, when LESSON DEPARTMENT he was thirty-seven, the Missouri Compromise temporarily appeased the South on the slavery question, in 1823 the Monroe Doctrine startled the world, and, in 1825, the Erie Canal opened fertile interior lands to colonization. In 1831 the first steam locomotive run was made in New York State; five years later Morse invented the telegraph; the Mexican War began in 1846; followed by the Gold Rush to Callifornia. Commodore Perry opened trade with Japan in 1854; and in 1859 oil was discovered. On November 28 of the same year Irving died at Sunnyside, his tranquil country estate in 'Tarrytown on the Hudson. The Essential Irving Such events were of Irving's world, yet not in it, at least not imaginatively. Heir to a prosperous family hardware business which he hated less when it failed, "reading" in a law office just long enough to acquire a permanent distaste for dry legalities and an abhorrence of political strife, Irving's nearest approach to contemporary problems was to lose large sums in steamboat, western land, and South American mine speculations; later he found satisfaction in having brought together in peaceful arbitration the American Ambassador to the Court of St. James and British diplomats when, in 1846, the two countries were perilously near war over their differences in defining the northern boundary of Oregon. A handsome young man with light brown hair, blue eyes, and a pleasantly husky voice both smooth a modulated, Irving was described "Friendliness. Itself." Believing 553 throughout his life that "a kind heart is the fountain of gladness, making everything in its vicinity to freshen into smiles, and that happiness is reflective like the light of Heaven," he dedicated his life to the pleasure of giving pleasure to others. In his travels during his mature years, and lengthy selfexiles to Europe, he considered himself a self-appointed ambassador of good will. Refusing to dwell on the rough and cruel part of life, he felt that good humor was "the oil and wine for a merry meeting." He loved little children, often playing with them for hours on end, and wrote lengthy letters concerning them. He was so modest and shy that when the famous English traveler, Mrs. Frances 'Trollope, spotted him in the audience of the Cincinnati theatre in which she was lecturing and asked him for an impromptu speech, he fled both the theatre and the town itself rather than comply. In the years of his semi-retirement at Sunnyside, his life continued as it had always been: with many visits from friends, close ties with his nieces and family, horseback rides in the country, regular attendance at operas and plays, whist, chess, reading, and writing. These were the important values in his personal life — mild, peaceful, harmful to none. In his life, as in his writings, he had "always had an opinion that much good might be done by keeping mankind in good humor with one another." So successfully did he' mold his life to this ideal that, save for Franklin alone, he was most widely loved by his countrymen. Irving, the Traveler From his seventeenth year, when 554 he made his first extended tnp up his beloved Hudson River Vallcy, Irving seemed happiest when he traveled. A painter with words, he sought scenes of beauty, finding it most abundantly in the exotic and the old, which, with extreme care and polish, he recreated into his sharply chiseled prose. Adored and pampered by his family, he was sent to Europe at age twenty-one to gain "health, education and _ pleasure," which, during the next two years, he found in abundance. Returning to America, he toyed with the law and magazine editing, then, in 1815 at age thirty-eight, he went to Europe for a Mediterranean cruise and remained for seventeen years. Again, in 1841, he returned to romantic Spain as American Ambassador for four years. The last thirteen years of his life he spent at his home Sunnyside. Irving enjoyed creating the illusion that he lived a leisurely, casual, bachelor existence. Actually, Longfellow saw him truly when, calling upon him during his first long stay in Madrid, he gave the impression of "always being at work." In his travels, he was always the self-conscious literary man with a sharp eye for material suitable for his pen. In his writings he had excellent technical powers, which are everywhere evident in his carefully revised prose; but he had little creative impulse so, as his bosom friend Henry Brevoort wrote, "He makes his travels go far," as is beautifully exemplified in "The Stout Gentlemen," in our text, page 203. Both in travel and in writing, Irving was the arch-romantic, loving to depict folk tales and humor with his skilled pen. Best of all is the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 carefully controlled tone of his sketches, which produces in the reader a subtle emotional effect of pleasure and surrender to his art. Irving's Literary Significance Irving's lack of interest in contemporary affairs is not to deny the importance of his contributions to American literature. Historically, he was the first writer in the new country to make his living by writing. 'The appearance of his Sketch Book ('A collection of familiar essays and pleasant tales," see text, page 193), in both America and England, in 1819-20, brought him immediate fame, causing Europe to admit that, finally, a first-rate writer had been produced west of the Atlantic. He pioneered the development of the short story, the only literary type originated in America, exerting a strong influence on Edgar Allen Poe and Nathaniel Hawthorne who brought the short story to its full stature. In addition, he influenced Dickens and Stevenson, and many other nineteenth-century writers. And, within his own lifetime, eight of his different works appeared in forty-two Spanish editions, 113 translations were made into French, and_ sixty-one into German; The Sketch Book was translated into fifteen languages, thus indicating his world-wide acceptance. In two different senses Irving should be remembered as a transitional writer. Though he owed much to Goldsmith, his favorite author, and other eighteenth century English writers, such as Addison and Steele, Sterne and Swift, he was not merely their American imitation. In his youthful and_ best LESSON DEPARTMENT works, Knickerbocker's History of New York and The Sketch Book, the sole aim of hus satires was to entertain and give pleasure, in contrast to all his predecessors, except Byrd and Franklin, who wrote didactic literature designed to instruct or to persuade. He was first in his country to write biography, history, and the familiar essay for amusement only. Irving's second transition __reversed the trend from conservatism to liberalism which then characterized the new Nation growing towards its first full maturity. In his vouthful satires Irving found his freest, most natural sale When later he became a romantic antiquarian and mood-writer, the star of his genius was less bright (for example, Tales of a Traveler and Life of Columbus). Such later travel books as A Tour on the Prairics, Abbotsford, and Newstead Abbey, all appearing in 1835, were but competent first-hand reporting and impressionistic personal essavs, while the ponderous works of his. Later vears (Life of Goldsmith, 1840; Mohamet and Fis Successors, 1850; and his five-volume Life of Washington, 1855-59) were so grinding and dull that even amiable Longfellow complained that he was reshuffling his old notes rather than writing a new book. Thus his reputation arose from those few early works in which he attempted but few things, but he did those few extremely well. Irving, the Satirist New York was still a town which loved endless parties, parades, dinners, and its personalities and "characters" when Irving, aged 555 twenty-four, joined with his editorbrother William, and James K. Paulding to publish twenty issues of Salmagundi during 1807-08 (Salmagundi; a miscellany or salad composed of chopped meat and pickled herring, with oil, vinegar, pepper, and onions). 'The unrestrained, youthful vigor of these essays is apparent only if the whole title is read: SALMAGUNDI, or the WHIM-WHAMS AND OPINIONS OF LAUNCELOT LANGSTAFF, Esq., AND OTHERS. In hoe est hoax, cum quiz et jokesez, Et smokem, toastem, roastem folksez, Fee, fa, fum. Psalmanazar. With baked. And broiled, and stewed, and toasted; And fried, and boiled, and smoked, and roasted, We treat the town. (Salmagundi, Saturday January 24, 1807, page 209) Obviously patterned after the Spectator papers of Addison and Stecle, the essays' theme might have been a statement in No. XIII: "... It is easier to laugh ten follies out of countenance than to coax, reason, or flog a man out of one." 'Two excerpts from the same paper show that the young wits dared to poke fun at whatever weaknesses they saw in humanity, not exempting youth's own common tendency to take itself too seriously while setting the established world straight:. We seriously assure our readers that we were fully possessed of all the wisdom and morality it contains at the moment we commenced wmiting. It is the world which has grown wiser, — not us; we have thrown our mite into the common stock of knowledge, we have shared our 556 morsel with the ignorant multitude; and so far from clevating ourselves above the world, our sole endeavor has been to raise the world to our own level, and make it as wise as we, its disinterested benefactors (Salmagundi, page 263). They also give ironic solace to those we always have with us who long for the flawless "good old days" while the modern world goes to pot:. We bequeath our first volume to future generations, — and much good may it do them. Heaven grant they may be able to read it! For, if our fashionable mode of education continues to improve, as of late, I am under serious apprehensions that the period is not far distant when the discipline of the dancing master will supersede that of the grammarian; crotchets and quavers supplant the alphabet.... How does my heart yearn for poor dear posterity, when this work shall become as unintelligible to our grandchildren as it seems to be to their grandfathers and grandmothers (Salmagundi, page 264). What a neatly turned satire on those who always feel yesterday's education was superior! And for dancing and music substitute TV and "rock 'n' roll' — have fundamentals ever changed? Knickerbocker's History of New York (1809) Among other reasons, sensitive young Irving gave up the editorship of the Analectic Magazine when he was twenty-seven, because he disliked reviewing books about which nothing good could honestly be said; similarly, through satire and laughter the History might be defined as a gentle listing of those weaknesses in mankind which Irving felt might be eliminated or improved. And in the vigorous new democracy, aristocratic, Federalistic Irving found much that might be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 bettered: he ridiculed fantastic new schemes for eliminating poverty, poked fun at the money system by suggesting oyster shells replace specie, found the solid old Dutch burghers pompous and windy, distrusted the equalizing rule by the people, feared mobs and Yankees, and even let the reader know that he was less than perfect: If from all that I have said thou dost not gather, worthy reader, that Peter Stuyvesant was a tough, sturdy, valiant, weather - beaten, mettlesome, obstinate, leathern-sided, lion-hearted, —_ gencrousspirited old governor, either I have written to but little purpose, or thou art very dull at drawing conclusions (Book V, Chapter 1). With the unrestrained vigor which characterizes not only the entire book but, more important, the mind of young Irving, he pricked the bubble of Dutch complacency by telling how their "Fort Good Hoop" was taken by the hated Yankees without casualty by invading the fort during the usual afternoon nap hour: In an instant the flag of theie High Mightinesses was lowered, and the Yankee standard elevated in its stead, being a dried codfish by way of a spread eagle.... Van Curlet and his men, they were seized by the nape of the neck, conducted to the gate, and one by one dismissed with a kick in the crupper.... Jacobus Van Curlet receiving two kicks in consideration of his official dignity (Book IV, Chapter III). But Irving shows no partiality, for next he lampoons the enterprising greed of the Connecticut Yankees.. The Nieuw Nederlandts had long been regarded by the whole Yankee race as the modern land of promise, and them- LESSON DEPARTMENT selves as the chosen and pcculiar people destined... To get possession of it. In truth they are a wonderful and all-prevalent people, of that class who only require an inch to gain an ell, or a halter to gain a horse. From the time they first gained a foothold on Plymouth Rock, they began to migrate, progressing and _ progressing from place to place, and land to land, making a little here and a little there.... Hence they have facetiously received the nickname of THE PILGRIMS: that is to say, a people who are always secking a better country than their own (Book IV, Chapter XII). After reading such samplings, it is no wonder that young Irving was popular with the home town folks even before "Rip Van Winkle" and "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" endeared him to all people everywhere. 'The eerie mystery of the latter story has long made it a favorite of children of all ages, as well as influenced writers from Poe to Stevenson. Best loved of all Irving's works is "Rip Van Winkle," immortalized in the painting by John Quidor (text, page 165). In this story his two strongest literary skills are blended: first, with the same verve as found in the History, he satirizes the democratic spirit of party, weaknesses of mob voting, the tyranny of "petticoat government," and the rewards of "getting away from it all" — which seem to make nature-lovers of so many husbands; next he paints the dream of the ideal past in a nostalgic mood from which none of us can escape, the same mood which is to be his chief stock in trade the rest of his life until, alas, he wore it out. While few will maintain that 557 Irving is one of our great writers, none should deny his skills within that small area which he made his own. Not only was he a careful craftsman; he also knew precisely what his contemporaries wanted and he gave it to them, both to their delight and to ours. And while he dodged many realities in his later writings, and was heavily indebted to the eighteenth-century writers he loved, still it should be recalled that in several important ways he was first. Further, he excelled and was loved because much of his writing was his own; he maintained his independence even while he conformed; his strong feeling for old places and ways and folk tales was original; seeing the weaknesses of himself and his world, he laughed gently at it all; and, though basically an aristocrat, never did he take himself so seriously that he could not laugh at himself as well as his age, both past and present. Surely the American view of life as well as Amcrican literature would be much poorer had he accepted the appointment as Secretary of the Navy instead of trusting his talent and writing The Sketch Book. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Though many have felt Irving always sought to escape the harsh realities of life, still he was tremendously popular. Discuss this apparent paradox. 2. In his later writings Irving gave up satire entirely. Do you feel this made him a better writer? 3. What do you feel to have been the source of greatest happmess for Irving? Social Science —Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 9 — Expanding Our Religious Horizons — Part Il: Concepts of Man Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, November 22, 1960 Objective: Introduction HE challenge of understanding the nature of man has faced all generations. 'The Psalmist _ said, "What is man, that thou art mindful of him?" Socrates admonished his fellow men — "Know thyself." Alexander Pope in 1733 said in his famous poem, "The proper study of mankind is man.' Today the study of man is receiving more attention than in any previous period of history. Studies of human growth and development are numerous. Educators seek to "understand" students in order to teach them more cffectively. Army psychiatrists analyze the "why" of man's behavior in order to explain his actions in certain situations. Religionists emphasize in mote specific details than ever before how early experiences influence the later behavior and religious beliefs of an individual. Social scientists, mental health specialists, psychiatrists, and many other professional persons are waging crusades on many fronts as we attempt to understand more fully the nature of man. Concepts of Man The Bible teaches that God created man and, furthermore, that he created man in his own image. Latter-day Saints believe that man is an eternal being, having existed prior to this hfe and continuing to exist Page 558 To discover how our concepts of man and the resulting relationships influence our potentialities for spiritual living. With his own individuality after this life. According to our present understanding we first existed in the form of intelligence. We then became spirit children of God, next mortal beings, and, following this, we will become resurrected beings. We further believe that man has been given the free agency to make decisions and, to a certain degree, determine the course which his life will take. But within the framework of considering man an offspring of God, a free agent, and as one who is living a purposeful life, there is considerable latitude for beliefs concerning the nature of man. As we look at the traditional concepts of man, we find that three basic approaches emerge. Man Is Evil. The most traditional approach is to look upon man as basically bad and inherently evil. Throughout most of Christian history, man has been taught that he was born in sin, and that his natural tendency is toward evil thoughts and sinful deeds. The statements, "man is by nature carnal, sensual, and devilish," and "the natural man is an enemy of God," have been interpreted by some to support this approach. If he is left on his own, they claim, he will yield to the "flesh," choose the ev il, and, in general, live a life of degradation. Plans for transforming man from this state into one which would permit him to LESSON DEPARTMENT return to the presence of his Creator range all the way from self-persecution to confessing a belief in Christ and being saved by the grace of God. The task of child rearing from this point of view consists of one in which parents, teachers, and signifcant others in the life of a child must constantly and diligently work at rooting out the evil which is inherently in man from the time of his birth, and constantly try to direct and control him in order to produce a person who will obey and conform to the prescribed pattern. Proponents of this point of view have drawn an analogy between child rearing and that of rolling a ball uphill. As long as one is pushing and forcing it in the right direction, it will continue to go, but the - minute one relaxes or removes the pressure, the natural tendency is to roll back down or, in the case of a child, to revert to evil and sinful behavior. Man Is Neither Good Nor Bad. Another approach to man has been to look upon him as being neither basically good nor evil. This concept is based on the premise that man enters the world with a blank slate, and what he becomes and his future destiny depend upon what is written upon the slate by the significant people in his life (parents, other family members, teachers, etc). Man, it is claimed, can easily be swayed in the direction of good or evil depending upon who influences him first and most strongly. This concept pictures man living in a world in which good and evil are in competition with each other, and man stands as a neutral pawn to be pushed and swayed by the strongest 559 force. He possesses the potentialities of becoming a sinner or a saint. The environmental influences are all-important in determining the direction life will take. With favorable environmental conditions and the influence of the spirit of Christ, an individual can develop and experience the most positive potentialities within him. The task of child rearing from this point of view is to surround the child with as much protection from evil as possible while parents, teachers, and significant others indoctrinate him with concepts and beliefs that will take him in the direction of good and right living. Man Is Good. A third approach is to regard man as basically and inherently good. Adherents of this philosophy point out that man comes into the world innocent of guilt and sinfulness and, as a child of God, he inherits divinelike attributes in his human nature. Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning; and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again, in their infant state, innocent before God (D & C 93:38). This approach to man recognizes that he may be diverted into evil ways, but it looks upon life as potentially good and upon man as a potentially loving, kind, contributing person. One of the basic, reasons why man is here is to experience further growth in_ his Godlike potentialities. The task of child rearing from this point of view is one of helping the individual become himself. It assumes that if we provide a healthy atmosphere, positive growth and development will naturally take place. 560 Books for the Church Pianist ( ) Church Pianist— Stults eee 1,50 ( ) Eighteen Hymn _ Transcriptions— Kohlmann.............--.------- 85 ( ) Famous Sacred Songs—Peery........--..---+ 1.25 ( ) Melodies For Church and Home—Shelley.... 1.00 ( ) More Concert Transcriptions of Favorite Hymns—Kohlmann...... 1.00 ( ) Piano Hymn Voluntaries—Lorenz.............. 1.50 ( ) Piano Transcriptions of Your Favorite Hymns—Parsons.......... 1.25 ( ) Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Schaum...... 85 ( ) Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Stickles...... 1.25 ( ) Sacred Piano Album for Home and Church—Gahm............ 1.50 ( ) Sacred Piano Solos— Rettenberg..........0...... 1.00 ( ) Sabbath Day Music— Randolph.....................--- 1.50 ( ) Sunday Piano Music —Boston...0..2..... Eeeeseeeee 1.25 ( ) Tranquil Hours— Presser -...2..20...0ceecceeeeeeoee 1.50 ( ) Twenty-Four Voluntaries—Stickles -............. 1.50 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah {! 1 { i Please send the music indicated above.! 7 On Approval 0 Charge; [LD Money Enclosed! Name Address: { 1 City & State 15 E. Ist South salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 Man's Relationship to Man No matter which of the above three concepts of the nature of man (or even combinations of these concepts) we subscribe to, we would probably agree on the final goal to be achieved: namely, to discover and live the abundant life as taught and exemplified by our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. However, the manner in which we go about achieving this task and the resulting relationship with our fellow men, vary considerably among these concepts. If our concept of man is that he is by nature evil, we will approach him with caution and suspicion until he has "proved" himself. If we adhere to the belief that man by nature will do evil, our expectations are in this direction, and it is quite probable that we will find that for which we are looking. We tend to feel uncomfortable around him or even fear him, until we have established a feeling of trust and confdence. Such an outlook easily allows for exclusiveness and provincialism (a narrow point of view). Those who subscribe to the second approach to man: namely, that he is neither good nor bad, but is as plastic clay — look upon other people as objects to be molded and manipulated to fit the values which the molder has. With this point of view, we approach others not so much with fear and distrust as we do with hesitancy and wonder and one maintains a much more optimistic view of man. Since he feels that man can just as easily be molded into a "good" person as a "bad" one, he is more willing to enter into relationships with him. The third approach provides a LESSON DEPARTMENT more widening horizon, since it looks upon man as potentially good and, therefore, looking for the best in his fellow men. We look upon our relationships with man as consisting not so much of protecting or manipulating and molding, but rather of helping the individual discover himself and expericnce the Godlike potentialities within him. It allows us to reach out with warmth, with love, and acceptance. It permits us to recognize the fact that it is human to err. But because there is value and worth and _ potentiality for good in all men, our responsibility and goal is not to condemn the evil and reject those who do not behave in our way and think 2s we do, but to capitalize upon the good in all human beings. We sce our responsibility mainly as the task of trying to create an environment which is conducive to the healthy growth and development of all mankind — physically, mentally, socially, emotionally, and _ spiritually. An illustration which may help to clarify this point is to contrast the potentialities of man with the expectations which we have when we plant a seed. We recognize that the potentialities for growth whether it be a cornstalk, a rosebush, or an oak tree, are inherent in the seed. Our expectations are that it will grow and experience its destiny, but we realize that we must make the conditions right in order for that growth to take place. We must find good soil in which to plant the seed. We must provide the necessary nourishment in order for it to grow. We must protect it, particularly during its early growth and tender period, in order 561 that it will not be distorted or killed. Then, if we provide the right conditions, it will grow into the potentialities which we expected from the seed itself. But we would not expect the seed of a rosebush to grow into a distorted and tangled bush with no_ blossoms. Neither would we expect to take the seed of a squash and manipulate and mold it into a pine tree. And so with human beings, it is our responsibility to make the conditions right for learning and growth, so that a child may develop the potentialities of Godlike characteristics which are inherently within him. The Latter-day Saint Concept of Man The Latter-day Saint concept of man is that he is born innocent; unencumbered by any sin connected with his birth or with the fall of Adam. Furthermore, he is born with potentialities of Godlike characteristics. Note the following quotations from our prophets: Man is the child of God, formed in the divine image and endowed with divine attributes, and even as the infant son of our earthly father and mother is capable in due time of becoming a man, so the undeveloped offspring of celestial parentage is capable, by experience through ages of aeons, of evolving into a God (Joseph F. Smith, Improvement Era, 13:81, November 1909).. We are the offspring of God, born with the same faculties and powers as He possesses, capable of enlargement through the experience that we are now passing through in our second estate.... He has begotten us in His own image. He has given us faculties and powers that are capable of enlargement until His fullness is reached which He has promised — until we shall sit upon thrones, governing 562 and controlling our posterity from eternity to eternity, and increasing cternally (Lorenzo Snow, Millennial Star 56:772, December 3, 1894). We were born in the image of God our Father; He begot us like unto himself. 'There is the nature of deity in the composition of our spiritual organization; in our spiritual birth our Father transmitted to us the capabilities, powers and faculties which he himself possessed, as much so as the child on its mother's bosom possesses, although in an undeveloped state, the faculties, powers and susceptibilitics of its parent (Lorenzo Snow, Deseret Weekly News 20:597, January 14, 1872). Lowell L. Bennion, in discussing this subject, presents the following opinion: Man comes into the world innocent of any guilt, sinfulness, or depravity. He comes as a child of God with divine-like attributes in his human nature. Mforeover, the Spirit of God and of Christ enlightens every person who is born in the world to incline him toward the good. Man, being a free agent, may choose good or evil. Living among other free agents, he is strongly influenced by others in this choice.... He is here to learn to do good and thereby to find joy. This he will find as he learns to live in harmony with the will and attributes of his Creator and grows in his God-like potentiality (Bennion, Lowell L.: An Introduction to The Gospel, page 58). As the individual grows toward adulthood and becomes accountable for his actions, he must face the task of dealing with the physical drives and urges within him. These basic and natural urges are potentiallv valuable. It is only when they get out of balance and out of control that they are dangcrous. We are reminded of the powcr of the desire for the expression of these drives and the inclination to yield RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1960 o "the works of the flesh" in the scriptural affirmation that "the natural man is an enemy to God." Because of this, we as Latter-day Saints are taught that man must yield to the enticings of the Spirit, be born again, and put off the "natural" man, in order that the Godlike potentialities may properly develop and manifest themselves. In the words of Brother ElRay L. Christiansen: President Grant once reminded us that there are two spirits striving with all men — one telling them what to do that is right, and the other telling them to do that which will please themselves, that will gratify their own pride and ambitions. So, as King Benjamin said, unless we yield "'to the enticings of the Holy Spirit, and putteth off the natural man... And becometh as a child," meek and submissive, and gentle, full of love, we are likely to spend our time in gratifying our own ambitions, and thus fail to develop the spiritual attributes and power. We will be led away from the divine destiny which may be ours (123 Annual Church Conference, page 35). Summary The nature of man for purposes of analysis has been classified into three broad approaches: (1) Man is basically and inherently evil; (2) Man is neither good nor evil, but enters the world as a blank slate to be written upon; and (3) Man has an inheritance of divine potentialities. The relationships which we establish with other men are highly influenced by our concept of the nature of man. What we find in our fellow men is influenced, if not determined, by what we expect to find in him. It is also quite probable that what man feels we expect of him determines his behavior and LESSON DEPARTMENT what he is able to reflect toward us. The attitudes with which we approach man, whether these attitudes be overt or subtle, and whether they be directed toward a child or an adult, are powerful influences. If we give the impression to a child that we expect him to misbehave, to be "naughty," to be "bad," he soon learns to play the role which we expect of him. This alone suggests the great value of a positive concept of the nature of man. Regardless of the concept we choose to believe, we all recognize that man is here to develop the divine characteristics within him, that he needs the nurturing care of individuals who love him, and the spirit of God to inspire and guide him. Establishing harmonious and creative relationships with our fellow men is one of the cornerstones in the foundation of building a world at peace. Just as the lens of a camera determines the width of focus, so does our concept of man detcrmine the narrowness or breadth of our religious horizons. God grant that we may have the vision and understanding that will permit and help us to implement the concept of the brotherhood of man truly. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Give additional illustrations of how one's concept of the nature of man influences child-rearing practices. 2. Give additional illustrations of how one's concept of man influences his telationship to his fellow men. 3. How does one's concept of man telate to his concept of God? 4. In what way does an understanding of the concept of emotional maturity help us understand man? 5. What are some of the ways in which we can learn more about the nature of man? 563 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT Twenty-three days, including Boston, Washington, New York, and Chicago. Top broadway show will be seen. Church historical places will also be visited such as Nauvoo and Adam-OndiAhman. GUATEMALA Book of Mormon Archeological Sites. Tour leaving August 17, 1960. Will be back in time for school. LABOR DAY Tour to Bryce and Grand Canyons and Glen Canyon Dam, Sept. 3rd, 4th, and 5th. ROSE PARADE TOUR Taking reservations for March 1961 Hawaiian Tour. ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Ave. Phone EM 3-5229 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Socicty Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance. Payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Sait Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 0. 35 150 to 300 miles.......... 2.. 300 to 600 miles... Bc 600 to 1000 miles... 1000 ta 1400 miles... 1400 to 1800 miles... Over 1800 mites Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah EUROPE August 1960 to October 1960 Price: $1,650 This price includes round trip transportation from Salt Lake City, Utah. Ask for folders of our many other tours HAWAIIAN TOURS Tours leaving every month. Special tour leaving August 30 to September 11 for Hawaii. Write for information. ROSE PARADE TOUR December to January MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 So. 23rd East, Salt Lake City AM 2-2337, IN 6-2909 LEARN TO TY PEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon | Adult classes for Relief Society and gene- | alogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 ] to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. 1 Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 Page 564 Birthday Congratulations One Hundred One Mrs. Mary D. Brown Criark Panguitch, Utah Ninety-nine Mrs. GeorcieENNE WALTERS Big Lake, Minnesota Ninety-five Mrs. Even S. Lovett Rowe Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. IpA May Lowry ALLEN Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Jemima FostTer Mendon, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Eviza ELten Buacx Morris Macon, Georgia Mrs. Mina VERETTA WILLIAMS TWITCHELL Spokane, Washington Mrs. Exvira Vari Livincston Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Loutsa NrEtson Ferron, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Exviza ANN RILEY TOLMAN Bancroft, Idaho Mrs. ANNIE KENNEDY CORLESS Magrath, Canada Ninety Mrs. Apa CroxaLL CANNON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. CuHetnecua Damon Barron Inkom, Idaho Mrs. Linuir Porrnoss STRACHE Salt Lake City, Utah > Tight Song in August Beulah Huish Sadleir Night song in August Is the cricket's lament For the soon falling leaf; The beckoned content That hovers about A soft glow from the hearth When winter has covered A part of the earth. 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah 1. Toward A Better Life MARK E. PETERSEN. Here's a choice volume of Conference addresses, speeches, and articles by Elder Petersen that will appeal to all ages. There are forty selections in all, ranging from problems of youth to the importance of genealogical work. Includes: "On My Honor," "Why the Mormons Build Temples," "Shall the Youth of Zion Falter," and other favorites. 3.50 2. Stories from Mormon History ALMA P. AND CLEA M. BURTON. LDS readers everywhere are thrilled when they discover the many colorful stories from early Church history contained in this single volume. A sizeable number of these are little-known or are difficult to find elsewhere in print. Teachers, speakers, general readers —everyone, in fact. Will find this fills a real need. 3.50 3. Faith in a Day of Unbelief DAVID H. YARN, JR. This compact, easy-to-read book makes the First Principles of the Restored Gospel crystal-clear, understandable, and meaningful in our atomic age. This is the kind of book to pass onto nonmembers, investigators, or take everywhere as a constant missionary companion. 1.95 SOYEGH SE MUYE OLE 44 East South Temple -- Salt Lake City, Utah ete eeceecececcccesccecee eee Te MINT NY ee ye oe sits ee 44 East South Temple Name:: Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find Address:: [_] check [] money order []I have an: ¢ account. Please charge for encircled City Zone ——State: g (numbered) books: 1 2 3 bd fe Amount enclosed $ Residents of Utah include 242% sales tax. C Deseret Book Company: Salt Lake City, Utah c: 4 Te pee DURA,. E I F-I 2-135-1750 /S one ypisging? Eeeeecee Cem orrrrererereccccccccecs eeeeececcorce @oeeeetee PTO HHO CHEE eee eeerenecereccree r Ceeserornecsescoeccce it takes three to plan happiness e ee The breadwinner, the housewife, and the insurance consultant. The future happiness of your family is all wrapped up in these three people. The breadwinner is the head of the house. He knows what he wants in his family's future and just what the budget can afford to pay for it. The homemaker is the partner, and like him has an important interest in that future. Your Beneficial Life agent should be the third member of this planning team. Interested in a professional career as a Beneficial agent? Ask the man who is one...: ask your Beneficial agent about the many: benefits that capable men enjoy in this: rewarding profession. BENEFICIAL LIFE —: Srsuuance Company Salt Lake City, Utah Virgil H. Smith, Pres. He's an expert on life insurance and can fill your insurance needs like a doctor's Prescription. He can help you provide for the education of your children as well as your own retirement... Yet keep everything within your budget. Don't rely on novices to help you with your insurance. When you need an expert, call an expert... Call your Beneficial Life agent today. E ° e e e e e. E. E e e e e e e e e e e e e e ° LJ e + ' e We CCC or reeccccces eeccccccnsccccccece PPPS CCE COE ee PMCS SOS COC C CEE CCEeESeCoeOoeSeS * 74 CAs CHG >< 5 pMAN Ke Lombardy Poplars Dorothy ]. Roberts After desert, music of their green word Is published on the landscape of despair — After death and silence, the sudden sound Of boughs responding to the pluck of air.... Past the river's barren bend they lift their legend, Where winds are sudden though the hour is mild. Dense as a wall theyssoar above the lava, Anchored where purple tiers of rock are piled In tumbled boulder-eggs and long plateaus. As windbreaks, mothering the meted land, Or towered in leaf to bless the road with shade, The giant quotient of reply, they stand. In measured lines these tall trees rise, where men Once bent above each seedling, hope wand-high, To lift the passing heart and eye from earth, From faith to answer, green on the sun-laned sky. The Cover: Holyroodhouse, Edinburgh, Scotland Color Transparency by Duncan Edwards Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. Frontispiece: Lombardy Poplars, Photograph by Willard Luce Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Page 565 From lear and Sar Will you accept my sincere, heartfelt thanks for The Relief Society Magazine. The pictures are wonderful and they show what the members achieve. It is a beautiful Magazine containing such various and interesting reading. In the April issue, the poem "Charity" by Iris W. Schow is the true message. —Mary Leutens Brussels, Belgium I read all the stories in The Relief Society Magazine, as well as all the other matcrial. I like to call it my Magazine, because it emphasizes the arts that should be mine — cooking, sewing, homemaking, and the art of being a successful wife and mother. The stories either present common problems or bring to life the wonderful spirit of our pioneers. It seems good to have a Magazine which presents the views of Latter-day Saint women. —Dorothy C. Little Lewiston, Utah A few days ago I received my first copy of The Rehef Society Magazine, and have truly enjoyed reading it. My husband and I are especially interested in the story "Orchids in the Snow" by Rosa Lee Lloyd. We moved here to Dillingham a short time ago, and I am _ experiencing some of the same strange things as Sharry. Dillingham is located on the coast of Bristol Bay and can be reached only by air and water. Therefore, our way of living is a big change from that in Utah. There are only four members of our Church here, and three of them are our family. The remaining member, Lyle Smith, has been wonderful to make us fee] at home. We are enjoying very much the chance to be pioneers in the jet age. —Mrs. Martha Morgan Dillingham, Alaska I do enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. The stories are so refreshing and wholesome. Also, I like the articles, and, of course, the poems. The women who do this writing must be "deep thinking" and sincere. —Mrs. L. B. Dovey Deepfield, Australia Page 566 I have seen and felt the spirit of Relief Society in action. I am the mother of eight wonderful children. When I had the first four I had no time for any outside activities, including Relief Society, Then my mother gave me a subscription to The Relief Society Magazine, and | began to develop an interest in it. J started going to Relief Society and taking an active part. As a result, I can see the difference in my home. Our home has a distinctly different atmosphere. There is a mellowness that never existed before. For several years I have taken four tiny ones with me to Relief Society meetings and have proved for myself that young mothers can and should attend Relief Society. —Cora Thinnes Ogden, Utah I have intended for some time to write and tell you how much I enjoy our Magazie. I read it through and pass it on to friends who enjoy it. My friends Mr. And Mrs. E. B. Anderson, West Jordan, Utah, have sent it to me for some years, and I appreciate it. They came to see me two years ago. They are grand people. The Magazine stories are such wholesome reading, and the covers and pictures are lovely. —Agnes Fisher Vancouver, B. C. Canada Years ago my mother added The Relief Society Magazine as part ef my Christmas gift, and each vear she has subscribed for me. I can truly say that it is the only Magazine that comes into our home that I always read from cover to cover. I have never failed to find a story. Poem, lesson, or article that hasn't seemed to answer my problems, lift my chin up, or make me smile again, when needed. I have always felt that the messages and material in the Magazine were written for me and directed to me, especially, as an individual. —Oral] M. Clayton Glendale, California THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - = 5 - Marianne C. Sharp - - - = o - Louise W. Madsen - - - ° = Hulda Parker - - 7 - Blanche B. Stoddard Edith P. Backman Evon W. Peterson Winniefred S Aleine M. Young Manwaring Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Wealtha S. Mendenhail Christ of Latter-day Saints - President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Marie C. Richards Josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Irene W. Buehner RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor = - - - - - 2 2 = S s c Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawtord General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spatford VOL. 47 SEPTEMBER 1960 NO. 9 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Sleep When the Wind Blows Mildred B. Eyring 570 Are You Happy? Marvel Sharp Crookston 595 Evening Incident FICTION My Third Grandma — Part I — Sari Helen S. Hughes 634 llene H. Kingsbury The Rich, Full Years 00.000... Betty Lou Martin A Problem, a Pet, and the Picture Louise Morris Kelley § Orchids in the Snow — Chapter 5 'Rosa Lee Lloyd GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Editorial: Enhancing the Joy of Family Living Marianne C. Sharp Notes From the Feld: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker Birthday Congratulations FEATURES FOR THE HOME Fall Drama Roberta L.. Theobald Best Sellers for the Bazaar... Jean Ridges Jennings Freezing Food at Home....... Ruby K. Smith Something Different for Dinner..—Emma A. Hanks Mary Bartholomew Stewart Makes Her Home Beautiful With Handwork LESSONS FOR DECEMBER Theology — The Law cf Moral Conduct (continued) = Roy W. Doxey Visiting Teacher Messages — Every Man Is Given a Gift... Christine H. Robinson Work Meeting — Moving and Lifting the Patient Maria Johnson Literature — James Fenimore Cooper, Critic Briant S. Jacobs POETRY Lombardy Poplars — Frontispiece... Dorothy J. Roberts Late Summer aAlice Morrey Bailey —Ida Elaine James Child Blowing a Dandelion What Liaghona? —_Iris W. Schow Grandmother's Art Lula Walker Green Thumb Mabel Law Atkinson A Stake Is Born Gratitude Padda M. Speller Catherine B. Bowles September Road Katherine F. Larsen 634 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: Subscriptions 246; Editorial] Dept. 245. 20c a copy; payable in advance. Numbers can be supplied. Address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, the Act of March 3, 1879. Subscription Price: $2.00 a The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; foreign, $2.00 a year; No back Report change of year; Salt Lake City, Utah, under Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. Page 567 Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Birthday Congratulations to President David O. McKay Christine H. 'Robinson Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen 569 Courtesy Z. C. M. Il. Photo Reflex Studio PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY Page 568 Birthday Congratulations to President David ©. MeKay On His Eighty-Seventh Birthday, September 8, 1960 ELIEF Society women in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend birthday congratulations and best wishes to our beloved President David O. McKay. We are grateful for the privilege of living in this time of earth history when the gospel has been restored and we are blessed to receive counsel, guidance, and spiritual enlightenment from our prophet, seer, and revelator. As members of the world-wide sisterhood, we are especially thankful that President McKay has traveled to many countries and has taken the gospel message to faraway islands and to the great cities of the world. Through his journeyings and his testimony, he has strengthened and uplifted the sisters, and increased their devotion and service to the gospel and in the Relief Society organizations. It is a great joy to all of us in all the wards and branches to know that Sister McKay has companioned the President on his visits among the saints, and by her gracious dignity and her dear kindliness has contributed to the bonds of loving sisterhood which unite Relief Society women everywhere. The years of President McKay's life, his young manhood, his apostleship, and presidency have been given, as described in the Doctrine and Covenants of those who were ordained to go forth among the nations, to "Lifting up your voices as with the sound of a trump, proclaiming the truth...." The women of the Church, in every land, rejoice, and their hearts are filled with gratitude, as they extend birthday greetings to President McKay and wish him health and happiness and the blessings of the Lord. May he long continue to "... Proclaim the everlasting gospel, by the Spirit of the living God, from people to people, and from land to land...." Paae 569 Sleep When the Wind Blows Mildred B. Eyring Member, General Board of Relief Society was able to sleep through terrific wind storms is a tamiliar one. His ability to sleep is easily explained. He had built his house and barns well, they were well kept, at night the doors were closed and fastened, the stacks were covered, the animals safely corralled or stabled. He was prepared for a hard wind. He could sleep. Christians have always known, if they have read their scriptures carefully, that destructive forces of some kind are coming to the world. They have been =amed many times to prepare themselves and their households to meet difficult times. Divine laws have been given with great clarity, and commandments to obey these laws have been repeated by inspired prophets of all dispensations, including our own. Punishment for disobedience has been prescribed, and rewards for obedience have been promised. When questioned by them, Christ told the Pharisees that the first commandment was to love God completely, and the second was to love one's neighbor as oneself. Then, he indicated that all other commandments are dependent upon these two. If these first two commandments had been obeyed completely, perhaps no others would have been necessary. But, from the beginning, some of God's children have been disobedient, and many laws concerning specific matters have been necessary in all dispensations. The Ten Commandments Page 570 A Mie story of the farmer who which were given anew through Moses form a brief code of behavior for mankind. Again, if this code had been followed by all people, the earth could have been a paradise long ago. During his ministry, Christ repeated and added to the commandments, and in the present dispensation there have been more repetition and more additions. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints acknowledges the divinity of all these commandments, and its members covenant to obey them. The words of the commandments have become very familiar and commonplace; so much so, that their meaning and importance are too often overlooked. The very last of the Ten Commandments "Thou shalt not covet" is not very frequently discussed, and may seem to be less important than the others. But is it? What does it mean? The word covet was used more commonly in ancient times than now. Nephi, in referring to the commandments, uses the word envy. Modern dictionaries use terms such as "to crave," "to desire enviously," "to long for," in defining the word. These are terms we all understand, but what are we doing about this commandment? Envy seems always to have been a part of human nature. Cain envied Abel. Joseph's brothers envied him. The scriptures are filled with accounts of individuals and nations which were destroyed because of this sin. It is not new, but it is real and it is with us. There has SLEEP WHEN THE WIND BLOWS probably never been another time when so many people enviously desire to have what others have, as now. Modern means of communication and modern selling techniques may be responsible. It is possible now for people to see exactly what others have, their homes, their clothes, their jewels, all their personal possessions. No one can be unaware of the aggressive advertisers. Keeping up with the Joneses — a modern form of covetousness — has become the most common sin of the age, so common in fact that it is not recognized as such by those who commit it. Yet is not this sin, in a very real measure, responsible for many of the other sins — breaking the Sabbath day, lying, stealing, adultery, murder, war? And does not this sin bring about much of the anxiety, discontent, ill health, and misery with which otherwise "good" people are afflicted? Why are so many people in debt? Why are so many women employed outside their homes? It may seem more difficult for those who have little to avoid covetousness. Perhaps it is, but those who have much are not without responsibility for the prevalence of this sin. They also can be covetous, and are often vain, and by indulging their desires and displaying their possessions, they arouse the envy of others and compound the evil. To have wealth is not sinful; to display it can be. The Tenth Commandment as given in Exodus is noticeably more detailed than the other negative ones, as if to make it more emphatic. It surely is not less important. The Lord has always known the weaknesses and the needs of his children. He has given many laws 571 which are designed to help them develop the ability to love him as he desires, and to love each other unselfishly. The law of sacrifice, the law against covetousness, the Jaw of tithing, the present Church Welfare Plan are all preparatory to the law of consecration, under which there will be no rich and no poor, and which we must accept and live completely before we can live with the Lord. Since we are obviously not yet prepared to live that higher law, we should try carnestly now to obey the lesser ones. Some of these laws may seem, on first thought, to be purely temporal; but we are told by the Lord that all his laws are spiritual, that none of them is temporal. As mortals, we are physical and spiritual beings combined. 'The body and spirit are one and cannot be acted upon separately. Hatred, anger, jealousy, worry, greed, cause tension, ulcers, strokes, and heart attacks. Ignoring the Word of Wisdom or refusing to pay tithing and offerings leads to loss of faith, apostasy, moral and spiritual decay. All divine laws are designed to benefit God's children eternally as well as to give them happiness here. HE dangers of covetousness have been recognized by wise men in all eras. Socrates (469- 399 B. C. ) is reported to have said, ""hose who want fewest things are nearest to the gods." And often when he was looking in at auctions, he would say, "How many things there are which I do not need." Horace (65 B. C. - 8 ap.) the Roman poet said, ""The covetous man is ever in want." The apostle Paul wrote to the Colossians, "Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth" (Col. 3:2). And to Timothy he wrote: But godliness with contentment is great gain. Tor we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. And having food and raiment let us be therewith content. But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts.... For the love of money is the root of all evil... (I Tim. 6:6-10). How can we attain "godliness with contentment"? What changes must we make in our thinking and our practices? In the beginning, man was given the responsibility of providing, through his own labor, the physical necessities for his family. He was to govern, protect, and cherish them. The woman was to bear children, to be a homemaker and a help meet to her husband, subject to him in righteousness. Together, they were to bring up their children in righteousness. These original assignuments have never been changed. How well are we playing our roles as women now? 7E hear much about "woman's rights" today, but let us look, now, not at her rights only, but at her responsibilities as a wife and mother. She is a help meet to her husband. She must conserve and use wisely the necessary material of livelihood which her husband provides. She must recognize and meet the needs, and respect the rights of all members of her family, including herself. What are important needs and rights of family members? First, of course, they need the material things: adequate shelter, food, and clothing. More importantly, perhaps, each needs the love, respect, confidence, appreciation, and cooperation of all the family. They all need peace of mind. Each needs time to work without interference, time for a hobby, time to sing, to play, to laugh, to pray, time to be alone. Are we homemakers managing our homes so that these needs of our families are met?) What can we do to make twenty-four hours a day and our present income adequate for all these things? Many of us will be compelled to change our habits. Most of us are more or less closely akin to the pack rat. We accumulate and_ hoard things for which we have no need or use or just because we see them, or because someone else has them. We can change that habit. A good practical beginning would be a complete housecleaning. We can go through every room, every closet, cupboard, and drawer and take out everything we do not need, or are not storing for a future need, pack the articles which might be useful to someone else and send them to the Deseret Industries, or, where there is no Deseret Industries, search out people in need of them. Our homes will be clean and our spirits will be lifted. Now let us make a survey of our family activities over a period of time (to be really "scientific" it should cover at least six months so that seasonal factors would be included, but a shorter period will give us valuable information.) A chart for each family member on which a complete time and activity record can be kept for each twenty-four- 572 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 SLEEP WHEN THE WIND BLOWS hour day should be made. Show money earned, and how, money spent, and how. When sufficient data have been accumulated examine the charts in a family council. Decide together which activities have been worth the time and money expended on them, and plan any desirable changes. Check income and expenditures and make plans to improve the family finances. Check menus for meals against the basic food requirements for health, to make sure the family is being wellfed. Read the 89th Section of The Doctrine and Covenants again and note the cautions given concerning the use of the foods provided for man. Are we being prudent in our use of them? Having made the survey of what we are doing, it will be possible to set up a workable budget of time, activity, and money which can make our resources meet our needs. Samuel Johnson gave a bit of excellent advice on budgeting. He said, "Whatever you have, spend less." HRIFT is a homely word, but a good one. It means economical management. "A penny saved is a penny got." "Waste not, want not." "Remember, that time is money." You can think of many such sayings which our grandparents knew and lived by. Perhaps we should follow the counsel of Horace when he said: "As soon as a man perceives how much the things he has discarded excel those which he pursues, let 573 him turn in time, and resume those which he relinquished." The kind of thrift our ancestors practiced could balance many of the tottering family budgets of today. Sewing, breadmaking, home canning, a vegetable garden, all helped to stretch meager incomes to provide the necessities and, often, some luxuries for the family. The same thrifty habits are as practical now as they were a hundred years ago. In many families today this kind of old-fashioned thrift would make it possible for the now working mothers to stay in their homes with their families and build much needed family solidarity and strength. When cleaning out the unnceded things from our homes, we will have an opportunity to check the supplies we have stored, the food, clothing, bedding, household supplies, first-aid materials, etc., which our prophets, for many years, have urged us to keep in our homes. By obedience to their directions, we not only insure our physical safety and comfort in difficult times, but we gain spiritual strength through our obedience. Self-examination is the best examination. How well am I filling my role? Am I a good help meet? Am [a wise, understanding mother? Am I covetous? Am I burdened with many things? Am I a good neighbor? Do I have peace of mind? Does my husband? Are my children happy? Am I my sister's keeper? Do I love God? Am I obedient? Can I sleep when the wind blows? My Shird G randma Part I — SARI Ilene H. Kingsbury Y other Grandmas lived far away, and I saw them briefly once or twice a year. My third Grandma was in reality my proximity Grandma, for she lived in the next house south. She was not my "blood relation," but was as deeply beloved, and was known by no other title than Grandma. Because the freedom of Grandma Morgan's home was ours, we often played house in the small lean-to off her kitchen. This room was a sort of storage department for Jonathan apples, a sack of bran, a couple of tool chests, old pillow cases of dried plums, and cast-off boxes and trunks. It was cozy and darkish in there. The one small window was more of an excuse than an aid to viewing the scenery. It never scemed to matter to Grandma whether we rearranged the miscellaneous valuables, just so we kept a path down the middle. She insisted on easy access to needed necessities. I am sure we played in this magic place scores of times, but only one of them remains to excite and enhance my adulthood. Her two little eranddaughters and I were planning a show to enrapture the neighborhood. We remembered Grandma's old box in the lean-to. She called it a portmanteau. Our folks would have said trunk or chest; but it was so battered and insecure looking that box was its final category. Had we been older and wiser and more observant, we could have seen that its hinges were of beaten silver, with Page 574 odd markings to insure safety on a sea voyage. If we had been taught that a lot of old-fashioned things were really priceless antiques, then we could have preserved this container for the Smithsonian custodians. But I suppose some sincere soul, actuated by the goddess of cleanliness and order, one day kicked that magic box out the door and flung it to the woodpile where it finally became heating material on a cold winter's night. However, there it was in my childhood, quite unmolested save for dust and dry desert air. Three little girls, aged eight years, with dreams in their heads, can make quick work of opening up an old-fashioned trunk. They can pull more dress-up things from it than one would ever think it could encase. 'These lovely legends of style billow and tumble at the feet and get tangled up on the floor until, in a moment, one is almost submerged in wool, cotton, and silk. We grabbed each piece with a shameless selfishness, held each up for size. We smelled some for that peculiar, musty fragrance of age and airless confinement. We unrolled and unfolded fashion's atrocities and fashion's beauties, we heartlessly flung aside that which deserved sentimentality and a quiet reverence. But we were only eight. There was so much to choose from for a childish version of grand opera that we reveled and shouted and tugged and danced about. We hastily drew off and on such marvels of style that we resolved to MY THIRD GRANDMA become store saleswomen when we grew up. It was as if we were thirsty and hungry and here was meat and drink for effulgence. Our braids feathered out, our ribbons hung bedraggled with such pulling up and down of taffeta shirtwaists and lace and fur as we had never before imagined. We gave up the amateur opera for a few moments, just being happy dressing up. Hats with feathers and giant bows graced our brows. Kid gloves, gone from stark white to cream with age, were pushed wrinkling from wrists to armpits. High button shoes, soft leather like a baby's palm, were made to flap around our shins. We were in our glory. HEN we found it. Coral silk — vards and yards of it. It was - rolled up as is a scroll, to save wrinkles and fatal creases. One of us held onto the roll while the other took two corners firmly in hand and backed away from the trunk. Out the door she pranced and right on out to the clothesline. It was not a wide piece of beauty, only about two feet. Along either edge was a border some four or five inches wide of curious gold threads so cleverly woven in with the silk that they gleamed and shimmered and startled the eye with loveliness. When the scarf was entirely spread between us we raised our arms high above our heads, then jerked them down, all to see this pinkish silk flutter and billow and pause in midair as a cloud at sunset. After that we held it to our waists and swung toward each other with little dancing steps taken in small circles which brought us ere long together in a wrapping of gossamer silk. Out again we would swing ourselves, and 575 then repeat the motion as before. The dance of nymphs expert with fibers and sunshine and mist and joy could not have compared with three girls and what they had found in an old trunk. Too sad that the high note so struck was not the last, or so we felt at the time. It has taken adulthood's view to say it was better to have it end as it did. Ecstasy was boundless at the very moment that Grandma Morgan came to the door to throw out the dishwater. At the sight of us she gave out a sort of wail or moan. Such unbelief was heard in her protest at what we were doing to her beloved treasure that we froze in our tracks, dropped the scarf, gathered courage, and started for the shelter of the orchard. She recovered quickly enough to call after us to come back now. We _ fairly crawled back to her presence, so humble were we and so majestic was she. She lovingly gathered the length of priceless goods to her heart. As she did so she rolled it up hand over hand in a sort of muff and sat on the back step and cried into its folds. This was absolutely stunning to us. Whoever had seen Grandma with tears in her eyes? We plumped ourselves on the ground in front of her, folded our arms, and waited. As she crouched over the scarf and wept, she sort of bent forward and looked as if she were shrinking, littler and littler. She wasn't much bigger than we were anyway, but suddenly we wanted to comfort her and take care of her and straighten her shoulders and make her smile, and be our wonderful Grandma forever and ever. As we leaned toward her she withdrew her hands from the scarf and unwound it a bit and placed a length of it around our shoulders. There we sat in front of her, the long piece tieing us together. Her dark eyes now ceased to cry, and she felt impelled to tell us her story. Her ancestors had ruled India long before the English came to claim it as a protectorate or department or whatever they chose to call their tenure of her land. After that era of great sorrow, war, and adjustment, no one was truly happy in India, neither the British nor the natives. So fallen were the fortunes of her father's house, that they were the servants where once they had been masters. They were refugees, where once they had been conquerors. At twelve, called a woman in India, she became the personal servant to the wife of a British military officer. NE night as her master and his family were singing hymns in a little arbor in their garden, they were disturbed by a rude knocking at the gate. A guard was sent to investigate, but got no satisfaction from two sailor lads who demanded entrance. 'The master, therefore, went to quict the protests of both his man and the intruders. The insistence of the strangers that they come in and join in the singing was listened to and soon all was calm. After the practice the master asked the boys where they had come from. Good Old England, they informed him, just disembarked from nearly a year at sea. He wanted to know why they had come to his home. They said they recognized the hymns and knew Christians lived within the high stone wall surrounding the place. All this conversation went on while the twelve-year-old servant girl was standing near her mistress gently fanning her to catch the slightest evening breeze. She listened. She was fascinated. It developed that these two youths were there to beg people to go to America. And had they ever been to America? Well no, but perhaps they might when they no longer sailed the seas. 'The strange tale unraveled. They were missionaries from the restored Church of Jesus Christ. 'They would soon have to take ship for other oceans and continents, but others would come to preach the gospel to the pure in heart. They did sail away, those two emissaries of Christ not yet twenty. The reports they made back in England were responsible for a mission to India. In a new season the longawaited preachers got to the garden within the high wall in Calcutta, India. These men with the gospel message started from Salt Lake City, Territory of Utah, United States of America. They traveled by ox team through Nevada and California. They worked their way on sailing ships to India by way of Australia. They were men who weren't frightened easily — either by the elements or uncivilized tribes or skeptical colonists. Some had experienced mob atrocities, some had walked hundreds of miles in the Mexican War as part of the Mormon Battalion. They knew deprivation and hardship. Mormons they were, and Mormons they hoped to make all the world. In India they preached, some for as long as five years. They traveled into the interior by bullock cart and 576 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 MY THIRD GRANDMA on foot. Few believed, fewer still were courageous enough to join their sect, and still fewer had courage to leave governmental subsidies and posts of authority to emigrate to Zion. The young native servant girl of India did believe. She did leave her master's house. She did encircle the globe. She arrived at the end of nearly a year's journey in a little Mormon settlement in Southern Utah. ER belongings, or possibles as she called them, were meager, unobstrusive, and scarcely of any value at all. Her little metal studded trunk became battered in holds of sailing vessels. It became so beaten that no one assumed its contents were of merit. But underneath the more mundane articles of current wearing apparel an inquisitive hand could have found a curved, carved, ivory-handled sword wrapped in a misty, gleaming length of gold embroidered coral silk. 'That sari of South India had come a long, long Way. But it was out of place on a western frontier. Somber living was the 577 remember when the only bright trimming in the whole community was a bit of red flannel contributed by a gracious lady who had formerly called it a petticoat. But a swatch of silk of such gaiety and loveliness was not countenanced. It had remained in the little trunk for nearly two generations when we snatched it and flung it in the sunshine. No wonder Grandma cried. The rush of memories of a most amazing past was enough to break her reserve. As she talked, we knew what the butcher knife meant to her. The silk and the steel were symbols of her father's house. Reluctantly we unwound the sari from our shoulders, we laid it reverently in her lap and noted its high brilliance. We had been clad in coral. We thought about going home to tell our mothers. Surely they should know all about the wonderful things Grandma Morgan had told us. But as we got to the gate we slowed down. As we stepped beneath the orchard shade we came to a complete stop. We looked at each other. Maybe we should keep all this a secret until we were old end result of harsh toil. One could and someone called us Grandma. Fall Drama Roberta L. Theobald A? I remember August 31, 1959, the excitement of anticipation filled the air, and such a scurry there was at our house. Finally, all the children were washed, brushed, and combed; then, with faces smiling, each left a kiss and was gone. And on this day before September, an aloneness, which I cherished, was mine. Togetherness was good, but at times I wished to solo into the realm of quietude. Yes, it was pleasant to have them back in school again. Most thoughtfully I listened to the wonderful silence. Then, soon satiated with myself and my solitude, I just as eagerly awaited their return. As other summer days reached into autumn, mothers of other generations have experienced my same fall drama. In my quiet moment I was aware of my refrigerator humming, while grandmother, in her day, was reminded that her clock could tock, and her teakettle could sing. Josef Merch Page 578 HARVEST TIME IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA ate Onin Alice Morrey Bailey The trees have never been more summer-deep In green, though summer's needs have drunk their fill Of flower, of fruit, of seed and chlorophyll. No shadow stirs the dreaming land, plants seem to sleep As if enchanted, upright, fully leafed, and keep Their statued pose, while perfect blossoms spill No perfume. Bees are surfeited and still. Up sapphire skies the brambled shadows creep. The mountain, maiden-curved, stil] summer-dressed— Though season's time has passed the median hour— Is emerald draped and wrapped in mystic rest, Bewitched, with none to foil the spindle's power. Where rides the dashing prince of ancient fame Whose kiss will wake the kingdom into flame? The Rich, Full Years Betty Lou Martin HE wind was blowing slightly, ruffling Emma McDowell's silver-gray hair. She smiled bravely as she walked toward the car where Sarah Drake was waiting to take her home for the last time. She paused for a moment to take one last look at the place where she had spent thirty years of working days of her life. An empty, lost feeling swept over her, and, in spite of the hot summer day, she felt chilled and shuddered in the sunlight. "We're going to miss you at the factory, Emma," Sarah commented as they drove home. "It won't be the same. Ten more years and | guess that they will give me my walking papers, too. It is a funny thing about age sixty-five. They think that upon your sixty-fifth birthday they should stamp you too old and file you away somewhere." Emma had loved every minute of her thirty years working in the dress factory. 'They had been good years, busy years. She had sewed each garment with as much care and zeal as a good artist paints a picture, or a sculptor carves a figure. She glanced down at the overnight case that her friends at the factory had given to her. "You're so lucky," they had told her. "Now you can visit your children and go any time that you please." But ['m content here, Emma thought. This is my home, and my roots are here. Emma McDowell had_ started work in the factory after the death of her husband. Her two daughters married and were living in Utah. She had always visited them on her vacation, but she felt that she didn't want to burden them by going to live with them. After all, they had their own families now. Morning dawned bright and clear, and Emma found herself awake at the usual time. She was halfway out of bed before she realized that work was over for her. Unable to go back to sleep, she got up and fixed herself some breakfast then proceeded to clean the house. "I must keep busy," she reasoned. Clara Harper knocked cheerfully on the screen door. "Anybody home?" "Yes, Clara," Emma called. "I'm glad you came over. Do come in." "My goodness. I saw you out shaking rugs to beat the band at seven o'clock this morning. You are supposed to be a lady of leisure now," Clara chided. "Are you planning to go visit your daughters right away?" "T don't know, Clara. Both Sue and Rachel wrote and said that they would like me to stay with them indefinitely, but I can't do that. I like to visit them, but I have my own home. I have dreaded this day for so long. I knew that the factory would retire me when I became sixty-five. I feel just as if I have been put out to pasture, not much use to anyone any more. I guess that they don't consider my services to be of any value any more." Emma felt the same lonely, empty feeling creeping over her that she had experienced the previous day. "Nonsense, Emma," Clara said. Page 579 580 "If you ask me, a person's value increases with age and experience. A lot of companies and places just aren't up on things. I know one thing for sure, they are losing a very valuable employee in losing you. I wonder how they intend fo match your years of experience and artful sewing. Sewing is an art with you, you know." "T really don't know about sewing being an art with me, Clara, but I do know that I was doing what I liked to do, what I wanted to do. Now I just simply don't know what to do with myself." "Well, I know one thing that you can do this afternoon, and that is go to Relief Society meeting with me," Clara called as she walked toward the door. "T'll pick you up around 1:30. Okay?" Emma nodded her approval. Be ready." "T'T] HY, Sister McDowell, how nice having you come to meeting. I hope that you will be able to be with us all the time now," Sister Benton, the Relief Society president, said. Emma had to admit that she enjoyed the mecting, and for a time she forgot her own problems as each of the sisters greeted her and made her feel welcome at the meeting. Her thoughts drifted back to the early years of her marriage. She would never miss a Relief Society meeting then. She had looked forward to them each week. 'Then, when tragedy struck her home, and she had gone to work, she had gradually lost contact with Relief Society. Now what can I do? Emma pondered as she walked slowly up the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 path leading to her home. I've done my washing and ironing for the week, and my house is tidied up for the day. I guess that I could write some letters, but I would rather save that for this evening. I could walk down to the store and do some shopping, but I don't need anything until the week end. Oh, dear, if this is a sample of what my life is going to be, I don't know whether it is worth it or not. The telephone rang, interrupting Emma's thoughts and quickening her pace to the house. "Sister McDowell, this is Sister Shields. We met today at Relief Society." The voice on the other end of the line was pleasant. "Yes, I remember you, Shields," Emma answered. "I couldn't help admiring the lovely dress that you had on today, and Sister Benton informs me that you made it yourself, and that you also design all of your own clothes." "Yes, I do," Emma said questioningly. "TI was wondering if you would be interested in doing some sewing for Sister me. I have two teen-aged daughters. You know how teen-agers are. They have ideas of their own," Sister Shields admitted. "Yes, I know. I. Used to sew for my own daughters." Emma smiled, remembering. "And then, if you have time, I would like some sewing done for myself. Oh, and my daughters said that they have some friends who would like some sewing done, too," Sister Shields continued. "Do you think that you would be willing?" "Willing!" Emma __ responded, "why, Sister Shields, this is an answer to my prayers." THE RICH, FULL YEARS "T thought perhaps this evening I could bring the material and patterns over, if that would be convenient for you?" Sister Shields added. "That would be just fine. I'Il be home all evening." {MMA hung up the telephone and glanced about her in disbelief. Already life had taken on a new perspective for her. As she was about to leave the room, there was a knock at the door. "Oh, Sister McDowell, I'm glad that I found you home," Sister Benton called. "My, what a pleasant surprise, Sister Benton. Do come in." Emma held the door open for Sister Benton. "It is certainly hot out there today, isn't it? Sit down, won't you." "Yes, it is hot, pleasantly hot though," Sister Benton said as she sat down. "Sister McDowell, my counselors and I have talked it over this afternoon, and we would very much like to have you for our work meeting leader. You are so talented with your sewing that I am sure you would be of great value to the sisters in the ward. If you would like 581 to think it over for a few days, and then give us your decision, that would be fine," Sister Benton spoke kindly to Emma. Emma was silent for a moment. "There isn't any need to wait to give you my decision. Before my husband died, Sister Benton, I worked in the Relief Society a great deal, and then after his death I was forced to give it up. Now I would like very much to become active again. I would be happy to accept the position." "Wonderful, Sister McDowell." Sister Benton seemed very pleased. "And we'll be very happy to have you working with us," she added. Emma's heart fairly sang. Yesterday, Emma McDowell, you thought your life was finished and that you didn't have anything ahead. Now your life has taken on an entirely new meaning, and it has all come about through your membership in the Church, and the talent the Lord has given you. You are a lucky woman, Emma told herself. Sarah Drake drove home from the factory alone that evening, and as she drove by Emma's house, she mused, poor Emma, I feel so sorry for her. She will just waste away now, without anything to do. Child Blowing a Dandelion Ida Elaine James Blow, little one, blow hard on the fluff! If you close your eyes, and wish hard enough There's a secret that nobody else may know, But a dandelion, and a child to blow. There's magic from furry, soft ball to stem; A field full of wishes when children find them. They wait to be held to the lips of a child, Your little half-brothers, free and wild! Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1900 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NaTIoNns"' A WORD TO WOMEN: As the time of political Primaries and Conventions has come, considerable interest is awakened in regard to the questions of selecting candidates to fill the several offices of those whose term expires soon after the November election.... Women here have the same responsibility resting upon them as men... They should not forget the obligations they are under to the commonwealth and should therefore prove their loyalty to the public weal by prudent measures and careful thought in all their political efforts... They should see to it that good men are nominated.... The matter of registration is one of the most important things and there should be no carelessness... In this regard. —Editorial IN MEMORIAM: Sister Flora Clarinda Gleason Washburn died at the ripe old age of eighty-one years at Monroe, Utah.... She was born at Tolland, Berkshire County, Massachusetts in 1819.... Clarinda joined the Church in April, 1834, the only one of her father's family that ever embraced the Gospel. She received her endowments in Nauvoo... And was called to go to Macedonia, Illinois, and organize a Relief Society.... After the death of the Prophet... She started with the first company of Saints in search of a new home.... She harnessed, fed, and drove her own team part of the way, and arrived in Salt Lake City, October 18, 1848. Afterwards she married Abraham Washbum.... She removed to Sanpete County the following November... And gave birth to the first white child born in Sanpete County.... She was appointed a teacher in the first Relief Society of Manti, afterwards was made president, which office she held until she moved with her family to Monroe... In 1872. In November 1872 she was appointed president of the Relief Society of Monroe, which position she held until February 6, 1897, having won many a laurel to adorn her brow in the eternal world. —From the Monroe Relief Society O, BE JOYFUL! O, be joyful, O, be joyful, Sing ye Saints of Latter-days Giving unto God the Father, Adoration, love and praise.... On the mountains ring the tidings, - In the East the glory breaks, Ush'ring in the days of promise, When the world from slumber wakes.... —L. M. R. TRAVELS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS: Recently several visits have been made to the Relief Society conferences of the several Stakes. President Jane S. Richards and Josephine R. West attended Relief Society and Primary conference in Malad Stake. President M. Isabella Horne and Sister Harriet Ellis, the Relief Society conference in Millard Stake; Sister E. J. Stevenson and M. A. Caine, the R. S. And Y. L. Of Parowan Stake, and Sister M. A. Caine, the R. S. And P. A. [Prohibition Association] of Panguitch Stake. President M. I. Horne and Sister H. Ellis also attended a special mecting of the Relief Society at Park City. Page 582 N June 27, Helen Keller celebrated her eightieth birthday with plans for increasing aid to the fourteen million blind people on earth — that they might become more able to help themselves and become better qualified to enjoy a greater portion of the richness of life. She spoke of her gratitude for the interest expressed all over the world in the "Helen Keller World Crusade for the Blind." She advised individuals to cultivate love, for "love is the light that gives the eye to see great and noble things." UEEN SIRIKIT of Thailand, who, it has been said, "looks like mandolins sound," accompanied her husband, King Bhumibol Adulyadej, on a recent four-week tour of the United States. He is the grandson of King Chulalongkorn of "The King and I" fame. ADY NANCY ASTOR, who was born in Virginia and lived there during her youthful years, married a British peer and became Great Britain's first woman member of Parliament. She was a dynamic campaigner and member, and _ remained in the House of Commons for twenty-five years. Handsome and vigorous at eighty-one, she still makes speeches and otherwise participates in the challenging life about her. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon LIVE WOOLLEY BURT, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, is the author of First Woman Editor: Sarah J. Hale (Julian Messner, Publisher, New York). Mrs. Burt describes the life and times (nineteenth century America) of this gifted woman who was editor of Ladies Magazine and Godey's Lady's Book, and a pioneer in social service work. She combined a full literary and public career with the rearing of five children and providing for them after the death of her husband. MB:: SIRIMA RATAWATTE DIAS BANDARANAIKE has been appointed premier of Ceylon. Mrs. Bandaranaike was sworn into office on July 21, 1960, by the Governor General Sir Oliver Goonetileke at his official residence. Mrs. Bandaranaike is a widow and the mother of three children. OUISE ARNER BOYD is the first woman to be elected to the council of the American Geographical Society in the 108 years since the organization of that society. Miss Boyd is an explorer of the polar regions and has written many books about her travels. In 1955 she flew her own plane over the North Pole. At the present time she is a member of more than forty American and foreign learned societies. Page 583 TORIAL 2 VOL. 47 &nhancing the Yoy of Family Living ITH most young couples it is necessary to weigh the spending of money carefully. 'here are always many more uses for which it seems desirable to spend money, than there is money to be spent. Yet a provident mother will have in mind the need to spend money where it will bring the most lasting returns. It is her wish to provide opportunities and advantages for her children whether they live in a large urban center or where neighbors are few. It is the parents' responsibility, both through their daily conversation and interests and through the means they provide in their home, to foster widening horizons for their growing family. One young wife received an anthology of children's books, profusely illustrated, for a wedding present. She took an ever-increasing pleasure in perusing it, recognizing favorite books she already knew and loved, and learning of other classics with which she was unacquainted. She arrived at a decision with her husband that in the coming years they would endeavor cach month to buy a book for a child. As years of months passed, they garnered a rich harvest, and as each child married, he had the nucleus of a worthwhile library of his own; moreover, the books of each child had been shared by the others, so that the available knowledge was multiplied by each child during his formative years. It was soon found that a child's Page 584 encyclopedia and a child's dictionary needed to be labeled as "Family" books, to be freely used and cooperatively owned. Even the mother used the child's encyclopedia when she sought clarification on some subject, for the explanations were short and concise and usually sufficient for her needs. As soon as a child entered school, he was introduced to these two sources of learning, and his first interest in the pictures resulted in his frequent use of the texts, as time passed. Ever-widening horizons would include for the child advancing in life, knowledge from books, appreciation for beauty in art and nature, and a kinship to the music of the world. In large cities, children are offered youth programs in art. 'Trips to museums containing art treasures are fostered and attendance at exhibit lectures is encouraged. 'Today, however, museums offer courses and materials on art with which a mother can educate herself and impart to her children an appreciation and love for beauty of form and color. In addition, museums sell, at reasonable cost, small and large prints of world masterpicces. A child's room may be beautified by many of them. A frame in a family room may feature a picture to be changed periodically. By these means and others, children anywhere may grow up recognizing and appreciating beauty in art. An awareness of beauty in art arouses SEPTEMBER 1960 NO. 9 EDITORIAL an awareness of beauty in nature as well. A comparable training can be given children in music. Youth concerts in large cities offer guided appreciation and familiarity with great music; however, a mother who desires to open the door for her children to the great classics, may purchase books and records which will train her to impart knowledge and appreciation to them. A few years ago a mark of refinement and a desire for the better things were shown by the possession of a piano. Around it the family gathered for family sings, and children, in turn, played accompaniments as they progressed in their music lessons. How few homes today, comparatively speaking, possess a piano! And yet an old organ or a secondhand piano would serve, where circumstances do not permit the purchase of a new instrument. With a piano, other instruments may be given different members of the family, according to their aptitudes and desires. Music, then, through its creation in the family, as well as listening to recordings of great composers, becomes an integral facet of family living. 585 Great literature, great art, and great music enhance the joy of family living. They are gifts of the Heavenly Father to his children everywhere. 'The mother first relates the story which never grows old, she first points out the beauty of the summer day, the glory of the star-studded heavens, she croons the lullaby to the babe in her arms, and sings praises to the Lord. The time she will spend in her life in study and in the guidance of her children will be a benediction to her labors. When her children are in dire distress, easement may come to them through the memory of another's trials, through the comfort of beauty, or through the healing balm of music. The Prophet Joseph sought solace previous to his martyrdom in the sweet singing of Elder John Taylor. Today, and in the tomorrows, that mother who has served her children through these media will recognize that the pattern established and fostered by her and her husband continues to enrich and ennoble oncoming generations of the family as well. —M. C. S. WVhat Liahona? Iris W. Schow How shall we comprehend the universe? For us what Liahona points the way Across the parching desert we traverse? What star leads to our Savior's feet today? Where is the iron rod to bound our needs? The cloud by day, the pillar for the night? Whence is the tender force that intercedes To guide our footsteps forward in the right? Who seeks, will find the changeless iron rod; The star of conscience still remains unblurred; For, questing heart, the Word that was with God, Left us the Liahona of his word. Best Sellers for the (Bazaar Jean Ridges Jennings A Gardening Apron N°' ADAYS gardening has become an almost universal hobby — and a fashionable one, too. What better gift can there be for many women than a gardening apron? Aprons of all kinds are always popular. This one is a bit different from most. It is designed and made to be a good cover-up, is more sturdy than usual, and doubles as a handy tote-all. In addition to all this, it can have a useful removable kneeling pad which, for obvious reasons, is a fine help to the serious gardener. A wide choice of appropriate materials is available in most stores. One could use any of the attractive sturdy fabrics that come in gay striped or floral patterns. Denims are ideal, as are sail cloth, Indian head, curtina, or other inexpensive drapery fabrics. Choose a favorite combination of colors, having the apron all of one fabric or with contrasting waistband, ties, pockets, and kneeling pad. The pad should be covered with oilcloth or plastic to protect against ground moisture. If the apron fabric is a plain color, the pad could well be figured, but if the apron fabric is patterned, the pad should be of plain color. An apron that ties around the waist gives protection where it is needed most, but if a bib is desired it can easily be added. The waist-type apron requires one yard of fabric for the main part and one third yard more for the pockets. If a bib is made, add enough yardage to make it the size preferred. The kneeling pad calls for one-third yard of oilcloth or sturdy plastic, plus sheet cotton or kapok for padding. Construct the apron as you would any waist-type apron except that, because of heavier fabric, it is better to use unpressed pleats than gathers to work in fullness at the waist. Make loops of fabric and sew under the waistband above the center of each pocket (see illustration). Before sewing them in place, loop one through the hole in a sturdy Page 586 BEST SELLERS FOR THE BAZAAR 587 office clip and the other through a metal ring. These will make handy places to hang various gardening paraphernalia. Underneath the bottom edge of each pocket, sew a fabric tab. Snap these up into a loop with gripper fasteners. The pockets are made extra large to hold such things as clippers, trowels, cans of spray dust, or insecticide, and twine for tieing. Stitch them to the apron at intervals, making various sized compartments. The kneeling pad is optional and is made like a flat pillow. It is best to have it detachable, fastening it to the apron by means of gripper fasteners. For the loops under the waistband, use strips of fabric 2 inches by 8 inches. Fold in the raw lengthwise edges, then fold double and machine stitch all around to add strength. Make the tabs under the pockets 1% by 4 inches finished. Place gripper fasteners as shown in the illustration. As E sy rv" + GRIPPER =@ii ——— a <———_ 36" ——__> GRIPPERS KNEELING PAD Holders for Pans M3As* of us are burn-prone in our kitchens. Even if we are not, we find in many cases that the ordinary holders for handling hot pans and kettles are insufficient protection. A pot or pan that is very hot, or heavy and hot, will soon find the weakness or thin place in a crocheted or knitted pad. To solve this problem, make a hot pad holder that will be a popular item for sale at bazaars. In addition to protection for the back of the hand, wrist, and lower arm, it has a well-padded grasping area. This eliminates the exasperating burns that happen so unexpectedly when reaching into an oven, possibly touching the top heating unit or gull. It even protects against steam that billows up from boiling water that is being drained off or poured. These holders are gay and attractive, as well as easy to slip on and off the hand; moreover, they can be made from odd pieces of material in jig time. Made in a novel way to suggest animals — one a bunny, another a fish — they are actually mitts that slip onto the hand and arm. The open mouths are made of thick padded material to protect the hand while grasping hot objects. The accompanying diagrams show the sizes and shapes of the pieces to be used in making the bunny mitt. For sections A and B, use a heavy fabric such as corduroy or denim in a plain color. Make section C of padded or quilted material, contrasting in 588 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 aed color or pattern to sections A and B. Sections D are cut from the fabric used for A, and lined with a single thickness of C cloth. Assemble, by first lining sections D and sew to section A by encasing raw edges in a narrow tuck made along dotted line E as shown in diagram. Next seam A and B together at sides as far as E, right sides together. Seam C to oval section of A and B, matching notches. Narrow hem the open end. Turn right side out and press. Make small pompons of yarn in colors in fabric of C. Sew in place on C as shown. Using the basic design for this mitt and a bit of imagination, many colorful and practical holders can be made from remnants. A A € 1 L\ Oe fy,: "" TUCK — x? Ao Top ie BOTTOM |.! X a < Go" rr <———— 6" ——> DIAGRAM FOR CUTTING MATERIALS FOR BUNNY PAN HOLDER (in the center of the above illustration ) A Loose-Leaf Co ver i ee is something planned especially for young girls when they reach the age of having many things to carry to school. 'This time usually comes when they have textbooks to take home, a loose-leaf notebook, lunch, and, in addition, they need a purse to hold pencils, handkerchief, comb, car fare, and the many other odd items that only a girl can want or need. This boon for schoolgirls is a cover for a loose-leaf into which have been sewed pockets to hold the paraphernalia that normally requires a purse to carry. It not only eliminates the need for purses, but provides a safe carrying place for papers, pencils, erasers, and other things. The cover is made of felt in any desired color and can be tailored to fit any size book. Lining the front and back covers forms an envelope into which they slip as any other book cover does. Make the lining of checkered chambray or gingham. The important thing to watch in making these is to keep all steps in their proper order, otherwise confusion will result. Start by measuring around the notebook from the front edge of the front cover to the front edge of the back cover. 'Then take the measurement from the top to the bottom edge of the book. From felt, according to these measurements, cut the cover as large as the entire book plus %-inch for seams on all edges. Allow %4-inch seams on outside edges of checkered lining. The accompanying illustration shows all pieces and their measurements to fit a loose-leaf size 7/4 by 10 inches. Assemble in the following order: 1. Insert zipper into smaller pocket (edges of felt do not need to be turned under). 2. Sew zippered pocket to bottom of large pocket. 3. Sew one inch boxing around sides and bottom edge of large pocket. 4. Sew free edge of boxing to front cover of book, % inch from outside edge. 5. Line flap with checkered material and sew to front directly above large pocket. 6. Attach gripper fasteners. Page 589 590 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 7. Sew lining to front and back covers, right sides together. Round corners to fit notebook. Have seams % inch in felt and % inch in cotton lining. 8. Turn right side out and slip into place on loose-leaf. Hold the inside edge of lining firmly in place by sewing through lining, book, and cover at the bend in the cover. ———— 10%" v LARGE POCKET << <0 o—— a < 10 Uh Aad L FLAP CLINE) J oy = = ie FLAP. | GRIPPER Ne A ° < ava".! | FRONT COVER A j pS=e! [I BSEWaZIPPEREWeGES TE | Cha ENT < 8" > he ~ ZIPPER a ZIPPER POCKET ZIPPER POCKET it q ae BOXING | 1 + ————————— ———— LARGE POCKET < 2%" ie BOXING FOR LARGE POCKET Covers for Selephone Books HINKING of book covers calls to mind another idea along the same line — a felt cover for a telephone book. Here is an ideal "little" gift and an casy one. Make it all of felt, covering the front and back pages inside and out, having seams around the outside edges. Keep raw edges outside and then pink close to the machine stitching. For added convenience, make a pocket, inside the front cover, with two sections, one for note paper and a slot for pencil. Machine embroider the word "Telephone" on the front cover — or applique the word in lettered cutouts. You may want to further decorate the cover with initials or other embroidered or appliqued designs. Do, however, keep them simple. Freezing Gloads at dlome Ruby K. Smith OW would you like to serve fresh strawberries from your garden for a strawberry shortcake at Christmas time? Or reserve the prize catch of the summer fishing season for a dinner of fresh trout in January? If your home is equipped with a freezer, such moderm miracles may be taken for granted. Even the freezing section of your refrigerator may be large enough to provide many such treats. Or, if the freezing equipment in the home is inadequate, a locker in a nearby frozen food locker plant may be pressed into service. In pioneer days, when fresh foods could be enjoyed only in season, who could have foreseen the homemaking marvels of our day! Now, the products of our gardens and orchards are never "out of season," if we make good use of our modern freezing equipment. Freezing is a safe, easy way to preserve almost any fresh food, in cluding fruits, vegetables, on poultry, game, fish, baked goods, and casserole dishes. As frozen foods are usually prepared for the table before freezing, and can be made ready for serving on short notice, they are invaluable timesavers for the housewife. Foods which are properly packaged in moisture-vapor-proof containers, and quickly frozen, will retain the natural color, fresh flavor, and nutritive value of the fresh food. It is important to select newly harvested products, however, when the quality is at its best, as freezing will not improve the quality. When buying containers to pack age foods for "freezing, it ls economical to select those which can be re-used. A few examples are freezer containers of glass, aluminum, or plastic, and polyethylene bags. Freezer-weight aluminum foil, cellophane, or laminated paper — sealed with freezer tape — may be used to wrap many foods. Ordinary household foil, cellophane, or waxed paper, and cottage cheese and ice-cream cartons, should not be used, as they cannot be made moisture-proof. Food should always be cold when it is packed for freezing, and it should be packed tightly, to permit a minimum of air in the package. Since liquid expands as it freezes, however, head space must be allowed when liquid and semi-liquid foods are packed. (For pint containers, 2 inch is recommended.) As soon as the food is packed, it should be sealed immediately with an air-tight seal. Each package should then be plainly labeled, giving name of food, date, and any other helpful information. It is then ready for quick freezing and storage. It is well to have a yearly freezing plan, in order to use the freezer space to the best advantage. Since commercially frozen foods may be purchased at any time, they should be obtained only when necded. A freezer should be well stocked with the most practical foods for family use, and foods which have been stored the longest should be eaten first. There should always be freezer space for the short-time storPage 591 age of baked foods, casserole dishes, lunch-box sandwiches, and special foods for parties. If the homemaker has enough of these on hand, she will always be prepared for unexpected company. Freezing Iruits Fruits may be frozen whole if they are small, or they may be. Sliced, diced, crushed, or prepared as purecs or fruit juices. They are packed in one of three ways, depending on the type of fruit and the way it is to be used. Fruits to be used for desserts are usually packed in syrup, while dry sugar packs are better if the fruit is to be used for cooking. Unsweetened packs are often prepared for special diets, but in the case of such fruits as cranberries, currants, and gooseberries, no sugar is needed for a good quality product. For syrup packs, a medium syrup (3 cups sugar to 4 cups watcr) is recommended for most fruits, although a lighter syrup (1 cup sugar to 2 cups water) is better for some mildflavored fruits. Heavier syrups may be needed for very sour fruits. Ascorbic acid (vitamin C) should be used with apples, apricots, peaches, and pears to prevent discoloration. In general, % teaspoon ascorbic acid powder ls sufficient with 2 cups of syrup; however, since ascorbic acid comes in both tablet and crystalline form, and may be purchased wherever freezing supplies are sold, it should be used as directed on the label. To use frozen fruit, thaw in unopened container, in refrigerator or at room temperature. Do not thaw more than you plan to use at one time. Most fruits have the best color and flavor if they are still a little icy when served. FRUIT-FREEZING HINTS Apples — Freeze apples from the home orchard to avoid the high cost of fresh apples in winter. Select those which are crisp and firm rather than mealy. Use a syrup pack if they are to be sliced or diced for serving fresh (in fruit cup, for instance), but if they are to be used for cooking, shce or quarter and use a dry sugar pack. Treat with ascorbic acid. Applesauce, swectened to taste, may be frozen. Apricots — Scald for 1 minute. Cool in ice water. Peel if desired. Halve and pit. Pack in medium ascorbic acid syrup. For apricot puree, heat to boiling, and press through a sieve. Swecten to taste. Berries — Pack whole berries in medium syrup. If they are sliced or crushed, use dry sugar pack (1 cup sugar to 5 or 6 cups fruit). Before packing, stir gently until juice is formed. Cherries — Pack whole, sweet cherrics in medium syrup. Pit and pack sour cherries in dry sugar pack. Sweeten to taste. They may be left whole or crushed. Cranberries — Pack dry, without sugar. If fresh cranberries are purchased in plastic bags, they are already packed for freezing. For cranberry puree, cook berries until skins pop, then press through sieve. Sweeten to taste. Fruit Cup — Use any combination of fruit except bananas. Pack in medium syrup. Fruit Juices — Citrus — Ream with juicer on low speed. Strain and chill at once. Add sugar to taste. Non-Citrus — Crush soft fruit and simmer over low heat, if necessary, to start the flow of juice. Strain through a cloth bag. Add sugar to taste. Fruit juices may be frozen in icecube trays, then cubes of frozen juice may be "packaged in bags to store in freezer. Melons — Scoop out balls or cut in cubes. Add medium syrup or freeze sweetened or unsweetencd with citrus juice. Peaches — Peel by hand for best looking product, or scald 1 minute to loosen skins. Chill, peel, and pit. Slice into medium ascorbic acid syrup, or use dry sugar pack with ascorbic acid. 592 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 FREEZING FOODS AT HOME Pears — Peel, core, and cut in halves or quarters. Pack in medium ascorbic acid syrup. Plums and Prunes — Cut in halves and pit. Use either syrup or dry sugar pack. Purees may be made from either heated or unheated fruit, depending on softness of fruit. If heated, chill before pressing through sieve. Sweeten to taste. Freezing Vegetables Only those vegetables which are to be cooked before serving are recommended for freezing. Salad vegetables, (lettuce, celery, radishes, cucumbers, cabbage, etc.) would not retain their crispness after freezing. All vegetables should be blanched or scalded before freezing, to stop the action of enzymes. (Before vegetables are picked, enzymes help them to mature, but after picking, they cause loss of flavor and color). Only very young, garden-fresh vegetables should be frozen. To prepare vegetables for freezing, trim and cut them as you would for serving, wash in cold water, place in wire basket or colander (1 pound at a time), and immerse in a large kettle of briskly boiling water for the number of minutes recommended, chill quickly and thoroughly in ice water, drain, and package. Freeze at once. To use frozen vegetables, always start to cook them while they are still frozen — except in the case of corn on the cob, which should be thawed, then steamed. Place package of frozen vegetables in covered saucepan with 4 to % cup of salted water. Start on high heat until water boils, then break block of icy vegetables with fork, and switch to low heat. Cook 3 to 15 minutes, depending on size and variety of vegetable. Do not overcook. VEGETABLE-FREEZING HINTS Asparagus —- Cut stalks to fit container, or in i-inch pieces. Blanch 2 to 3 minutes. Beans — Green or wax beans may be left whole, sliced lengthwise, or cut in 1-inch pieces. Lima beans are sorted according to size. Blanch 2 to 3 minutes. 593 Broccoli or Cauliflower — Separate heads into sections for serving, and soak in salt water for % hour to remove insects. Blanch 3 to 4 minutes. Corn on the Cob — Prepare as for serving. Blanch 6 to 10 minutes. Chill after blanching 12 to 20 minutes. Corn—Wbhole Kernel or Cream Style— Blanch corn on cob 3 to 4 minutes, then cut kernels from cob. Greens — Sclect young tender leaves, and remove thick stems. Blanch 2 minutes in large quantity of water. Avoid matting of leaves. Peas — Shell, and discard overripe peas. Blanch for 1 minute. Pumpkin or Winter Squash — Cook and mash, as for serving or pie-making. Cool by placing pan in ice water. Sweet Potatoes — Cook until almost done. Peel. Cut in halves, slice, or mash. To keep them from darkening, add a little orange or lemon juice. Turnips — Peel and dice. Blanch for z minutes. Meats for the Home Freezer One of the essentials of a well-stocked home freezer is a supply of meat. For non-farm families, the high cost of individual meat purchases may be overcome by making quantity purchases of meat and poultry when supplies are plentiful. Or the family sportsman may obtain a year's supply of fish, game, and venison during the fishing and hunting scason. In either case, the cleaning, chilling, aging, butchering, and packaging of the meat is usually done by a professional processing company which makes a specialty of preparing meat for home storage. Farm families who must do their own proccssing, may secure all the information they need from experts through Government bulletins or directions from agricultural colleges. Before the meat is placed in the home freezer, each package shonld be wellwrapped with an airtight seal, and it should be well-labeled — giving kind and cut of meat, date, and uumber of scrvings. Whien the meat is used, it requires about twice as long to roast it, if placed in the oven in a frozen state. For that reason, it is usually thawed first. Allow 5 hours per pound to thaw meat in the refrigerator, or 2 hours per pound at room temperature. Then proceed as you would for fresh meat. Freezing Baked Foods Cakes — All kinds of cakes may be frozen after they are baked and cooled, and they may be stored for 3 or 4 months. This makes it possible to prepare fancy cakes for special occasions long before the last-minute rush. Unfrosted cakes are wrapped for freezing as soon as they are cooled. Frosted cakes, however, are frozen before they are wrapped. (Uncooked frostings freeze best). Thaw cakes at room temperature, allowing 3 or 4 hours for a large frosted cake. Cup cakes will thaw in 15 to 20 minutes. Cookies — Baked cookies may be stored for 6 months. Unbaked Cookies may be stored for 3 months. 'They may be prepared in the following ways: (1) Roll dough and cut cookies. Stack with freezer paper between layers. Bake without thawing. (2) Wrap and freeze dough in smooth roll. Slice while still frozen, and bake. (3) Freeze unbaked drop cookies on cookie sheet. When frozen, package in cartons with freezer paper between layers. Bake without thawing. Pies and Pastries — Pies and pastries freeze very well, cither baked or unbaked. Storage time varies from 2 months for unbaked berry pics to 6 months for baked mince pies. Baked pies may be wrapped for freezing as soon as they are cool. To use, place in moderate oven just long enough to heat through (30 to 40 minutes). Unbaked pies are often frozen before they are wrapped — especially open-faced pies. When ready to use, cut vents in top crust of two-crust pics, and bake without thawing. Allow 15 or 20 minutes extra baking time. Bread and Rolls — Baked Bread and Rolls may be stored in freezer 5 or 6 months. 'Thaw in storage wrappings at room temperature. If rolls are to be served hot, thaw in paper bag in slow oven for 30 minutes. Unbaked Bread and Rolls — Shape dough in baking pans as though for immediate baking. Grease well, wrap, and freeze until needed. Freeze Parker House or other fancy rolls before wrapping. Storage time — one weck. When ready to use, thaw at room temperature until double in bulk. Bake as fresh rolls or bread. Lunch-box Sandwiches To avoid the necessity of making sandwiches each morning, prepare enough for a week or two at one time. Spread both slices of bread with plenty of butter or butter substitute to protect them from the moisture in the filling. Use a variety of fillings, made of meat, fish, cheese, etc., combined with any preferred relish or dressing. If the sandwiches are to be stored more than 4 days, use moisturevapor-proof wrappings. Store in special school-lunch section of the freezer, with cookies, individual cartons of fruit, and other lunch-box specialties. Pack lunches while they are still frozen, and they will be perfectly thawed by noontime. Freezing Cooked Main Dishes Most combinations of cooked foods, including stews, baked beans, meat loaves, and casserole dishes, may be successfully frozen and stored in the freezer for at least two months. Creamed dishes, however, such as chicken a la king, should be used within a month. To be prepared for any emergency, prepare such dishes in quantity, and freeze them in one-meal portions. If they are frozen in foil-lined baking dishes, they may be removed and packaged in bags for storage, then quickly returned to the same dishes for reheating. In this way, frequently used baking dishes may be kept in circulation. Soups may be frozen in 594 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 FREEZING FOODS AT HOME ice-cube trays, then removed and packaged in bags for storage. Some ingredients are better if they are slightly under-done for freezing, in order to avoid overcooking when they are reheated for serving. It is better to add crumb and cheese toppings just before reheating. Cooked meats are usually prepared with gravy for freezing. For a perfect meat pie, add a biscuit or pastry topping to a meat and vegetable 595 stew. These toppings will be more tender and flaky if they are unbaked when frozen. TV Plate Dinners Prepare your own plate dinners for a TV party ahead of time, and freeze until needed. In that way, you may have your own home-cooked vegetables, meat, gravy, etc. Prepare aluminum foil plates, assembly-line fashion, and cover with household foil to freeze. Reheat in hot oven, without removing cover. Serve immediately. —_ Arve You Happy? Marvel Sharp Crookston I once met an acquaintance who went around shaking hands to greet people, and had the disconcerting habit of asking, point blank and without preliminary, "Are You happy?" Being confronted with so self-searching a question in return for a casual handshake and a smile, has something of the effect of a rug being jerked from under you. Possibly he had a few "no" answers (from the same people who eagerly enumerate a literal list of ailments in response to every "How-do-you-do?"), but I doubt he had many unequivocal "yes'' answers. More often, it was, "Well—uh—yes, I guess so," or "Oh, happy as most, I suppose," or 'Well, some days are better than others.' My own completely unexpected encounter the first time I ever met the man set me to thinking. I'm not at all sure how I answered him in a purely social response, but I went home and really thought about it. I had "a perfect marriage," my husband had good career prospects, we had two sweet baby daughters, and not one single reason not to be happy. Yet I couldn't honestly say that I spent most of the time in a "happy" frame of mind. What was wrong? At least I knew something should be done to correct the situation. Later (as the Relief Society literature teacher in our November 1955 class), I found the philosophy aptly expressed in the words of Robert Louis Stevenson, "Man's highest duty is to be happy." Our Constitution gives us the "right" to pursue happiness, but how many of us consider it a duty? When the Lord commanded us to stand on our feet and bear testimony of our blessings, his was not a petty purpose in wanting to be thanked for his bounty. He wanted us to give thought to these things; to dwell on the good things in our lives, to be conscious of the many things for which we can be appreciative. Then, the little irritations and minor difficulties around which we must constantly adjust our lives, fall into their correct perspective. By giving them only passing notice, while our thoughts are mostly taken up by being grateful for all the wonderful goodness of the Lord in permitting us to live upon the earth in this way, we find ourselves with a happy feeling of well-being. Paul wrote, "... Whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things." As another man put it, "Happiness comes from an attitude of gratitude." My friend passed on a few years ago, but when we meet in the hereafter, and he puts out a friendly hand and asks, "Are you happy?" I hope I shall be able to shake that hand firmly and look him straight in the eye with the answer, "Indeed I am." Something Different for Dinner Emma A, Hanks SHRIMP SALAD 4 lbs. Shrimp (medium size) 4 carrots, cut in cubes 2 celery sticks, cut in thin slices salt to taste 1 large onion, sliced pepper to taste Clean and devein the shrimp. Cover with water and cook until tender. In a separate pot steam the vegetables with salt and pepper until tender, but not soft. Drain the shrimp and place in refrigerator. Place vegetables in refrigerator in separate container. Prepare Thousand Island dressing. 'THOUSAND IsLAND DressING 1 C. Mayonnaise 1 tsp. Prepared mustard 1 c. Chili sauce 1 large onion (finely chopped) 1 tbsp. Hot sauce 6 large sweet pickles (finely chopped) Mix together above ingredients. Pour 7% of the sauce over chilled shrimp. Place shrimp on a bed of vegetables. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs. Serve with hot garlic bread. If you like more salad dressing, pour remainder of salad dressing in a dish and serve at the table. Shrimp and vegetables can be cooked and prepared ahead of time and put together when ready to serve. Dressing can be used on head lettuce or on other salads. Makes a one dish meal for a hot day. Serves 12. For 6 servings, cut ingredients in half. —Millie Schwarz Texas Pecan PIE ¥s c. Flour 1 nine-inch pastry shell % Cc. Sugar 2 stiffly beaten egg whites % tsp. Salt 1 c. Pecans, whole or chopped 2 c. Milk, scalded chocolate syrup 2 slightly beaten egg yolks whipped cream 2 tbsp. Butter Mix flour, sugar, and salt; gradually add milk. Cook in double boiler until thick, about ten minutes, stirring constantly. Cook five more minutes. Cool; add butter and vanilla. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into cooled baked pastry shell. Sprinkle one layer of whole or chopped pecans over cream filling, then pour desired amount of chocolate syrup over pecans. Spread with sweetened whipped cream before serving. —Marilyn Young Easy Tacos 12 tortillas salad made of lettuce, tomatoes, and onions 12 slices of cheese canned or homemade chili Fry tortillas quickly (not until crisp) and fold in half. Fill with salad and half slice of cheese. Top with other half of cheese and a generous spoon or two of chili. Serve on a hot plate with beans, tamales, or enchiladas. —Wanda Kalana Page 596 CHICKEN SPAGHETTI 1 bunch celery 2 bay leaves Stew the hen until meat falls off the bones. Remove bones and discard. 'Take out chicken meat and set aside. Cook spaghetti in chicken broth. Cook finely chopped onion, celery, green pepper, and cumin seed in 2 tsp. Shortening in frying pan, until transparent, do not brown. Add this, along with cut-up chicken and tomatoes, to cooked spaghetti. Add bay leaves and let simmer for five to ten minutes. Place in baking dish and cover top with grated cheese. Brown in oven at 350° F. Serves 12. Grandmother s Art Lula Walker "My art work," Grandma used to laugh and say And put her mending box away. For fancywork she had no flair, Like knitting tidies for a chair. But when elbows came poking through, We marveled at what she could do. A barbed wire rent, a hole in cloth Invaded by some wily moth Sent Grandma flying for her needle. Each tattered raveling she could wheedle Right back into its proper place. At home with socks or dainty lace, A work-day shirt or Sunday dress, Grandma mended with finesse Each broken thread, each tiny part, And who can say it wasn't art? SOMETHING DIFFERENT FOR DINNER 1 hen 1 large onion 1 large green pepper 1 quart whole tomatoes 597 2 large packages spaghetti % tsp. Cumin seed 2 tsp. Shortening button mushrooms (if desired) A Probion a Pot. And the Picture Louise Morris Kelley put last night's argument out of her mind; but her husband's final remark followed her about as she dressed and prepared breakfast. "The trouble with you is you won't face the fact that our family is in trouble. If you'd stop to think about it, Myrene, we're not at all the sort of family we started out to be." She set a copper chafing dish on the table for scrambled eggs. Yellow snapdragons in a black vase matched the yellow cobbler's apron she wore over a slim black skirt. Both were a striking splash in the beige and white decor that had been especially created to complement her smoke-blonde hair. Maybe Del is sorry we have this fabulous apartment in Belmont 'Towers instead of some cracker box "rose covered cottage." Well, I'm not. I'm glad his success in photography has allowed us to have some of the niceties of life, she thought. Aloud, she called, "Phillip, are you dressing?" Her son came out of his bedroom, negative electrical charges preceding him. "I am not going to school today. I am not going." Myrene did not intend to take him seriously. "Really, Phillip? Why not?" She poured his orange juice and served his breakfast plate. "You know why not." He looked as if he might cry. "Then I must have forgotten." She hoped he wouldn't cry. It made her feel unsure of how to cope with him. Page 598 Ml pet McDowell tried to "You know what today is." "Of course, dear," she bluffed, "today is the day that your class — or is it your whole school — is going to...." "And I still don't have one." He was going to manage not to cry. He was going to be stubborn. His face became red between the freckles, and unshed tears made his blue eyes brilliant. "It isn't just for the pet show. I've always wanted a brown woolly dog." "You know The Towers will not allow pets." She added, to herself, they barely tolerate children. "Son, I offered to buy you a lovely aquarium of rare and expensive tropical fish." "Huh! You can't pet a fish. I told you Bobby has a parakeet." He pushed the scrambled eggs around on his plate. "They're not woolly. But at least they get to know you and all." "You know how I feel about birds. And it isn't as if you were old enough to take the responsibility of keeping the cage clean." He pushed his plate away, picked up his jacket, and left for his day at second grade, leaving his mother worried about his lack of appetite, relieved that he had gone to school, and unhappy because he had not kissed her goodbye. She ran down the hall and caught up with him by the elevator. "Phillip, I know something that will make you happy. Daddy might come to your school today to take pictures. Any boy can bring a pet to school. But you're the only one at school that has a Daddy who A PROBLEM, A PET, AND THE PICTURE takes pictures for the biggest magazines in the country. You watch for Daddy and don't worry about those silly pets." He nodded, but would not look at her. S she re-entered their apartment, Del came out of the darkroom he had improvised in Phillip's bathroom. His large frame was barnacled about with the tools of his trade. Whether he used the 35 mm. Slung around his neck or the 4x5 grasped by his left hand, critics agreed that Del McDowell's was "The camera with the understanding heart." A camera in Del's hands had the ability to see through the outward appearance of people young, old, simple, or sophisticated, and record their inner hopes and yearnings. "Tm out of fast film,' he muttered. "PII need it on this public school assignment. Have to hurry and pick some up before my first appointment." "Sit down and eat," Myrene urged. "Your health is more important than what kind of film you use. I'm sure you're clever enough to use something you have on hand as a substitute." He continued toward the door. "We substitute too much. We've filled our lives with substitutes for the things we really want." "Philosophy on an empty stomach?" she mocked. But he had already gone. Her menfolk were certainly giving her trouble this morning. Perhaps she should be giving them vitamins. She put a stereo record on the player and busied herself with tidying up the apartment, a task soon completed and becoming daily less 599 satisfying to her. She looked at, without really seeing, a new fashion magazine. She tried her hair in new arrangements, but none of them lifted the lines of discontent from her pretty face. Finally, she tried calling some of her old friends, neighbors she had known before they moved to Belmont 'Towers. None of the three was home. Tuesday morning. Oh, yes, one of them was a Relief Society president now, and she had asked the other two women to work with her. That had been the cause of another bitter argument between Del and Myrene. "Well, I can't go to everything," she had protested. "Then attend Relief Society as you used to, and cut out these social clubs." "But, Del, 'm joining them as much for you as for me. 'That's where I can meet women whose husbands could be very useful to you in placing your work." Del's reply to that had been unforgivable. Now that his reputation was made, strictly on the quality of his work, she admitted, perhaps she should do as Del said. She was not as happy in her frantic social schedule as she used to be at Relief Society meeting. But she was so involved now. As if to substantiate that thought, the phone rang. It was her women's club president, asking her to be chairman of the fall fashion show. "We always say," the woman gushed, "that when we have a problem, the one to get is Myrene McDowell. You are never one to wring your hands or dilly-dally. Once you understand what the problem is, you wade right in and do what has to be done. That's why we need you." "IT don't know." Myrene stared at the door through which her husband had gone. "We might not be here then." "My dear, you're not giving up that lovely apartment? If you are, let me be the first to know. My daughter is on the waiting list, you know." "Oh, it's nothing definite. Me call you back later." She hung up the phone and walked over to the window. Below her, the outlines of the sprawling city were obscured by the haze from industrial smokestacks and a million auto exhausts. She drew the drapes and turned toward the perfectly proportioned living room. Now why did I say a stupid thing like that? { have no intention of giving up this place. It's everything any woman ever wanted. Let EL came home and developed his negatives. They ate lunch in silence. Myrene could feel an unspoken hostility in Del, and she was content to let it remain unspoken. This argument about a pet for Phillip — Del and son against her — had actually become a test battle for all the arguments they had had. Arguments about the apartment versus a house, about social life crowding out Church activities, about Phillip and whether they were giving him the things he needed most. It was the first time she had ever analyzed the arguments and _ set them up in a row. They made a pattern that way. Almost, you might say, the pattern of a problem. It was a problem she still did not want to admit, because once admitted she would have to do something about it. The club president was right. She was that kind of woman. She sought a diversion. "Can I go in the darkroom and watch you print?" Del was surprised. It used to fascinate her, but she hadn't bothered recently. He locked the door behind them from force of habit, took a negative off the drying clip. After adjusting the enlarger, he turned on the safe light and put a sheet of paper in the easel. "You'll be interested in this one. Our son's pet show. One of the kids didn't have a pet so he picked up a substitute." He flicked the enlarger light on and off, set the timer, and slid the paper into the developing tray in an easy flow of motion. Myrene rocked the tray gently, sloshing the solution over the paper. The timer ticked off the seconds. Gray areas appeared faintly on the print and gradually deepened. It was undeniably Phillip. Myrene sucked in her breath. "This is one the public will never see." Del put his arm around her waist. The print was full depth now, and he flicked it into the stop bath. Yes, it was Phillip's face. But more than Phillip's face, it was Phillip's loneliness. Cupped in his two little hands was his substitute pet. And his large, wistful eyes seemed to accuse Myrene: "My mother would give me nothing, so by myself I found the best 600 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 A PROBLEM, A PET, AND THE PICTURE I could — this brown, soft, woolly caterpillar." "Hey, wife, stop crying." Del's tone was tender. "You'll dilute the hypo." It would not have been like Myrene to make a confessional speech. She only said, "Want to go house hunting?" 601 "Three bedrooms, plus darkroom?" he asked hopefully. "At least three bedrooms," she agreed. "Plus family room. Plus doghouse." His kiss of appreciation told her they were on the way to being the kind of family they ought to be... A happy one. Mlary Bartholomew Stewart Makes Fler Hlome Beautiful With Handwork ARY Bartholomew Stewart, Provo, Utah, is multiple-gifted in making lovely decorative accessories for the home. She upholstered the chair in which she is sitting, and has upholstered many other pieces of furniture. The unusual rugs shown in the picture were made from small scraps of heavy material sewed in rows very close together. Mrs. Stewart has designed and quilted many quilts of exquisite workmanship, she knits and crochets, paints figurines, and works with plastic foam. She is a talented seamstress and has made many wedding dresses and dresses for bridesmaids. She has been called "'a woman with versatile fingers." In Relief Society she has held many positions, both in the wards and in the stakes of her home city. She has been president, counselor, secretary, and has been class leader in all the different educational programs. At present she is theology class leader in the Seventh Ward Relief Society of Provo Stake. She is the mother of eleven children, grandmother to thirty-five, and great-grandmother to twelve. Her gifts of pee work adorn the homes of the members of her family and the homes of her many tiends. Orchids in the Snow CHAPTER 5 Rosa Lee Lloyd Synopsis: Sharon and Sam Wynter, newlyweds from Utah, make many friends in Fairbanks, Alaska, including Angus McFarland, a widower, and his daughter Marie, and Susan Elg from Bristol Bay who has brought her husband Herman to the hospital for an operation. Sharon also meets Sister Jensen, President of the branch Relief Society, who rents the couple a log cabin. Sister Jensen takes Sharon to visit Mary Billings, who is blind. Sam, an engineer, goes on a trip to the North, Sister Jensen goes to visit her daughter in Nome, and Sharon is left alone in the cabin. HARRY stood near the door S clenching her small, firm fists. She could hear two dogs barking, then a girl's voice saying: "Shush, you two! Don't act so important!" Marie! It was Marie McFarland! Sharry swung the door wide open, encircling Marie in her eager arms. "You'll never know," she said, "how scared I was!" "Are you alone?" Marie asked. "Sam's on a trip," Sharry said. She felt something push against her legs. She looked down into Nuzzle's appealing eyes. "Oh, you darling!" She picked him up and he cuddled close to her with a contented whine. "He's yours!" Marie said. "Daddy warned me not to fall in love with him because he had chosen you. Anyway, I have this good old husky Fudge. He's my lead dog when I drive sled in Bristol." "Are they hungry?" Sharry questioned. "Let's not spoil them," Marie Page 602 answered. "Leave them on _ the porch." She surveyed the inside of the cabin from the doorway. "Really reat! I love it, Sharry. It's no lace for these dogs." "We have a doghouse," Sharry said, "but we've been too busy to clean it." "The porch is all right," Marie said, following her inside. "Where did you get this gorgeous quilt?" She took off her parka and gloves. "Hang these up — I don't want to put them on it." Sharry laughed. "Don't be silly. It's to be used, Mama told me. She thinks the time to keep things for relics is after they have served practically. Relics should be old and worn, she says." Marie pursed her lips. "I never thought of it that way before," she said. "But it would be funny to have a museum full of things that had never been used. So here goes!" She flopped on the lounge, stuffing a pillow under her head. "Solid comfort,' she — sighed. "That's what I crave. Beauty, too. But comfort is what men like, Sharry. I've noticed that my dad has everything in our house in Bristol arranged for comfort." "Yes, Sam's that way, too," Sharry agreed. "I'm different. [Il sacrifice comfort for beauty lots of times. Tell me, how is your father?" "He's fine — only worried." Marie's voice gentled. "About Uncle Herman, I mean. Doctors don't ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW have much hope since his operation. About three months, they said. Daddy is still in Anchorage with them. They'll go home as soon as Uncle Herman can travel. They are as close as brothers, Sharry. 'Vhey were young boys together working here in Alaska. Everything they have they earned themselves, fighting the sea and the weather. Uncle Herman is not quite as tall as Daddy, but he's broad and sturdy, with blond hair and fair skin and the dearest smile. He looks like a Viking but he is a music man at heart, a poet kind of man. He would work all day on the icy waters of Bristol Bay, then come home at night and read Walt Whitman or play his old violin that belonged to his father. He has a guitar, too. He taught the villagers to square dance — and now..." her voice faltered, "we can't bear to lose him, Sharry." "T know," she said. "How can we help them?" "With our love and_ prayers," Marie said. "And we must write them about everything. Mama Sue loves to get letters. When she's in Bristol she meets the plane that brings the mail and the newspapers. Swen sends the New York papers. Uncle Herman loves music so...." ARIE sat up, her eyes brightenras "I saw something I want in the wish-book yesterday. A guitar. And they'll send you weckly lessons. You can pay by the month. Let's do it, Sharry." "Sounds like fun," Sharry said. "I play the organ at Church. A guitar might be easy for me. ['ll ask Sam." "Then it's a deal!' Marie said. 603 "We need music in faraway places like Bristol, where there's no radio or television. We have radios in the schoolhouses to send messages and receive them, but we need music in our homes. I want to play something, so if I have to live in a faraway place when I get married I can take my music with me." Sharry's eyes widened. 'Marie, are you going to be married? Right away, | mean?" "T wish I were! [I've set my heart on a certain boy ever since I was a little girl. But that's the trouble. He still thinks of me as a little girl. Maybe he has a girl, by now." She got to her feet, walking back and forth. "Let's not talk about it," she said, "It breaks me up." Sharry changed the subject. "We appreciated your apartment," she said. "It was so kind of you." "T was glad to have you there. We like you and Sam. How long will he be gone?" Sharry shook her head. "I don't know. And I don't know where he is. They have found an important metal somewhere — it's a secret." "Would you like me to stay with you until he comes home?" Marie asked. "Td love it! 'There's a potluck dinner at the branch tonight. We can go. What shall we take?" "How about fried wild rabbit? I've been craving some. It's perfect? Now. "Not for me!" Sharry said. "But Pll fry it for you. Then [Pll make Sam's favorite chocolate cake, just in case he gets home in time." Marie gave her a quizzical smile. "You won't even taste our favorite dishes, so you don't know whether you like them or not," she said. 604 "Anyway — let's get busy. First, we should write those letters for the guitars — they come collect. Then we can go up to my apartment. [ want you to see a new sweater I'm knitting. You can make one just like it, if you like mine." HEY were busy all afternoon, but by six o'clock everything was ready for the potluck dinner. Sharry had fried the rabbit the same way as chicken, and when she heaped the casserole with the golden brown pieces she thought how Sam would enjoy it. No doubt she would enjoy it, too, if she didn't know it was wild rabbit instead of chicken. She must quit being so squeamish, she scolded herself. Even now, the thought of all the strange food there would be at the dinner almost nauseated her. She swallowed hard and took a drink of water. When they arrived at the party, Oscar Jensen hurried through the crowd to meet them. Oscar was always happy as a cricket, Sharry thought. When he looked at Marie, he seemed ready to burst into song. He helped them carry their food to the serving table, then they took their places at the long line of people waiting to help themselves. "T'm_ starved," Marie whispered. "Look at that gorgeous food. Creamed clams and wild celery. And that big tray of smoked salmon. 'That's our specialty in Bristol. Salmon cooked every way imaginable! You'll love it, Sharry." Sharry nodded. "Yes — I'll like the salmon. It looks good." Marie took a spoonful of everything. Her plate was such a conRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 glomeration of food that Sharry wondered if it would make her sick. She even went back to the table for more, and Oscar went with her. "Here, try this creamed clam," she coaxed. "Just a spoonful." Sharry tasted it. It was really delicious. She wanted terribly to be a good sport about the food up here. Sam would be so pleased if she could tell him she had enjoyed it. "Now take a taste of this one," Oscar said. "If you like it, I'll tell you what it is — and if you don't, you'll never know." Oscar was eating as heartily as Marie. 'They would make a nice couple, Sharry thought, as she watched them laughing together. But Marie had told her she was already in love. An hour later when Sharry was dancing with Oscar, she felt she could not endure another whirl around the room. Her head was dizzy, her eyes blurred, and she was sick all over. "Oscar — I'm sorry," she said weakly. "Let me sit down. I ate — too much." He danced her over to an open window and pushed her gently into a chair. "TIL get Marie," he said. "You look awful! Don't faint. Please!" "Gee whiz!" Marie said a minute later. "You must be allergic to something you ate." "Take me home," Sharry begged. "Please hurry...." Oscar went for his car, and Marie tucked a warm blanket around Sharry. "You'll be all right," she said. "Tell me you're feeling better." Sharry was too sick to answer her. ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW T was nearly five o'clock in the morning before Sharry went to sleep. Hours later, when she awakened, she could hear Sam's voice in the living room. Sam was home! She struggled to her feet and hurried to the doorway. "Darling," she called. The dizzy sickness came over her again. Sam rushed to her, holding her gently in his warm, strong arms. "Take it easy," he whispered. "I ate — something," she whispered against his shoulder. "Oh, Sam — I'm sorry — I'm such a sissy!' "You're no sissy," he laughed. "You're just a brave little darling. But if you're not better soon, Ill call a doctor." "A doctor! Sam — no. Doctors in Alaska charge a lot of money. They're sort of special or something." "And you're sort of special," he said, lifting her and carrying her to the big chair by the fireplace. Huge chunks of coal were burning brightly. "I took a chance on this old chimney," he told her. '""There's a good fire going in the kitchen range, too. Marie is fixing breakfast." The thought of breakfast made her sick again. 'Terribly sick. R. Fillmore came at one o'clock. He was a big, gray-haired, middle-aged man, with penetrating dark eyes and warm, comforting hands. "So you think it was our clams and celery that upset you?" he asked Sharry, after looking her over. "Maybe it was that pickled bear tongue that Oscar asked you to eat 605 — they are terribly worried about what they did to you." "Pickled bear tongue!" gasped. "No wonder!" Dr. Fillmore winked at Sam, standing close by. "No — it isn't anything you ate," he said, his wise eyes crinkling. "This kind of sickness is as old as time. It's worse with some women than others. My dear," his voice was tender, "you and your fine husband can expect a baby in the late spring, about April, I think." Sharry turned her face to look at Sam. Their eyes caught and held in the bright glory of the moment. She felt a strange new beat in her heart. 'They were going to have a baby in the spring! Tears of wonderment glistened in her eyes. She didn't know when Dr. Fillmore left the room. She wasn't sure of anything but Sam kneeling beside her, holding her as. Though he had the whole world in his arms! Sharry HK OK RK week later, Sharry was still too: ill to sit up. Sam told her that Dr. Fillmore insisted that she go to the hospital or have a nurse here at home. "T can't leave you alone," he said. "Marie is in school most of the day — Sister Jensen is still in Nome. I have to leave again soon — another important job to do." "When?" She tried to keep her voice steady. "Next Monday." "Today is Wednesday," she murmured. "Sam — if we have to have somebody professional, there is only one person I want — my Aunt Jewel." He snapped his fingers. "Of course! Why didn't I think of Jewel. I'll telephone at once. She can fly up here." Sharry struggled to sit up. "Telephone McFarland, too," she said. '"'Ask him to meet her when she lands in Anchorage. Sometimes there's a long wait between planes." "TI do it, dear," he said, as he pushed her gently back on the pillow. "Bea good little girl and don't get excited. Dr. Fillmore said you are to stay flat on your back for awhile. Leave everything to me, honey." Sharry closed her eyes, dreamily. Aunt Jewel would come to her, she thought confidently. As soon as she knew how much Sharry needed her, she would come. ON Sunday morning Sam drove to the airport to meet Aunt Jewel, whose plane from Anchorage was due at ten o'clock. Marie stayed with Sharry. It was pansy-color dark, Sharry thought — like evening at home. What would Aunt Jewel think of the constant darkness? "Marie," Sharry said, "how do you endure it month in and month out?" "Endure what?" Marie demanded as she leaned over the dressing table peering at her face in the mirror. "You mean my freckles?" "Heavens no!" Sharry gasped. "Your freckles are cute. I mean the twilight. I'm so homesick...." "T know," Marie nodded. "You're homesick for your mother. I've been homesick all my life for my mother. I didn't know her — she died when I was a baby — still I think of her often. It's a yearning I can't explain. That's why I'm so crazy about my father. He's been both father and mother to me." Marie got to her feet. "Try to sleep while I brush up the living room. We want everything very cosy when your Aunt Jewel arrives." Sharry looked at the clock. "She should be arriving now," she said. "The ride out here will take about a half hour. I can hardly wait, Marie." At eleven o'clock, there were footsteps on the porch. Then voices and a man's hearty laugh. McFarland's laugh! "That's my Dad!" Marie squealed. "He's with them. Hurray!" Sharry listened to their cheery greetings. Marie told them to take off their heavy boots outside so they wouldn't track the floor. "Here she is!" Sam ushered Aunt Jewel into the bedroom. "McFarland brought her in his own plane!" Jewel stooped and _ gathered Sharon in her arms, pressing her cheek against hers. "We'll have you up in no time," she said in her confident, reassuring way. "I'm so glad you sent for me, honey." McFarland loomed in the doorway. There was a glow in his dark eyes Sharry hadn't noticed before. Everyone talked at once. The plane ride from Anchorage had been a real adventure, Aunt Jewel told them. McFarland said they hadn't stopped to eat because he wanted to cook a big dinner for everyone when they got here. "We'll live it up," he laughed, "steak and baked potatoes and salad — a real outside meal. I won't try to give Jewel Alaskan food right away. I remember that Sharry 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW didn't like it. Marie, baby, will you put the potatoes in the oven while we go across the river to the market? I want Jewel to go with me. Can you spare her that long, Sharry?" "Why, certainly," "That's fine." "Shall I drive you?" Sam offered. McFarland smiled. "We'll walk," he said. They went out laughing as though they had suddenly found something wonderful together. Marie followed them to the doorway, then she walked back to Sharry's room and leaned against the window peering out. A little smile tipped the corners of her mouth, but her eyes were deeply serious. "My father is already in love with Jewel," she said in her straightforward way. "I know he is. I have seen many women try to attract him, but this is the first time I have seen him go overboard — for anybody." "But he hardly knows her!" Sharry exclaimed. "He's just being friendly." "Let's face it," Marie answered. "They've been together since six o'clock this morning when her plane arrived from Seattle. He could have sent her to Fairbanks on the regular plane. But no — he comes along. Fairbanks is a long way Sharry _ said. 607 from Anchorage." Sam said, "Maybe he came to sce you, Marie. After all, you are his favorite daughter." Marie was quict for a moment. "Yes — I'm his favorite daughter, and he's a very special daddy. But I'm not selfish about him. I want him to marry again. [ really do. But I hope she is a woman who loves Alaska the way he does, one who realizes what it's like to live in a place like Bristol. It takes a real woman to make a home there ten months out of the year. I couldn't bear to have — anybody — break his heart." The words were a drumbeat in Sharry's brain. Marie was afraid Aunt Jewel was not the kind of woman for McFarland. She looked at Sam. What was he thinking, she wondered? He never spoke impulsively. He always figured everything carefully with an engincer's mind. Marie looked at him, too. Suddenly his face broke into a boyish grin. He shrugged his wide shoulders. "Let's not jump the gun," he said. "Maybe Jewel will have something to say about all this. After all, she's mighty important, too. I'll bet she has a mind of her own. Shall we wait and see?" (To be continued ) Cue Ge! Mabel Law Atkinson Why envy me for my green thumb? My garden was not made Just wishing for the beautiful— I used the hoe and spade. FROM THE Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Thelma H. Sampson SAMOAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD CONDUCTS CONVENTIONS IN TWELVE DISTRICTS Left to right: Thelma H. Sampson, President, Samoan Mission Relief Society; board members: Ula Montez Stehlin, Sui Ha Arps, Martha Harris, Alisa Fitisemanu, and Helen Stirling. Virginia Eyestone, also a member of the board, was not present when the picture was taken. All of the sisters in this picture are wearing the traditional Samoan dress, called "Pe'a." Sister Sampson reports: "During the month of April 1960, our Samoan Mission Relief Society board held a series of schools or conventions in all twelve districts on three main islands of the Samoan Mission. This was the first time such a series of Page 608 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 609 conventions had ever been held. Our schools began on the designated days at nine o'clock until twelve noon, with instructions in duties of officers, explaining ducs, emphasis on the visiting teacher program, explaining roll books, and introducing the new lesson manuals, with a demonstration on how to give a lesson. After lunch, we began a demonstration period from two to four-thirty in the afternoon, in which we introduced a very interesting sewing booklet. Then we gave demonstrations on how to mix powdered milk, how to clean and oil a sewing machine, the use of sewing tools, making a child's simple play dress and panties, and helps in shirt making. Then our Samoan sisters demonstrated to us their mat weaving and 'Elei (block printing) of Samoan designs on dress material. In the background of the above picture may be seen the dress lengths which have been block printed. On the table are mats and baskets made by the Samoan sisters. "The board members prepared the manuals, the sewing book, and conducted the conventions. We traveled by car, bus, jeep, boat, and airplane, and met with ninety to ninety-five per cent of all officers and teachers of the branch and district Relief Societies. We were all very blessed to take part in these conventions and felt that we took valuable information to our sisters." Photograph submitted by Beth M. Stallman INGLEWOOD STAKE (CALIFORNIA) FASHION SHOW March 25, 1960 Beth M. Stallman, President, Inglewood Stake Relief Society, reports: "A most successful fashion show was held in Inglewood Stake, March 25, 1960, under the direction of Lillian Clifton, Second Counselor, Inglewood Stake Relicf Society, and Nola Langford, stake work meeting leader, with Beth Borland as commentator. Lucille Peel, stake organist, played beautiful music during the show. All the wards in the stake were represented, and many pre-school children participated. All the clothing for women was made by the individual models, cxcept for the children, who modeled clothing made by their mothers. "We were most pleased with the beautiful sewing done by our sisters, including many coats and suits which were truly professional looking. The final model, Dolores Maxwell, wore a dress 150 years old, which was made from the raw wool to the finished product, by a member of the family. The dress is still in perfect condition." 610 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 Visiting Teachers E du Photograph submitted by Edith Cc. Bennett SHARON STAKE (UTAH), OREM ELEVENTH WARD PRESIDENCY AND DOLLS AT SPECIAL MEETING, March 6, 1960 Standing, left to right, Relicf Society Presidency: Donna Nay, Education Counselor; Marien Ostler, President; Bonnie Larsen, Work Director Counselor. Edith C. Bennett, President, Sharon Stake Relief Society, reports: "A great deal of interest was added to the special meeting presented by Orem Stake, Eleventh Ward Relief Society, March 6, 1960, by displaying dolls which had been appropriately dressed and labeled. As each topic was introduced, a placard was placed in front of the doll depicting the phase of Relief Society work being discussed. Sister Ostler dressed the dolls, which were authentic in every respect. They were so outstanding that we had them displayed in our March leadership meeting so that all the Icaders in the stake could enjoy them." ee 7 a * 4 Ben Photograph submitted by Anona O. Miles DUCHESNE STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, April 17, 1960 Front row, seated, left to right, beginning third from the left: Lois Goodrich, First Counselor; Anona Miles. President; Zella Bennion, Second Counselor; Fern Snow, Secretary-Treasurer; Arwella Moon, chorister. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 611 Third row, standing, at the right: Rolene Arvanitas, organist. Back row, eleventh from the left: Elna Mayhew, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Miles reports: '"This chorus is made up of the Singing Mothers of all eight wards of the stake. The numbers presented at the conference were: 'My Task,' 'God Knows,' 'Teach Me, O Lord,' and 'My Redeemer Lives.' This organization has sung for one other stake quarterly conference, and also for the visiting teachers convention. These women are all active and enthusiastic workers in Relief Society." gore Photograph submitted by Louise B. Johansen NORTH SANPETE STAKE (UTAH) DRAMATIZATION "INSTRUCTIONS AND PROMISES" OF THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS, May 1960 Girls seated at the left: Linda Bohne and Roma Madsen; girl standing: Charlene Jones; man representing Parley P. Pratt: Myron I'. Tucker; Lamanite boy, kneeling: Frank Hasteenez; boys standing: David Evans, Ronald Nielsen; Indian chief: Richard Evans. Louise B. Johansen, President, North Sanpete Stake Relief Society, reports: "We have just experienced one of the most uplifting and inspiring occasions that we have had in our stake. We planned a 'guest day' for the sisters in our stake, and centered our program around acquainting new members and young mothers with the refining influence of Relief Society. The visiting teachers delivered 880 invitations to the homes of the sisters and urged them to attend. The response was gratifying. "The stake Singing Mothers chorus sang "When Mothers Sing,' 'We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet,' "The Morning Breaks,' and 'Oh, Lovely Land, America.' We presented the dramatizations given at our last conference: 'Instructions and Promises' of The Doctrine and Covenants, 'Legacy,' and 'The Magazine Is a Bell Ringer.' Appropriate costumes were worn, and the stake leaders directed their respective departments. Our stake social science leader prepared effective visual aids and gave a short talk on 'Spiritual Living — Pathway to Peace.' The visiting teacher leader introduced the summer messages we had prepared, and copies were given to all the wards. "As the group came from the chapel into the beautifully decorated recreation hall, they enjoyed the outstanding hobby displays prepared by each ward. On display were beautifully appliqued, embroidered, and pieced quilts, painting, leather work, flowers, jewelry, copper and aluminum articles, crocheting, knitting, clothing, sofa pillows. Tables with blue covers and pretty yellow dolls were inviting where one could sit and enjoy the delicious refreshments and visit with friends." 612 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 Photograph submitted by Esther W. Heaton KANAB STAKE (UTAH), KANAB SOUTH WARD BAZAAR March 17, 1960 Left to right: President Elva H. Judd; First Counselor Pearl O. Little; Second Counselor Charlotte H. Young; Secretary-Treasurer Lola F. Swapp; chorister Maurine C. Jones; literature class leader Gwendoline M. Schoenfeld; Magazine representative Lucille C. Perkins; social science class leader Harriet R. Judd; work meeting leader Vola B. Rider; Elda B. Ogden. Esther W. Heaton is president of Kanab Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Dora P. Webb BOUNTIFUL NORTH STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE AND RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION Seated, front row, left to right, beginning fifth from the left, stake board members: Virginia A. Mann, organist; Iris H. Moon, chorister; Lydia Y. Bangerter, First Counselor; Dora P. Webb, President. Second from the right, Magdelen M. Cluff, theology class leader; Venice D. Hulme, visiting teacher message leader (at end of row). Second row, sixth from the left: Fawn B. Kizerian, work meeting leader; second from the right: Eunice H. Van Orden, Magazine representative; at right end of second row: Jeanne M. Huber, Second Counselor. Third row, sixth from the left: Betty Jo C. Hixon, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Webb reports: "At one session of quarterly conference this chorus sang "Grant Me, Dear Lord, Deep Peace of Mind,' by Stickler and 'Lift Thine Eyes to the Mountains' by Mendelssohn. 'They also furnished the music in our two-stake Relief Society convention, singing 'Eternal Life' by Dugan, and 'Come, Ye Blessed of My Father' by Florence J. Madsen." f A Stake Ys Born (Poem written in appreciation and gratitude for the organization of the Manchester Stake in the British Isles, March 27, 1960.) Padda M. Speller If I could capture precious time Hold fast for you this hour, Recall the love and joy sublime That in the saints doth flower; If I could lock within your hearts This ne'er forgotten day, And you reccive its many parts— To love, and work, and pray. This day would be my gift to you The best that I could give, A share in all the good and true That within man doth live. This stake of Zion newly born Upon this lovely land, Will bravely, gracefully, adorn Wherever it shall stand. The knowledge does within us grow That God is very near, And when we part, where ere we go, We'll know that he is here. Here gathered in this golden "now" The saints of latter days, Our hearts as one, we mutely vow To follow in Christ's ways. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 613 Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 27—The Law of Moral Conduct (continued) Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 42:21-26, 80-83, 86) For Tuesday, December 6, 1960 Objective: To learn the consequences of lying and unchaste practices. Review While conducting a conference of the Church at Fayette, New York, during the month of January 1831, the Prophet Joseph Smith received the Lord's promise that when he got to the Ohio valley the law to the Church would be given. Upon the Prophet's arrival in Kirtland, Ohio, the following month of February, the Prophet received the great revelation which included more of the Lord's will than the immediate problem before the saints at the time; that is, the need to care for the relief of the poor and needy. The responsibility of the Church to carry the gospel to the world and the manner in which this should be done formed the basis of the first part of the law. (See Lesson 25.) A major part of the law to the Church is concerned with the relations of people who are interested in living lives which conform to the law of the Lord. 'These basic laws of moral conduct are necessary for a civilized people. Last month's Page 614 lesson gave an introduction to this law. "Thou Shalt Not Lie" The liar is strongly condemned in many scriptures of ancient and modern origin. 'The revelation under discussion is emphatic in denouncing this vice. (See D & C 42:21, 86.) What is a lie? A dictionary defnition is as follows: "To utter a falsehood with an intention to deceive, or with an immoral design; to say or do that which is designed to deceive another when he has a right to know the truth, or when morality requires a just representation; to cause an incorrect impression; to present a misleading appearance." The Father of Lies Lying is the opposite of truth. Those who indulge in lying, the speaking of untruths, are being deceived by the father of lies, the devil, who, from the beginning, sought to destroy God's work. In denouncing the false belicfs and LESSON DEPARTMENT practices of certain Jews, Jesus said: Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ve will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a he, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father of it. And because I tell you the truth, ye believe me not (John $:44-45). Satan's Plan It is Satan's plan to deceive all people who will succumb to his influence. The half-truth is used as a means of deception. As President George Q. Cannon once explained concerning Mother Eve being deceived by the devil, he:.. Told the truth in telling that, but he accompanied it with a lie as he always does. Hic never tells the complete truth. He said that they should not die. The Father had said that they should die. The devil had to tell a lie in order to accomplish his purposes; but there was some ttuth in his statement. Their eyes were opened. They had a knowledge of good and evil just as the Gods have. They became as Gods; for that is one of the features, one of the peculiar attributes of those who attain unto that glory — they understand the difference between good and evil (Journal of Discourses, 26:190- 191). Those who tell half-truths, or untruths, in short, they who falsify are aiding and abetting the cause of the devil. They bring themselves into bondage, and, depending upon the purpose of the lie in reference to others, they may lead the deceived from the paths of honesty and virtue. It would seem obvious that the lie is one of the most powerful tools in the hands of Satan and those who perpetuate his de- 615 signs to bring about the destruction of the souls of men. Should a Latter-day Saint foster the kingdom of the devil by imitating the plans of the evil one? Slave to a Lie Do members of the kingdom of God realize that the lic brings eventual sorrow and regret into their own lives? Is it clear that when one follows this practice, he is bringing himself. Into a bondage which counteracts the very purpose of his earth existence? How much casier it is to tell the truth and be free from any cnemy of salvation. When the Prophet Joseph Smith said that salvation consists of a man's being placed beyond the power of his enemies, meaning the enemies of his progression, such as dishonesty, greediness, lying, immorality, and other vices, he was saying that man is in bondage to these vices. (See D. H. C. V:387-388.) As long as man is a captive to habits and vices that restrict or limit his power to act as a free agent, he will not receive salvation. But, wherein does the individual place himself in such a position of bondage by lying? He binds himself by making the lie a part of himself to the extent that he is no longer free from the falsehood. It has been said that to be a successful liar, it is necessary to remember not only the lie but the person to whom it is told. In doing this the person immediately loses his freedom to that extent. The necessity of remembering the lic makes a deeper impression upon the har, requiring that it become a part of his life. "The Truth Shall Make You Free" On the other hand, "... The truth shall make you free" (John 8:32). The truth-teller need not fear the consequences of his actions — he is free indeed. When the lie is spoken, it is almost always discovered and the loss of a friend and character debasement follow. When confronted with the temptation to le or deceive, one should think of the consequences — possible loss of friends, sorrow, and regret. What self-respecting person would knowingly place himself in this position? The adversary sought to destroy the work of the Lord in bringing forth The Book of Mormon by a planned attempt to use the loss of the translated portion from the gold plates to his advantage. The plan was to change that part which had been translated and then "expose" the Prophet Joseph Smith by showing that his retranslation was incorrect. This plan, however, was foiled by the translation of the small plates of Nephi which covered the same period of history. Of Satan it is said in the revelation disclosing this deception that: Yea, he stirreth up their hearts to anger against this work. Yea, he saith unto them: Deceive and lie in wait to catch, that ye may destroy; behold, this is no harm. And thus he flattereth them, and telleth them that it is no sin to lie that they may catch a man in a lie, that they may destroy him. And thus he flattereth them, and leadeth them along until he draggeth their souls down to hell, and thus he causeth them to catch themselves in their own snare. And thus he goeth up and down, to and fro in the earth, seeking to destroy the souls of men (D & C 10:24-27). Korihor, the anti-Christ, in learning of the power of Alma, became convinced that he (Korihor) had been deccived, and then confessed his guilt in deceiving some Nephites. Alma records that "... The devil will not support his children at the last day, but doth speedily drag them down to hell" (Alma 30:60). Punishment of the Liar Severe rebukes of the liar are mentioned many places in scripture. Solomon said that the Lord hates "... A lying tongue..." (Proverbs 6:17), and a "... False witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren." (See Provetbs 6319.) "Wo unto the liar, for he shall be thrust down to hell" (2 Nephi 9:34). Concerning those who will eventually make up the telestial kingdom, it is revealed that: These are they who are liars, and sorcerers, and adulterers, and whoremortyers, and whosoever loves and makes a lie. These are they who suffer the wrath of God on earth. These are they who suffer the vengeance of eternal fire. These are they who are cast down to hell and suffer the wrath of Almighty God, until the fulness of times, when Christ shall have subdued all enemies under his feet, and shall have perfected his work (D & C 76:103-106 cf. 63:17). "Thou Shalt Not Commit Adultery" As heretofore pointed out, the law of moral conduct applies to both sexes. This is the single standard of conduct. This fact is indicated clearly in making known the procedure of excommunication from the 616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT Church as the penalty for this sex sin. And if any man or woman shall commit adultery, he or she shall be tried before two elders of the church, or more, and every word shall be established against him or her by two witnesses of the church, and not of the enemy; but if there are more than two witnesses it is better. But he or she shall be condemned by the mouth of two witnesses; and the elders shall lay the case before the church, and the church shall lift up their hands against him or her, that they may be dealt with according to the law of God. And if it can be, it is necessary that the bishop be present also. And thus ye shall do in all cases which shall come before you (D & C 42:80-83). (Italics by author.) Because of the Lord's setting forth the single standard of conduct as his law, it is not inconsistent, nor is it a changing of the scriptures from their intended meaning, to insert the words shown in brackets below. Thou shalt love thy wife [husband] with all thy heart, and shalt cleave unto her [him] and none else. And he that looketh upon a woman [man] to lust after her [him] shall deny the faith, and shall not have the Spirit; and if he [she] repents not he [she] shall be cast out. Thou shalt not commit adultery; and he [she] that committeth adultery, and repenteth not, shall be cast out. But he [she] that has committed adultery and repents with all his [her] heart, and forsaketh it, and doeth it no more, thou shalt forgive; But if he [she] doeth it again, he [she] shall not be forgiven, but shall be cast out (D & C 42:22-26). The penalty for adultery is severe because in the category of sins, it is 617 classed next to murder. (See Alma 39:5-9.) President Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve has written the following in comment upon verses 22 to 26 of Section 42 quoted above: Now this revelation was given before the endowment was made known. Since that time when a man is married in the temple, he takes a solemn covenant before God, angels, and witnesses that he will keep the law of chastity. 'Then if he violates that covenant it is not casy to receive forgiveness. I call your attention to this statement by the Prophet Joseph Smith: "If a man commit adultery, he cannot receive the celestial kingdom of God. Even if he is saved in any kingdom, it cannot be the celestial kingdom." Of course, a man may, according to the Doctrine and Covenants, 132:26, receive forgiveness, if he is willing to pay the penalty for such a crime: that is he "shall be destroyed in the flesh, and shall be delivered unto the buffetings of Satan unto the day of redemption," which is the time of the resurrection. We cannot destroy in the flesh, so what the Lord will require in lieu thereof, I do not know (Doctrines of Salvation, Il:93-94). From what the Lord has revealed about repentance or forgiveness of this sin, as great as it is, there is forgiveness for the Church member upon his or her true repentance. It may be forgiven when the member of the Church has not received the light and understanding of the temple ordinances, but even then the second offense will surely bring the casting out of the offender from the Church. For the person who may have committed this act before membership in the Church, upon his or her sincere repentance and the acceptance of baptism, the remission of sins is received. Salvation in the kingdom of God comes to him or to her who endures to the end. (See 3 Nephi 30; 1 Cor. 6:9-11.) Au Fleinous Practice FIder Harold B. Lee draws attention to a practice directly related to this subject: There is, however, another hemous practice, the sin of abortion, or the destruction of unborn children by illegal operations, which lies somewhere a close kin to the crime of destroying human life and certainly to be condemned under the subject heading of this chapter, "Thou shalt not kill!" Against this deplorable practice the leaders of the Church have declared from the beginning. 'This serious sin against the Lord's plan is committed by two groups of individuals: first, those who, having committed their first great error in yielding to sexual sin, seek to cover their sins after gratifying their lusts, by cominitting an even more heinous crime before the law of the land and against the law of God; and, second, by those having entered into the sacred relationships of the married state but who, rather than accept the responsibilities of parenthood, yield to this awful practice by which they forfeit their nghts to wonderful blessings which otherwise could have been theirs ("The Sixth Commandment," The Ten Commandments Today, pp. 91-92). Love Thy Husband "Thou shalt love thy wife [husband] with all thy heart, and shalt cleave unto her [him] and none else" (D & C 42:22). When the Lord instituted marriage in the beginning, it was the intention that husband and wife should remain true to each other. 'They were to "... Be one flesh" (Genesis 2:24; see also Mark 10:6-9; Ephesians 5:31) and to be faithful to each other, as the word "'cleave" denotes. Two ideas from the apostle Paul bring together an emphasis which the Lord intends in this same connection: Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord. Lor as the woman is of the man, even so is the man also by the woman; but all things of God (I Cor. 11:11-12). Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself for it.... Nevertheless let every one of you in particular so love his wife even as himself; and the wife see that she reverence her husband (Ephesians 5:25, 33). Safeguard Against Sin As the reader remembers the New Testament Sermon on the Mount, she will recognize the common element in Matthew 5:27-28, and part of Section 42:22-26 of The Doctrine and Covenants given above. When the resurrected Savior instructed the Nephites, however, he gave them this admonition which seems to reinforce and further clarify the meaning of the New Testament scripture, as also the modern revelation. Jesus emphasized in those instructions that control of thought, feelings, and desires is necessary as a safeguard against adultery. Behold, it is written by them of old time, that thou shalt not commit adultery; But I say unto you, that whosoever looketh on a woman [man], to lust after her [him], hath committed adultery already in his [her] heart. Behold, I give unto you a commandment, that ye suffer none of these things to enter into your heart; For it is better that ye should deny yourselves of these things, wherein ye will take up your cross, than that ye should be cast into hell (3 Nephi 12:27-30). 618 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT Is not this instruction in harmony with the words of the prophet-king Benjamin and later by Amulek (see Alma 12:14), when Benjamin counseled his people as follows: And finally, I cannot tell you all the things whereby ye may commit sin; for there are divers ways and means, even so many that I cannot number them. But this much IJ can tell you, that if ye do not watch yourselves, and your thoughts, and your words, and your deeds, and observe the commandments of God, and continue in the faith of what ye have heard concerning the coming of our Lord, even unto the end of your lives, ye must perish. And now, O man, remember, and perish not (Mosiah 4:29-30). (Italics by author.) Vulgarity of thought, word, and desire may well lead to the deed. "For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he..." (Proverbs 23:7). Results of Unchaste Thoughts Transgression begins in the mind, prompted by obscene pictures, salacious literature, immodesty of dress, and other forms of lewdness. Impure thoughts thus engendered, unless repented of, encourage apostasy. 'Three consequences of this thought-transgression are mentioned in the text under consideration (D&C 42:22-26): (1) a denial of the faith; (2) a loss of the Spirit; and (3) to be cast out of the Church. Included in these consequences is (4) that fear will come to the transgressor as he realizes that his unrepentance has brought upon him the condemnation of those who love him most in this life and also the wrath of God. (See D & C 63:16.) Honest Hearts Produce Honest Actions Admonitions against breaking the 619 law of moral conduct are of great importance. Although breaking the laws against stealing and lying are more common than adultery and the taking of human life, none of these offenses against the Lord should be taken lightly. When one is genuinely converted to the gospel of Jesus Christ, it will be recognized that the breaking of a commandment is wrong in itself. Some pcople feel that they can commit sin as long as no one knows about the sin. The foundation of such a belief is based upon an idea contrary to the teachings of the gospel. Falling into the error of the Pharisees should not be an indulgence of the Latter-day Saint. Out of the heart proceed evil thoughts and deeds. (See Mt. 15:11-20, especially 18-19.) The Ideal Home Love in the home is expressed in other ways in addition to the one on which emphasis has been placed thus far in this lesson. One of these ways is consideration for the feelings of the wife and husband, as expressed by President David O. McKay, in a general conference: I cannot imagine a man's being cruel to a woman. I cannot imagine her so conducting herself as to merit such treatment. Perhaps there are women in the world who exasperate their husbands but no man is justified in resorting to physical force or in exploding his feelings in profanity. There are men, undoubtedly, in the world who are thus beastly, but no man who holds the Priesthood of God should so debase himself (Conference Report, October 1951, page 181). Where confidence and love between husband and wife exist, there is the basis of the ideal home. In the words of President Joseph F. Smith, we learn: A home is not a home in the eye of the gospel, unless there dwell perfect confidence and love between the husband and the wife. Home is a place of order, love, union, rest, confidence, and absolute trust; where the breath of suspicion of infidelity can not enter; where the woman and the man cach have implicit confidence in each other's honor and virtue (Gospel Doctrine, Tenth Edition, page 302). Questions for Discussion 1. In reading the dictionary definition of the word "lie," what ideas are suggested which go beyond the general meaning given to the practice of lying? (Example: "To cause an incorrect impression." ) 2. In what way is lying aiding the plans of Satan? 3. What is there about lying that takes away a person's freedom? 4. Discuss: "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free"' (John 8:32) 5. What is the single standard of moral conduct? Uisiting Shea te: ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 27—". Every Man Is Given a Gift By the Spirit of God. That All May Be Profited Thereby" (D & C 46:11-12) Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, December 6, 1960 Objective: We have a divine responsibility to develop our gifts and talents and to use them in the service of others. T this season of the year when our thoughts are centered on gifts and giving, how often do we pause to consider the countless, wonderful gifts which our Father in heaven has so lovingly bestowed upon each of us? We believe that the greatest gift ever given to man is the atoning sacrifice of our Savior, whose birth we celebrate this month and whose spirit should motivate all of our thoughts and actions. But along with this greatest gift, the Lord has bestowed bounteous individual gifts and talents upon each of us. 'The important challenge we all face is to recognize the gifts and talents we possess and to develop them to the maximum, not only for our own benefit, but also for the benefit of others. What are these gifts? How can we develop and utilize them to the best advantage? When we speak of the gifts of God, often we are inclined to think only of spiritual gifts, such as the gifts of faith and of healing. These, of course, are blessed, special gifts, but the Lord has bestowed other gifts upon us which are also wonderful. For example, Brigham Young once said: The gift of communicating one with another is the gift of God, just as much so as the gift of prophecy... (Ludlow, Daniel H.: Latter-day Saint Prophets Speak, page 172). Likewise, the gift of an understanding heart, of a desire to serve, of cheerfulness, the ability to teach, the wonderful character trait of looking for and magnifying the good in others — all these are gifts from God. These are gifts which we all can possess, if we seek diligently to develop them. Moreover, the Lord has said we _ should 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT rtd. Seek... Earnestly the best gifts, always remembering for what they are given" (D & C 46:8). The terms gifts and talents are often employed synonymously. These words have been defined as "natural endowments employing favor by God and given to us as a divine trust." ' Far too many of us fail to recognize the many wonderful talents and gifts with which we are endowed. We look at some of our friends and acquaintances who seem to be so talented and wish we _ possessed similar accomplishments; but all of us have gifts that are distinctly our own. It is our individual responsibility and opportunity to discover, develop, and use these priceless gifts. One of the best-known stories which emphasizes the importance of discovering and using our gifts or talents wisely is contained in the parable as given by Jesus when he said: For the kingdom of heaven is as a man travelling into a far country, who called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods. And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one; to every man according to his several ability; and straightway took his journey (Mt. 25:14-15). The story continues with the description of how two servants 621 used their talents productively and expanded and multiplied them. 'The third servant buried his talent in the ground, with the result that when the master returned even that little which had been given to him was taken away. (See Mt. 25:14-209.) This parable dramatizes with clarity the important fact that unless we develop and use the gifts which we have been given we will lose them. As underscored in The Doctrine and Covenants' scripture, these talents must be used freely and joyously for the good of all mankind. As we develop our talents unselfishly for the good of all, we recognize the universal truth, thus, "... It is more blessed to give than to receive" (Acts 20:35). The real spirit of Christmas is the spirit of service to others. In all our giving let us remember that the most precious gifts are those centered in love, thoughtfulness, kindness, and other gifts from the heart. Although such gifts cannot be wrapped in gay paper and tied with tinsel cord, they will outlast those which human hands create, and will bring to us deeper joy than all the riches of the world. With these gifts we can extend the spirit of Christmas throughout the year and throughout our lives, and can thus develop those gifts and talents which God so generously bestows upon us. ~~ G ra titude Catherine B. Bowles We thank thee, Father, for thy love, For all thy blessings from above, For lovely flowers, skies of blue, The morning sun, the evening dew; For goodness, faith, and humble prayer, We thank thee, Father, for thy care. Work Mleeting— Caring for the Sick in the Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3 — Moving and Lifting the Patient Maria Johnson For Tuesday, December 13, 1960 Objective: (a) To learn good body mechanics (to use the body properly) when moving or lifting a patient in order to prevent accidents and to hasten recovery. (b) To protect the worker from unnecessary strain and fatigue. Proper Body Mechanics IRED feet, aching backs, fatigue, and emotional tension are the price we pay for poor posture, whether caring for a sick patient or meeting the needs of the family. A cheerful disposition does not come with tired feet and aching backs. The following rules are important when carrying out any procedure that requires stooping, bending, or lifting. 1. Keep the back straight, no bend at waist line. The lower back was not made to lift with, always lift or carry with the back straight. Do not use the back muscles. The large leg thigh muscles should take the burden. When bending, bend at the hips and the knees. Stand close to your work. Go down to the level of your work — bend knees. (See illustration.) Vib Ww N i» 6. Stand with feet apart, giving a wide base of support, and with one foot forward. 7. Before lifting, tighten the muscles of the abdomen and the buttocks. In helping the patient, the nurse usually supports or uses a push or pull movement rather than a lift. Heavy lifting requires two or more people. 8. Always have the patient assist as much as possible. Moving the Patient A. To move a leg or arm: Procedure — (See illustration) Page 622 Good Not this LESSON DEPARTMENT 623 Support under ankle and knee or under wrist and elbow. Do not grasp from above. B. To move patient to side of bed: Procedure — (See illustrations) fo) N W Moving Shoulders Moving to Side of Bed Have patient lying on back. Cross patient's arms over her chest. Stand facing the patient's head and shoulders. Place one foot forward so your thigh or knee is braced against the side of the bed. Tighten your abdominal muscles and bend from your hips and knees. Keep your back straight. Place one arm under the patient's head and one under her chest. Your arms must teach all the way under the patient, so her head is supported by your elbow and the far shoulder by your hand. The other arm supports the chest region. Pull the patient's head and shoulders toward you to the side of the bed. Move the patient's hips in the same manner, placing your hands all the way under the heaviest part of the patient's hips. The legs are then placed in line with the trunk. Note: If the patient's condition will not permit her to be moved a unit at a time, two people will be needed. 624 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 C. To assist the patient to turn on side: Procedure — 1. Bring the patient to a far side of the bed. 2. Cross the leg that is farthest from you over the other leg. 3. Place the arm that is farthest away over the chest and the other arm on mattress by head of patient. 4. Stand with feet apart on the side of bed toward which the patient is to be turned, one leg braced against the bed. 5. Reach across the patient and place one hand on her far hip and the other on her shoulder. 6. In this position, keeping your back straight, roll back to a standing position. This will turn the patient on her side. D. To help the bed patient to a sitting position: Procedure — (See illustrations) \ ot Ready to Raise Patient Patient in Sitting Position Method I 1. Stand facing the head of bed with one leg against the mattress and the other leg a little forward. 2. Reach over and place your hand over the patient's shoulder far enough that your thumb is on her neck and your hand between the shoulder blades. Place your other hand on the bed for support. 3. To lift the patient, push against the bed with the one arm and lift the patient as you shift your weight to the leg against the bed. Keep your back straight. Method II 1. Remember to tighten the abdominal muscles and keep your back straight. LESSON DEPARTMENT 625 2. Stand with one foot forward and place one hand under the patient's neck. 3. With the other arm reach over the patient and place your hand under both of the patient's knees. 4. Pivot the patient to a sitting position and swing her legs over the side of the bed. E. To assist patient from bed to wheelchair: Precautions: Be sure chair is anchored so it will not move. You may need another person to hold the chair. A regular wheelchair is equipped with foot boards. These are for support of the patient's feet — not to step on. The foot boards must always be lifted up when patient is getting in or out of wheelchair. Procedure — Put robe on patient while in bed. Put on slippers. Wmbwi nN the patient's armpits. Her feet to the floor. Place chair at side of bed facing the head. Have patient in sitting position with legs over side of bed. You will stand in front of the patient and support her by placing your hands under The patient places her hands on your shoulders and slides 6. You and the patient pivot and move to front of chair. 7. The patient reaches for the arm of the chair and lowers herself into the chair while you continue the support, keeping your back straight and bending your knees. Of iterature—America's Literature Comes of Age Lesson 19 — James Fenimore Cooper, Critic (1789-1851) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 221-223) For Tuesday, December 20, 1960 Objective: To increase Cooper's significance for us by exploring the interrelationships tying together his aristocracy, his artistry, and his Americanism. IME has been kinder to Irving than to Cooper. Irving wrote his smooth lines with greatest care, and speaks to our generation with as much charm as he did to his own. Cooper revised only when compelled to, feeling that to reword a sentence was to destroy, somehow, his integrity and the vigorous spontaneity of his strongly masculine drive. For this and other reasons he is read today with difficulty, if at all, since even for the modern reader who presistently studies him, sometimes it seems that Cooper achieves his power in spite of his style rather because of it. 'Thus when the modern reader is handed The Last of the Mohicans, probably the most widely read novel in the nineteenth century — despite Scott, Dickens, and Harriet Beecher Stowe — after reading in it for an hour he can usually only shake his head and wonder why Cooper used to be any good, since he's certainly dull enough now. Tempting as it may at first appear, an easy decision either to skip him or merely to chat lightly about him would result in a great loss for us. Far and above any other American A Perry Picture JAMES FENIMORE COOPER writer of the century, it was he who created in the western world what has been accepted and loved as the true western America, precisely as comic books and western movies and TV do today, for good or ill. Throughout his extensive travels in Europe, Samuel F. B. Morse noted that Cooper's latest novel was displayed most conspicuously in all the bookshops. As soon as Cooper finished a novel, it was published simultaneously in thirty-four major cities, and in Egypt, Turkey, Persia, and the Far East. Thackeray felt Natty Bumppo (the hero of the fivevolume series, Leather - Stocking Tales) was better than anyone in the writings of Walter Scott, his fellow countryman; Balzac praised Cooper extravagantly, and Dumas wrote a story entitled, Les Mohicans de Paris; Tolstoy and Dostoevski fondly recalled their boyhood love for him, while in a Chekhov story, a Russian lad nicknames his buddy "Montezuma Hawkeye," he in turn being called "Paleface Brother.' In the United States, though his style and circumstantial absurdities were ridiculed mercilessly by two fellow writers on western themes, Bret Harte and Mark Twain, still generations of American youth were nurtured on his novels. And thus our original question becomes even more pressing: What did the nineteenth century sce in Cooper that we do not? As space permits, this lesson will attempt an answer, approached from various angles. Cooper's Life In 1790, in his first year, James, with other family members of Judge William Cooper, was installed in the memorial Otsego Hall, nucleus of Cooperstown, in western New York. From this place Squire Cooper operated his thousands of acres under a system not far removed from feudalism, share-cropping most of it and bragging that he was directly responsible for putting more virgin acres to the plow than any other man of his time. A strong Federalist shaped in the rigid mold of English aristocracy, at election time he rode far and wide among his renters reminding them that running the government was an affair for gentlemen, and that they had better leave alone things they knew nothing about. Young James was heir to the manor and all 'it symbolized (he adopted his mother's maiden name Fenimore, only after he began writing). After being privately tutored by an English gentleman and scholar, he was sent to Yale where 626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture Copyright 1900 by Eugene A. Perry 627 COOPER'S HOME "OTSEGO HALL," COOPERSTOWN, NEW YORK he was expelled for a teenage prank, but later reinstated and he graduated in 1806. After sailing for two years as a common seaman, he became a midshipman in the United States Navy, resigning his commission shortly before the outbreak of the War of 1812 to marry Susan De Lancey, daughter of a wealthy Federalist farming family. Thus Cooper became a landed gentleman in the accepted pattern. In 1820 he wrote his first novel to prove to his wife that he could write more forcibly than could the English novelist they were reading together in the evenings. Within four years he was acknowledged the first great American novelist in the three areas: Revolutionary War, (The Spy); western frontier America (The Pioneers); and the sea (The Pilot). In 1826, with the appearance of The Last of the Mohicans, he sailed for Europe with his wife, one son, and four daughters to give them a broadening education and to see for himself the wonders of the world and contrast them with those of his homeland. During his seven-year stay abroad he continued writing as furiously as ever while living in Paris, London, Berne, Florence, Sorrento, Rome, and Dresden. Upon his return in 1833, he purchased Otsego Hall in Cooperstown and lived there until his death in 1851, age sixty-two. Immediately upon returning, he felt to his dismay that the demniocratic form of government which he had defended with such ardor while in Europe was being destroyed from within itself by the low backwoods element which came to power with Andrew Jackson in 1829, as well as by the emergence of the new commercial classes, as symbolized by such huge factory towns as Lowell, Massachusetts, which had been but a village when he left. During his absence, Wall Street Books for the Church Pianist ( ) Church Pianist— Stults 222... Ee eeeeeeeeeeee 1.50 ( ) Eighteen Hymn Transcriptions— Kohlmann.......2.-.-2+----0+-+ 85 ( ) Famous Sacred Songs—Peery.....-..----+--- 1.25 ( ) Melodies For Church and Home—Shelley.... 1.00 ( ) More Concert Transcriptions of Favorite Hymns—Kohlmann...... 1.00 ( ) Piano Hymn Voluntaries—Lorenz......--.----- 1.50 ( ) Piano Transcriptions of Your Favorite Hymns—Parsons.......... 1.25 ( ) Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Schaum...... 85 ( ) Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Stickles.....- 1.25 ( ) Sacred Piano Album for Home and Church—Gahm............ 1.50 ( ) Sacred Piano Solos— Rettenberg............22--.-- 1.00 ( ) Sabbath Day Music— Randolph....................--- 1.50 ( ) Sunday Piano Music —Boston -020...--... Eeeeeeeees 1.25 ( ) Tranquil Hours— Presser...........: c2:002-coe01e--+ 1.50 ( ) Twenty-Four Voluntaries—Stickles 0.0.0.2... 1.50 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY! 15 £. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah I 1 I Please send the music indicated above. ' (J On Approval (J Charge \ Cl Money Enclosed: | Name ' Address i ' City & State.... 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah had achieved its present identity, one which until his death, Cooper openly hated and attacked. Though he continued the writing of his thirty-three novels, he became increasingly concerned with the social, political, and moral ills everywhere about him, fearlessly lashing out at his countrymen in such books as Letter to His Countrymen (1834), Homeward Bound, and Home As Found (1838), all of which left his contemporaries in no doubt as to where he stood. Squabbles over public use of his private land bordering Otsego Lake, quarrels over libel suits, and the folly of choosing juries from the public en masse — these and several other issues he prosecuted vigorously in courts until his death, always acting as his own lawyer, always winning his case, but also making enemies and stirring up contention. So severe was the tension during his later years that, at his death in 1851, several of his loyal friends organized the Cooper Monument Association. 'Three meetings were held in his honor in New York City, with Washington Irving presiding at one session, speeches given by William Cullen Bryant and Daniel Webster, and some thirty letters from prominent politicians, educators, and writers being read. All esteemed him for his creative genius and for his love for his country which was so great that, in complete disregard of what his opponents or anyone else thought, he always spoke out fearlessly as he believed. Cooper, First Critic of America Aside from Hugh Henry Brackenridge (1748-1816), whose Modern 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT Chivalry attacked excesses of the new, raw democracy but which did not have a Nation-wide influence, Cooper was the first man of letters to devote his predominant energies to pointing out the weaknesses of the country he loved, in the hope of saving it from its own lowering flaws. One terse, accurate summary of James Fenimore Cooper, man and writer, ls to designate Cooper as vigor. A great individualist, he seems to have shaped everything in his life to embody the three beliefs which he proclaimed and defended with endless tenacity: first, belicf in himself, his class, and his personal "gifts"; second, belief in American democracy as he defined what it should be; and third, belief in Christianity. It was his views on individuality and democracy that caused him trouble; it was also these views which gave him his very identity; therefore he wrote his beliefs into all he wrote, his novels, history of the navy, and personal essays and criticism. True to his environment and family tradition, Cooper believed fervently, as he exemplified fully, the eighteenth-century rationalistic concept of station. This central principle in his life held that, under Nature or God (or both) all men are grouped in whatever class or station their individual "gifts" best fit them for; therefore, each person's intelligence, social graces, possessions, occupation, sex, color, and geographical location help to determine his place both within his own class or station and in relation to all others. Thus, once a person "knows his place" and accepts it, is even grateful for it, he then has within him- 629 The 1960-61 Relief Society Literature Packet Will Be Available September 1, 1960 This year's packet features: 1. FIVE 11x14" FULL-COLOR PORTRAITS @ WASHINGTON IRVING @ JAMES FENIMORE COOPER @ WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT @ NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE @ RALPH WALDO EMERSON 2. A FULL COLOR 11°'x14' PICTURE ILLUSTRATING COOPER'S 'NATTY BUMPO." 3. MINIATURE PORTRAITS IN DUOTONE OF THE FIVE AUTHORS BEING STUDIED.. TWO LARGE FOLD-OUT CHARTS.. ATTRACTIVE, STURDY ENVELOPE,. PREPAID POSTAGE.. PRICE—$3.25. NOOR Available from DEPARTMENT OF AUDIO-VISUAL COMMUNICATION Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah Your Best Buys in CRAFTS K. D. NOVELTY 1940 West 3500 South Salt Lake City 4, Utah AM 6-8163 Art Foam and "Totes" Christmas Materials Artificial Flowers and Plants Florist Supplies Decorations Balloons Crepe Paper Eyes for Stuffed Toys Fish Pond Items Carnival Supplies Many Other Items Wholesale and Retail (Catalogs Available) GET FULL HOUSEPOWER Beginning and advanced classes start soon, Type your letters, minutes, reports, genealogy sheets, etc. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main — EM 3-2765 Salt Lake City, Utah self strong feelings of identity and security. These are his very self. Cooper felt that the America he left in 1826 was so ordered and sustained; by comparison the America he returned to in 1833 was dangerously near anarchy and chaos. In 1834, Cooper published The American Democrat, which states his convictions in. Detail. Chapter headings on Equality, Liberty, Monarchy, Aristocracy, Democracy, Prejudice, Station, Demagogues, Candor, Liberty of the Press, Property, The Publick, Civilization, The Right of Petition, On Party, Individuality, "They Say," and Rumor, indicate ideas central both to the book and to Cooper's life when seen as an integrated oneness. It is these principles which he embodied as central principles in Homeward Bound, Home As Found, The Pioneers, The Prairie, The Monikins (a sharp satire of political institutions ), Satanstoe, The Chainbearer, The Redskins, and The Crater (defining an Utopia on a Pacific Isle). Here were the ends; his novels were the means he used to get his arguments printed, decorated rather heavily with all the conventional trappings of plot and stiff, "literary" language of the then current sentimental novel. Thus, being central, such views deserve brief statement in his own words, taken from The American Democrat: On Character All greatness of character ls dependent on individuality. On Freedom Of what use is freedom if every one is not master of his own innocent acts and associations? And what right has any 630 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE-—SEPTEMBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT man to call himself a democrat if he will submit to be dictated to in those habits over which neither law nor rational morality assumes a right of control? On Liberty We do not adopt the popular polity because it is perfect, but because it is less imperfect than any other. As man, by his nature, is liable to err, it is vain to expect an infallible whole that is composed of fallible parts. 'The government that emanates from a single will, supposing that will to be pure, enlightened, impartial, just and consistent, would be the best in the world, were it attainable for men. Such is the government of the universe, the result of which is perfect harmony. As no man is without spot in his justice, as no man has infinite wisdom, or infinite mercy. We are driven to take refuge in the opposite extreme, or in a government of many. Liberty may be defined to be a controlling authority that resided in the body of a nation, but so restrained as only to be exercised on certain general principles that shall do as little violence to natural justice, as is compatible with the peace and security of society. On Aristocracy and Democracy The law of God is the only rule of conduct in this, as in other matters. Each man should do as he would be done by. It may be taken as a rule in social intercourse, that he who is the most apt to question the pretensions of others is the most conscious of the doubtful position he himself occupies; thus establishing the very claims he affects to deny, by letting his jealousy of it be seen. Manners, education, and refinement, are positive things, and they bring with them innocent tastes which are productive of high enjoyments; and it is as unjust to deny their possessors their indulgence as it would be to insist on the less fortunate's passing the time they would rather devote to athletic amusements, in listening to operas for which they have no relish, sung in a language they do not understand.... There is no more capital, though more common error, than to suppose him an 631 Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT PIANOS Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built THE WORLD'S FINEST Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Socicty Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles.... 150 to 300 miles 300 to 600 mites 600 to 1000 miles.... 1000 to 1400 miles... A 1400 to 1800 miles 0 16 Over 1800 miles.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah 632 aristocrat who maintains his independence of habits; for democracy asserts the control of the majority only in matters of law, and not in matters of custom. The very object of the institution is the utmost practicable personal liberty, and to affirm the contrary would be sacrificing the end to the means. An aristocrat, therefore, is merely one who fortifies his exclusive privileges by positive institutions, and a democrat, one who is willing to admit of a free competition in all things. To say, however, that the last supposes this competition will lead to nothing is an assumption that means are employed without any reference to an end. He is the purest democrat who best maintains his rights, and no rights can be dearer to a man of cultivation than exemptions from unseasonable invasions on his time by the coarse minded and ignorant. Cooper himself best exemplifies this definition of the aristocratdemocrat, both in his life and in his novels. And while the main appeal RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 of his Leather-Stocking Tales is the great American myth or dream which he incarnates and_ creates therein, nevertheless the above ideas are everywhere present in his bestknown, best-loved novels, which indicates without question that many in his own day did not repudiate these central convictions of Cooper's. Cooper, American Individualist Cooper is one of America's significant literary artists, but his creative powers were incidental, though most happy by-products of his most earnest, lifelong attempt to communicate to his countrymen the ideals which shaped his own life and which increasingly were becoming ignored, even abused on every side. Rarely have we had a literary personage record in such great detail his Get the most out of those wonderful co education, too. Colleges of instruction include: Education Pharmacy Business Graduate School Law Engineering Nursing Mines & Minerals Medicine Letters & Science Fine Arts For the best years of your life ENJOY THE UotU at one of America's foremost universities, the University of Utah. The Institute of Religion offers LDS students outstanding opportunities for religious Check the special advantages and opportunities offered YOU! For full information write Office of the President UNIVERSITY OF UTAH llege years both in learning and enjoyment Freshman Registration, Sept. 22 Other students Register, Sept. 23-24 Class work to start, Sept. 26. Salt Lake City, Utah LESSON DEPARTMENT personal sense of values outside his art. Once such practical insight is available, it becomes invaluable for two reasons: first, in its own right such keen, sincere evaluation of the nineteenth-century American scene opens new realms for evaluation and comparison to a student of America's past; second, awareness of Cooper's personal convictions before reading his novels imparts to them a unity and an impact which can be obtained in no other way. In the Literary History of the United States (Macmillan, 1953, one-volume edition) page 269, one of the great modern critics of Cooper, Mr. Robert E. Spiller, writes: Thus, estimating Cooper, we should note again that in his writing America was first indeed and the novel for its own sake a bad second. Therefore in scope and in passion, it is barely possible that Cooper the social critic will outlive Cooper the novelist of the many novels, but never Cooper the romancer, Cooper the ieller of the Leather-Stocking Tales. Yet even those tales could never have been so passionate, so profoundly and _ originally American, had he not probed relentlessly beneath the surface of facts to the principles of American society and of human conduct. (Reprinted by permission) Thus to relate Cooper, the critic, to Cooper the creator of one of the great American ideas in artistic form, will be the concern of the lesson following. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Did Cooper's extended stay abroad increase or decrease his Americanism? What effect did it have on the novels he wrote? 633: 2. From examples given in the lesson can you account for Cooper's increasing popularity? When a social or political evil is apparent, is it better to speak out against it or to remain silent? 3. How did Cooper regard himself as far as literature is concerned? Which dominated him, his ideas about American democracy or his urge to create? Dacia ero ce Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. SONG FOR RELIEF SOCIETY Sunday Evening Meeting in November "The Old Refrain" Kreisler — Page — SSA — Price 25c Use this as your order. How many............. Following is list of numbers to be used by special group Singing Mothers in October Conference. These are fine numbers for your regular use. How Lovely Is Thy Dwelling Place, SSA, Brahms, No. 2897.................30 Jesus Our Lord, We Adore Thee, SSA, James, No. 8870........000.00.... «25 Come, Ye Blessed of My Father, SSA, Madsen, No. 1816................ -20 Lord, God of Our Fathers, SSA, Elgar-Armsbruster, No. CM-7146...25 Twenty-third Psalm, SSA, Schubert Saar, No. CM-5106...........22..0002.25 Oh, May | Know The Lord as Friend, SSA, Madsen, No. R-3200.20 Let Not Your Song End, SSA, Cain, No. 83238 ooo. Occccccecccceseeeeceeeeeeee eee.20 The Lord Is My Light, SSA, Allitson-Samuelson, No. 1470.............20 Glen Bros. Music Co. 246 So. Main Salt Lake City 634 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1960 Sven ing Greident Helen S. Hughes Te very air seemed strange and luminous that June evening as I nosed my old car out of the driveway and headed into the stream of traffic northbound toward Salt Lake City. I had made this trip many times, and only the charged atmosphere hinted at the awesome half hour that was to follow. The sun was lowering at the northern tip of Antelope Island, spreading a glorious extravagance of gold and rosy red over the western sky. My eyes feasted on this colorful spectacle which is not unusual to those who dwell in the hoothills east of Great Salt Lake, and my heart swelled with gratitude for the gift of such glory. Before I had traveled many miles, a dark cloud gathered and quickly poured out its measure of rain. 'The asphalt gleamed before me cool and wet, and through the evening air drifted the unforgettable fragrance of wet sagebrush. The world, as far as I could see, appeared freshened and renewed by the sudden shower. 'The last of the sun's rays, hitting the moisture-laden air, shattered into a shimmering rainbow hung midway between earth and sky. I thought of God's covenant with Noah, and his promise. Six seagulls, winging homeward after a busy day behind the farmers' harrows, passed beneath the colorful arch and were, for a brief moment, silhouetted there in breathless beauty and indescribable grace. Again, history was brought to mind. The story of the seagulls and the pioneers joined that of Noah and his ark in my thoughts. I had the impression that the heritage of my people rode with me like a living presence. Dusk was fast approaching. I traveled down State Street, paused briefly at the Eagle Gate for a light to change, then turned east. All that I had seen, those incredibly beautiful offerings, had an emotional impact that was almost physical in intensity. As if this were not enough, I glimpsed, poised in the heavens, fragile and delicate, a new moon. My throat ached. I longed for someone, anyone, with whom to share the miracles of loveliness I had witnessed — the sunset, the storm, the rainbow, seagulls, and this incomparable moon. Reaching my destination I eased into the curb and turned off the engine of the car. I brushed the tears from my eyes, and felt strangely humbled and sanctified. For I knew that I had seen the handiwork of God. September Road Katherine F. Larsen A broad road calls me, Through blue autumn haze Beckons, and I long to leave My humdrum routine ways To follow vagrant little winds Where no foot stays For more than a moment; I would take any road Leading where far horizons burn— Through red-gold gypsy days! CASI BUCILLA HOLIDAY NEEDLEWORK KITS START NOW FOR BAZAARS, CHRISTMAS Delight the small fry with Hug-Me Toys. No embroidery, kits include everything to complete, except stuffing. Many Christmas kits, also. SANTA-IN-SLED MAIL BAG Jeweled with gleaming sequins, 18''x19" size, 3.49. Not shown, Santa card holder, 28 ong. 2.99 Santa kiddie stocking, 2.99. ZCMI ART-NEEDLEWORK—Second Floor CHECKED GINGHAM DOG 1.99 set (Cat, not shown, same size included in set) *WEEPY" THE HOUND (pillow or toy) 2.99 REINDEER 28' stocking, 2.99 "HONEY BEAR AND CUB" "THE PURPLE cow" re ei ] Mail orders to: ZCM! SHOPPING SERVICE, | P. O. Box 1229, Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please send the following Bucilla Kits: 1 Quantity. | ITEM | PRICE: "RED HEAD" | Check or M. O. ( ) Charge ( ) C. O. D. ( ) 3 DOLL on 2 2.99 (CUIVE — cecoccopescEBUBeAEOnEAENES iS ] Ci Zone...... Sicte es9 J 35¢ shipping charge each. Z Utah residents 21/2% state tax. Page 635 Fr? I Address oo... Ccccecceccccssceseesseecseescessenecsecereeceeceeseeeeseenceecessecerese For All Your Musical Program Needs OLD REFRAIN—SSA—No. 5035 LET THERE BE MUSIC—S. S. A. — No. 83209 MUSIC—BY MARSDEN—No. 1695 SUCH LOVELY THINGS—S. S. A. — No. 1880 BESIDE STILL WATERS — S. S. A. — GOUNOD—No. 7647 COME YE BLESSED — S. S. A. Madsen —No. 1816 STILL, STILL WITH THEE—S. S. A.—MADSEN—No 10381 MAIL ORDERS FILLED PROMPTLY Gesiro Music Co 327 Broadway Idaho Falls, idaho ALOHA WEEK ALOHA HAWAUAN SPECIAL 14 Glorious Days....................$425 8 Glorious Days...............--.--$327 Departing October 15, 1960 NOVEMBER HAWAIIAN TOUR 2 glorious weeks including 4 islands Ask for folders of our many other tours ROSE PARADE TOUR December to January MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 So. 23rd East, Salt Lake City AM 2-2337, IN 6-2909 Page 636 Birthday Congratulations Ninety-nine Mrs. Saran Lecc JAcoBson St. George, Utah Ninety-eight Mrs. AmMaNDA HARTMAN Spokane, Washington Ninety-six Mrs. Lucinpa Exvira Pace Repp Monticello, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Outve Lesiie LLEWELLYN Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Fannie E. Paut LitTLe Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Cuirrorp Brigham City, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Amira Muttins Jack Sanford, Colorado Mrs. Atice Hawxs REEDER Hyde Park, Utah Mrs. Mepa J. JENSEN Salt Lake City, Utah Nimety-three Mrs. Auice GLover BATEMAN Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Louisa RappLEYE NELSON Ferron, Utah Mrs. Hannan HANSEN RALpus Ferron, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Emity SprinceR COLEMAN Midway, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Exiza Durrant Ririe, Idaho Mrs. Sevina HEATON SEARLE Seton City, Idaho Mrs. Eviza ADELGUNDA HEINER DurRANT Ririe, Idaho Ninety Mrs. Sarau EvizaBeTH WILLIAMS MatTHEws Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Atice Smitny SuTTON Salt Lake City, Utah crs! LDS Missionary Library Set contains the following books, bound in black cape morocco leather Missionary Bible* Jesus the Christ (limp or half-circuit binding ) James E. Talmage Articles of Faith Triple Combinati riple Combination james E. Talmage Available in attractive gift box 32.90... This is a savings of $2 in buying these leather-bound books in the set rather than indivdually. *If indexed Missionary Bible is desired, cost wall be $1.50 more or total of $34 for set. 44 East South Temple -- Salt Lake City. Utah Ceoeocevececea c DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, SaJt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find [_] check [.] money order [_] I have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed $............. New LDS Missionary Library Set at 32.50 [_]; Set with indexed Missionary Bible (34.00) [-] Toward A Better Life [] TOWARD A BETTER LIFE Mark E. Petersen Choice collection of popular Conference Addresses, speeches, and articles by Elder Petersen, appealing to young people, parents, and mature readers. Contains "On My Honor" (talk given at last April General Conference), | Fr hosts of others. 3.50 IY... Eee ee eee eeZone...... State.......... Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. Home Is Where the Heart Is, The Keys of the Kingdom, The Vision of Nephi, Address.....-<<-ccccccc a................ Yeu... Se..." Sunlight and nature's complex process of photosynthesis combine to bring us luscious, orchard-sweet fall fruits. This luscious, orchard-sweet flavor of fall fruits is preserved for year-around eating with another product of nature's sunshine laboratory — pure, sparkling-white U and I Sugar. U and I Sugar is obtained from the sugar beet, which, like fall fruits, depends upon sunlight and photosynthesis for full growth and sugar content. The sugar is then extracted from the beet in clean, modern U and I Sugar factories and made into U and I Sugar... The finest sugar money can buy for all ee canning, cooking, baking or table uses. @ UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY: us, General Offices: Salt Lake City, Utah: hak, Nig @A ed ss VOL. 47 NO. 10 Lessons for January OCTOBER 1560 ] S Sen tacles of Sime Eva Willes Wangsgaard This autumn season is a world ablaze, Great hills of fire climbing up the sky. On rugged ranges, veiling cowls of haze Mauve-pink, translucent, soften, modify. A quiet ripeness hangs upon the air, A rising mist, a whiff of lifted smoke. New-plowed, the hillsides slumber, brown and bare, Their crops retrieved from frost's impending stroke. Above the tented corn the night will hear The wild geese honking on their southward route. The label Finis written on the year Marks life fulfilled and severed, rich in fruit. Already, long white tentacles of time Prepare extinguishers, cold, furred with rime. The Cover: Castle of Chillon, Switzerland Transparency by Duncan Edwards, Free Lance Photographers Guild Frontispiece: Harvest in Umatilla Valley, Oregon Photograph by Josef Muench Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Srom Near and Sar I'd like to tell you how much I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. The stories and poems are always so very interesting, and the articles by our Church leaders are always so inspiring. Our Relief Society women have really enjoyed the wonderful lessons presented in the Magazine also. I could name so many more things that I and others here enjoy, but think you know that we feel about the Magazine the same as thousands of others do. I think it is just wonderful. —RMrs. Ina Hancock Zaragoza, Spain My wife and niece thank you very much for The Relief Society Magazine, which we receive regularly. I sent a copy to the head of the church in Malta to show him what other churches can do. —Joseph Danan Sliema, Malta (From a letter to Gertrude Wornhan, Salt Lake City, Utah.) When I began reading "Orchids in the Snow" by Rosa Lee Lloyd (serial which began in May 1960), I had no idea that before the fourth issue arrived, my own husband would be on his way to Alaska on an engineering assignment. How much courage the story has given me as I contemplated our first major separation, and how I hope that, like Sharon in the story, I will be able to join him even if it means living in similar conditions. Can you guess how eagerly I am looking forward to the concluding installments of this lovely story! —Rita C. Berthold Mesa, Arizona Just writing to let you know how much I love The Relief Society Magazine. I enjoy it more since I have left the States. I almost wear it out in reading it. We have no Relief Society here at Kindley A. F. B., so I love getting the Magazine. —Mrs. Patricia Fullmer St. George, Bermuda Page 638 I should like to tell you how very much I love the Magazine. 'The special features, fiction, poetry, and lessons have added so much to my life. One editorial, especially, "Accepting a Call to Service" by Marianne C. Sharp (November 1958) helped me to make an important decision. I was asked to teach the theology lessons, but my health was very poor, and my family thought it best for me to decline, but I greatly desired to do it. I was reading the Magazine, and when I turned to the editorial it gave me the answer. On the day for giving the lesson I was blessed with the necessary health to go and present it. Since that time I have given five other theology lessons, and have been richly blessed in so doing. —Leta E. Bartholomew Provo, Utah I would like to compliment you for the featured bazaar ideas in the Magazine for July. We over here certainly do appreciate all the help that we can get along these lines. The whole Magazine is so superior to anything on the market today. I find the stories choice above all else, and I am very proud to know that Latterday Saint women have such talent to write them. —Shiley Smith Mannheim, Germany As I am living far from the branch to which I belong and have an elderly mother to take care of, I am not able to attend the meetings very often. Therefore, I am so pleased to receive The Relief Society Magazine. Somehow, it makes up for the meetings I am missing. I read it from cover to cover, and many times I have been guided by it when troubled, and I bless the day I was able to read it. Yesterday I received the July issue, and this morning when I read the lesson from The Doctrine and Covenants, I found a wonderful peace. —Edel Juul Madsen Hokksund, Norway THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp = - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Christine H. Robinson Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny S. Kienitz Edith S. Elliott Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Elizabeth B. Winters Florence J. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron LaRue H. Rosell Leone G. Layton Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt Jennie R. Scott Blanche B. Stoddard Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Alice L. Wilkinson Evon W. Peterson Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen LaPriel S. Bunker Aleine M. Young Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Marie C. Richards Josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Irene W. Buehner RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor = = - - - - = 2 = - o - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawtord General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 47 OCTOBER 1960 NO. 10 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Temple Square in Salt Lake City — Part I Preston Nibley 640 Faith s Pauline L. Jensen 663 FICTION Three Silver Boxes a. Aaa we Mabel Harmer 648 My Third Grandma — Part II — Buicher Knife 000... Ilene H. Kingsbury 664 Orchids in the Snow — Chapter 6......... Rosa Lee Lloyd 669 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Par coecciecestecesecsesccscecesseseececccceeees coceeeesscesesesessneeesccseseees wens 638 Sixty Years Ago ne ECC ECCCOGCOCCOCC AE Te ene nnn 654 Woman's Sphere o. I. Eeeeececceeeeeeceeceeceeeeeeeee _ a.. Ramona W. Cannon 655 Editorial: Let the Daughters of Zion Rejoice ooo.. EeeeeeccesceccesseeceecesseeeseeeseneesceeeesVesta P. Crawford 656 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities.. Birthday Congratulations o. Ecece. Cecceeccssscececseececccceeeesscceseeeeseee, semi 708 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Christmas Aprons eo on eee rei ccsenssenescescesesses pocooccocece eeeShirley Thulin 658 A Strawberry Pincushior oi... Cece cececenccececeecseeceeeseacesceecsessecseeescesascecscsteececeecenscecseeseeeMelba Larson 662 Recipes for Autumn Luncheons. 200.2... Eeeeeeeceecececenscneeeteceeseeeeesceneees.... Florence S. Jacobsen 666 June I. Hunsaker's Hobby: Human Relationships... A 668 LESSONS FOR JANUARY Theology — The Law of Consecration 0.2... CccccecccceseesccceceeescseeecescecseeecesesseeeececsseeceseeeeesRoy W. Doxey 681 Visiting Teacher Message — ''Thou Shalt Not Be Idle"' Christine H. Robinson 688 Work Meeting — Making the Patient Comfortable 2.0... EececececeeseeceeeceeeneeeseseeeeeeesMaria Johnson 690 Literature — Natty Bumppo, American Fiction-Hero Briant S. Jacobs 694 Social Science — Expanding Our Religious Horizons — Part III] — Man's Relatedness to the World i Blaine M. Porter 700 POETRY Tentacles of Time — Frontispiece............ Eva Willes Wangsgaard 637 This Sun-Walled Hour Maude Rubin 647 ESYo} Co (ot en ee). Eee, eae = Iletta D. Reid 652 After Qlow ooeeeeeceececceccececcesesneescceceecsccoceosccensenecoecasssscseeascssnsessesaesseesscssceeenesetanceeesausaueceesesesLeslie Savage Clark 653 a a | Ko) ec. Nancy Wilcox 657 Not Anything Is Lost ole Mabel Jones Gabbott 657 Sraedlll SOR eee rere cee ee EEE EP Aretta N. Ricks 665 Vase of Autumn Leaves oo.... Eeeceeeecee eee ie Ida Elaine James 667 Recompense... Oo a: Velda Allphin Neilson 668 Willow im Auten oon eee ceeceeseeececeecceccecceececcessesesecaceecseceeseescesesessensesaneaeeeseneeeseseeeesChristie Lund Coles 680 A Poet's Prayer ou... Matia McClelland Burk 708 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 639 Temple Square in Salt Lake City BRIEF HISTORY OF ITS GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT Part I Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian RESIDENT Brigham Young, Pp with a group of Mormon pioneers, arrived in Salt Lake Valley on Saturday, July 24, 1847. The valley presented a desolate appearance. It is said that the first women wept because there were no trees. And yet President Young said, "This is the right place.... Here we will stop and here we will settle." Evidently, one of the things that was foremost in President Young's mind was the selection of a site for the building of a temple. 'Two days after his arrival in the Valley, and before the city was surveyed, the following important event took place, as recorded in the history of President Young: This afternoon, accompanied by Elders H. C. Kimball, Willard Richards, Orson Pratt, Wilford Woodruff and Thomas Bullock, I designated the site for the Temple Block, between the forks of City Creek, and on motion of Orson Pratt, it was unanimously voted that the Temple be built on the site designated (Journal History, July 26, 1847). This was the beginning of ""T'emple Square," which today is known throughout the world. On July 30, 1847, less than a week after President Young entered Salt Lake Valley, "... He requested the brethren of the Battalion to turn out tomorrow, and build a bowery to hold our meetings in." This bowery was in the southeast corner of Temple Square. It consisted Page 640 only of poles in the ground, on top of which were placed branches of trees and willows, brought from the nearby canyons, to form a shade. As for seats, we do not know what provision was made, in this first bowery, but we have heard that logs were pulled beneath the shade, on which the audience could be seated and make themselves as comfortable as possible. This particular bowery must have been constructed in one day, as President Young records the following in his history under date of August ist, 1847, "At 10 o'clock a. M. The Saints assembled for mecting under the Bowery, on the Temple Lot." As the saints increased in number in Salt Lake City, a larger bowery was built in the spring of 1849, and the April Conference of the Church was held there. The sides and the roof of the structure were strengthened, "'so as to keep out a portion of the weather." At the opening session, the President expressed his pleasure at having such a comfortable place in which to meet. "This is the most comfortable place that I have ever seen for the Saints to hold their meetings in at the gathering place," he said at the opening session. "When I have been abroad in the world, we have had splendid halls, but at the gathering place, this is the best" (Journal History, April 6, 1849). TEMPLE SQUARE IN SALT LAKE CITY Courtesy Church Historian's Office 641 BREAKING GROUND FOR THE SALT LAKE TEMPLE February 14, 1853 Flagpole in foreground at right Then, again, at the October Conference, he expressed his satisfaction with the large bowery. "I feel happy for this shelter, from the rays of the sun and the blasts of winter. My heart is full of joy. I realize that we ought to bear off the Kingdom to the nations of the earth" (Ibid., Oct. 6, 1849). HE saints continued to meet in the bowery until the fall of 1851, when President Young decided that the time had come to build a permanent Tabernacle. This structure was located in the southwest corner of the Temple Block. It was built with adobies and, when completed, was capable of seating 2,500 people. In the spring of 1852, it was ready for use, and the Annual Conference of the Church convened there. Again, the President expressed _ his pleasure with the improvements the saints were making, and the commodious and comfortable hall: We have not had much privilege hitherto of meeting in the valley. Four years ago, when the brethren came to this valley, Brother George A. Smith delivered his first lecture upon the cannon, for there were no houses wherein the people could assemble. Since then they have been greatly blessed, yet they have had little opportunity of holding meetings. The first large place we had to meet in was the Bowery. We felt comfortable in it, and I felt as thankful for it as I ever did for anything in my life. But as quick as the falling weather came it drove the Saints away, and rendered it necessary to discontinue the mectings in that place, and to hold them in the different wards, so that it became impossible to get all the people together. Now we have a convenient room, the best hall I ever saw in my life, wherein the pcople could be convened on one floor. I trust we shall renew our strength, meet here to pray and_ praise the Lord, and partake of the sacrament, until our feelings are perfectly pure; for we are where we can sit and enjoy the society of each other, as long as we please, and there is none to make us afraid (J. H., April 6, 1852). It was while the first Tabernacle was being built, in the winter of 1851-52, that President Young and the brethren at the head of the Church, decided that a wall should be erected around the Temple Block. The purpose of this wall was, no doubt, to protect the buildings to be erected, and also the tools os SAB nas SAE Courtesy Church Historian's Office and equipment belonging to the Church and the workmen. The first work on the wall was done in February 1852, when some of the workmen began digging a trench for the foundation. President Young had decided that the wall should be constructed of stone and adobies; that it should be three fect wide at the base, two feet wide at the top, and fifteen feet in height. Slow progress was made in building the wall. Three years later, in May 1855, President Young recorded in his history: "The foundation of the wall around the Temple Block is nearly completed, which, when done, will enable us to speedily finish the wall, with the exception of the gates and iron railing" (Ibid., May 31, 1855). The wall was not completed until 1857. THE OLD TABERNACLE Built on southwest corner of the Temple Block during the winter of 1851-52. Made of adobe and set close to the fifteen-foot wall, the building had a seating capacity of 2500. 642 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 TEMPLE SQUARE IN SALT LAKE CITY eee Courtesy Church Historian's Office 643 TEMPLE SQUARE ABOUT 1863 Showing the foundation for the Temple at left and pillars for the Tabernacle at the right. 'The back of the old Tabernacle may be seen in the upper right-hand corner of 'Temple Square. HE year after the erection of the first Tabernacle, President Young set a day to break ground for building the magnificent Salt Lake Temple. This event took place on the 14th of February 1853. "It was as clear and lovely a day as the sun ever shone on in Salt Lake City," wrote a reporter in the Deseret News. About ten aM. A large group of Saints assembled on the Temple Block, and President Young, standing in a small buggy, addressed them: The Lord wished us to gather to this place. He wished us to cultivate the earth and make these valleys like the Garden of Eden, and make all the improvements in our power, and build a Temple as soon as circumstances would permit. Seven years ago tomorrow, about 11 o'clock, I crossed the Mississippi River with my brethren from this place, not knowing at the time whither we were going, but firmly believing that the Lord had in reserve for us a good place in the mountains, and that he would lead us directly to it. It is but seven years since we left Nauvoo, and we are ready to build another Temple (Ibid., Feb. 14, 1853). After finishing his address, and "after a consecrating prayer" by Heber C. Kimball, President Young took a spade, and lifted it full of earth, "and after holding it about one minute before he could lay it down, so dense was the crowd, President Young declared the ground broken for the Temple, blessed the people in the name of the Lord and dismissed the assembly." It had been a great day for the saints, but a greater was soon to come, for on April 6th following, amidst the most solemn ceremonies, the cornerstones of the Temple were laid. Days of preparation had been devoted to this event, and the heavens again smiled on the assembled multitude. The Deseret News trelates that "April 6, 1853, could not have dawned a more lovely day, or have been morc satisfactory to Saints or Angels. The distant valleys sent forth their inhabitants, this valley swarmed forth its thousands, and a more glorious sight has not been seen for generations, than at Great Salt Lake City, this day." T ten o'clock in the forenoon, President Young called the multitude to order in the first 'Labernacle. After a few introductory remarks by himself, a procession was formed "at the vestry door," to march to the southeast corner of the temple. Following was the order: 1. Martial music; 2. Nauvoo Brass Band; 3. Ballo's Band; 4. Captain Pettigrew with Relief Guard; Singers; 6. First President and Counselors and aged Patriarch; 7. The Twelve Apostles, First PresiCourtesy Church Historian's Office dency of Seventies, and presidents and counselors of the Elders' Quorum; 8. President of the High Priests Quorum and counselors, in connection with the President of the Stake and High Council; 9. Presiding Bishop, with his council, and the presidents of the lesser Pricsthood and their council; 10. Architects and workmen, selected for the day, with banner representing "Zion's Workmen"; 11. Captain Merrill with Relief Guard in uniform. Arriving at the southeast corner of the temple site, "Presidents Young, Kimball, and Richards, with Patriarch John Smith, proceeded to lay the southeast corner stone, and ascended the top thereof," while the choir sang a beautiful hymn CUT STONE PREPARED FOR THE TEMPLE WALLS Picture taken about 1868 In the background at the left may be seen the Z. C. M. I. Store, and in front of the store. To the left, is the Council House, the first Church building constructed in the Valley of the Great Salt Lake. At the right may be seen the south gate of Temple Square, made of wood. 644 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 TEMPLE SQUARE IN SALT LAKE CITY Courtesy Church Historian's Office WORKMEN PREPARING GRANITE BLOCKS FOR THE BUILDING OF THE TEMPLE Picture taken in Little Cottonwood Canyon, southeast of Salt Lake City, shows method of stone cutting. Composed for the occasion by Parley P. Pratt, the first verse of which was as follows: Deep in this holy ground These corner stones are laid, Rejoicing thousands round Oh God implore thine aid, That Zion now may prospered be And rear a Temple unto thee. Then, in the midst of this great and solemn assembly, President Young spoke in part as follows: "This morning we have assembled on one of the most solemn, interesting, jovful and glorious occasions that ever has transpired, or will transpire, among the children of men, while the earth continues in its present organization and is occupied for its present purposes. And I congratulate my brethren and sisters, that it is our unspeakable privilege to stand here this day, and minister before the Lord, on an occasion which has caused the tongues and pens of Prophets to speak and write for many scores of centuries which are past. "The Church, through our beloved Prophet Joseph, was commanded to build a 'Vemple to the Most High in Kirtland, Ohio, and this was the next house of the Lord we hear of on the earth, since the days of Solomon's 'Temple. Joseph not only received revelation and commandment to build a Temple, but he received a pattern also, as did Moses for the Tabernacle, and Solomon for his Temple, for without a pattern he could not know what was wanted, having never seen one, and not having experienced its use.. "At Nauvoo Joseph dedicated another Temple, the third on record. He knew what was wanting, for he had previously given most of the Courtesy Church Historian's Office GRANITE BLOCKS BEING LOADED ONTO WAGONS IN LITTLE COTTON: WOOD CANYON FOR TRANSPORTATION prominent individuals then before him their endowment. He needed no revelation then, of a thing he had long experienced, any more than those now do, who have experienced the same things. It is only where experience fails, that revelation is needed... "Of our journey hither we need say nothing, only, God led us. Of the sufferings of those who were compelled to, and did leave Nauvoo in the winter of 1846, we need say nothing. 'Those who experienced it know it, and those who did not, to tell them of it would be like exhibiting a beautiful painting to a blind man, "We will not stop to tell you of the sufferings of widows and orTO TEMPLE SQUARE 646 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 TEMPLE SQUARE IN SALT LAKE CITY phans on the Omaha lands, while their husbands and fathers were traversing the burning plains to the south, to fight the battles of a country which had banished them from civilization, for they secured the land on which we dwell, from our nation's foes; exposed the gold of California, and turned the world upside down.... "While these things were transpiring with the Saints in the wilderness, the 'Temple at Nauvoo passed into the hands of the enemy, who polluted it to that extent that the Lord not only ceased to occupy it, but he loathed to have it called by his name, and permitted the wrath of its possessors to purify it by fire, as a token of what will speedily fall on them and their habitations unless they speedily repent. "But what are we here for today? ' 647 To celebrate the birthday of our religion! 'To lay the foundation of a 'lemple to the Most High God, so that when his Son, our Elder Brother, shall again appear, he may have a place where he can lay his head, and not only spend a night or a day, but a place of peace where he may stay until he can say, I am satished. "We dedicate this, the southeast cornerstone of this Temple, to the Most High God. May it remain in peace until it has done its work, and until he who has inspired our hearts to fulfill the prophecies of his holy prophets, that the House of the Lord should be reared in the 'tops of the mountains,' shall be satished and say 'it is enough.' " (Ibid., April 6, 1853). (To be continued ) Shis Sun-Walled Hour Maude Rubin Though greener green once painted distant pastures And ocean's pulsing song sang siren rhymes, Today, my wander-urge, becalmed in brightness Hears children's laughter, delicate wind-chimes Above this sun-walled hour... Let tides keep calling, Let gull cries splinter night, no smell of brine Can drown this rose-drenched air—for, oh, my darling, I've found my land at last, your home and mine! Three Silver Boxes Mabel Harmer HE dusk had barely furnished Laurie with an excuse for turning on the Christmas tree lights when she heard Mark broad-jumping down the stairs. She counted five landings and sighed with relief. He had reached the bottom safely. "Anchors aweigh!" he shouted. "The last one out to the good ship Chevie has to swim over." He walked into the living room and looked at his mother in disgust. '"Whatsa matter? Aren't you ready yet? All the best chow will be gone." "Tf the food is all you're thinking about we won't go at all," said Laurie sharply. She was instantly sorry. Of course food was a boy's first thought. Especially when it was served as lavishly as at his aunt's home. You don't have to take it out on Mark because you are tense and worried, she reminded herself severely. She walked over and straightened his tie. "We'll go as soon as Daddy is ready." Mark raced upstairs again, calling, "It's twelve bells, Captain! Time to cruise." Laurie picked up one of the three small silver-wrapped boxes. "I can't do it,' she muttered. "I simply can't. It will be far better not to give them anything at all." She put the box down and hurried upstairs. Suddenly she had an idea. "Let's not go,' Laurie said to Vance, sitting on the bed with Teddy. "Not go!" Vance echoed in Page 648 amazement. "You must be crazy. What would Mona think?" "T don't know and I don't care. I simply can't go and leave a dinky little box in return for all they give us. If they want to bring us gifts this year, they can come here and do it." "Listen, Annie Laurie." Vance came over and put his arms around her from behind. "You know how the kids enjoy this jamboree. Aren't you sort of penalizing them for our set-up? Anyway, those boxes contain some mighty keen gifts, to my way of thinking." He gave her a slight push. "Get on your minks and let's be on our way." AURIE brought out her old muskrat coat and went into the next room where Jennifer was wrapping a blanket around her doll. "Are you taking Rosie with you?" she asked. "No, I'm getting her ready for Santa to take." "But Santa doesn't want your old dolly, dear. He is bringing you a new one." "And I can keep Rosie, too?" "Of course, chickie. Did we have to give Teddy away when we got you?" "No, but...." clearly Jennifer thought it might not have been a bad idea. "Put Rosie back in her bed and come along," said Laurie quickly. "Daddy and the boys are waiting." They reached the hallway in time to hear Mark say, "I'm glad that the party is at Aunt Mona's this year. THREE SILVER BOXES She always has the best chow." "That's hardly the true Christian spirit, Barnacle Bill," reproved Vance. Teddy helped out by adding, "Tm glad that we don't have to go to Aunt Elise's house. They don't have fun. I think that some day Uncle Greg will...." "Oh, but it will be all right today," Laurie broke in quickly. "It's Christmas, remember? Go on and get in the car." They rushed out and she walked over to the table. She stood staring at the three boxes. It was now or never. No, not necessarily. She could slip them into her bag and there they could remain — if she so decided. As she went out to the car Mark asked, "Where're all the presents?" "T have them. Don't worry," she replied. "They are already in the trunk, of course," said Teddy with a superior air. ""Let's count the trees in the windows and see who can get the most on his side." They pressed their noses against the glass and Laurie sank back, grateful for the half hour's grace she would have before they reached Mona's house. She thought back to the day when all this present giving worry had started. She had been baking fruit cakes and they had turned out absolutely perfect. At six o'clock she decided, exactly the right time to broil the steaks, that is, if Van caught the 5:40 bus. By six thirty he had still not come. He would be late when I have steaks, she thought impatiently. And it's been ages since I dared afford them. 649 HE was about to call the children to eat without Vance when she saw him coming up the walk. His lagging steps had showed that he was dead tired. What was worse, he was carrying a brief case. He had brought home some work. She had tucked away her resentment as she met him at the door. "Hi, Snowman," she had said, taking his hat to shake off the flakes. "Fe, fii, fo, fum, I smell...." "Fruit cake and overdone steaks. Come quickly." In a record ten minutes she had had them all seated at the table. We're really an awfully nice family, Laurie had thought smugly. Her glance took in the three children and then had strayed to Vance. He had taken the smallest piece of meat and seemed undecided whether or not to eat that. It's that ulcer again, she thought with a feeling of panic. And he brings home more work from the office. Won't he ever learn! She could hardly wait to get the children off to bed after dinner. By the time she had finished the dishes she found Vance seated at the dining-room table, a set of books spread out before him. "And what have we here?" she asked. "Just a small bookkeeping job that I took over. It pays fifty dollars a month. With Christmas coming up I thought we could use the extra money. In fact, I know blamed well we can." "And I can use a well husband," Laurie had countered. "You've been having trouble with your stomach again, haven't you? That's why you didn't want to eat that meat tonight." 650 "Oh, a little," he shrugged. "It's nothing to worry about." "It's plenty to worry about and I won't have it. You can shut up those books right now." "T expect you get that determination from your Scotch grandmother, along with your red hair." Vance had half smiled at her. "Don't try to distract me," Laurie retorted seriously. "We don't need money for Christmas badly enough to ruin your health getting it. I've made out a list. I can get by on a hundred dollars." "Good. And I can get the hundred by taking this job, and that's the only way I can get it. Between the money I spent on the car and the bill for Mark's tonsils I couldn't scare up more than twenty-five." "Then we'll get by on twentyfive," Laurie had asserted determinedly. "But how? We can't possibly cut down on the kids. Then there's my family. I was going to say, thank goodness you haven't any, but I stopped myself in time." "As I noticed," she grinned. "And it's just because I don't have any other family that I'm determined to hang on to the one I've got. I'll have something worked out by tomorrow night. I promise." "You won't rob a bank or start selling vacuum cleaners?" "Cross my heart." "Okay, it's a deal." FTER they had gone to bed, Laurie had started thinking how she was going to stretch twenty-five dollars to do the work of a hundred. Van's sisters were the big problem. There was Mona, who already had almost everything that money could RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 buy. Then there was Elise. She and Greg apparently tried to outdo each other in giving gifts to their own particular families, and Althea, the widow, was another hard one. Her small apartment was crammed with the what-nots her big house had once held. Many wild plans raced through her head, none of them practical. Finally she decided, there's no use in my getting ulcers in place of Van. Maybe some bright idea will hit my subconscious before morning. None did, but as she was glancing through the newspaper the next morning she saw a second-hand sled advertised for two dollars. Wonderful! Van could put on fresh paint and it would probably look like new. With luck she could get most of the children's toys the same way. A call from Mona gave her the next idea. "I'm having a small luncheon tomorrow, darling. Could you be persuaded to make one of those heavenly rolled cakes with the custard filling?" "Gladly," answered Laurie. Have it ready this afternoon." Here was the perfect answer for Mona. She could make out twelve cards, each one redeemable for 2 custard-filled cake. And, if cakebaking solved that problem, there might be something in the way of service she could do for the other two. Of course there was. Althea was alone so much of the time, and her eyes were too poor for any great amount of reading. A promise of just one hour a week would give her a big lift. As for Elise, there was so much that she needed, with the misunderstandings in her home life. I might "T'1] THREE SILVER BOXES offer to take the boys while she goes on a vacation, Laurie decided. Her heart felt lighter than it had for days. Why, it's actually going to be fun to have a twenty-five dollar Christmas, she told herself in surprise. Jennifer's doll was the only toy she purchased new. She managed to get everything for the boys secondhand, and ended up with two dollars to spend for Vance. She bought a cute monkey that did tricks on a trapeze, which would create fun in the family. FTER Laurie's first flush of pleasure at the idea of gifts of service, she began to have grave doubts. More than once she was tempted to say, "Please don' t give us expensive gifts this vear." But she couldn't bring herself to do it. How did one go about. Saying, "We're expecting elaborate gifts, but please don't bother." And now it was Christmas Eve, and she had arrived at Mona's house with three small boxes whose only glory was in their silver wrappings. They found the rooms bursting with friends and relatives. Jovial Uncle Chnis was in the dining room ladling out hot punch from behind a table covered with holiday goodies. Mark and Teddy immediately wiggled through to the front ranks. Jennifer sat down to worship: in front of the huge Christmas tree with its pile of gaily wrapped gifts underneath. Laurie greeted a few friends and then went out to see that her young sons stayed somewhere within the limits of propriety. She met Elise on the way. "No need to ask the whereabouts of Mike and Tim," she commented. 651 "Not with all that food on the table. Is your husband in there also?" "Greg? No. He isn't celebrating with us today," answered Elise. "He stayed at the office. He wants to leave for Chicago tomorrow afternoon. He'll be gone a week. That means I'm stuck home all alone for the holidays." Laurie slipped an arm through that of her sister-in-law. "Take it easy,' she smiled. "Maybe the Christmas Spirit will bring you both a change of heart. Let's go in and get something to eat before our sons lay the board waste." A couple of hours and many cakes later, Vance said, "I think we'd better take off. Let's have a bit of peace at home for the rest of the evening." "All nght," Laurie agreed reluctantly. She walked over and stood by the tree. Beneath was a pile of gifts of such elegance that the wrappings alone had probably cost more than her entire Christmas. "I can't do it," she told herself with finality. "I simply can't. Nothing at all would be better than this silly makeshift." She turned resolutely away, relieved that the decision had finally been made. Halfway to the door she met Elise and asked, "Shall we drop in at your house?" "No, sorry, but I'm not going home. Not until I have to," she replied through tight lips. She looked so desperately unhappy that Laurie had to do something. Impulsively she opened her bag and drew out a box. "This is our gift to you," she said. "There isn't much to it — except our love." "Thank you," said Elise simply. Laurie turned back to the tree, dropped the box with Mona's name on it and fled out to the car. Chris followed with an armload of packages. "I picked yours out myself," he confided to Teddy. Althea came panting after him. "Drop me off at the apartment, will you please? Then you can pick up vour gifts at the same time." W hen they stopped, Vance helped his sister out of the car, then held out his hand for the last of the silver boxes. After they were home again with the children settled for the night, Laurie asked, "Isn't it strange? For once I don't envy any of your sisters the least bit. And I ought to be practically green." "Not so strange," replied Vance. "You have all the things that really count, including...." "You. I know. Scoot over to the neighbors and get the toys. 'Those scalawags will be up again before the crack of dawn." HRISTMAS morning was as gay as any they had ever known. The children were delighted with their toys and were sure that their dad's monkey was the best gift he had ever received. Althea called just after breakfast. "Laurie, dear, are you sure that you would be willing to spend an hour with me every week? I just can't believe it!" Her voice was that of a child who had just been given the moon. "Of course I'm sure," answered Laurie over the lump in her throat. She hadn't realized how _ terribly lonely Althea had been. "We'll start any day you say." It was almost noon, and she had just finished stuffing a very small turkey, when Elise called. "Did you mean what you said about taking the boys?" Her voice was short, almost breathless. "Why, of course I meant it. Any time you like." "Today?" Laurie laughed. "Certainly today, if you wish." "T've decided to go with Greg on this trip, if he'll take me. Maybe if we have a week, we can start to work things out. I couldn't ask anyone else to take them on Christmas Day. I wouldn't have dreamed of asking you, except...." "Bring them along," Laurie broke in. "We'll love to have them for a week or as long as you want. And good luck, darling." "Thanks. ['m going to do my best. And if things go better, it may be because of you...." "And a twenty-five dollar Christmas," added Laurie gaily. She went back to the turkey and put it into the roasting pan. It seemed to have grown. It really looked quite nice and plump. She was sure there would be plenty for seven. Solace Tletta D. Reid Mother Nature washed the parched earth, last night, With a heaven-sent healing rain. My tears washed the bitterness from my soul. I, too, have found peace again. 652 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 Josef Muench LAKE COEUR D'ALENE, IDAHO Afterglow Leslie Savage Clark Oh, cup your hands around this hour To hold its candle glow Of quietness — this fragrant dusk, With a young moon hanging low. Where, traced against its silver arc, Are hushed and homing wings That seek the brushwood thicket where A cricket sings. Oh, hold it close, this hour we share, So soon it disappears, And yet, its halo Jong shall fall Across the years. Page 653 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1900 "For TuE RicHTs OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL Nations" CURRENT EVENTS: In South Africa the Boer situation continues to be a vexed question. Kruger is still defiant and declares that the war will last a long time yet.... There can be no doubt but that England will be victorious in the end. The assassination of King Humbert of Italy by an anarchist, is one of the sad events of the month. His son, Victor Emanuel III, in order to avoid riots and disorder, immediately ascended the throne.... The Paris Exposition still continues to draw large crowds, as many as half a million were reported to be in attendance in one day.... The campaign for the election of a president of the United States, and also local officers, has just commenced.... —Ella W. Hyde THE DOMESTIC SCIENCE CLASS: One of the necessities of all cities, and especially Salt Lake, is a School of Domestic Science... For these young girls who are growing up and know not "when the hour cometh" that they may be called upon to preside in the kitchen.... This school of ours was held in the Normal school building of the University and was a success and exceeded our most sanguine expectations. It was started without a cent of money but with the proverbial generosity of the Salt Lake people a stove, dishes, cooking utensils, etc. Were donated.... The cooking department was presided over by Miss Emily Cannon, a graduate of the Boston School of Cooking. The art of housewifery was taught by Miss Edna May Davis, a thoroughly competent instructress. In the sewing room Miss Mary S. Smith, a graduate of the Pratt Institute, N. Y., taught the girls the different stitches, hemming, felling, patching, darning, etc., and impressed upon them that "a stitch in time saves nine." —News Note—L. M. R. ACROSS THE YEARS Across the years I hear your loving voice, Urging me always to some higher aim, When I have won I know that you rejoice; When I have failed you grieve but do not blame. If in my humble way some good I do, I owe it to those other years and you. —Jennie Noonan Wheless RELIEF SOCIETY IN BANNOCK STAKE (IDAHO): The Stake presidency of the Relief Society of Bannock Stake, President Mary A. Call, Counselors Sarah M. Call and Rosa B. Knowles, and Secretary Hannah C. Hatch, have made their annual visit through the Stake, their starting point being the Lund Ward.... The next two wards visited were Thatcher and Cleveland.... We held mcetings in both wards and gave some good instructions to the attending sisters.... The next place visited was Trout Creek where we lunched with President Mary Jensen, then held meeting.... The next place was Grace. We traveled late to get there, in wind and dust. Soda Springs was the next place visited, where we enjoved the delightful soda water... We had a good meeting.... The last meeting was held at Chesterfield.... The Stake presidency gave some good instructions... And thought the sisters were doing a good work in this part of the Lord's vineyard. —Hannah C. Hatch, Sec. Page 654 HE Honorable Masa (Mrs. Fukuzo) Nakayama was named Japanese Minister of Welfare in ceremonies at the Imperial Palace, July 19, installing the new Prime Minister Hayato Ikeda and his cabinet. Mrs. Nakayama is a graduate of Ohio Wesleyan University, Delaware, Ohio, and a member of the Japanese branch of UNESCO. Her hobby is flower arrangements, and she has the honorary title of Graduate Flower Arranger. She has an honorary American degree of Doctor of Laws, and is indeed well fitted to become Japan's first woman cabinet minister. Mrs. Nakayama is sixty-nine years old. UTH ADDISON is the first woman to achieve the equivalent of deputy minister's rank in the Canadian government. She is one of three Civil Service Commissioners who formulate and direct the policies pertaining to 140,000 government employees. Her colleagues say that "she is effective, but every inch a lady." ARA SABIN, Bountiful, Utah, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has collected a large number of her poems into a volume entitled "So Near My Heart," recently published by Bookcraft, Salt Lake City, Utah. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MB:: VICTOR (JUNE SLATER) DEATHERAGE of Ogden, Utah, engages in the very unusual occupation of making minutely accurate drawings of topsecret United States missiles, some of which are moon-bound. MB:: ANN WHITMAN has one of the most demanding secretarial jobs in the world. She is President Eisenhower's personal secretary and travels with him on nearly all of his official trips. 'Telephone calls for the President come to Mrs. Whitman first, and she takes the President's dictation of letters, speeches, and memoranda, as well as drafting letters for him to sign. UDGE FLORENCE E. ALLEN, formerly of Salt Lake City, Utah, addressed the graduating class of the University of Utah in August. Miss Allen was the first woman to become a judge of a United States Federal Court. In the 1920's she was elected to two terms as a member of the Ohio Supreme Court. Only a year ago she retired as senior judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the sixth circuit, including Michigan, Ohio, Kentucky, and Tennessee. Judge Allen holds honorary degrees from twenty-three American colleges and universities. Page 655 CQ-—> EDITORIAL © VOL. 47 OCTOBER 1960 NO. 10 Let the Daughters of toton Rejoice Let Mount Zion rejoice, let the daughters. Walk about Zion and go round about her: tell the towers thereof... Be glad because of thy judgments, Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may tell it to the generation following (Psalm 48:11-13). T is a cause for continued rejoicing that in all ages and under all conditions, women have been given the blessing of compassionate service, and the responsibility of directing from the home the pathways of the children of earth. Into the keeping of women have been given the desire and the means for developing much comfort and order within the wide spheres of their influence. Unlimited and forever beckoning to greater fulfillment, is the wide and wonderful world of womanhood. From the small but glorious kingdom of the home, where a woman's heart and hands make the pattern, her beliefs and her spiritual strength go forth with her children into all the world. Even a small girl child realizes her own femininity and seems to know instinctively the purposes of her life. It is an instruction to see a little girl occupied with the duties of dolls and carriages, with pans and plates, with brooms and tables and chairs, with flowers in a vase. How much of joy we have for the taking in the turning of the seasons, the autumn that is now upon us in the northern lands, while springtime casts its greenery over the earth for our sisters in the south. Autumn is a time of garnering, of gathering in that which is Page 656 precious and needful, a time of preparation for the winter, wherein there will be no harvest. And yet the winter holds close the family and friends, and all the people of the earth should be held together in their common need and common compassion. Beautifully the spring breaks for women in_ sunlight through the windows, on early blossoms in the garden, in the sound of a broom upon the walk. How brief, then, the summer _ seems, turning to the yellow leaf. To thousands of women in the wide lands of the earth, there comes again with October, a great rejoicing. 'To others it comes at the beginning of the year when once more the sisters meet in frequent and ordered companionship to rejoice in their privileges and enlarge their compassion, to train their minds, and uplift their souls. To many of the sisterhood, it seems that Relief Society may be likened to a sheaf of wheat wherein are bound the facets of a woman's life, bound in strength and beauty, wherein the rich reaping of the past is bound and united with seed for future generations. The gospel in its fulness and the Relief Society pattern have been given to women for a blessing and for their exaltation. The Relief Society sheaf has taken the EDITORIAL intellectual, the spiritual, the social, and the compassionate yearnings of womanhood and has bound them together in such a sheaf of strength and beauty that everywhere, in every condition, the daughters of Zion may rejoice. From each separate home, and from those kingdoms of home, united in Relief Society and blessed by its precepts and practices, the sisters may lend their hands and their hearts to shaping the environment for their families and communities. 657 Let us approach our duties and our responsibilities joyfully, welcome our privileges, and be grateful for precept and pattern. By this path of faith and sisterhood, by this high road of devotion and deeds, the women of Zion, and "the women of all nations" may lend their hands and hearts to building a fitting home for those spirits who are given earth life by the Lord, and who must be returned to him. —V. P. C. Shy Word Nancy Wilcox Wondering still and seeking still, I sought a quiet nook Wherein to rest and contemplate Thy wondrous work — thy Book Of well-loved passages to read. Weak was my vision, Lord, Blinded by fog of fearfulness: Bright beacon of thy word Lent me light — serenity, With patience to endure Shattered illusions, knowing this — Thy judgments still are sure. — > Not Anything Gs Lost Mabel Jones Gabbott Because it rained through all September, day After day, we murmured, being wont to cling To warmth and sun; and we were heard to say "So cold, so soon? This is a cruel thing." October's gold burns brighter where the rain Made fresh the grass, or pricked the valley floor With green. Against a spring-like earth, leaves deign To fall; their reds and browns and yellows more Intense, flagrant before the early frost. Why did we question? Not anything is lost. Ch ristmas Aprons Shirley Thulin NYONE would love to be Fe tied to these apron strings! These new aprons are so refreshingly smart they are bound to make any housewife feel like a gracious hostess. You'll want to start sewing in plenty of time to make an apron for every lady on your gift list — from the sweet little grandmother down the street, to the engaged daughter of your best friend. And don't forget to make several for your own wardrobe, too. Apron number one is a_ half apron and is made from one yard of gay, large-checked gingham. Blue and white with black crossstitching, is an attractive color combination, however you could choose your own colors. 'This apron boasts an optical illusion, because the black double cross-stitches on the white squares and the white double crossCROSS STITCH IN WHITE APRON NO. 1 A half apron made of blue and white checked gingham with cross-stitching on the white squares. Sce diagram below for the pattern of the cross-stitching. << = stitches on the white squares, seem to change the color of the fabric. The whole border is outlined in black outline stitch to complete a sort of appliqued look. Kx xX x xX x pee] OUT LINE IN BLACK oie x |X| x x Ix] xX x |x] x x |x| x x Ix] x x |x| x x |X| <x &K XxX x Xx IX! XX X|XLx x Xx KX xXx XxX XxX XX X X &I[xIXx lX x [XX XK KX KKK EK EK XR MX XXxX|X xX XxX XX KKK KKK KX XX KX XK KKK XIX KM x xX x * « ________L x BOTTOM OF APRON x WHITE \ BOTTOM OF POCKET Page 658 CHRISTMAS APRONS The double cross-stitch is used rather than the single because it covers more of the square, blocking out the white almost completely. It is made by first making a regular cross-stitch the same size as the square, then making a stitch vertically through the center of the single cross-stitch. Then make a tiny stitch right in the center of the cross, to hold all in place. The border design runs across the front of the apron just above the deep hem, and is repeated on the two pockets and across the band. This apron is flattering to the figure because, instead of being gathered on to the band, it has four tiny box pleats on each side. PRON number two is a big cover-the-front style which conjures up the fragrance of sugar and spice just to look at it. 'This APRON NO. 2 A large, cover-the-front apron with two pockets, a scalloped bib, around the bottom. And scallops 659 is a practical apron, which fits both a large or a small figure, and yet dainty, with its scallops along the bib, extending down the front, and ending with a pocket. Pick a perky print with bias tape trim the shade of the predominant color. PRON number three is a half apron and is the sophisticated member of this apron family. The outstanding features of this apron are the deep box pleat right in the center, and the huge pouch pocket with two side openings. Choose a bold print with a dark colored background and trim it with a plain color the same shade as the print background color. The apron pictured is of deep red printed with gold figures and a plain red trim. First, cut a piece of the plain fabric 18 inches for the length of the apron, and 26 inches at the waist, gradually sloping out to 36 inches at the bottom of the apron, rounding the bottom corners. Now cut a piece of the printed fabric 15 inches for the length and 21 at the waist edge and 25 inches at the bottom edge. Baste a matching bias tape all around the print piece, except across where the band will be stitched. Now machine stitch this bias tape 6% inches from the top edge toward the hem edge on both sides. 'This makes the binding for the edges of the pockets. Now pin the print piece on the plain picce, putting the top edges even, and centering the other edges. 'This makes a plain colored border all around three sides of the printed piece. Machine stitch along the basting on the bias tape, beginning where you left off 64% inches down on one side and ending where you APRON NO. 3 A half apron with a deep box pleat in the center and a large pouch pocket with two openings. <i left off 6% inches down on the other side. Note how this makes a huge pocket with two openings, all bound with an uninterrupted line of bias tape. Now bind the outside edges of the plain piece with the same matching bias tape. Leave the top edge unbound. Make a band of the plain color 18 inches long and 5 inches wide. (It will be 2% inches wide when finished, as it will be doubled.) Pin the band to the apron, making a big box pleat right in the center of the apron, using up all the slack material until it fits the 18-inch band. Machine stitch band. Now make ties of the printed fabric and stitch them in place. PRON number four has the flavor of the Alps, and is made of a pastel denim with a profusion of colorful trimming marching across the bib and the bottom of the apron. This apron would require a zigzag sewing machine or attachment, as strips of single fold bias are zig-zagged across between factory made braid. 'To add even more decoration, pastel baby rickrack is sewed on in strips of three, along with the braid and bias tape. The straps, which start at the waistband, are sewed to the bib and then extend about 45 inches beyond the bib. These long straps cross in back near the shoulders and are threaded through loops at the waistband and tied at the middle waist in the back, thus enabling this apron to be adjusted to size. Whether you are long or short waisted, you will fecl comfortable in this one. This apron is not gathered onto the band, but has three pleats on each side. It has one pocket trimmed with a row of bias and zigzag. HE fifth apron is as refreshing as a dish of orange sherbet. It is made from a little over a yard of orange and white checked gingham. It is also a half apron with the apron pleated instead of gathered to the APRON NO. 4 An Alpine bib apron made of pastelcolored denim, and trimmed with bias strips rickrack, and braid. 660 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 CHRISTMAS APRONS APRON NO. 5 A half apron made of checked gingham, pleated at the waistband. The crossstitches are made of the same color as the dark check in the gingham. Band. Use orange thread for the cross-stitches in the squares. All of the crosses are tiny because the checks are very small. One row of large double cross-stitches adds variety across the bottom near the large hem, along with the repeated pattern. There is a single row of tiny crossstitches all around the two pockets as well as the corresponding design across the top, also across the band. This apron would look well if done in lime green or orchid, just be sure to use a shade of thread to match the color of the checks in the making of the crosses. PRON number six in our sclection is pretty enough to go toa wedding. In fact, it looks like the icing on the wedding cake. It is made of white nylon dotted Swiss and just a swish in some suds is all it takes when soiled. No ironing. This apron is made of three full circles, graduated in size to give a 661 APRON NO. 6 A party apron made of nylon dotted Swiss and cut in three circles of graduated SiZes. Three-tiered ruffled effect. Make a paper pattern of all three circles first, the biggest one being 36 inches in circumference, with an 8-inch hole cut out of the center for a waistline. 'The second tier is a 28-inch circle with the 8-inch center circle, and the smallest tier is an 18-inch circle, also with an 8-inch center circle for the waistline. Cut each circle from one edge to the center along the diameter and round the two bottom corners on each circle. Cut the fabric from these three paper patterns. Stitch lace around the outside edge or make a small rolled hem. Now stitch a narrow band about 23 inches long. (The 8- inch center circle is about 23 inches long when it is straightened out.) Stitch, but do not gather or pleat, all three circles to the band, placing the two smaller circles upon the largest one. The apron is so full that it gives a ruffled effect. Now make generous ties and stitch in place. This apron has no pocket. A Strawberry Pincushion Melba Larson MarertAts NEEDED (for 6 pincushions): one-third vard red velveteen (for six strawberrics ) one-sixth yard green velveteen (for six tops) glue To make the strawberries, place the pattern on the bias of material. Pattern should measure cleven inches from point to point and six inches across the middle. Cut out the red berry, fold double, seam, and tur. Stuff the berry with sawdust, and gather at the top. For the top of the berry, cut out an cight-point star from the green velvet. The star should measure five and a half inches from the tip of one point to the tip of the opposite point. A folded piece of green velvet may be used for a stem. Sew this stem to the gathered top of the berry. Slip the stem through the hole on the top of the berry. Glue the berry top to the berry. Add white beads to the red part of the berry. N REO WN CUT ON BIAS ON SS J4YD. RED VELVETEEN MAKES 6 STRAWBERRIES Y% YD. GREEN VELVETEEN MAKES 6 TOPS Page 662 PATTERN FOR TOP OF STRAWBERRY PINCUSHION The top is cut (single) from green velveteen in the shape of an eight-point star, measuring 5% inches from the tip of one point to the tip of the opposite point. PATTERN FOR STRAWBERRY (at left) The strawberry is cut single on the bias from red velveteen and measures 11 inches from point to point and 6 inches across the widest part of the berry. It is folded in the middle along the 6 inch diameter, then seamed on one side and gathered at the top. Faith Pauline L. Jensen tore a page from the calendar the other day, and noted how short was the time until spring would be here. There was nothing outside that remotely suggested its nearness. There was snow on the ground, and the trees were bare, and I had a nostalgic remembrance of other springs, in faraway places. One stood out in my memory above all others, and my thoughts traveled back nine years, and six hundred miles, and I was once more in suburban St. Louis, Missouri. Even now I recall in detail that scene, and each word. I saw my husband's face, pale, and lined, and I heard his voice saying, "This transfer is something I've wanted for years. It is what I have striven and worked for. I know that my health is poor, and the risk we are taking is great. But, somchow, I truly believe that this change is just what I need. I believe it is meant that we go, and that my health will improve there, and things will be better. We have to believe that! We have to have faith!" I looked out of the window at the bright green grass and the golden forsythia, and I thought I had never seen spring any lovelier. From his perch in the maple tree I heard the cardinal sing to his mate, and I saw the dip and flash of a bluebird's wings. I knew that in just a few weeks the air would be filled with the fragrance of roses and waxen magnolias. And I wondered what spring would be like in that far northern city, and how it could possibly be spring anywhere without bluebirds and cardinals, magnolias and forsythia. And I wondered how I could say to my husband, "You're a sick man, far more so than you realize, and the doctors can't seem to find what is wrong. You aren't well enough to take on additional responsibility, and although you want it so much, the chance we take in this move is too great. Here, we have roots and home and friends and a measure of solid security. He children are happy, and their ties are many. If we go to a strange place, we have no assurance that such a change will be for the better. What if your health doesn't improve? Suppose that we go among strangers and something should happen?" Then I looked at the face of my husband, and saw the desperate plea in his eyes, and I knew that I wouldn't say any of those things. I knew that we'd go to that northern city, and I knew we would need every ounce of faith we could muster! And faith was our handmaiden through all of the days that followed as, one by one, we relinquished the bounds of security. The home that we loved became just a house; the college scholarship, insuring our child's education, went back to be claimed by another. Each precious thing that had filled our days was abandoned. The friends that had meant so much were bidden goodbye, and all that was left to sustain us was faith! Now it is nine short years since we came to this city of lakes and trees and beautiful homes. I look out of the window and see not green grass and golden forsythia, but softly falling snow that has hidden and muted everything ugly. And I hear not the cardinal's song, but the raucous cries of a bluejay. And instead of magnolias, I think of the white sails on Lake Calhoun, and sunset on Lake Minnetonka, of the moon shining down on the Lake of the Isles, and the beautiful trees that border the parkways. And I think of all of the wonderful people we now call friends. ] look at the glowing face of my husband, and hear his firm step and his confident voice. I think of all of the joyous things that this move has brought, and I know in my heart what a wondrous gift is the power of faith! Page 663 My Shird Grandma Part II — Burcuer KnIre Ilene H. Kingsbury FE were children of eight and \\V hungry. We stood about Grandma Morgan's kitchen and edged to the small, squat cabinet she called a valet, and we looked longingly at three loaves of hot bread. Just to smell them was a challenge in self-control. When she wasn't looking we ran our hands over the dome of crust, and in enough attempts would manage, quite accidentally, to break off a crunchy layer as big as the palm of the hand and hope it wouldn't be missed from the loaf. Before we knew it, there were crumbs at the corners of our mouths, and our looks of marked innocence were replaced by those of complete satisfaction. At this point in the game, for she played along with us if we persisted long enough, Grandma would push us aside and approach the bread with quiet resolution. 'This was her move of defeat. She no longer resolved to save all three loaves for a regular meal. From the center drawer of the valet she claimed the most amazing butcher knife in all Beaver County. It was long and slim and curved at the last third toward the tip, and its handle was of carved ivory. Odd designs of intertwined vines graced the hilt, along with a sort of motto in a long-forgotten and ancient language. We were afraid of this knife, for we knew it wasn't meant for carving up bread. Once, out under the cherry tree, Grandma had told us that her father had used it in a war in India against white people. Whenever she said Page 664 white people in just that tone we shivered. We also took another look at her skin. Yes, it wasn't exactly like our own. It had a sort of golden, burned, and leathery look such as one sees on finely tooled handbags of the lighter Palomino shades. Up to that time we had confused the name Indian with India and guessed that she was a Navajo who had been stolen or traded for a trinket. Most of our parents were certainly under that impression, but only because they hesitated to pry, as they called it. In our community there were a number of squaws who lived in the homes of the whites and were called Aunt or Grandma. We knew of at least one of them who had been stolen as a child, taken to Old Mexico as a slave, brought back north again on mule back, and traded off for a fat, young steer. But that Navajo ex-slave girl didn't look exactly like Grandma Morgan. True, their eyes were jet black, and looked all-yearning. Their hair remained black and straight to fragile old age, and their complexions were dark and oily and brownish. But each came from ancient heritages on opposite sides of the earth. Only by the most extreme circumstances were they ever to meet or speak a communal language or be called sister by their religious fellows. In fact, it was this peculiar religious heritage that was, in a measute, responsible for multiple races living in a desert settlement in North America. MY THIRD GRANDMA guess it was the butcher knife that was the constant reminder of the heritage of Grandma Morgan, formerly of India right around the world. Its like has only been found in the Smithsonian Institute in a wing dedicated to India, Burma, and Hindustan. We were a little afraid of that knife, with its point so fine one could have written a letter with it. And we early understood that no one, except Grandma, yes, no one on carth, could use it for any purpose whatsoever. After all, hadn't this little creature carried it all the way around the world wrapped in a piece of coral silk? And wasn't it her father's father's father's? Her use of that sword, for that it was, was as startling as its appearance. She tested the new bread for temperature, and then tucked the loaf under her arm high above the waist. The bent arm sort of balanced the loaf and her fingers steadied it. Then she picked up the sabre and began to swipe it through the air, first into a pat of homemade butter and then swiftly back and forth across the butt end of the loaf. Only a hummingbird with its sword bill longer than its body could move faster than that historical weapon. After this thorough buttering, she tackled the loaf, still held under her arm, with a sawing motion of the knife. As the slice almost slid to the floor, she gracefully bent toward 665 the valet and let it fall, face up, on a little plate. Generally we were allowed to have the first pieces, depending on whether we were girls or the littlest. You will note that various ages and sexes had smelled that baking wonder from far down in the lot. We lined up, feeling starved to death at the mere whiff of golden crust. Needless to say, we ruined at least one loaf for consumption at a regular meal, whether it was the usual bread and milk supper or the hot dinner at noon when the farm hands had their big meal of the day. The more we ate, the smaller our appetites became, until at last we just sighed our gratitude. At that moment, then, Grandma wiped off the blade of this weapon of her departed forebears and reverently laid it in its shallow place, motto side up. The elaborately carved words could be easily read, if one knew a language thousands of years old, and Grandma did, or so we believed— The Peace of God Be With You. It certainly didn't look like that much writing to us, only three or four curvy designs, a little more golden in the area where Grandma's fingers pressed it for buttering. But she always read the markings aloud as she shut the drawer, and we believed her interpretation. Perhaps, as she said the words, she felt less homesick for her father's father's father's land. Aaa Small Son Aretta N. Ricks A joy springs up from depths unknown, I am queen upon a throne! A darling prince the age of three Has vowed undying love of me. Recipes Glen Vitam aco Florence S. Jacobsen Wuote Mraz Soup 1 tbsp. Butter oy butter substitute 1 c. Corm 2 Ibs. Ground beef 1 ¢. Diced carrots 2 qts. Hot water 2 c. Shredded cabbage 2 c. Diced potatoes 2 onions, diced 1 c. Diced celery 1% tsp. Salt 2 c. Tomatoes "% ¢. Tice Melt butter, add meat, and brown. Add water and bring to a full rolling boil. Add vegetables. Bring back to a boil. Add rice and seasonings. Simmer 1 to 1% hours. Hams AND CHEESE SANDWICH FONDUE 6 slices bread 3 eggs, slightly beaten 3 tbsp. Butter or butter substitute 2 c. Milk 6 slices (about % Ib.) Cheddar cheese 1 tsp. Salt 3 slices boiled ham (or ham loaf) " tsp. Pepper 1 tbsp. Prepared mustard Spread 3 slices of the bread with butter. Top each with a slice of cheese. Then a slice of ham, and another slice of cheese. Spread the 3 remaining bread slices with mustard and place on the cheese to make sandwiches. Cut each into g cubes and place in a well greased 2-quart casserole. Beat eggs, milk, salt, and pepper together with a rotary beater. Pour cver bread cubes. Set casserole in a pan of hot water and bake about 1 hour or until a knife inserted in the center of egg mixture comes out clean and top is brown. Serves 4. New York Watuporr SALAD 4 large apples, cubed "2 ¢. Mayonnaise % ¢. Pitted diced dates pinch salt 1 c. Diced celery 1 tsp. Powdered sugar % c¢, chopped walnuts Mix all ingredients together. Chill and serve in crisp lettuce cups, with or without additional salad dressing. THOUSAND IsLAND DRESSING 1 Cc. Mayonnaise ' tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Chili sauce 1 chopped hard-cooked egg 1 tbsp. Chopped green pepper 1 tbsp. Chopped ripe olives 1 tsp. Chopped pimento (or green olives) tbsp. Chopped sweet pickle Mix all ingredients together and chill. Store in refrigerator. Serve as a dressing for salads or with fish, as desired. Page 666 Hor Poratro-BrEan SALAD 4 medium-sized potatoes, peeled 2 tbsp. Fresh lemon juice and diced 1 tsp. Salt (another for dressing) 1 inch boiling water in saucepan % tsp. Black pepper 1 tsp. Salt % tsp. Garlic powder 1 Ib. Fresh snap beans cut in % tsp. Powdered dry mustard one-inch pieces % c. Chopped onion 1 tbsp. Bacon fat 4 Slices crisp bacon 24 c. Mayonnaise Cook potatoes in boiling salted water for 5 minutes. Add beans and continue cooking until beans and potatoes are tender; drain if necessary. Combine bacon fat, mayonnaise, lemon juice, and seasonings. Heat. Pour over cooked vegetables. Add onions and toss lightly. Crumble crisp bacon on top. Serve hot. BRAMBLES 1 c. Secded raisins, chopped 1 egg, well beaten juice and rind of one lemon 1 Cc. Sugar 2 layers unbaked pie crust Put ingredients for filling togcther in saucepan and cook over low heat until thick. Spread between two layers of unbaked pic crust in long cookie pan. Slash upper crust, brush with milk. Bake until golden brown in 350° oven. Cut into squares. I> —<——- Vase of Jtutaiin eaves Ida Elaine James Sparcd awhile from chilled oblivion, These branches rise in gracious dignity Fired to new beauty by the frost and sun, Cut from the shelter of the mother-tree. For yet a little time the eye may sec Their beauty, shaped like hands as though to hold All of remembered summer history Before consigned to winter's unfeeling cold. Stripped of their homely mission to protect The nesting bird, to shelter children's play, To weave still tapestry and so deflect Discomfort of the sun's late fiery ray, They still grant hospitality, and hold Beauty a moment more against the cold. RECIPES FOR AUTUMN LUNCHES 667 Yune GJ Hunsakers Hobby: Human Relationships JON I. Hunsaker, postmistress at Honeyville, Utah, specializes in human relationships. Old and young have learned to accept her as a public servant in every respect. Whenever a person has a load too heavy for his shoulders, he spends a little extra time buying his stamps and getting his mail, so that he can share his burden with someone who cares. One day a little girl came to the window with a letter she had written to "Daddy in Warope." The postmistress handled this situation in a way similar to the procedure used in handling the many letters addressed to Santa Claus cach year. 'The little ones are never disappointed through her lack of understanding. Mrs. Hunsaker has been editor-in-chief of personal and circular letters to missionaries and servicemen. She has been active in many positions in the Church, and has served as a ward Relief Society president and as a stake president. She is a lovely mother and grandmother, and a devoted friend to the entire community. Q Recompense Velda Allphin Neilson My neighbor planted chrysanthemums Along her picket fence. I'm sure she doesn't know my joy, Nor even vaguely sense How much these blooms assuage my soul — And call for recompense. Page 668 Orchids in the Snow CHAPTER 6 Rosa Lee Lloyd Synopsis: Sharon and Sam Wynter, newlyweds, on their way to Fairbanks, Alaska, from Utah, make many friends, including Angus McFarland, a widower, his daughter Marie, and Susan Elge from Bristol Bay, who has brought her husband Herman to Anchorage for an operation. Arriving in Fairbanks, Sharon meets Sister Jensen, President of the Branch Relief Society, who rents her a log cabin. Sister Jensen also takes Sharon to visit Mary Billings who is blind. Marie McFarland visits Sharon in Fairbanks, and when Sharon becomes ill and finds that she is expecting a child, she sends to Utah for her Aunt Jewel, a nurse. McFarland brings Jewel in his plane from Anchorage to Fairbanks. HREE weeks later Sharry was feeling so much. Better she was up and dressed most of the time. Sam was expected home from his trip into the icy Northland. "Dr. Fillmore thinks you have done remarkably well," Jewel said, as they sat together in the living room sewing on a fluffy baby quilt. "It's because of your good care," Sharry answered. "Give Dr. Fillmore credit, too," Jewel said. "He is an excellent doctor." "Oh, he is," Sharry agreed, her brown eyes twinkling. "And he thinks I have a super excellent nurse. That's why he comes so often — to see my nurse." Jewel's cheeks pinked up. "Tm glad he's been so nice to you," Sharry went on. "He's taken you to the best places in Fairbanks. Marie says his home is one of the finest in Central Alaska. Any woman who can interest Dr. Fillmore is real lucky, Marie says." Jewel was silent as she stood up, smoothing her apron. Her eyes were sea-green. "Tl have to hurry," she said. "['m going to luncheon with him today." "But it's only eleven o'clock," Sharry said, looking at the clock. "There's loads of time." "T want to brush your hair before I leave," Jewel explained. "You must look your prettiest for Sam. You really need a hair trim. We'll go up to the beauty shop next week, now that you're strong enough to go places. In the meantime, I'll do the trimming job." It was a very good job, Sharry thought as she looked in the mirror after Jewel had gone with Dr. Fillmore. Sam would be _ pleased because she wasn't so pale and wispy as when he went away. Jewel had brushed her black hair in a shining halo around her face and she was wearing the white quilted robe that Sam liked best. She sat in the big chair before the fireplace with Nuzzle in her lap, as she waited for Sam. The little dog had been a great comfort to her during these long weeks while she had been ill. Sam had remade the doghouse, but Sharry wanted Nuzzle inside the cabin most of the time. Suddenly Nuzzle lifted his head and barked. Then his tail began to wag as he ran sniffing to the door. A minute later Sam stepped on the porch. Page 669 670 "Anybody home?" he called out gaily. Sharry ran to meet him, throwing her arms around him. He held her as though he would never let go of her again. "It's been a thousand years!" he whispered against her cheek. "A thousand, frozen, white years!" "Was it a hard trip?" she questioned. "Lonesome," he answered. "I could stand the freezing weather and the job was interesting, but I was so lonesome for you—it seemed forever. Now..." he held her off at arm's length, looking her over, "you're up and dressed. You look right perky." "T feel well, too, him. Sam stooped to pick up Nuzzle who was whimpering for attention. Then he looked around the cabin with a grateful smile. "T love this place," he said. "It's been great fun to make it livable. I haven't had a real home before this one. Dad was an engineer, Mother died when I was six. I lived in boarding schools, boys' clubs, fraternity houses. Then I became an engineer, too, living here and there, any old place." He patted Nuzzle, who had cuddled in his arms. "T've never owned a dog before," he said. "This is the first time I've had a real home." Sharry swallowed hard. This was Sam's real home, and she was homesick for another home in a faraway city. What kind of wife was she? She asked herself. She loved him with all her heart, and yet she could not tell him she would make Alaska her real home. Whenever he men-? She assured RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 tioned the unfinished Gilmore house and how he hoped to save money enough for a down payment when the estate was settled, she always changed the subject. Bi A&E you hungry?" Sharry asked. He shook his head. "T can wait till dinner. Where is everybody?" He took off his parka and fur cap. His red hair bushed up. Sam's hair was always a delight to Sharry. All the men he worked with had crewcuts. So Sam had his crew-cut before he left, but now it had grown into red waves again. She hoped their baby would have Sam's red hair. "Aunt Jewel has gone to luncheon with Dr. Fillmore," she told him. "Again?" he asked, one eyebrow above the other. "What about McFarland? Or is it true that absence makes the heart grow fonder for the other fellow?" "She had letters from McFarland every day or two," Sharry answered. "You women!" Sam said. "A fellow never knows how he rates. Even when he's married he wonders what she's thinking — if she's happy — what more he can do." Sharry followed him to the kitchen where he hung his parka on a hook near the range. "Sam..." she touched his arm, "you know I love you — and you have made me happy. You've done everything you could." Sam was facing the wall. She - could not see his face. There was a long pause, then he asked, "Did your guitar arrive?" "Oh, yes. We can both play a little. Marie has a good voice — ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW not trained or anything, but rich and full of life. She's such fun, Sam. I'm so glad she's here in Fairbanks." "So am I," he said. "She's good for you. Let's get the guitar. I feel like a song, too." Sam loved to sing. He and Sharry had worked out a duet by the time Jewel returned at four o'clock. She came breezing in as though she had enjoyed herself. She was having more fun now than she had ever had before. "Tt's almost dark out there," Jewel laughed. "All the children on their way home from school were romping and playing. 'They don't even miss the sunshine." "Why should they?" Sam asked. "Kids are kids in any climate. They're used to the dark." "That's right," Jewel agreed. "We passed an clectric-lighted football field, and Dr. Fillmore says that skating on the frozen lakes in this weird darkness is one of the greatest sports up here from freeze-up in the fall to breakup in the spring." (THERE was a loud thumping at the door. Nuzzle barked and wagged his tail. Marie came in, laughing and waving a telegram over her head. "T've got a message!" she called out. "My Dad wants us all to come to Bristol for a visit. We can fly to Anchorage in my plane — he'll have a special plane take us to Bristol from there." "What fun!" Sharry said. Sam — please — I want to go." "Sounds great!" he said. "I think I can get a few days off. How about it, Jewel? Can Sharry ride that far?" "Oh, 671 Jewel's cheeks were a rosy pink. "We'll ask Dr. Fillmore," she said. "I hope he'll say yes. It sounds wonderful." Marie said, "Uncle Herman is eager to hear us play our guitars. He's starved for music. Big Joe plays the harmonica for him, but he lives way up the coast." "Stay for dinner, Marie," Sharry coaxed. "We're having beef stew — real beef Dr. Fillmore got from Matanuska Valley. And _ biscuits." Marie shook her head. "I can't — I promised Oscar I'd go skating at Harding Lake. The northern lights are bright in the sky tonight. It's magic." A dog growled outside. "Fudge is with me," Marie explained. "He wants Nuzzle to come out." "Nuzzle...." Sharry looked at Sam. "Where will we leave Nuzzle?" "Oscar will take him," Marie said. "T asked him. So it's all set, if Dr. Fillmore says okey. Tl radio Daddy soon as we know. He'll go up to the schoolhouse in the morning for my message. See you after the skate." Sharry was so excited about the trip that Jewel suggested she go to bed when she had eaten her dinner. "Take it easy, dear," she coaxed. "Dr. Fillmore said the trip would be good for you, if you don't get too excited or too tired." Sharry's eyes were star-bright. "Just imagine!" she said, "T'll have Sam for a whole week, day and night. I love him terribly, Aunt Jewel. I want him near me every minute." Jewel put an extra quilt over her, 672 then she sat down on the side of the bed. "T've been thinking," she said. "Dr. Fillmore told me today that the Gilmore estate is settled. He has his bid in for it. He thinks it's a good investment. I have some money saved, Sharry. I want to lend it to you and Sam for a down payment. I think Dr. Fillmore will help us get it. That will be a perfect home for you and Sam — with the baby." The stars blinked out of Sharry's eyes. She did not want a home in Alaska, even the Gilmore home with its view of Mt. McKinley from the picture window. She could not bear another long dark winter away up here. "Oh, no," she said. "Please, Aunt Jewel, 'm not ungrateful — I love you for offering, but — I don't want it. Don't tell Sam about it...." Jewel's eyes darkened with unbelief. The usual sweet curve of her lips faded away. "J — didn't know — how you felt," she said. "I'm sorry, dear." She shut the door quietly behind her. Sharry turned her face toward the wall and wept. Kenny was right, she thought brokenly. Sam was married to a doll baby. She could not measure up to what was expected of a wife. Kw oe KK HEY arrived in Anchorage at noon the next day. "Marie, you're some pilot," Sam said, as they ate their luncheon at the Big Hand Cafe. "That was a teal smooth ride down here." "Thanks to the weather," Marie answered. "The ride to Bristol may be something else again. But we'll RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 have a good bush pilot — Dad will see to that. So hold on tight." But the ride in the violet light of midday was so magically beautiful that they didn't notice it was rough. "The farther north you go in Alaska, the more daylight in the summer and the more darkness in the winter,' Sam explained to Sharry. "It's not so dark here, as we're much further south than Fairbanks." The earth beneath the plane was in shadow as they flew over the heavily wooded country. The mountains loomed ahead, huge jagged peaks in the deep turquoise darkness like silent sentinels. "Look now," Marie called from the seat across the aisle which she shared with Jewel. "We're flying over the treeless tundra. 'Those dun-colored spots on the snow are caribou. What a huge migration! Maybe five thousand. That means food for many people. It's a tragedy up here when we don't have caribou on the march!" "That must be reindeer over there," Sam said, "and moose." The pilot lowered the plane and roared full-throttle over the herd so everyone could get a closer look at them. It was a new and thrilling experience for Sharry. But soon the coloring of the sky and the shimmering tundra beneath them made her drowsy and she slept against Sam's shoulder. The swooping of the plane and the sound of excited voices awakened her, as the pilot set the plane down carefully on the long white landing field, near the salmon factories on the coast of Bristol Bay. ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW Marie was the first one out of the plane. "Button up, Sharry!'"' she called back. "There's a stiff wind." "Hello! Hello!' McFarland said to everyone, smiling down from his great height. His parka and fur cap made him look like a giant. Sharry watched closely as he greeted Jewel. He held her hands in both of his, looking at her searchingly from fur cap to boots. "I'm glad you're here," he said in a special voice for her. "Come on, you two," Marie yelled gaily. "We're riding sled. May I drive, Daddy?" McFarland shook his head. "This lead dog is stubborn," he told her. "It'll take a man who is more stubborn to handle him. You should learn to drive while you're up here, Sam." Sam laughed. "'T'll learn to ride this thing first," he said. "T feel as if I'm sitting on the ground." AFTER they were seated, McFarland tucked a bearskin robe around each of them. Then he unwrapped a bundle of gay colored woolen scarves. "Susan made these," he said. "Wrap them over your cap, then across your face like this. 'This wind is full of ice splinters. We only ride two miles, but we go fast. "That's our home," he = said, "the big frame house on the hill. The smaller house nearby belongs to Mama Sue and Uncle Herman. "Look around a minute before we start," he said. "Those low flat buildings over there are the canneries. The Bay opens into the Bering Sea and it's loaded with salmon. Most of the salmon you 673 have home comes from up here. That higher building with the tall chimney is where we smoke salmon. 'That little square building is my office." He turned and faced inland. "All those houses are built alike, facing the bay. Each one has a kennel for dogs." He called to the lead dog. 'They moved forward in a flutter of snow. The wind beat against them. Sharry hung on with both hands. Susan was in the doorway when they arrived. The house was warm, and the inviting odor of baking fish greeted them. "Salmon roasted," Marie called out. "You'll love it, Sharry." "T know I will," Sharry said. She had decided to try everything they served no matter what it was. She liked the dinner Susan had prepared. The table was set in the large living room before the fireplace; the cloth was a heavy woven tan material with golden threads in it and the knives and forks had bone handles. 'The dishes were yellow pottery. Sharry noticed the potatoes were extra white and fluffy. Susan mentioned how grateful the people were now that they could buy potatoes in powdered form. "We couldn't have them often because they froze," "But not the biscuits," McFarlaand chimed in. "Susan's biscuits are made from the bottom up." Herman, who was lying on the lounge, had his dinner on a tray. "They are the very best," he said. Marie took him another, dripping with butter. "We brought our guitars, Uncle Herman," she said. Very she said. "TY'm ready any time," he said. "T've been longing for music." HARRY loved the dessert, although she could not tell what the ingredients were. Marie watched her as she ate another spoonful. "Good, huh?" she questioned. "This is my very favorite." Sharry tasted it thoughtfully. It was iced and rich with some kind of fruit. "We call it agrootuk," Susan said. "Tt's a native dish. Any child can make it. It's preserved berries, melted fat, sugar, and snow." "Sounds simple," Marie laughed. "But it's tricky to make. Mine doesn't taste like Susan's!" Susan was bright with pleasure at their praise. Dogs barked outside. Lifted his head, listening. "Not my dogs," he said, puzzled. He got to his feet to open the door. "Hello, McFarland!" A young man in his early twenties greeted him. His face was beet-red beneath his cap. "Johnny Forbes! Come in. Come im). McFarland introduced him to his guests. "You look half frozen, John. Here, take off your parka. You know better than to go near that fire. Thaw out gently, boy. What brought you in on a night like this?" "My wife," he said, his voice tightening. "She's awful sick. I've come for Susan?' No one spoke. The wood in the fireplace crackled and shot flame. Everyone looked at Susan. The brightness had faded from her face. "Katie has a lot of faith in Susan," Johnny said. "She pulled McFarland her through Jast winter. Remember, Susan?" Susan nodded. Her dark eyes went to Herman, and Johnny followed her glance. The expectancy went out of his face. He could see that Herman was ill. Susan would not leave him for anyone. "I'm sorry, Johnny," she said, her voice ready to break like a dry twig. "T wish I could help you...." "T can help you, Johnny...." Jewel's voice was calm in the quiet room. "I am a professional nurse. Please — take me to your wife." "But it's ten miles away!" Marie said. "Clear up to Silver Fish. Point. Jewel is a stranger up here. It's dangerous in this wind." "Tm a nurse," Jewel said. "I want to help you, Johnny." "Tl take her myself!" McFarland said in his commanding voice. "Marie, fix John some dinner while I get the dogs out. Susan, see that Jewel wears some of your long underwear. Sam, you can help me with the dogs." Sharry sat in shocked silence watching the preparations. Aunt Jewel was making a trek into an icy wilderness. Her face was calm, and her eyes were clear and steady as she patted Sharry's shoulder, then followed Johnny out into the windswept night. Marie closed the door against the wind and leaned back against it. "There is a storm brewing on the bay," she said. "The trail will be snow-covered." "McFarland will get there," Susan said. "He always gets where he wants to go." (To be continued) 674 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 FROM THE PIELD J ¢ Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for 'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Bake Photograph submitted by Elva D. Cusworth SANTA MONICA STAKE (CALIFORNIA) HANDWORK DISPLAY AT RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION, May 14, 1960 Left to right: Blanche Clayton, First Counselor; Annie M. Ellsworth, member, General Board of Relief Society; Santa Monica Stake President E. Garrett Barlow; Elsa T. Peterson, member, General Board of Relief Society; Elva D. Cusworth, President, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society; Audra Enfield, Second Counselor. Sister Cusworth reports: "We are so grateful for these inspiring conventions. Our stake president spoke to us, giving us a great awareness of our responsibilities as mothers and leaders. Sister Peterson and Sister Ellsworth brought to us not only a spiritual feast, but much information, giving us a renewed desire to serve more completely in our assignments. What a great blessing it is to belong to this inspired organization." The articles on the display tables are samples of the handwork made in the wards to be sold at the fall bazaars. Page 67/5 676 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 Photograph submitted by Cora Hansen PARK STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE AND VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, June 1960 Front row, fourth from the left: Solvig Steen, organist; fifth from the left: Lucile Higgs, chorister. Beginning seventh from the left, stake Relief Society officers: Cora Hansen, President; Dora Williams, First Counselor; Hazel Ferrin, Secretary; Bessie Martin, Second Counselor; at the mght on the front row: Mahacah Tauffer, guest violinist. Sister Hansen reports that these Singing Mothers also presented the music for Relief Society Convention in August 1960, and that their beautiful singing has been an inspiration. Photograph submitted by Irene C. Lloyd HOLLADAY STAKE (UTAH) CONDUCTS DRESSMAKING PROJECT, June 1960 Left to right: Joyce Jordan; Genevieve Smith; Lois Beck; Audrie Kennington, First Counselor, Holladay Stake Relief Society; Irene C. Lloyd, President; Ethel Hennefer, Second Counselor; Maxine Cook, work meeting leader; Ruth Vanderlinden; Lucille Allred. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 677 Right, at the sewing machine: Pat Clavton. Elsine Caldwell, representing Holladay Fourth Ward sewing project, was out of town when the picture was taken. Sister Lloyd reports: "This picture was taken in June 1960 of a group of sisters who are teaching the fundamentals of dressmaking and plain sewing. Each of these sisters made a blouse and learned pattern fitting, how to put in zippers, how to make all kinds of hems, and the steps necessary to complete any article of clothing. We are indebted to Sister Melba Christensen, work meeting leader of Winder Stake, for instructing our sisters. Several of the classes have been completed, and new oncs are starting again. We feel that these classes and the instruction have been a wonderful thing for the sisters of Holladay Stake. Photograph submitted by Electa P. Hilton ALBUQUERQUE STAKE (NEW MEXICO) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, May 7, 1960 Left to right: Electa P. Hilton, President, Albuquerque Stake Relief Society; Colleen B. Lemmon, Education Counselor; Gaye Schofield, Los Alamos Ward visiting teacher message leader; Nita W. Bushman, Work Meeting Counselor, Albuquerque Stake. Sister Hilton reports: '"We were so pleased with this year's convention and would like to express our appreciation for the film 'Unto the Least of These.' It is truly a work of art which greatly impressed the sisters who attended the convention. 'The program carried out the theme set by the film, and each visiting teacher was given a booklet containing the convention program and the visiting teacher messages for the summer months. The cover of the booklet featured a beautiful picture of the Savior, to remind each sister that she does indeed follow in the footsteps of the Master when she serves as a visiting teacher. "Perhaps the most outstanding contribution to the convention was made by Gaye Schofield, visiting teacher message leader of the Los Alamos Ward. With the assistance of her seven young children, she baked and decorated 200 small, heart-shaped cakes and brought them from her home, a hundred miles away, to be served to those attending the convention. Her lovely spirit, together with the inspiring film and the music provided by the Singing Mothers, touched the hearts of all who were present and caused many of the sisters to feel, for the first time, the importance of visiting teaching." 678 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 ee) ea Leen OAKLAND-BERKELEY STAKE (CALIFORNIA) PRESENTS DRAMATIZATION "LEGACY" AT CLOSING SOCIAL Left to right: Reader, Education Counselor Phyllis Warnick; June Smith, representing Mrs. Dwight; Emma Harmon as Mrs. Franklin; Dorothy Stone as Mrs. Hamilton; Elaine Evans as Mrs. Jefferson; Vera Weindorf as Mrs. Crevecoeur; Mary Burton as Mrs. Byrd; Veda Linford as Mrs. Paine; Roma Sabine as Mrs. Penn; Rose Clark as Mrs. Woolman. Annabell W. Hart, President, Oakland-Berkeley Stake Relief Society, reports: "Each year we try to present something relating to the past year's lessons. Last year we used theology material; the year before was social science. This year, following the literature presentation by stake board members, the film 'Unto the Least of These' was shown. We then went to the recreation hall where all the wards had displays of work meeting accomplishments, and luncheon was served to 300 women. An enjoyable day was had by all." Photograph submitted by Holly W. Fisher SOUTH AFRICAN MISSION, PRETORIA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS VISIT RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS BY BICYCLE In front: Magrieta G. Faber, President; at the back (left): Fransiena H. Smit, Counselor. Holly W. Fisher, President, South African Mission Relief Society, reports that these faithful sisters "v ery often pedal their bicycles, with children on behind, ten or NOTES FROM THE FIELD 679 more miles per day to visit sick or inactive members of their branch. They are both converts to the Church. Prior to this they belonged to the Dutch Reformed Church and spoke Africaanse in the home. It has just been this past year that they have been able to give talks and prayers in English. Now they do it freely. Sister Faber's judgment and wisdom concerning Relief Society work are amazing, considering the short time she has been in the Church. "This is only one of many such examples of devotion and integrity to the Lord's work expressed by the Relief Society sisters of the South African Mission. Although their numbers may be small, their service is great in the sight of the Lord." Photograph submitted by Catherine W. Aposhian CENTRAL ATLANTIC STATES MISSION, VIRGINIA NORTH DISTRICT CONVENTION AND CLOSING SOCIAL, May 21, 1960 Front row, left to right: Bobbie Lohr; Betty Cease; Florence Dudley (scated), honored for her many years of service to Relief Society; Beatrice Maddex; June Gayck, Secretary. Back row, left to right: Mary Cummings; Viola Snow, First Counselor; Tursell Larsen, President; Doris Dudley, Second Counselor. Catherine W. Aposhian, President, Central Atlantic States Mission, reports: "The Virginia North District Relief Society held a district convention and _ closing social May 21, 1960, in the Charlottesville Recreation Hall. The program began with a congregational song and prayer, after which Florence Dudley of Charlottesville, the oldest member of Relief Society in the district, was honored for her long years of service in Relief Society and in the Church. She was given a seat of honor on the stage and was crowned Relief Society Queen for the day by District Relief Society President Tursell Larsen, and presented with a Relief Society pin from the district officers. Sister Viola Snow, First Counselor, presented Sister Dudley with a corsage of yellow roses tied with blue ribbon. Her crown was also blue and gold, the Relief Society colors. Doris Dudley, Second Counselor, read a tribute to her. The queen reigned over the remaining program of music, five skits, readings, and a lovely fashion show conducted by Doris Dudley. A cookie contest was judged, and dozens of plates of prize cookies were served with sherbet and punch in the social hour. Many lovely articles were displayed and judged, with the tri-color nbbons going to four of the women for their entries in the different contests. About seventy-five Church members were in attendance." 680 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 iS Photograph submitted by Clarice May Woolley KEARNS NORTH STAKE (UTAH) PRESENTS "LEGACY," April 8, 1960 Front row, seated, left to right: Bessie Abbott and baby; Louise Harmon; Joan Steed; Barbara Scoville. Back row, standing, left to right: Alta Carrington; Joyce Craven; Fern Etta Young, stake literature class leader; Iris Oscarson; Mary McHenry; Flora Anderson; Pat Labrum. Clarice May Woolley, President, Kearns North Stake Relief Society, reports: "The dramatization of 'Legacy' was presented April 8, 1960, under the direction of Fern Etta Young. Brother Robert Anderson narrated the script, and Joyce Craven presented the background music. Performing in the play were ward Relief Society leaders. 'Legacy' was presented at the closing social of our leadership meeting, and climaxed the series of literature lessons presented during the year. Nina Despain is First Counselor in Kearns North Stake Relief Society, and Nola Rae Hansen is Second Counselor; Nina R. Jorgenson is Secretary-Treasurer." Willow in Audtamn Christie Lund Coles The willow tree has changed her dress To one of golden amber, yellow fringed; For in the night, she, too, was touched by frost, And all her summer loveliness was singed; Yet, still, when much more sturdy trees are spent, Golden, she moves and glistens in the breeze, For there is strength in beauty, and I think The willow is most beautiful of trees. . LESSON N DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 28—The Law of Consecration Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 42:30-42, 53-55, 70-73) For Tuesday, January 3, 1961 Objective: will do it unto me..." (D&C 42:31). Review When the law to the Church was promised, we learned that there was considerable poverty among the saints. The Lord informed the Prophet Joseph Smith that when that law was revealed, his plan for caring for the poor would be given. (See D & C 38:15-22, 32, 41.) Although this is not the only subject matter of this great revelation, as we have learned, it is an important part of Section 42, and the subject of many later revelations. Up to this time our study of this revelation has included the laws of preaching the gospel and of moral conduct. As our lessons have indicated, the living of the moral law is fundamental in "working out one's salvation." When a person becomes acquainted with the law of consecration, it is apparent that, as a basis for living this law, the moral teachings of the gospel are directly related to the successful operation of the law of consecration. "And inasmuch as ye impart of your substance unto the poor, ye Man's Struggle The basic wants of man are known to be food, clothing, and shelter. In order for a man to obtain these for himself and family, he has to struggle with his environment as the principal factor in accomplishing this purpose. When the law was promised, the Lord revealed that he had made the earth rich and that the saints would partake of those riches. (See D & C 38:16-20.) After the law of consecration was given, the Lord also made known that he would provide for his people in his own way. Furthermore, that every man is a steward in his sight and that ample riches of the earth are available for man. (See D & C 104:13-14, 17.) Several systems or plans for giving security to man have been devised. The Lord, however, has revealed that pertaining to his saints there is a way which will give security in accordance with the way in which his plan is lived. Page 681 And it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine. But it must needs be done in mine own way... (D & C 104:15-16). The Lord's Way in the Past There are two instances in the scriptures where the Lord's people lived the law given to them to the extent that there was neither rch nor poor among them. 'The fist of these was in the days of righteous Enoch and his people. Although there were wars and contentions among the people of other lands, Enoch's people lived the laws of God to the degree that they were blessed exceedingly. The fear of the Lord was upon all nations, so great was the glory of the Lord, which was upon his people. And the Lord blessed the land, and they were blessed upon the mountains, and upon the high places, and did flourish. And the Lord called his people ZION, because they were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there was no poor among them (Moses 7:17-18). Following the visit of the resurrected Christ to the Nephites on the American Continent, a reign of righteousness was inaugurated and continued for about 165 years. The record of this period is an informative one because it makes known the means by which their happy condition was achieved. (See 4 Nephi 2-3, 15-16.) The New Testament example of a similar instance of having "all things common" is not as clear as the latter account. The record states that there was some division of property among the saints in the meridian dispensation. (See Acts 2:41-47-) In addition to the all-important condition of morality which existed among the members of the Church in these earlier dispensations, we discover another principle which the Lord informed our own dispensation was necessary for the successful living of the Lord's law. It is given in Section 38, as follows: "... Tsay unto you, be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine" (D & C 38:27). "All Things Common" In commenting upon the practice of the New Testament saints having "all things common," Elder Albert E. Bowen furnishes the following observation based upon the commentaries of others: In relation to the matter of their having all things in common it is interesting to note that the Primitive Church apparently did not long continue the practice. Gibbon relates that the rule was early relaxed so as to permit of individual undertakings and was finally supplanted by the law of tithing. (I Gibbon, Decline and Fall, p. 416-417). In this connection Dummelow's Bible Commentary, page 824, says: "The Church of Jerusalem recognized the principle of private property. A disciple's property really was his own, but he did not SAY it was his own; he treated it as if it were common property. The Anabaptist principle that private property is unlawful finds no support in the Acts. The communism was voluntary (The Welfare Plan, pp. 15-16). In the thinking of some people of our own times, there is an association of the law of consecration with having things in common to the extent that they believe it is in agreement with communism of today. In 1838, the Prophet Joseph Smith set down in print some questions which were most frequently asked him, as he said, in order to save himself the 682 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT trouble of repeating them over and over again. Among these was this one: "Do the Mormons believe in having all things in common?" His answer was "No" (D. H. C. III:23). As indicated, in part, in Lesson 25 on the background of Section 41 (the first revelation received by the Prophet in Kirtland, Ohio), some members of the Church in that place had been organized in an effort to live as the early Christians are said to have lived, having all things common. Concerning the Kirtland branch, the Prophet wrote: The branch of the Church in this part of the Lord's vineyard, which had_ increased to nearly one hundred members, were striving to do the will of God, so far as they knew it, though some strange notions and false spirits had crept in among them. With a little caution and some wisdom, I soon assisted the brethren and sisters to overcome them. 'The plan of "common stock," which had existed in what was called "'the family," whose members generally had embraced the everlasting Gospel, was readily abandoned for the more perfect law of the Lord; and the false spirits were casily discerned and rejected by the light of revelation (D. H. C. I:146-147). As we shall see in our _ brief discussion of the law of consecration, it is neither communistic nor communal. The Law of Consecration The Lord's way of providing for the poor required that the individual consecrate or give to the Church all of his property. This was to be done by deed or legal title. And behold, thou wilt remember the poor, and consecrate of thy properties for their support that which thou hast to impart unto them, with a covenant and a deed which cannot be broken (D & C 42:30). 683 Following this introduction to the law of consecration, the revelation continues with these words: And inasmuch as ye impart of your substance unto the poor, ye will do it unto me; and they shall be laid before the bishop of my church and his counselors, two of the elders, or high priests, such as he shall appoint or has appointed and set apart for that purpose. And it shall come to pass, that after they are laid before the bishop of my church, and after that he has received these testimonies concerning the consecration of the properties of my church, that they cannot be taken from the church, agreeable to my commandments, every man shall be made accountable unto me, a steward over his own property, or that which he has received by consecration, as much as is sufficient for himself and family (D & C 42:31-32). Again, emphasis is given to the consecration as belonging to the Church, but the donor is to become a steward over that which he has consecrated or properties which may not have belonged to him. As noted in the verses above, the standard or measure of one's stewardship is "as much as is sufficient for himself and family." In Section 51, Edward Partridge, and those chosen by him, are to "... Appoint unto this people their portions, every man equal according to his family, according to his circumstances and his wants and needs" (D & C 51:3). Although this and other revelations point out that men are to be equal under the law of consecration, the words just quoted describe the manner in which the men are to be equal. In pointing up this fact, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Counselor in the First Presidency, says: 684 Obviously, this is not a case of "dead level" equality. It is "equality" that will vary as much as the man's circumstances, his family, his wants and needs, may vary (Conference Report, October 4, 1942, page 55). If, however, there would arise a difference of opinion between the agent of the Church and the member, over the amount to be received as a stewardship, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote the following to Bishop Edward Partridge:. Every man must be his own judge how much he should receive and how much he should suffer to remain in the hands of the Bishop. I speak of those who consecrate more than they need for the support of themselves and_ their families. The matter of consecration must be done by the mutual consent of both parties; for to give the Bishop power to say how much every man shall have, and he be obliged to comply with the Bishop's judgment, is giving to the Bishop more power than a king has; and upon the other hand, to let every man say how much he needs, and the Bishop be obliged to comply with his judgment, is to throw Zion into confusion, and make a slave of the Bishop. The fact is, there must be a balance or equilibrium of power, between the Bishop and the people, and thus harmony and good will may be preserved among you. Therefore, those persons consecrating property to the Bishop in Zion, and then receiving an inheritance back, must reasonably show to the Bishop that they need as much as they claim. But in case the two partics cannot come to a mutual agreement, the Bishop is to have nothing to do about receiving such consecrations; and the case must be laid before a council of twelve High Priests, the Bishop not being one of the council, but he is to lay the case before them (D. H. C. 1:364- 365). From the foregoing and other places yet to be noted, it should be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 clear to all that the principle of free agency lS an important part of this order. 'The difference between this law and that of communisin, as known today, lies in man's freedom to act. This fact and another one in conncction with this law is further indicated in the answer to this and a related question: Is it intended that the donor of property in receiving a stewardship have legal title to the stewardship received from the Church? 'The revelation answering this question states: And let my servant Edward Partridge, when he shall appoint a man his portion, give unto him a writing that shall secure unto him his portion, that he shall hold it, even this right and this inheritance in the church, until he transgresses and is not accounted worthy by the voice of the church, according to the laws and covenants of the church, to belong to the church. And if he shall transgress and is not accounted worthy to belong to the church, he shall not have power to claim that portion which he has consecrated unto the bishop for the poor and needy of my church; therefore, he shall not retain the gift, but shall only have claim on that portion that is deeded unto him (D & C 51:4°5)- Not only was the person to consecrate his property to the church by legal deed and thus surrender all clam to the property, but the stewardship received as a member of the order was to be his own. Private property is a fundamental part of the operation of the law of consecration. But what if the member of this order is no longer worthy to continue in the Church, is the property deeded to him his own or that of the Church? From the foregoing revelation the answer is that he has claim on the stewardship LESSON DEPARTMENT deeded to him. This answer also points up the fact of free agency in that a person may leave the order and yet still retain his property. The Bishop's Storehouse As a member of the order produces surpluses from his stewardship or there are residues arising from the original consecration beyond what the donor has consecrated to the Church, provision is made in the revelations for the use of these portions. These conditions are expressed in our text in this manner. (Read D & C 42:33-34.) Not only were these residues to be used for the poor, but also for the building up the kingdom of God upon the earth, as the revelation indicates: And for the purpose of purchasing lands for the public benefit of the church, and building houses of worship, and building up of the New Jerusalem which is hereafter to be revealed (D & C 42:35). In a later revelation, the Lord makes known that children are to be maintained from the parents' stewardship, but if the time should come that they are unable to provide a stewardship for their children of age, the Lord's storehouse is to provide for them. It also indicates: And the storehouse shall be kept by the consecrations of the church; and widows and orphans shall be provided for, as also the poor (D & C 83:6). Law of Remuneration Provision is made in verses 70 through 73 of Section 42 for those who labor in a full-time capacity for the Church to have their families supported out of the general funds of the Order. (See Doctrine 685 and Covenants Commentary, page 234, for a comment on_ these Verses. ) Summary The law of consecration, also known as the United Order (not to be confused with the Orders operated between 1877 and 1884 in the West), required that the donor of property consecrate his wealth by legal title to the agent (bishop) of the Church. In return, the consecrator would receive a stewardship, also called an inheritance, by legal title or deed, which secured his inheritance by law. If he left the Order, this stewardship would be his own; thus, the law of consecration was not communistic because of the principles of free agency and private property. 'The surplus arising from the "working" of the stewardship, beyond the circumstances and wants and needs of the family, would be placed in the bishop's storehouse for the care of the poor, widows, orphans, and_ the building up of Zion. Additional stewardships would also come, in part, from this source. History of the United Order In the spring of 1831, members of the Church from New York State began arriving in the Kirtland, Ohio, area. A branch of the Church from Colesville, New York, settled at Thompson, Ohio, where they were given the privilege of organizing themselves according to the law of consecration. (See D & C 51:15.) That this branch of the Church was to remain in Ohio for only a short time is evident from the revelation, for they were to receive another commandment about their location at some future time. (See D & C 51:16.) In the meantime, however, they were to act as though they were to be in Ohio "for years." (See D & C 51:17.) It was only a matter of months until the faithful members of this branch were commanded to gather in Missouri. (See D & C 56:5-7.) It was during the time of the saints' sojourn in Jackson County, Missouri, that further attempts were made to live this law. The United Order Discontinued By revelation, the Lord set the law of consecration in abeyance until such time as the saints would again be established in Missouri to build up the city of Zion. (See D & C 105:34.) One reason for the failure of this law to remain in force, as' reported in The Evening and Morning Star, was that "there has not been enough consecrated to plant the poor in inheritances." A reason for this condition was that many, before coming to Zion, had given their property away, and sacrificed some, resulting in their not having property which could be made available for consecration. (See D. H. C. 1:381.) It should also be remembered that, due to other weaknesses of the saints, they did not measure up to the standards necessary to live this law. (See D & C 101:6-8; 105:2-6.) The persecution of the Church in Missouri shortened the time when the law of consecration was in force among the saints. Although some members in IIlinois, the place of gathering after the expulsion of the saints from Missouri, felt that the law of consecration should be lived, the Prophet Joseph Smith said to the Iowa High Council at a meeting in Montrose:. That it was the will of the Lord that we should desist from trying to keep it; and if persisted in, it would produce a perfect defeat of its object, and that he assumed the whole responsibility of not keeping it until proposed by himself (D. H. C., lV:93). Revocation of Commandments Does the Lord command or give his people the privilege of living a law and then revoke that command? The word of the Lord is definite in this regard, as evidenced in the modem revelations. (See D & C 56:1-4.) An example from the New Testament may be appropriately referred to when the Lord commanded his disciples not to take purse and scrip (baggage), but subsequently, when circumstances and conditions were different, he counseled them to take purse and scrip (Luke 22:35-36; Mt. 10:9-10). Another example in our dispensation when conditions released the saints from compliance to a command was the building of the temple in Jackson County, Missouri. Due to circumstances, the persecution of the saints, this commandment was also placed in abeyance. (See D & C 124:49-51.) Conversion Necessary It is evident from the revelations already referred to in this lesson, that obedience to the law of consecration requires that the members of the Church live on a high moral plane, keeping the commandments to the extent that thev are able to eliminate greed, selfishness, dishonesty, and other barriers to living the great commandment — to love one's neighbor as oneself. 686 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT The testimony of the gospel is a necessary step in the accomplishment of this purpose, but there remains the fact that one must still, as a member of the Church, be "born again." (See Alma, chapter 5.) The Welfare Plan Over two decades ago, by revelation to the leadership of the Church, there was inaugurated the Welfare Plan. Conditions at that time brought into existence a program designed to meet the circumstances of the times. Through the years since 1936, this program has made great advances in the accomplishment of the objectives which brought it into being. The existence of the "bishop's storehouse," originally a part of the law of consecration, is known to all Latter-day Saints. The accumulated stocks of food, clothing, and other materials in these buildings for the use of faithful members of the Church in need, have demonstrated the complete justification for such a plan. 'To some in the Church, however, there is another reason for the Welfare Program other than to take care of the present needs of the people. Appropriate to this lesson are the remarks made in a General Conference by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., of the First Presidency, when he compared the Welfare Plan with the law of consecration. We have all said that the Welfare Plan is not the United Order and was not intended to be. However, I should like to suggest to you that perhaps, after all, when the Welfare Plan gets thoroughly into operation — it is not so yet — we shall not be so very far from carrying out the great fundamentals of the United Order. 687 In the first place I repeat again, the United Order recognized and was built upon the principle of private ownership of property; all that a man had and lived upon under the United Order, was his own. Quite obviously, the fundamental principle of our system today is the ownership of private property. In the next place, in lieu of residues and surpluses which were accumulated and built upon under the United Order, we, today, have our fast offerings, our Welfare donations, and our tithing, all of which may be devoted to the care of the poor, as well as for the carrying on of the activities and business of the Church. After all, the United Order was primarily designed to build up a system under which there should be no abjectly poor, and this is the purpose, also, of the Welfare Plan. In this connection it should be observed that it is clear from these earlier revelations, as well as from our history, that the Lord had very early to tell the people about the wickedness of idleness, and the wickedness of greed, because the brethren who had were not giving properly, and those who had not were evidently intending to live without work on the things which were to be received from those who had property. (D & C 56:16-20) Furthermore, we had under the United Order a bishop's storehouse in which were collected the materials from which to supply the needs and the wants of the poor. We have a bishop's storchouse under the Welfare Plan, used for the same purpose. As I have already indicated, the surplus properties which came to the Church under the Law of Consecration, under the United Order, became the "common property" of the Church (D & C 82:18) and were handled under the United Order for the benefit of the poor. We have now under the Welfare Plan all over the Church, ward land projects. In some cases the lands are owned by the wards, in others they are leased by the wards or Jent to them by private individuals. This land is being farmed for the benefit of the poor, by the poor where you can get the poor to work it. 688 We have in place of the two treasuries, the "Sacred Treasury" and "Another Treasury," the general funds of the Church. Thus you will see, brethren, that in many of its great essentials, we have, as the Welfare Plan has now developed, the broad essentials of the United Order. Furthermore, having in mind the assistance which is being given from time to time and in various wards to help set people up in business or in farming, we have a plan which is not essentially unlike that which was in the United Order when the poor were given portions from the common fund (Conference Report, October 3, 1942, pp. 57-58). Questions for Discussion 1. Tell of the times before our dispensation when the Lord's people have tried RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 to follow an order which would provide for their economic welfare. What principles were necessary to follow in order that the system be successful? 2. What did the Prophet Joseph Smith say in reference to having all things in common? 3. What are some of the principles in the law of consecration? 4. Wherein does the law of consecration differ from communism today? 5. For what purpose were the surpluses arising out of the law of consecration to be used? 6. Discuss: The Lord revokes a commandment. 7. According to President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., what lesson might one receive as to the purpose of the Welfare Plan in reference to the law of consecration? 8. What responsibilities does Relief Society have in the Welfare Plan? Visiting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 28—"Thou Shalt Not Be Idle.. (D&C 42:42) Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, January 3, 1961 Objective: To avoid being idle, we must be actively engaged in a good cause. N this nuclear, automated, busy life, most of us would be shocked if we were accused of being idle. In our rush from task to task and from responsibility to responsibility, the majority of us can't seem to stretch our twenty-four-hour days far enough to accomplish all we wish to do. Could this commandment possibly apply to us today? Despite the rush of our lives, could we still be guilty of being idle? What is meant by being idle? Socrates said, "Not only is he idle who is doing nothing, but he that might be better employed." The dictionary tells us that idleness is not the absence of action, but that it denotes vain action. It is the absence of useful, effective action. Then, the question we might ask LESSON DEPARTMENT ourselves is this, are we avoiding idleness by using our time to the best advantage? If we are willing to accept this interpretation of the meaning of idleness, when we clutter our lives with futile, vain, or trifling activities, we are guilty of being idle. Likewise, if we allow our time to be consumed in aimless pursuit, if we do not improve ourselves, the situation of our neighbor, or the character of our environment, we are idle. Fully aware of our human tendencies to "busy" ourselves with idleness, our Father in_ heaven, through his prophets over the ages, has repeatedly warned us to use our time constructively. We are told that "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread..." (Gen. 3:19); and "Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer" (D & C 42:42). In applying this commandment to our own lives, we must not overlook the fact that idleness has spiritual and mental as well as physical implications. Regardless of how busy we may be in a physical sense, many of us may actually be idle in developing ourselves mentally and spiritually. If we fail to use our time constructively, to develop ourselves mentally and spiritually, we cannot hope to "... Eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer." The food which nourishes us spiritually and mentally we ourselves must prepare, no one else can do it for us. In his epistle to Timothy, Paul chides the members of the Church for being idle.. Wandering about from house to house; and not only idle, but tattlers also 689 and busybodies, speaking things which they ought not (I Timothy 5:13). Ezekiel, in describing the sins and iniquity of Sodom, said:.. Pride... Abundance of idleness was in her and in her daughters, neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy (Ezekiel 16:49). The story is told of an individual who had a dream about a large building where people came to buy back precious time they had squandered. First came a young man who said, "I have been promised an important position if I am prepared to take it. But I am not prepared. The two years I should have spent in study I used in frivolous pastimes. Let me buy back those two years of time." Next in line was an older woman who said to the clerk, "When it was too late, I discovered that God had given me great talents which I failed to develop. Sell me back ten years that I might be the woman I could have been." With the gifts of life and free agency we can, if we so desire, organize our time so as to employ it advantageously. In exercising our free agency in this modern day, we should avoid cluttering our minds with shoddy literature. We should shun the wastefulness of trashy movies, TV shows, and radio programs. Unless we are extremely selective, these can consume our precious hours. 'These wasteful activities often press in on us and make us think we are busy when, actually, our time could be better used for beautiful, useful, and soulsatisfying activities. We should also be deeply grateful for the wonderful opportunities 690 of avoiding idleness through service in the Church. In the wide variety of activities offered in the Church program, we can develop our talents while serving others. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 Let us strive to place the right appraisal upon the values in life. Then shall we know the joys and satisfactions of a life free from idleness. Vork ITleeting— Caring for the Sick in the Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4 — Making the Patient Comfortable Maria Johnson For Tuesday, January 10, 1961 Objective: To become aware of the importance of good posture for the patient in bed and the need for frequent change of position. To learn how to arrange pillows, make the patient's bed, and to use improvised equipment and other devices that will help to hasten the patient's recovery. Good Posture in Bed T' was comparatively recently that the importance of the patient's posture in bed and the need for frequent change of position became an essential part of nursing care. Today good posture for the patient in bed is recognized as important, as is good posture when walking, standing, or sitting. Resting in bed is usually thought of as a very comfortable state: yet lying in bed does not insure rest. It can be very tiring if the body is not properly supported. To have a low backache when one gets up in the morning or after a nap is frequently the result of poor posture while lying in bed. A sagging mattress that prevents good posture is often the offender. Movement and good posture go hand in hand. The healthy person, in her daily activities and when sleeping, shifts her position frequently. No one is expected to stand for any length of time without, in some way, altering her position; likewise, no patient, unable to move herself, should be left for long periods of time without a change of position. Change of position prevents fatigue, deformities, and undue pressure on areas where bedsores may develop. 'These patients must have encouragement and assistance in moving. Today, patients are encouraged to do as much for themselves as their condition permits. The physician will advise as to their limitations. It is now common practice in hospitals for maternity patients, and for many surgical and medical patients, to be allowed to get out of bed and do some walking about. Many go to the bathroom; some can _ take their own sponge baths when the equipment is prepared and placed within easy reach. A patient may need some help, such as washing the back. If she can wash only her LESSON DEPARTMENT face, she is encouraged to do that much. Some patients, and their relatives, interpret this as neglect due to shortage of nurses. This is not so. This activity is a part of the treatment necessary to speed recovery. Activity is essential for the 691 normal functioning of all parts and organs of the body, and the patient who moves about gains her strength back much more rapidly than the patient who is inactive. Be sure to get the doctor's advice as to how much activity the patient may have. NIN ==] RIGHT POSITION IN BED Pillow is under shoulders and head. WRONG POSITION IN BED Wead thrust forward on chest. I — Devices for Improving the Patient's Posture and Ensuring Her Comfort (Do not neglect to watch your own posture; review rules given in Lesson 3.) Among the most common devices are pillows. Limitations. You will need a variety of sizes, large, small, hard, and soft. Full-sized, large pillows have many There is no one best way to arrange pillows since the size and hardness or softness play a big part in how effectively they can be used. The key to all arrangements is the alignment of the patient's body. Chest. Head. (See illustrations.) extend over the mattress, instead of resting on a pillow. Alignment by the pillow and the feet are stretched out of normal position. Note the pillow is under the head but not under side-lying position see illustration. Always make certain that the head is not thrust forward on the When the patient les on her back arrange the pillow under her shoulders and If there is space at the end of the mattress, the feet can The head is pushed out of For the shoulder. There is also support for the upper arm, leg, and foot. For a semi-sitting position, the back, neck, and head may be supported with two or three pillows, staggered so each overlaps part way. Pillow to tuck in so the head will be in good position. You may need an extra small When the patient is propped up in a higher position, you need a hard surface, such as an upholstered chair cushion or cardboard box, cut to fit, to use as a base for the pillows. A footrest supports the feet and also protects the toes from the weight of the covers. Note the roll under the knees in the illustration. A roll under the knees must be used with caution, and for short periods of time only. If the legs are supported with a roll day after day, the under leg muscles will shorten so the patient will be unable: to straighten them out when she is ready to walk. 692 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 iv a | SIDE-LYING POSITION PILLOW ARRANGEMENT WITH BACK REST FOR HIGH POSITION II—Points to Observe When Making the Bed for a Sick Patient tv Linen under the patient must be smooth and free from wrinkles at all times. This means it must stay tight; for the patient who does not move about, a wrinkle or crumb can, in a few hours, mean the beginning of a dreaded bedsore. To make the bed tight, allow about 15 to 18 inches to tuck in at the head of the bed and make square corners at the sides. (See illustrations. ) TO MAKE A SQUARE CORNER Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 LESSON DEPARTMENT 693 3. Use long strokes when tucking in the linen so it will be smooth, not rumpled, under the mattress, and will stay tucked in. 4. Use a drawsheet over the lower sheet. This is a folded sheet or a special narrow cotton sheet about four feet wide, extending from the patient's shoulders to her knees, and long enough to tuck in 15 or 18 inches on each side. This helps to keep the linen tight and is easy to change if the bed becomes soiled. 5. If the patient uses the bedpan or has any condition or treatment that may wet the bed, a rubber or waterproof protective sheet, such as oilcloth, is used under the draw sheet. It should be several inches narrower than the cotton sheet. 6. If the protecting sheet is not long enough to tuck in on both sides, stitch a piece of muslin on each end long enough for a 15 or 18 inch tuck in. It will wrinkle if not tucked in well. 7. When putting on the upper covers, provide for toe room. This may be done by making a wide box pleat lengthwise in the sheet and blanket or by making a wide fold across the foot of the bed. 8. Most bedspreads are heavy and hard to keep clean on the sick bed. A sheet makes a good cover and gives the patient a sense of case as she does not fear getting it soiled from crayons, books, etc. Key Points in making a comfortable bed: clean linen; tight, smooth lower sheets; top sheet and blankets high enough to cover the patient's shoulders; a pleat at the bottom for toe space; protection for the mattress. IV — To Change the Linen Under a Sick Patient Put bath blanket over patient and remove top covers and pillows. Have patient move to far side of bed and turn on side facing away from you. Loosen the linen and roll first the lower sheet then the cotton draw sheet toward center of the bed and well under the patient. Fold the rubber draw sheet over the patient, as it will not be necessary to take it off the bed.. Make up this side of the bed: place the lower sheet with the lengthwise fold in the center of the bed; fanfold the top half next to the patient. 'T'uck in the lower half at top of the mattress, then at the side.. Bring the rubber sheet in place and tuck it in. Place the clean cotton draw sheet in place with the center fold in the center of the bed. Fold the top half as you did the lower sheet and tuck in the lower half. Go around to the other side of the bed. Have the patient move to the opposite side. Take out the soiled linen. Pull the clean sheets in place and tuck them in. Be sure the sheets are pulled tight and that no wrinkles are left in the bed. Ne i nC r= —ae - Note: If a patient is able to sit in a chair, make the bed while she is sitting up. V — The Overbed Table You will find many uses for the overbed table. It is easy to improvise. One simple way is to cut both long sides of a large carton. A larger table can be made from a card table; however, a card table will not fit over a standard single bed. Turn under two legs and prop this side of the table on books or hard cushions and let the other legs rest on the floor. They will need to be supported on a stool or something so as to make the table level. The large table can hold a variety of things of interest to the patient — books, cards, crayons, toys, etc. A child soon tires of one thing and becomes testless. She will be much more content to stay in bed if she can change from one interest to another. A Ponape Nineties': Literature Comes of Age Lesson 20 — Natty Bumppo, American Fiction-Hero Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 221-223) For Tuesday, January 17, 1961 Objective: 'To acknowledge Cooper's Natty Bumppo as creating and symbolizing the wild beauty of primitive America. Cooper, Frustrated Idealist N a very real sense James Fenimore Cooper loved his vision of the Ideal America so wholeheartedly and so belligerently that it killed him. Too democratic for Europe, too aristocratic for Jacksonian America, for almost the last twenty years of his life he fought with full, manly vigor to defend the unswerving integrity of his dream of what America should be. Never did he admit that he was a leader without a party defending a cause forever past. While staying in English hotels he had become infuriated with reading the insults penned onto the hotel registers following names whose homes were listed as "U. S. A." Understandably, his fury was more intense when, upon returning to the country he had defended so staunchly, he thought its inhabitants had degenerated into a vulgar, money-mad mob. In that age of rowdy expansionism, when such terms as "liar" and "garbage" were journalistic commonplaces, Cooper soon got what he had asked for by his frontal attack on his sensitive, ambitious, and proud countrymen. The public press lambasted him as "assassin," and "'leprous wretch," making him the most popular novelist but the most unpopular man in America. The amazed, frustrated Cooper became so embittered that he instructPage 694 ed his family to allow no "official" biography ever to be written, which gave his oldest, most loyal daughter her justification for burning most of his personal papers and for having his most personal journals buried with her at her own death. If Cooper's intention was alienation, he was successful, for without such personal materials, literary historians have found it most difficult to create a picture of Cooper. In another sense, this intentional destruction has proved fortunate, since it intensifies the artistic and cultural creativity within his novels as essential expressions of Cooper himself. The greatest value, however, lies in his novels creating a great national symbol which revealed a system of belief not only to the countrymen of Cooper's own day but to a sympathetic audience of international scope through time. Ever since the end of the Revolution in 1783, the United States had been striving to establish a literary independence from Great Britain, but before Cooper, the new Nation had never had a symbol which could possibly assert it. Cooper, then, assumes dual importance: he was the first American to write frankly about his country and criticize it vigorously, and he created in Natty Bumppo (hero of the Leather-Stocking Tales) a truly representative American symbol and LESSON DEPARTMENT myth, by means of which American literature first achieved its unique identity. Cooper's Conflicts Cooper had within himself several basic conflicts intensifying the tensions within himself out of which art is produced. For example, during his years in France, he was an intimate friend of the aging liberal, Lafayette. Cooper defended the American Revolution and _ gave financial support to the revolt in Poland, yet, upon returning home, he feared the democratic mob. With every reason to entrench himself with the wealthy Whigs, he fought them, not so much because he believed in Jacksonian Democracy as that he feared the money-grabbing zeal of the new manufacturing and capitalistic classes. In his anti-rent trilogy (Satanstoe, Chainbearer, Redskins) he fought vigorously, defending the right of the landed gentry to maintain financial control of their lands, yet his most famous novels are laid beyond the frontier where no law save that of God and nature prevails. Feeling increasingly ill at ease in lawful, civilized society, Cooper sought escape by going beyond the frontiers. He created the person he would like to be, if only he could be free of the increasingly complex problems of his world. It is in Natty Bumppo that one finds the source of his literary power and his world-wide popularity. And _ the emergence of Natty Bumppo (also called Deerslayer, Leather-Stocking, Long Rifle, Hawkeye, the Trapper) can be more thoroughly understood once more if Cooper's basic attitudes toward fiction are stated. 695 Cooper's Literary Theories Never a novelist so much as a moralist masquerading in the literary costumes currently in vogue, Cooper regarded fiction as a lesser form of literature than poetry, yet for him fiction was a means of earning a good living and, more important, for getting his personal convictions into circulation. Resigning himself, therefore, to use the novel as he found it, he used stale plots, created wooden characters, and, when his imagination was not fired by his subject, employed the stiff formalities of language then accepted as a badge of quality and social station. Just a few of the trite, wornout phrases from the pages of The Last of the Mohicans show some of the qualities of language which Bret Harte and Mark 'Twain burlesqued: "feverish suspense," "scalding tears," "babbling brook," "the gun poured out its fatal contents," "he gnashed his teeth with rage," and "the savage grated his teeth together like rasps of iron." In his novels Cooper was both a realistic and a romantic writer. He was drawn to realistic writing in reaction against the popular horror of Gothic romances and the sob-seduction-sentiment romances which flooded the bookshops. Also, he believed an American novel should include as much of real America as it possibly could, presenting actual conditions as they really were. 'To tell the moral truth as he saw it was the basis of his books and the frequent debates they contained. Cooper, be it always remembered, was fundamentally the moralist who wished to depict ideal characters and actions. Because these virtues could best be brought to imaginative life in romance, he laid the Leather-Stocking 'Tales (The Pioneers, The Deerslayer, The Last of the Mohicans, The Prairie, The Pathfinder) in a place distant in time and beyond the frontier. In such idealized surroundings, Natty Bumppo was truly in his element. Here are to be found lore about the mysterious Indian, pursuit, escape, suspense, the serene majesty of unspoiled nature; here, the reader's heart absorbs Natty's virtues into himself as if they were his own; here lies the great western dream fulfilled. Natty Bumppo On May 25, 1831, Cooper wrote from Paris to his nephew in Cooperstown: Your Aunt Pomeroy is afraid we shall become too Europeanized for home. She knows little of our tastes or wishes.... Now my longing is for a wilderness — Cooperstown is far too populous and artificial for me, and it is my intention to plunge somewhere into the forest, for six months in the year, at my return. It was this "longing... For a wilderness" in Cooper which gave birth to Natty who symbolized the "wilderness of liberty" which both Cooper and his age associated with the millions of acres of land lying to the west still unspoiled by such cruel, wolfish squatters or frontiersmen as Ishmael] Bush in The Prairie. In another sense, Natty combines the strongest moral qualities of civilization and Christianity. And, while his original creation of Natty in The Pioneers (1823) was undoubtedly a spontaneous product of Cooper's intuitive genius, it is in his 1850 Preface to the Leather-Stocking Tales that Cooper precisely states his true identity and significance: A leading character in a work of fiction has a fair right to the aid which can be obtained from a poetical view of the subject. It is in this view, rather than in one more strictly circumstantial, that Leather-Stocking has been drawn. The imagination has no great task in portraying to itself a being removed from the everyday inducements to err, which abound in civilized life, while he retains the best and simplest of his early impressions; who sees God in the forest; hears him in the winds; bows to him in the firmament that o'ercanopies all; submits to his way in a humble belief of his justice and mercy; in a word, a being who finds the impress of the Deity in all the works of nature, without any of the blots produced by the expedients, and passions, and mistakes of man. 'This is the most that has been attempted in the character of LeatherStocking. Cooper's greatest artistic accomplishment was to combine in this one romantic poetic character three great culture-forces of pre-Civil War America: (1) the intuitive wisdom and the ecstatic feeling of being continuously reborn, which romantic lovers of nature believed they, too, would feel were they to walk alone amid the untainted, primeval grandeur of America's western Eden; (2) the eighteenth-century tradition of "gifts" and station which sustained the high concepts of gentle manliness and honor and kindness produced out of generations of blood-proud, name-proud family ties; and (3) constant reference to Christian ethics and piety as guides for action in judgment: the "good" man is dominated by quiet, strong reverence for all forms of life in nature, including all humankind. Courageous yet gentle, chaste while loving all God's creations, he is never tainted by temper or hatred, and kills either animal or human reluctantly, and only when he must do so to survive. 696 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT Thus Cooper is the first American writer to achieve the full stature of creating myth, or an_ artistic, symbolic creation containing those drives and beliefs within a culture which are so strong, so automatic, so basic that often they are not formally stated. As a romanticized idealization of what strong, unspoiled, believing man should be, Natty Bumppo is "as great a hero as Homer's Achilles or Virgil's Aeneas," to quote an anonymous Englishman who wrote Cooper his esteem for LeatherStocking, his best-loved character in fiction. Homer's Iliad and Odyssey were memorized and chanted aloud by Homer's own and later ages, so completely were those works loved, so definitely did they give a mirroring identity to that ancient people. In identical manner Cooper gave a fictional body not only to the idealized wish-fulfillments of the nineteenth century, but to our day of electronic communication as well. For Gary Cooper in chaps, six-guns, steely eye, and quiet drawl is the spiritchild and worthy representative of his sire, James Fenimore Cooper. The locale (beyond the "'law"); the morality (good men vs. Bad men) with virtue, honesty, and uncanny nature-lore always triumphant; the eternal pursuit-escape-suspense "inthe-nick-of-time" rescue — all these are Cooper's creations. Little could Walt Whitman know how truly he spoke when he acknowledged Coopers great achievement as being "from everlasting to everlasting." No longer does one speak of "the vanishing West" with clear conscience, for never has the Old West been more featured than now. If 697 Cooper did not create the historic Daniel Boone and Davy Crockett, at least he created them imaginatively in their blood-brother, Natty Bumppo, who, through his endless imitations, seems to enjoy more imaginative power in our century than in his own. The Poetic Cooper Despite Cooper's weaknesses in language, plot, and characterization already noted, the Leather-Stocking Tales, as unified by Natty Bumppo, are his enduring monument. As proof that Cooper was not entirely awate of what he had created, note how the series begins with The Pioneers (1823) which depicts LeatherStocking as a man in his early seventies living in about 1793 amid surroundings very similar to those of early Cooperstown, basically a realistic book. 'The series ends with The Deerslayer (1841) in which Leather-Stocking is about twentythree, living about 1740, really a poetic vision of Leather-Stocking's birth into maturity and manhood. In The Last of the Mohicans (1826) our hero was in his mid-thirties, while in The Prairie (1827) Leather-Stocking, a man of eighty or more years, dies at the end of the book, only to be resurrected in The Pathfinder (1840) thirteen years later. In the order of composition, then, the shape of the Leather-Stocking Tales is from reality to poetry. The excerpts in our text from The Last of the Mohicans fairly represent two apparent sources of Cooper's popular appeal: Chapter XXXII is filled with cunning, courage, suspense, and the deaths of the villainous Magua and the virtuous Uncas. Chapter XXXIII is a senti- mental tableau surrounding the slain Cora as, with fittingly excessive displays of emotion, she is prepared for burial. But as reminders of Cooper's great story-telling gifts, consider first the strong feeling of place and the specific details of reality he catches in Chapter I of The Pioneers: Near the center of the state of New York lies an extensive district of country, whose surface is a succession of hills and dales.... It is among these hills that the Delaware takes its rise; and flowing from the limpid lakes and thousand springs of this region, the numerous sources of the Susquehanna meander through the valleys, until, uniting their streams, they form one of the proudest rivers of the United States.... The vales are narrow, rich, and cultivated, with a stream uniformly winding through each. Beautiful and thriving villages are found interspersed along the margins of the small lakes, or situated at those points of the streams which are favorable for manufacturing; and neat and comfortable farms, with every indication of wealth about them, are scattered profusely through the vales, and even to the mountain tops.... Now compare the above combination of romantic scene and realistic detail written in 1823 when Cooper was just beginning his career, with the tone of pure poetic beauty and majesty in the following excerpts from Chapter VII of The Deerslayer written in 1841, eighteen years later, when the mature Cooper is fully aware of the mythic quallities he has created in Natty - Leather - Stocking - Deerslayer - Hawkeye. The chapter tells how, at dawning, significantly the hour of epic events in Cooper, innocent young Deerslayer kills his first Indian, which becomes his baptism into maturity. Note also how the chapter exemplifies the three great forces: nature worship, chivalric manliness, Christian forgiveness. Day had fairly dawned before the young man... Again opened his eyes.... His rest had been deep and undisturbed; and when he awoke, it was with a clearness of intellect and a readiness of resources that were much needed at that particular moment. 'The sun had not yet risen, it is true, but the vault of heaven was rich with the winning softness that "brings and shuts the day," while the whole air was filled with the carols of birds, the hymns of the feathered tribe.. He searches for the canoe which he must find and protect from the Indians at all costs. The canoe adrift being directed by no such intelligence, pursued its proper way, and grounded on a small sunken rock, at the distance of three or four yards from the shore... Then it rose a_hairsbreadth on an almost imperceptible swell of the water, swung round, floated clear, and reached the strand. All this the young man noted, but it neither quickened his pulses, nor hastened his hand.... As Deerslayer drew nearer and nearer to the land, the stroke of his paddle grew slower, his eye became more watchful, and his ears and nostrils almost dilated with the effort to detect any lurking danger.... Equally free from recklessness and hesitation, his advance was marked by a sort of philosophical prudence that appeared to render him superior to all motives but those which were best calculated to effect his purpose.... When about a hundred yards from the shore, Deerslayer rose in the canoe, gave three or four vigorous strokes with the paddle.... He was in the very act of raising the rifle, when a sharp report was followed by the buzz of a bullet that passed so near his body as to cause him involuntarily to start.... The Indian reveals himself rashly. This was the moment the young man desired. He rose on the instant, and levelled his own rifle at his uncovered foe; but his finger hesitated about pulling the 698 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT trigger on one whom he held at such a disadvantage. This little delay probably saved the life of the Indian.... Leaping ashore, Deerslayer enters the temple of nature and sees the Indian's arm move as he reloads behind an oak.. Nothing would have been easier than to spring forward and decide the affair by a close assault on his unprepared foe; but every feeling of Deerslayer revolted at such a step, although his own life had just been attempted from a cover... It struck him as an unfair advantage to assail an unarmed foe. His color had heightened, his eye frowned, his lips were compressed, and all his energies were collected and ready; but, instead of advancing to fire, he dropped his rifle to the usual position of a sportsman in readiness to catch his aim, and muttered to himself, unconscious that he was speaking: "'No, no — that may be redskin warfare, but it's not a Chnistian's gift. Let the miscreant charge, and then we'll take it out like men; for the canoe he must not, and shal] not have. No, no; let him have time to load, and God will pe take care of the right! The two greet each other, bow, converse, shake hands, then walk in apparent friendship to the canoes. As they part, Decrslayer glances at the Indian, but, ashamed of his distrust, begins to launch his canoe, when, in a lightning glance, he sees the Indian preparing to fire at him. Almost in a single motion he cocks and fires his rifle "aiming almost without sighting," and though the Indian throws his tomahawk, he is mortally wounded. Deerslayer takes him to the lake for the drink he requested, then places his head in his lap, which the Indian might regard as a preliminary to his being scalped, but Deerslayer reassures him: "All inmity atween you and me's at an 699 ind, red-skin and you may set your heart at rest on the score of the scalp, or any further injury. My gifts are white, as I've told you; and I hope my conduct qe will be white also! The Indian understands his good intentions, and: With the high, innate courtesy that so often distinguishes the Indian warrior before he becomes corrupted by too much intercourse with the worst class of the white man, he endeavored to express his thankfulness for the other's good intentions, and to Iet him understand that they were appreciated. Dying with composure, he renames Deerslayer "Hawkeye" and expires. Hawkeye braces the body up in a dignified sitting posture overlooking the lake, then soliloquizes: I didn't wish your life, red-skin... But you left me no choice atween killing, or being killed. Each party acted according to his gifts, I suppose, and blame can light on neither.... And why should I wish to boast of it a'ter all? It's slaying a human, although he was a savage; and how do I know that he was a just injin; and that he has not been taken away suddenly to anything but happy huntinggrounds? When it's onsartin whether good or evil has been done, the wisest thing is not to be boastful — still, I should like Chingachgook to know that I haven't discredited the Delawares or my training! If ever our modern industrial, scientific, busy world were to be replaced by an ideal existence amid the simple goodness of a pure, moral, beautiful human society, Cooper's creation should receive prime consideration. It is admittedly a nevernever land of beauty too lovely to be granted to mortals; it is, in addiit so originally American as to be universal and therefore beyond time. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Discuss Cooper's opinion of fiction as a form of writing. 2. Do you feel Natty Bumppo to be truly a myth? A true American? A true American creation? 3. Discuss Cooper as a symbol of America's literary independence. 4. Who were Achilles and Aeneas? Social Science—Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 10 —Expanding Our Religious Horizons — Part IIl — Man's Relatedness to the World Elder Blaine M. Porter For 'Tuesday, January 24, 1961 Objective: To discover how our philosophy of man's relatedness to the world influcnces our potentialities for spiritual living. Introduction HE purpose we find in life and the value we place upon people are important in determining the kind of relationship we establish with God, the kind of relationships we establish with our fellow men, and the potentialities we possess for spiritual living. One of the most exciting aspects of religious experience is the wondering, the marveling, the becoming aware of life and of one's own existence, and of the puzzling problem of one's relatedness to the world. Socrates' statement that "wonder is the beginning of all wisdom" could also be applied to the religious experience. One who has never been bewildered, who has never looked upon life and his own existence as phenomena which require answers, and yet paradoxically for which the answers are mainly new questions, has missed an important and enriching kind of religious experience. Necd for Religious Orientation The need for a system of orientation and devotion is an intrinsic part of human existence. Everyone has a religious need. Man is free to choose between different types of ideals and religious values. Man may worship the sun, thunder, idols of gold or stone, an invisible God, or tyrannical leaders. He may worship his ancestors, his political party, money, or success. His religion may be conducive to the development of destructiveness or of love; power and domination over others or of brotherliness. The question is not religion or no religion, but which kind of religion. Does one's orientation and approach to life seek to serve mankind and the unfolding of man's human powers for good, or does it seek to dominate, enslave, or otherwise exploit mankind? This question is basic and needs to be answered honestly and objectively. Exclusive Philosophy The recorded religious history of man reveals that from a very early period, many people believed in a 700 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT tribal deity, and today we still have those who believe in a God who looks with favor only upon the elect. And, likewise, there are some who seek to exclude and restrict those who appear to be different, so that many of the rights and _ privileges God intended man to have are denied to many. An exclusive philosophy seriously hits the religious horizons of a person and is likely to spell ultimate disaster in the nuclear age unless it is essentially removed. Inclusive Philosophy An approach which wholeheartedly subscribes to the philosophy of the fatherhood of God and_ the brotherhood of man not onlv allows, but encourages an individual to reach out to his fellow men with warmth in all directions. It is the philosophy based on the premise that all human beings are born free and equal in their right to be respected and granted the human dignity to which any child of God is entitled. The impartiality and inclusiveness of God are demonstrated in the following passages of scripture: Then Peter opened his mouth, and said, Of a truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons: But in every nation he that feareth him, and worketh righteousness, is accepted with him (Acts 10:34-35). Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free; but Christ is all, and in all (Colossians 3:11). For behold, my beloved brethren, I say unto you that the Lord God worketh not in darkness. He doeth not anything save it be for 701 the benefit of the world; for he Joveth the world, even that he layeth down his own life that he may draw all men unto him. Wherefore, he commandeth none that they shall not partake of his salvation.. Hath he commanded any that they should not partake of his salvation? Behold I say unto you, Nay; but he hath given it free for all men; and he hath commanded his people that they should persuade all men to repentance. Behold, hath the Lord commanded any that they should not partake of his goodness? Behold I say unto you, Nay; but all men are privileged the one like unto the other, and none are forbidden (2 Nephi 26:23-24, 27-28). This approach recognizes that all the children of God should have the opportunities and _ privileges which will help them develop and maintain the dignity and self-respect to which every human being is entitled. Latter-day Saint Views The gospel of Jesus Christ as revealed to Latter-day Saints offers some of the greatest challenges ever presented to man for living creatively with his fellow men. As Latterday Saints, we wholeheartedly subscribe to the belief of the brotherhood of man and sense a responsibility to do all in our power to improve his lot and enhance his development. President McKay said: One of the two great, general principles to which all other principles are subsidiary is this: "Love your neighbour as yourself," (see Matt. 19:19) and correlated with it, the promise: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." (Ibid., 25:40.) The gospel "bids the strong bear the burdens of the weak, and to use the advantages given them by their larger 702 opportunities in the interest of the common good, that the whole level of humanity may be lifted and the path of spiritual attainment be opened to the weakest and most ignorant," as well as to the strong and intelligent (McKay, Davip O.: Gospel Ideals, page 47). The Latter-day Saint concept of respect for and responsibility to our fellow men is demonstrated in the following statements by the Prophet Joseph Smith:.. I am just as ready to die in defending the rights of a Presbyterian, a Baptist, or a good man of any other denomination; for the same principle which would trample upon the rights of the Latter-day Saints would trample upon the rights of the Roman Catholics, or of any other denomination who may be unpopular and too weak to defend themselves.... If I esteem mankind to be in error, shall I bear them down? No. I will lift them up, and in their own way too, if I cannot persuade them my way is better; and I will not seek to compel any man to believe as I do, only by the force of reasoning, for truth will cut its own way. Do you believe in Jesus Christ and the Gospel of salvation which He revealed? So do I. Christians should cease wrangling and contending with each other, and cultivate the principles of union and friendship.... (D. H. C. V. Pp. 498-499). Our record as a group, viewed from a positive perspective, is enviable. We have sent food and other supplies to people driven from their homes by floods and other catastrophies. We have sent missionaries to people in many parts of the world to share with them a religion which we believe will enrich their lives and bring them salvation. We have been an industrious people who have been willing to share the fruits of our efforts with others. We have sponsored educational programs which, among other pursuits, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 have attempted to increase our understanding of man. However, from another perspective, we have individuals among us who are prejudiced in their behavior and feelings. 'There are some who are reluctant to give audience to new ideas and concepts, even though they conform to basic, eternal truths, forgetting our responsibility to seek truth wherever we may find it — always testing new ideas, theories, etc., in order that we may screen out and keep that which is good. Some of us do not extend overtures of charity to others outside our group. Many of us permit the forces of evil to exist and continue without making any effort to eradicate them. President George Albert Smith has suggested a philosophy that would enhance Christian living for all of us: I would be a friend to the friendless and find joy in ministering to the necds of the poor. IT would visit the sick and afflicted and inspire in them a desire for faith to be healed. I would teach the truth to the understanding and blessing of all mankind.... I would not seek to force people to live up to my ideals, but rather love them into doing the thing that is night. I would live with the masses and help to solve their problems that their earth life may be happy.... I would not knowingly wound the feelings of any, not even one who may have wronged me but would seek to do him good and make him my friend. I would overcome the tendency to selfishness and jealousy and rejoice in_ the successes of all the children of my Heavenly Father. I would not be an enemy to any living soul. LESSON DEPARTMENT Knowing that the Redeemer of mankind has offered to the world the only plan that will fully develop us and make us really happy here and hereafter, I feel it not only a duty, but also a_ blessed privilege to disseminate truth (Smuiru, GeorcE ALBERT: Sayings of a Saint, pp. 24-25). There are those among us who live their lives in this remarkable world as if it were a telephone booth. Let us try to be more concerned with our fellow men, for human beings are much more extraordinary than we sometimes realize. Widening our Horizons We are living in an exciting era in which man is changing the world in which he lives. The peoples of all nations of the world are truly becoming our neighbors. Not only are technological changes altering the life of man in an almost unbelievable fashion, but the aspirations of man are also changing our world. As Abraham Lincoln once said, "The dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate to the stormy present." Many people are taking a new look at colonialism, low standards of living, ignorance, and illiteracy, some established forms of economic and political organizations, some established value systems, war. 'To understand world-wide changes of our day is an enormous job, but an exciting one. 'T'o achieve peace and brotherhood on any secure, permanent, human basis, will require all the ingenuity, understanding, and charity which we can muster. It will require that we not only implement true principles of Christian living, but that we also effectively teach them to our children in order that they will be prepared to assume the leadership of furthering this cause. 703 If religion is to be allocated its rightful dignity and be allowed to make its potential contribution in our lives, we must dedicate our whole self to that which is highest and best in life. We must dedicate our whole life to creating the optimum conditions under which growth and development can take place within ourselves and others, in order to expericnce our Godlike nature. It means providing an atmosphere of freedom and respect of the worth of an individual, and accepting the basic premise that most people do the best they can considering their circumstances, their background, and their training. Learning how to participate in bringing into actuality a kind of new world brotherhood of which many are dreaming is not a simple matter of learning to distinguish between right and wrong. We shall not make much progress merely by enunciating principles or by holding up ideals. We must broaden our religious horizons so that each individual from the youngest child to the oldest grandparent has a sense of moral purpose in life; a deep and an inescapable sense of personal duty to work for those things which are of supreme good to all men; a respect for the sanctity of personality; the discovery of our true emotion; and the abolishment of the evil and unpleasant in life. We must remind ourselves, however, that the hope of a new world brotherhood is not really new. Two thousand years ago Jesus refused to find satisfaction in the common Jewish hope of a kingdom of God founded on the subjugation of the nation's enemies. His vision of a kingdom of God was not that of his 704 Christmas >) Music For » / SO Women's Three Part Choruses ( ) BETHLEHEM—Bowker............--.20 (| ) BETHLEHEM BELLS—Dunhill.....18 ( ) BIRTHDAY OF A KING— Neidlinger........---..---::---seon ee.20 ( ) CANTIQUE DE NOEL—Adam...22 ( ) CHRIST IS BORN TODAY— Nyquist -..2......222---1-cceeececeeeetecee.20 ( ) CHRISTMAS CANDLE—Warren.22 ( ) COME, HASTEN, YE SHEPHERDS—Ehret _...........----- 25 ( ) GESU, BAMBINO—Yon...........20 ( ) JOY TO THE WORLD—Marzo.20 ( ) | WONDER AS 1 WANDER— Niles.2....2.22...2.-----neeseeeeeeeeeeeeeees.20 ( ) NOWELL—Brett —_....0..000.00..- 16 ( ) O HOLY NIGHT—Adam........ 20 ( ) SILENT NIGHT—Epperson.......20 ( ) STAR OF THE EAST— Kennedy __..0000..2....0.-eceeeeeeeeeeeees.25 ( ) VIRGIN'S SLUMBER SONG— Ce | ree.20 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank 15 E. Lst South Salt Lake City 11, Utah ( { Please send the music indicated above. ' C] On Approval C Charge (0 Money Enclosed Name Address 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 nationalist contemporaries. Jesus' hope of a world brotherhood required tearing down the walls of hate that confined love to those whom it was easy to love. His thought involved learning to love even one's enemies. The task of expanding our horizons in order that we may creatively and lovingly extend ourselves to all men, granting them the dignity and recognition which they inherently deserve, is one of the greatest challenges before us. It is important that an individual take a careful look at his religious philosophy to be sure that he has not merely placed a thin veneer over a way of life that is not basically Christian. President George Albert Smith has declared: The only way to peace for this world is the pathway of the gospel of Jesus Christ our Lord. There is no other... Individual happiness and world-wide peace will not be permanent until those who dwell on the earth accept the gospel and conform their lives to its precepts. It is the power of God unto salvation to all who believe and obey. It is the kind advice of a loving Father (Smiru, GrorcE ALBERT: Sayings of a Saint, pp. 11, 45). President Clark points out great basic truths in the following excerpt: We ought to remember, I feel always, the truths which God has given to us. We live in revolutionary and evolutionary time. The Lord has vouchsafed to us some of the greatest discoveries of all times; he has increased beyond the wildest dreams of the most imaginative poet, our powers of transmission of speech. He has increased our powers of speed of transportation. He has discovered to us great secrets of energy which we know how to create but not yet how to control. We have looked at these things, and we have said in our hearts, and in our specch, that the old has been "outmoded." We see the results, and we believe. But it has been rather an easy transition from the LESSON DEPARTMENT outmoding of these material instrumentalities given by God for our good (and we shall yet use them for the promulgation of truth though not yet do I catch a glimpse even of how in all cases they shall be used, but yet they will be so used) — it has been an easy transition, I say, to affirm that since the physical has become outmoded, so is "outmoded" the moral and the spiritual of the past. In the darkness they are crying out, as we have heard, for a prophet. Brother Romney said that what they need is a listening ear for the prophet they have. But it is wholly fantastic, as I see it, for us to think that man himself is "outmoded," or his moral and spiritual past. We still have the five senses, all we learn and know and experience comes through those five senses. Man has not been given another sense by these great discoveries. Man still thinks as he has always thought, more poignantly, perhaps, more deeply in certain lines than heretofore, but he still thinks, he still speaks, he is still guided by the same great passions of love, hate, ambition, desire to serve the Lord and all the rest of it. We have not changed. We are as God made us originally, save as we have somehow in some things subverted our feelings, our passions, our urges, our ambitions. What I would like to get to you today is my feeling that the spiritual in man, the spirit of man is in no sense whatever "outmoded." He stands today as he stood when he came from the garden. God is still God; Jesus is the Christ. There is no change in that. There has been no change in the great spiritual truths that are essential to our progress spiritually and to our eventual salvation and exaltation. Nothing is changed there. Moreover, we of this Church have our testimony and our knowledge that God still speaks to us, that he does not permit us to wander in darkness and in silence, uninstructed, uninspired, without revelation. No principle of the gospel is more glorious than that principle of continuous revelation because we know that so often as it is necessary our Heavenly Father will again reveal to us all that it is necessary that we should know, in addition to what we now have. 705 Tours for HAWAITI leaving in October, November, and December New Year Rose Parade Tour Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East Salt Lake City AM 2-2337, IN 6-2909 EXCLUSIVE AT SEARS e Charmade lingerie e Ann Barton toiletries e Fairloom dress goods e Kerrybrooke apparel e Kerry-Teen teens' clothing e Royal Purple hosiery e Tradition jewelry sold only at Sears THE SALT LAKE COSTUME COMPANY @ COSTUMES FOR ALL OCCASIONS @ COSTUME FABRICS AND TRIMMING @ HEADQUARTERS FOR AMERICAN FLAGS THE SALT LAKE COSTUME COMPANY 1701 South 11th East Salt Lake City 5, Utah Phone IN 7-9494 _ e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover—$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles..0... 35 150 to 300 miles...... I. 39 300 to 600 miles d 600 to 1000 miles... 1000 to 1400 miles 1400 to 1800 miles Over 1800 miles Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah We are not moving blindly, we are not moving by the maxims of the past only. We are not moving alone, guided only by the revelations given in ancient times. We are moving forward under the revelations given in modern times and are moving forward under a knowledge that if we need further light, it shall be given to us (Crarx, J. Reusen, Jr.: One Hundred Twenty-fifth Annual Church Conference, pp. 34-35). Summary The Latter-day Saint approach to God and man allows for ever-widening religious horizons. It reveals God as a Being of love and acceptance of all men, of man possessing inherently Godlike characteristics, and life being potentially good and purposeful. It teaches that man is a free agent with a moral responsibility to seek out his own salvation and to create the conditions which will be conducive and encouraging for his fellow man also to achieve this goal. It is, however, the responsibility of each of us to develop from these approaches to God and man that which will bring about a world of peace and harmony and brotherhood and which will contribute to God's work and glory "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." A knowledge of a God of love and a philosophy which embodies a mutual love between an individual and his fellow men are basic ingredients in widening our religious horizons and living spiritually in the nuclear age. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What was Jesus' answer to the lawyer who asked, "Who is my neighbor?" 2. (Homework) Let each one evaluate his own record regarding his relationship to others. 706 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 ERMA WHITE'S ZIM'S Established 1932 Christmas Came Early To Zim''s FIESTA TOURS as low as 7 Feb. 1961: as low as Send for Our FREE Catalog q} $259 for 17 days. IN 7-4722 Christmas Idea Folder The BEST in HANDICRAFT If no answer call IN 6-2455 2890 Melbourne Street Salt Lake City 6, Utah supplies— Vv ri y en LEARN TO ewest Ideas TYPEWRITE! V_ Largest Stocks V Most Variety FOAM AND TOTE BAGS, CANDLE SUPPLIES, BASKETRY, STYROFOAM, ALUMINUM TRAYS, MOSAICS, COPPER TOOLING, TEXTILE PAINTS, JEWELRY AND BOUTIQUE MATERIALS, ALL FLOWER SUPPLIES, COPPER ENAMELING, POPSICLE STICKS—EVERYTHING IN HANDICRAFTS! New Classes Begin Soon alogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. } Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah Discounts to Groups ZIM'S 240 East 2d South Salt Lake City, Utah Og Cg Rg eg Og OO OO Og OO Oo Oe OO Og gg gg gg gS sss sss sss ss sss OO OOK OA OM OAOKS SOROS OOOO OSSD Page 707 Come in and see our many new ideas and materials for CHISTMAS DECORATIONS, GIFTS, and BAZAARS Projects for all age groups and Wholesale to Dealers "Bamous for Fun" HAWAII Jan, 1961 $349. MEXICO $50 FREE EARLY BIRD BONUS Adult classes for Relief Society and gene- HAWAL Calling You! Let your dreams comes true. Join the Vida Fox Clawson "Aloha Week" Tour—October 14-27 or November 10-23. For Free Folders Write: Vida Fox Clawson Travel Service 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah DA 8-0303 Your Best Buys in CRAFTS K. D. NOVELTY 1940 West 3500 South Art Foam and "Totes"' Christmas Materials Artificial Flowers and Plants Florist Supplies Decorations Balloons Crepe Paper Eyes for Stuffed Toys Fish Pond Items Carnival Supplies Many Other Items Wholesale and Retail (Catalogs Available) Page 708 Birthday Congratulations Ninety-five Mrs. Herena Mary Hayes LATER Rigby, Idaho Mrs. Mauve W. FarnswortH Orem, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Marcaret Dixie Pace BLACKBURN Berkeley, California Mrs. ANGELINE Kinc BROOKS Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Detrnia Bronson Root Miami, Florida Mrs. Netitie ALBERTA LAMBERT Van Nuys, California Ninety-three Mrs. Anna H. Eviasen MoNnsEN Logan, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Marie BerxieEy Hurst Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. ELEANOR CRETCHFIELD SPENCER Magrath, Canada Ninety Mrs. Louisa WESTOVER JOHNSON Huntington, Utah ps A Poet s Prayer Matia McClelland Burk O Lord, Give me clean, new thoughts, Brought to time from eternity. Give me strong thoughts On which the world may lean. Then Jet me weave a cloth of words, Spotless and beautiful, Shining and varied, Sturdy and durable. And let me fit this thoughts,, That I may becomingly clothe Their nakedness, When I bring them before thee And thy children. Fabric to these Salt Lake City 4, Utah AM 6-8163 President McKay's newest writings published nationally by Prentice-Hall, Inc. SECRETS OF A HAPPY LIFE Selected and organized by Llewelyn R. McKay Here is one of the most engrossing books to appear nationally, written by our beloved President McKay for people of all ages, faiths, and walks of life. He speaks such ennobling thoughts as: 'tWe should give to woman the highest place of honor in human life," and shares his innermost secrets as he lists ten; sources of happiness. This motivating book ¥ cy. Reads like a novel, yet deserves a lifetime of; study. Lidia $3.50 ae: 2 ANSWERS TO GOSPEL QUESTIONS Vol. Il Joseph Fielding Smith - " Those who read, enjoyed, and discovered answers to many perplexing questions in Volumes I and II will welcome the newest volume in this significant series, which singles out inquiries and issues deA ' serving utmost consideration. Many of the over x qswers fifty questions come from President Smith's private (0 | file and have never appeared in print before. $2.50 ¢ SAPNA GT Questions 3. SO SHALL YE REAP _ Ezra Taft Benson Ezra Taft Benson speaks forcefully and persuasively as statesman, Church man, agriculturalist, and | Secretary of Agriculture in this compilation of salient; addresses delivered on important occasions to people throughout the world.. $4, 95 s eMnlen Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Enclosed you will find ( ) check, ( ) money order, ( ) Ihave an account, please charge. $ amount enclosed for encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 Name.. Ooee Address Po ee scarecrow rer seaeeere seco reroeeevnese eee ees eo eae rer ee eres eo osc ern aeerseeesreseveaeeesr (Peer eee ee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee ee 2 ee ee ry \ asi - COMMER CIAL WHOLE LIFE POL! _ For the man who is headed a i in his chosen business or profession, Commercial Whole Life Plan. Issued in amounts of $10,000 and more, this plan costs. You less to provide larger amounts of cash / value insurance. _ Ask your Beneficial aie man about _ this money-saving policy. Or mail the coupon below. Dept. R1060 Beneficial Life Insurance Company Beneficial Life Building, Salt Lake City, Utah BENEFICIAL LIFE scranee GE) (Company Please send information about your Commercial Whole Life Plan. No obligation, of course. I at ume Cthata there are few life insurance buys _ that compare with Beneficial's Virgil H. Smith, Pres =:; Salt Lake City, Utah rary "WOVEMBER 1980- '3 for Feb hesson —— (fa, \a? + ' 5 al yer: tas: 'as ' \, oF ku tsa 7 Sy puaty a 4s hy NE ue SAWigee es *. eed of Pilgrims Christie Lund Coles The world has need of Pilgrims As before, With strength and vigilance On the shore Of tyranny, and slavery Of the mind; There is the need to speak For mankind; There is the need of daring, Too, to flee Across the sea of bondage And stand... Free. Let no man sell his birthright For small store; We can and must have Pilgrims As before. The Cover: Relief Society Women Leaving the Tabernacle After a Session of an Annual General Relief Society Conference Color Transparency by William Beal Frontispiece: Lake Superior at Gros Cap, Ontario, Canada Photograph by Luoma Studios Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From lear and Sar 'The editorial for September "Enhancing the Joy of Family Living,' by Marianne C. Sharp, is especially fine. If only our young mothers would inculcate its suggestions into the daily life of their homes! A few decades ago, when my children were still in the formative period, I had friends who gave me the same counsel that Sister Sharp expresses in her editorial. I did the best I could to enrich our home atmosphere with a knowledge of great books, art, and music, as well as trying to develop an appreciation of God's great masterpieces in the works of nature around us. "My Third Grandma," by Ilene H. Kingsbury is precious, and "The Rich, Full Years," by Betty Lou Martin is full of encouragement and is enjoyable. The frontispiece poem "Lombardy Poplars,' by Dorothy J. Roberts, brings nostalgic memories to one whose childhood was spent in the shadow of Mount Timpanogos. —Flora S. Whittemore Soda Springs, Idaho As a young mother, I wish to express my thanks, among many others, for the splendid Relief Society Magazine. As a young girl, I started reading my mother's Magazine, and ever since the stories and lesson material have enriched my life and also my husband's. When the Magazine comes, he immediately reads it first. We have thoroughly enjoyed reading the moving story of "Orchids in the Snow," serial by Rosa Lee Lloyd. It is wonderful to have such a Magazine in our home. —Elizabeth Anderton North Ogden, Utah I want to tell you how our dear Magazine builds me up. The Lord says his gospel is not to be preached without the spirit accompanying the words, and I always find that the spirit is expressed in the Magazine from the beautiful front cover to the last word contained therein. That is the heart of Relief Society work, loving and giving the spiritual messages the Magazine contains. —Clara H. Park Salt Lake City, Utah Page 710 Thank you for the wonderful "Handwork for Happiness" section of the August Magazine. May we have more like it in the future! There are probably many others who enjoyed it as much or more. The article concerning the Bee Hive House was also very interesting. The Magazine is so welcome in the missions for the sisters who aren't blessed by seeing the larger Relief Society meetings in the wards. We all enjoy the articles. —Jane Ramsey Jacksonville, Alabama There is so much enthusiasm in my heart for the marvelous Magazine. My dear grandmother has remembered me with a gift subscription each year for my birthday. I especially enjoy the "From Near and Far' department. Rosa Lee Lloyd's serial "Orchids in the Snow" (beginning in May 1960) is a delightful story which I follow with love. 'The June issue, which shared with us the highhghts of Sister McKay's inspiring life, was so heartwarming to read. My greatest appreciation for this valuable Magazine. —Mrs. Joyce L. Ball Redondo Beach, California I think the poem "With Inner Balm" by Alice Morrey Bailey, (the frontispiece for August) is a lovely thing, and so comforting. She truly has the gift of words. —Sylvia Probst Young Midvale, Utah The booklet '""Handwork for Happiness" (in the August issue) was a pleasant. Surprise. Also, the July issue. We are looking forward to bringing these ideas to the women. —Charlotte Heninger Hawthorne, California I am renewing my Relief Society Magazine. I don't want to miss a copy of it. It is such a wonderful Magazine. It has such clean, wholesome stories, and it is a joy to read. —Helen S. Pope Phoenix, Arizona THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - = - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Christine H. Robinson Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny S. Kienitz Edith S. Elliott Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Elizabeth B. Winters Florence J. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron LaRue H. Rosell Leone G. Layton Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt Jennie R. Scott Blanche B. Stoddard Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Alice L. Wilkinson Evon W. Peterson Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen LaPriel S. Bunker Aleine M. Young Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Marie C. Richards Josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Irene W. Buehner RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - = - - = - - - = - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - ES = = = = - Vesta P. Crawtord General Manager - - - - = - - = - - Belle S. Spatford VOL. 47 NOVEMBER 1960 NO. 11 Ga ien SPECIAL FEATURES Serving With Full Intent of Heart ooceceecececccceccecceccecceceeecsecececececcecsesssesessesseseeeseceeneesesBelle S. Spafford 712 Making a Heaven at Home a. Marianne C. Sharp 718 Homemaking — A Noble Calling and Privilege Louise W. Madsen 720 Report and Official Instructions 2.00.0..... Belle S. Spafford 722 Temple Square in Salt Lake City — Part Vl] coccececcccccecccccccceccececcecescececeeceacecerersseeesceseeesPreston Nibley 729 FICTION Home for Christmas -o.... Eccccsecceseseeceeeee 7 ot eeMyrtle M. Dean 739 My Third Grandma — Part II] — Ants coiceececcececscesecececeesessseceseseseesescseceeseeeeceeeeeseeesIlene H. Kingsbury 751 Orchids in the Snow — Chapter 7 oocceccccccceecsccscecceseceeeeceeseceeeeeeeee Rosa Lee Lloyd 755 From Near and Far 710 Woman's Sphere oo.. E. Eeceeeccecceeeeeees cece Ramona W. Cannon 737 Editorial: Thankfulness for a Prophet.2.... Cececcccececcccccececeeeececsceeeecccseseeseee ecnstecseeeeeeseeeMarianne C. Sharp 738 Birthday Congratulations oo... Ccecccceeceecececceccececeesescescesessaeeeee— 787 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Jessie Evans Smith's Hobby — A Useful Invention ooo cececccccccecceeeeeee 745 Playthings From Castaways... —Holly B. Keddington 746 Holiday Food Suggestions; Ethel C. Smith 752 Theology —- The Law of Administration to the Sick Boon sccsa aes: etreRoy W. Doxey 761 Visiting Teacher Message — 'Wherefore, ] Am in Your Midst''............ Christine H. Robinson 767 Work Meeting — Routine Comfort Measures..... CccecssscssscesssesseesseoeeeesseeseeseseectesecseseeeseMaria Johnson 768 Literature — William Cullen Bryant oo. CecececccccccccscessesessessessesessessiesesseesesessesestestecsecessesesBriant S. Jacobs 772 Blaine M. Porter 778 Need of Pilgrims — Frontispiece o.. Ccceccccccceccce coe -scsesesseseseseceeseecesestetseeeeeeseeeeeceeeesChristie Lund Coles 709 November Instant occ Maude Rubin 750 Silver Web..... Ee nrcerstret ries a-... Seoc. EeMabel Law Atkinson 760 Earning Learning............. Pecoccocc ee ee _ Roberta L. Theobald 784 To an Aged, Bereft Mother o. Oo... EccececccccecccecccceceeeeccacecececscececseatececacecsesececeecttsssesetececetetececetececeeeeeZara Sabin 785 The Listening Ores oe. IecececccececcsessecsessessessessessesavessessssesssessieseesietissittessestessosseeseeeeeeeLeslie Savage Clark 785 Wild Geese one eeceecccsseccessceneecscseseesecassenscesessasscessessaesrecesessuesessnatsatssaveneenieetectseceeeeMatia McClelland Burk 785 Snowbird Ethel Jacobson 786 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial] and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial] Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 711 Sixty Years Ago ooo.. Ecsccccccccsececceccececceccececsscecceccassececescoccssseessessaessesescaceaeseesescssssenesessosesseeescsseesesesees 736 Serving With Full Intent of Heart President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 5, 1960]. Through the consideration of the First Presidency, it has been my opportunity and privilege to have a number of unique and lmpressive experiences related to, but not necessarily a part of, the work of Relief Society. These experiences have brought me into contact with many persons not of our Church— persons of wide experience, broad influence, and generally speaking of good motive. I have had opportunity at least to glimpse in wide focus, conditions as they exist in a number of places in our own and foreign lands. These experiences have left me impressd with the fast pace at which the world is moving — the tremendous changes that are taking place in home, family, and community life, the strange standards by which people judge acceptable behavior, the struggle that is going on for the possession of worldly goods. Materialism appears to be enthroned, with the best efforts of some of the ablest of people being directed toward enhancing it and attracting to it a worshipful following. The acquisition of worldly goods seems to be the paramount goal of the masses; and the measure of success, what one gets, rather than what one gives. All too often the attitude exists that for each effort made in behalf of another, one should be paid; that only the foolish would give of himself without seeing some Page 712 DD) tnccna the past year or two, place on the horizon some personal advantage. The imbalance in the lives of people seems to call for a re-evaluation of what makes life poised, happy, and genuinely successful. It appears that there is need for society to be more responsive to the enduring, deep-seated, spiritual needs of mankind—the need for inner peace, emotional satisfaction, and strengthened character. These values do not accrue through absorption in the acquisition of material goods and the enjoyment of a so-called prosperous life, nor through the pursuit of self-interests. Rather, they accrue through subordinating our private interests to the paramount interests of our fellow men. They come through utilizing at least a portion of our time and energies in uplifting others and making life's path a bit more smooth for them. In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 6, verse 7, we are admonished: "Seek not for riches but for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich." In the light of present-day trends and conditions, it appears that it would be wisdom for people everywhere to exercise stricter self-discipline, to be more considerate of the needs and interests of others, and to use their energies and abilities for the things that really matter in the long run of life, to put them to uses that train the mind, enlarge the soul, SERVING WITH FULL INTENT OF HEART promote the spiritual health of the individual and society, and make character strong. The Lord has told us by way of commandment: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets' (Mt. 22:37-40). From the beginning of recorded time, warm-hearted, good, generously inclined human beings have lived the great law of brotherhood. They have shared their friendship, their strength, their hospitality, and their abilities with others. They have fed the hungry, cared for the sick, comforted the bereaved, and befriended the lonely with no thought of personal recompense. Yet, while seeking no recompense, they have literally tapped the deep well springs of true happiness and received rewards of eternal value. ODAY, there is urgent need to intensify this selfless free-will service. It is being called for on every hand in increasing amounts and for varied types of activities. It is referred to in the popular vernacular as "voluntary service." Defined, voluntary service means the giving of one's time and service to a specific activity of one's own free will and choice without any financial compensation. Such service may be given by the professionally trained or the non-professional. It tolerates no age limits. The child with his boundless energies, the teen-ager of good will, the mature 713 person of wisdom and experience— all may devote themselves to it and find satisfaction in so doing. 'To countless retired persons, it is the happy, contructive answer to the question: "What may I do with my spare time?" Voluntary service lays no claim on any specified block of time that must be applied equally to all. Each person may give each bit of time and each type of service that he is willing and able to give. It is true that many factors enter into the quality of one's service. Service given from a sense of duty or with restraint and reservations, service given grudgingly, that given for personal recognition, or for other selfish ends, often falls short of a realization of its greatest good. I was interested in reading a warning sounded to a group of volunteers recently, wherein it was said that every volunteer's orientation should include a stern warning on what was called "creeping professionalism." The charge was made that every now and then, especially in large organizations using many volunteers, that the volunteer sometimes becomes so capable at her work and so at home in the work situation, that instead of bringing to the task at hand a warmth and gentleness, such valuable elements in the work of the volunteer, she tends to adopt an impersonal efficiency. When the volunteer at the hostess desk begins to give short answers and the woman at the message counter is in such a rush that she gives no answer at all, it is time for a frank appraisal of her worth as a volunteer, it was stated. A conception of excellence, of course, should imbue the volunteer in her free-will service, but just as it should in any other activity in which she may engage. And_ excellence can be achieved in human relations and in free-will service. Individuals at their many levels of ability, giving free-will service, must accept the need for high standards of performance and try to achieve those standards within the limits possible for them, if they would enjoy the full rewards of their labors. I know of no more important elements of excellence in the giving of service than to give with full intent of heart. In Moroni 7:6-8, we read: For behold, God hath said a man being evil cannot do that which is good; for if he offereth a gift, or prayeth unto God, except he shall do it with real intent it profiteth him nothing. For behold, it is not counted unto him for righteousness. For behold, if a man being evil giveth a gift, he doeth it grudgingly; wherefore it is counted unto him the same as if he had retained the gift.... Just as there should be excellence and full intent of heart in the performance of free-will service, so it is equally important that it be discriminately rendered and wisely directed; otherwise it could be unfair both to the giver and the recipient, also to the cause one is trying to serve. HAT which is given impulsively and prompted by strong emotional feelings but is undirected, often falls short of its goal. Also, the limitations of the individual working alone, regardless of how willing, competent, and resourceful he may be, often precludes the possibility of full service. So it has been found that exclusive of the little loving acts of personal kindness which we all perform as individuals from time to time for those about us, free-will service is most productive of good when it is organized and well directed. Blessed indeed were the women of the Church when the Lord gave to them an organization through which their humanitarian impulses might find expression in an organized and divinely directed way. It is my conviction that in founding Relief Society and assigning to it humanitarian and compassionate service, the Lord's plan was not alone for the relief of the distressed and the amelioration of human woes, but for the soul growth and life enrichment of all of his daughters. For more than 118 years, Relief Society has been highly respected for its humanitarian service. The assignment to render such service has remained constant, but the changing conditions of each era have made it necessary to adapt the services to existing needs. For example, in the early days of the Church, care of the sick called for nurse training classes to be conducted by Relief Society, and bedside nursing care in the homes was the common practice in the care of the sick. 'Today, with the trend toward hospitalization for the sick, there is less call, in proportion to our membership, for bedside nursing care in the homes. Excellent courses in nurse training are conveniently available in most communities. Relief Society activities, therefore, lean more toward homemaking service for the convalescent ill and the recruitment of women for nurse training classes conducted by others. Weare told that in 1855 an infant had a life expectancy of 4o years. In 714 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 SERVING WITH FULL INTENT OF HEART 1900 this had increased to 50 years. Now, the average life expectancy, according to life insurance statistics, is 71.8 years for women and 67.3 years for men. Life spans of 80 to 100 years are not uncommon today. This calls for emphasis on the care of the aged, which only a few years ago was not a particularly pronounced need. Regardless of the particular needs of each era and the point of emphasis in our services, the same intent of heart has prevailed in the Society's free-will offerings, and a steadily increasing volume of service, in harmony with the increased membership of the Church and the Society, has been given. Statistics, though not very interesting in themselves, nonetheless tell a dramatic story insofar as the volume of humanitarian service rendered by the Society as a whole is concerned. During the year 1959 more than 300,000 visits were made to the sick and homebound, many of whom were the aged. There were 35,000 eight-hour days bedside nursing care given to the sick. Approximately three-quarters million hours of service were contributed by the sisters of the Church to the Church Welfare Program, this exclusive of the special services of ward presidents and other Relief Society officers which are a part of their regular asassignments as officers of the Society. HE intent of heart on the part of the sisters is shown in nartative reports and in correspondence received by the General Board. At the risk of giving examples with which some of you may be familiar, 715 may I give a few illustrations from these sources. First, a quotation from a recent letter received from a mission Relief Society president: It is a pleasure to give such a favorable report of the part the Relief Society organization played during our recent tidal wave, that was such a disaster in Hilo, Hawaii. As you probably know, the wave hit the city at one o'clock in the morning. By daylight the Relief Society sisters had their blankets and clothing from their welfare projects on the way to the presidency of the South Hawaii District. Each Relief Society on the outside islands had called to offer help in every way possible for those in need. We lost one member of the Church. Six families lost the homes they were living in. Sixteen members were taken into the Church building and temporarily housed until homes could be made ready for them by the weck end. Others are living with family members. I feel I have done so little to warrant my membership in the Relief Society organization after seeing how united the sisters become in time of disaster. A Relief Society president of a ward made up largely of young mothers, reports: Three years ago in March a mother in our ward was stricken with a severe case of crippling arthritis. At the present time she is practically bedridden. Since she was first afflicted, the Relief Society sisters have taken her, at first once a week and now twice a week, to the hospital for therapy. In the beginning I assumed this responsibility. Later, other sisters were called upon to assist. As it was realized that this would be a long-time service, the sisters who had cars and were willing to help were organized with one sister being placed in charge, so that each in turn could perform the service. So many of the sisters have been willing to assist that their service is required only about once each four months. In the three-year period only one sister has shown the least reluctance to take her turn, and that because she said she couldn't stand 716 to see the pain of the ill sister if she hit a bump or had to come to a short stop. Now this mother is so sorely afflicted that the one taking her to the hospital must call at the home sufficiently early to help her dress. They leave for the hospital at 12:30 and return about 4 P. M. The afflicted sister eagerly looks forward to the days when she goes to the hospital, not alone for the physical relief of pain it brings her, but because it is her only opportunity to get out. She enjoys the ride and the association with her sisters of Relief Society. One Relief Society sister who lives nearby looks in on her every day. She often takes her family hour program into the home of the afflicted mother. Tfousekeeping help is given from time to time, and one Relief Society member takes special foods and fruits as needed into the home. In reporting this service, the president made an interesting observation. She said, "This service has had a tremendous unifying influence upon the sisters of our Relief Society." A letter of appreciation for the opportunity to serve was recently reccived by the General Board. The sister states: I am sixty-four years old. I have been a member of Relief Society since I was twenty. I live alone and for the past few months I haven't felt very well, although I must confess I have not been sick. Early this week, the Relief Society president asked if I would help out a little in the home of a widowed mother in the ward who has six small children. The mother had an injured leg and had to keep off it for two days. I spent both days in this home. I think I have never worked harder in my life, and I know I have never been more needed. Today I am home and expected to be completely worn out. Instead, I feel fine. I have not felt so good in spirit for months. I am so glad I could be helpful that I felt I should write to you and let you know my feelings. Relief Society has been a blessing to me ever since I joined it more than forty years ago. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 HIS coming year approximately 400 Latter-day Saint mothers in Utah will open their homes to one or more Indian children for the school year on an entirely free-will basis. 'These children are participating in the Indian Student Placement Program conducted by Relief Society under the direction of Elder Spencer W. Kimball and Elder Mark E. Petersen, of the Council of the Twelve. The program provides the children opportunities for schooling as well as bringing to them other benefits not available to them on the reservation. At the recent health clinic held for the children, there was a total of 151 volunteer workers consisting of doctors, dentists, laboratory technicians, practical and_ registered nurses, Relief Society sisters, and others. Some of the Relief Society sisters were at their posts of duty as early as four o'clock in the morning in order to have breakfat ready for the children upon their arrival at the center at five aM. The Relief Society sisters alone gave a total of 925 hours of service. In compliance with the directive of the Prophet Joseph Smith that the Society should "seek after objects of charity," approximately 88,000 sisters, referred to as visiting teachers, visit Latter-day Saint homes on a monthly basis, concerned with the spiritual and temporal well-being of the home. The requirements of no Latter-day Saint family need go undiscovered as long as this program fully functions. Thus, Relief Society presses on in its work of service, and there redounds to those who willingly give of themselves a sweetness and richness of life, the inner peace that com- SERVING WITH FULL INTENT OF HEART panions well-doing, and a spiritual and character strength that is a fortress to them in meeting the vicissitudes of their own lives. Thus, Relief Society builds a great sisterhood united in a day of individual or collective trouble. Thus, Relief Society must continue on, ever building on the great record of the past. In view of present day trends and conditions, however, Relief Society must give alert and thoughtful attention to safeguarding its long and honored tradition of human helpfulness. As the Church grows in numbers, the calls for help are bound to increase. As changes continue in individual, family, and community life, Relief Society undoubtedly will be required to enter into new and expanded programs of helpfulness. The Society can meet its obligations only insofar as its individual members are willing to submerge self and with full mind and heart give of their time and energies in response to the calls made of them by the Society. The trends of the times, the evergrowing tendency for people to consider their material well-being above all else, the countless false values crowding in upon women and presenting themselves not only as acceptable, but as of true worth and to be desired, demand that Relief Society women as individuals evaluate their thinking and conduct. Each might well ask herself, "For what am I really striving in life? Are the values which I hold dear those 717 which the teachings of the Church, time, and experience have proved to be of genuine and enduring worth?" The values which we accept with a consenting mind and willing heart tule in the determination of our conduct and in the activities to which we devote ourselves. The first and second great commandments given by the Father— Love the Lord thy God and thy neighbour as thyself—have not been rescinded, nor will they ever be because they are fundamental for man's eternal well-being. Someone has wisely said, "At the close of life the question will not be how much have you got, but how much have you given; not how much have you won, but how much have you done; not how much have you saved, but how much have you shared; not how much have you been honored, but how much have you loved and served?" Gospel Doctrine records President Joseph F'. Smith as saying, "The important consideration is not how long we can live, but how well we can learn the lessons of life, and discharge our duties and obligations to God and to one another" (Gospel Doctrine, 6th Edition, page 27). My earnest prayer is that the work of Relief Society may kindle in the heart of every one of its members, the spark of desire to love and to serve, and that it may fan it into full and glowing flame so that every one of us may enjoy the attendant blessings. Making a Heaven at Home Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 5, 1960] RESIDENT Heber C. KimPp ball once said, "The first place to begin to make a heaven, is to make it at home" (J. D. I, page 357).. We are all looking forward to going'to heaven. It is a sobering thought that the first place to make a heaven is to make heaven at home. Not to leave behind the frustrations, worries, misunderstandings, disappointments, faults, and mistakes that may be in the home and travel to a place where peace and love reign, but to remain at home and make it into a heaven. If home is to be a heaven, the spirit of the Lord will dwell there. Wives will be obedient to their husbands in righteousness. Children will be taught obedience to their fathers by the mothers. Family members will serve one another in love. Children will be taught light and truth. Time will be spent in worthwhile work. The intellect and heart both will be trained. This description of a home made into a heaven does sound heavenly, but a mother knows just how hard it is to bring about this condition. In order to make her home a heaven, a mother needs to keep close to the Lord. She needs to study his commandments: first, to learn them; second, to train herself to obey them; and third, to bring up her children in light and truth. She realizes that "The glory of God is intelligence," and one of the basic Page 718 duties of the home is to educate the children. President Brigham Young said: Education commences with the mother, and the child in connection.... It depends in a great degree upon the mother as to what children receive, in early age, of principle of every description, pertaining to all that can be learned by the human family.... The character of a person is formed through life, to a greater or less degree, by the teachings of the mother. The traits of early impression that she gives the child, will be characteristic points in his character through every avenue of his mortal existence (J. D. I, pp. 66, 67). In 1833, the Lord reproved some of his servants for not bringing up their children in light and truth. In 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key for women in this last dispensation and gave to them, through inspiration, the Relief Society. Early in the organization, the Prophet told the members he would "point out the way for them to conduct themselves that they might act according to the will of God." Among many other directives, he said: Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection.... He exhorted the sisters always to concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in their husbands, whom God has appointed for them to honor.... Let your labors be mostly confined to those around you, in the circle of your own acquaintance, as far as knowledge is concerned, it may extend to all the world. MAKING A HEAVEN AT HOME [And the Prophet promised that] knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth (D. H. C. I, pp. 604, 606, 607). N order for Relief Society to function properly, the Prophet Joseph directed, "You will rceive instructions through the order of the Priesthood" (D. H. C. IV, page 607). This provision is a safeguard and the greatest blessing, as Relief Society imparts truth and light to its members. With lessons approved by the Brethren, it carries on an educational program—not to attain to an academic degree, not to impart learning for learning's sake, but to impart light and truth and move the sisters to implement the truth in their own lives and in the lives of their children. Mothers at the present time are studying The Doctrine and Covenants in the theology course, learning "the doctrine of the Kingdom" (D & C 88:77). In the literature course, members are gaining understanding and insight into different peoples of different times. Their knowledge is broadened in history and human character out of the writings of great authors of poetry and prose. This understanding assists a mother to help her children with their homework and results in her providing suitable books of enduring worth at Christmas and on birthdays for her children, to prevent their bringing into the home trashy and even soul-destroying books available at corner stores. The social science lessons, at present, are teaching us to look at ourselves, to see what we believe and the values we have, and to compare 719 them with revealed truth, to the end that we may live in harmony with the principles of the gospel. The aim of every course taught in Relief Society is to teach truth and light to Latter-day Saint women that they may teach it to their children. We expect every course will be taught in the spirit of the gospel. Every lesson should give better understanding to each sister and influence her to better living. It should increase, or root deeper, as necessary, her living testimony of the gospel and the knowledge that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of the Lord. The teachings of the present Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, and those of the other Brethren living today, carry conviction to the hearts of Relief Society members. The sisters become enlightened with "gospel scholarship." It would be impossible for me, personally, to measure the truth and light that have come as the result of Relief Society educational courses over the years and the study arising from them. And the lesson courses are but a part of the blessings to be gained from Relief Society. Nor could I weigh the truth and light that are mine as the result of the values my mother received from Relief Society or her mother before her. Surely, the Lord gave Relief Society to his daughters to help them to make a heaven at home. It is offered to every woman of good character. It entails a giving of love and devoted service, of study and personal improvement, and its rewards are poured out on the indi- 720 vidual sister and on her family in a continual radiance of truth and light. May every Latter-day Saint woman seek after these priceless blessings, for we must never forget, in the words of President Clark, that <i RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 "the home is a holy place. It has its pattern in the Heavens," that "we are working out the family plan of the celestial family." May every sister resolve that "The first place to begin to make a heaven, is to make it at home," I pray. Homemaking - A Noble Calling and Privilege Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 5, 1960] NE of the most impressive () teachings of President Brigham Young, and one which was present in many of his sermons, concerns the great value of life on this earth. In one address he said: The people are striving with all their might to learn the things of God; but if I could only get them to understand the work and worth of their present life, I should feel well satisfied. We talk and think a good deal of the life that is to come, and the life-labour of the Christian part of the world is to prepare for that. The time we now occupy is in eternity; it is a portion of eternity. Our present life is just as much a life in eternity as the life of any being can possibly be (Journal of Discourses, 9, page 168). In a short sermon addressed to the sisters, he quoted remarks frequently heard from the sisters expressing their willingness to "do something to build up the Kingdom" if they had it in their power. His suggestion to them was, "Why not take hold and attend to your household affairs, and thus help build up the Kingdom of God?" (Journal of Discourses 11, page 351). This penetrating question enlightens our whole concept of the work of women. The ordinary, seemingly mundane tasks of housekeeping and homemaking have a spiritual value which influences the eternal life of families. The better the efforts of women in this direction, the more they are building up the kingdom. In the great eras of peace and righteousness in Nephite history, the women did "spin, and toil, and work, and work all manner of fine linen, yea, and cloth of every kind... And thus we did prosper in the land." (Mosiah 10:5; see Helaman 6:13). The work of women in attending to their household tasks contributed to the "continual peace' which characterized those eras. But when the men used their stores of wealth for world power and warlike purposes, and the women used their beautiful cloth merely for personal adornment, and no longer spun and toiled and worked and "did begin to dwindle in unbelief," then evil was again abroad in the land. With these and many like examples throughout our religious history confirming the fact that the work of women in the home is a vital part of the building of the kingdom, let us answer the question propounded by President Brigham Young. Why not take hold and attend to our household affairs with the same goal of perfection, the same willingness to do good, the same desire to follow the teachings of the Church, and the same effort to serve our Father in heaven through our service to his children as should characterize all of our activities in preparation for exaltation? Latter-day Saint women should be exemplary wives and mothers. The Lord has given to his daughters an honored and blessed position and calling. It is possible that women today need to be reminded and encouraged to follow the Church teachings relative to the nghtful place and work of women. It is vital to the well-being of a woman that she succeed in the tasks God has assigned her. This success comes with full understanding and acceptance of the work she must do. The teachings of the Church in regard to respectful support of her husband's Priesthood and calling as head of the home, and also of her responsibilities to her children, are her guide. A woman, inadequate as a homemaker and deficient as a housekeeper, seldom has a truly happy husband and children, and may fail to reach her potential stature. But a woman, happily aware of her opportunities to make this portion of eternity beautiful and happy, can magnify this calling. OMEMAKING is an art involving many skills. A degree of proficiency in all of them is expected. Prudence in management, cleanliness in her home, ability to sew, cook, create beauty and provide an atmosphere conducive to family happiness and progression, are the attributes required. Women raise their eyes to heights beyond mere competence and learn to do common things uncommonly well. Paeans of praise have attended the provident housewife all through the ages. Thrift and wise saving are always commendable. Waste is sinful, whether it be waste of time, money, food, or clothing. "Waste not, want not" is an adage whose message has been taught by prophet, philosopher, and economist alike. Prudence and wisdom in the management of family income have much to do with family happiness. "In the well-ordered home we may experience a taste of heaven" (President David O. McKay). <A well-ordered home is clean and neat and shows at all times the loving efforts of those who care. The Lord said, "Let all things be done in cleanliness before me" (D & C 42:41). One cannot imagine a home providing a "'taste of heaven" that is not clean. 'The excellency of the heavens and the beauty therein are a pattern for homes here on earth. Confusion and disorder are distracting influences that may be destructive of family harmony. The spirit of the Lord cannot dwell where uncleanliness and confusion abide. The ability to sew proficiently should be cultivated. There are many articles of apparel, children's HOMEMAKING—A NOBLE CALLING AND PRIVILEGE 721 722 clothing and household furnishings, whose "beauty is the beauty of the work of thine own hands," the making of which may effect substantial savings. Home is more attractive to all concerned if mother is a good cook. The challenge arises to recognize and sce realistically the effect of one's homemaking and housekeeping on the lives of one's family. To provide an appropriate setting for their progress and joyous living is a woman's duty. If homes are right in every respect, in these physical things as well as in the spiritual and cultural, they are the greatest single stabilizer of the individual. Home will be the buttress from the perplexities of the world, the source of true happiness, and the haven of righteousness. It is the responsibility of Relief Society to keep before the women of the Church their basic place in the home, and help them realize the high calling and privilege of womankind. Fundamental to the development of refined, gracious, spiritual RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 women is a recognition of their noblest calling, wife and mother. Relief Society should teach the multiplicity of skills requisite to the most beautiful, joyful family living, that in this phase of eternal life the woman contributes that which it is her calling to give. 'The work meeting stands out in a glow of importance when its purposes are viewed in the light of what its teaching may mean in aiding the sisters to these ends. Let us not be like the men and women the prophet deplored who were "too wise to be taught" and refuse to see that work — housework, sewing, cooking, attending to our household affairs — are part of the building up of the kingdom. Let a renewed, positive attitude toward the glory of happy, well-cared for families guide us in seeking to be skillful in the art of homemaking. A well-orderd, well-governed home should be the delight of every Latter-day Saint woman because the Lord has said it is so. ' Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford [Condensed from the text given at the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 5, 1960] REPORT of the status of Relief Society, based largely on information contained in the Annual Report of the Society, has long been a feature of this session of the Annual General Conference. General increases are noted in many aspects of the work for 1959. There are some divisions, however, which do not show growth. In some instances there appears to be justifiable reason for this. In others it seems that a greater awareness of subtle declines is needed and intensified effort in dealing with the problems. REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS General Board Since our last general conference, the General Board has been strengthened by the addition of four new members: Alice L. Wilkinson, Brigham Young University Stake; LaPriel S. Bunker, Parleys Stake; Marie C. Richards, Salt Lake Stake; and Irene W. Buehner, Parleys Stake. Organizations and Reorganizations Our Annual Report shows that during 1959 there were nineteen new stakes created and one new mission. 'There were 107 new ward organizations in the stakes and twenty-two new branch organizations in the missions, making at the close of 1959 a total of 336 stake and mission organizations, and 4,450 ward and branch organizations. Since January 1960, the first stake in Great Britain has been formed — the Manchester Stake, organized March 27, and the first stake in faraway Australia—the Sydney Stake, also organized March 27. The Missions We note an ever-increasing trend in missions towards strengthening the work of the Society through careful teaching of standard _procedures. Also, great effort is being put forth to develop leadership among the sisters. In a number of instances, mission Relief Society boards have been appointed; and district boards, comparable to stake boards, operate in most missions. Leadership meetings are increasing in number and helps offered encompass most aspects of the work and are of high standard. The educational program seems to be well accepted in the missions. The bulletins and publications 723 issued by the various missions are so prepared as to be effective in promoting Relief Society work. We were delighted to receive recently the publication of the Chinese Mission called The Voice of the Saints issued in the Chinese language with English translations. The recent copy was a "special Relief Society issue." Membership, the collective body of Latter-day Saint women for whom the Society is designed, and upon whom we must rely in meeting our obligations to the Church as an auxiliary of the Church, requires continuous attention on the part of Relief Society officers. During 1959 there were 10,199 women added to the membership rolls. The total membership at the close of the year was 203,752. Figures indicate, however, that we have enrolled only about fifty per cent of the potential eligible members. Strong and well-organized appeals should be made to enlist unenrolled sisters as members. They will uot come to you uninvited and unsolicited. Ward presidents should know the names of such sisters within the ward; then they should wisely determine the individual reasons for their nonmembership, and with consummate skill, wisdom, and often patience, endeavor to obtain their enrollment and support. It is recognized that there is a relationship between the number of women enrolled and Magazine percentages, as well as the amount of membership dues which must be submitted to the stake board. It is not the spirit of Relief Society, however, because of a few problems which may arise incident to these relationships, for ward officers to be lax in their efforts to enroll new members or to retain all present members. For the first time in many years, a decline in average attendance at meetings for the general membership is noted. While it appears very slight, almost negligible, being only one-tenth of one per cent, had we maintained that one-tenth of one per cent, we would have had over 200 more women in attendance each week, or the equivalent of two strong Relief Societies. We are aware that there are influences difficult to cope with which adversely affect attendance records, such as the increasing number of aging members who are homebound, and the ever-increasing number of women who are employed. Nonetheless, it is the opinion of the General Board that many women whose attendance is irregular could be helped to see the advantages of regularity, and that effective attendance appeals could be made to sisters who have no valid reason for nonattendance. This would, we believe, materially increase the attendance figures without, in any way, running counter to established policies. It is realized that our average attendance figures, which this year are 37.8% of the enrolled members, could be interpreted as Relief Society actually reaching only 18.37% of the approximately 41 8,551 eligible women in the Church. We take a little comfort in the fact that this is not true, since attendance is intermittent on the part of many members, and far more women are actually reached, at least occasionally, than the average attendance figures seem to indicate. Visiting Teaching Relief Society is the handmaid of the Priesthood in "looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity, and in administering to their wants." I know of no more ideal procedure to divine the temporal and spiritual needs of our Latter-day Saint families than through the well-organized system of Relief Society visiting teaching. Last year approximately 88,000 visiting teachers made a total of three and a half million visits to Latterday Saint homes, or a Church-wide average of approximately 84% visits per family. 'The stakes made an average of 9.6 visits per family and the missions an average of 3.2 visits. Large figures, while impressive, are sometimes deceptive. While the total of three and a half million represents a tremendous amount of visiting, the increase of approximately 180,000 visits over the previous year was not in proportion to the increase of 31,313 Latter-day Saint families. In one-third of all visits made, the records show no one was at home. This means that these mothers were not reached other than by the notice of visit slips. This is a matter of concern to us. It is our opinion that this is a reflection of the economic and social conditions of our times, which more and more tend to influence mothers to spend time outside their homes, rather than being evidence of poor visiting teaching procedures. Nonetheless, we must be aware of what is happening, and we must do everything possible within the framework 724 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS of General Board regulations to cope with the situation. We suggest to you that there is a definite relationship between the strength of the visiting teaching program and membership. If we had more members, we would have a larger reservoir of teachers. If we had more teachers, we could decrease the size of visiting teacher districts. If we had smaller districts, we might time visits more appropriately to reach sisters during the hours and days when they are at home. We are pleased to advise you that the visiting teaching film "Unto the Least of These" is now available for the use of wards. It may be obtained from the Deseret Book Company in the same manner and for the same price as for stakes. Church Welfare A creditable record of support of the Church Welfare Program was made during 1959. There were approximately 700,000 hours of service contributed to this program by the girls and women of the Church upon assignment of Relief Society — an increase over the previous year of almost 200,000 hours. Ward Relief Society presidents made 75,000 family visits under the direction of their respective bishops. Requests are still coming from Relief Society presidents who are assigned to be group leaders in bimonthly regional welfare meetings for suggestions as to what might properly be taken up in these meetings. We refer to suggestions given in the 1959 Official Instructions and published in the November Relief Society Magazine, page 731. In addition, we suggest that care- 725 ful attention be given to instructions in the welfare meetings held in conjunction with quarterly conferences. Those instructions which apply to Relief Society might be referred to the executive committee of the regional council for consideration as a part of the agenda for your departmental meetings. Compassionate Services The figures of the 1959 Annual Report do not give a full picture of the compassionate services. Past Annual Reports have called only for visits to the sick and homebound, which remain somewhat constant from year to year; days care of the sick, which have slowly declined in number due to fewer calls for the service; and assistance in dressing bodies for burial and help in connection with funerals, which also show decline due to fewer calls for the service. 'The 1960 Annual Report, however, should give a better picture of the compassionate service rendered by the Society, inasmuch as a new column has been added to the Record Book, wherein you are recording the number of hours of other types of compassionate service in addition to those previously listed. The nature of our compassionate services has been changed with changing times and needs, and this year's records have been made more nearly to conform to this change. Educational Program Relief Society has always been educational in nature. Great care is exercised to give the sisters a rounded education in religion, the social sciences, in cultural fields, and in the practical homemaking arts and skills. During 1959 there were over 16,000 women teaching the Relief Society courses of study, most of whom devoted long hours in preparing the lessons for presentation in the meetings. All courses of study for 1960-61, except the work meeting course, "Caring for the Sick in the Home," are continuations of the courses taught during the past year. Lessons for the forthcoming year will be considered in the departmental meetings of this conference. Work Meeting The work meeting is calling for increased ingenuity and _ resourcefulness on the part of the leaders. This meeting should be made inviting, practical, and helpful to the sisters in their homemaking. We appreciate your response to the new work meeting course, "Caring for the Sick in the Home." In the spring conventions, instruction was given that the one hour allotted for this discussion be divided into two periods — thirty minutes for formal presentation and thirty minutes for demonstration. It is now noted that this may not always be a suitable apportionment of time. Some lessons may require short periods of instruction interspersed with short periods of demonstration, while still others may require a large portion of the time for demonstration. The leaders are therefore authorized to apportion time according to the best interests of the instruction. Work Meeting Supplies Department A letter has recently been mailed to Relief Society presidents advising them that the General Board is now operating a Work Mecting Supplies Department as an accommodation to Relief Societies. Items such as quilt batts, stamped goods, yardage, dish towels, linen handkerchiefs, and similar articles may be purchased by Relief Societies at wholesale prices. This courtesy cannot be extended to individuals. Full details, including the location and a price list, are included with the letter. Bazaars Questions are still reaching the General Board relative to bazaars. The General Board fully endorses bazaars as an appropriate activity for Relief Society. 'The bazaar, in addition to providing opportunity for raising funds, motivates the sewing program of the Society. The General Board recommends that insofar as possible, the work meting itself should be the first and major source of supply for bazaar articles. Where sufficient articles for a successful bazaar cannot be produced in this way, the Society may provide the materials and assign sisters who are in a position to do so, to make specified articles at home. If additional articles are still needed, a general announcement of the need might be made in a Relief Society meting, with the types of articles specified, and the sisters be invited to donate such articles, if they care to do so. Such an announcement would not place any sister in an embarrassing position if she cannot contribute an article, or does not care to do so. The General Board discourages written solicitation of the ward sisters for gifts of articles to be sold at bazaars. 726 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS Music The music program of Relief Society is. One in which we rejoice. It is good for women to worship together in song. In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 25, verse 12, the Lord tells us: "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." Therefore we encourage good, spirited congregational singing in Relief Society meetings. The 3,126 Shanes Mothers choruses throughout the Church are a joy to the 46,165 sisters who participate in them and a great asset to the Society. Relief Society Magazine Magazine representatives are to be commended for the excellence of their work. 'Through their diligence, supported by Relief Society presidents, the circulation at the close of the year was 162,589, an increase over the previous year of 7,961 subscriptions. There were 258 stakes on the Honor Roll in 1959, an increase of 11 over 1958. Sixteen missions have been on the Honor Roll for the past three years. In 1959 there were 47 more mission branches on the Honor Roll than in 1958. Tomorrow, stake Magazine representatives will join with presidencies to view a Magazine presentation prepared by Sister Alberta H. Christensen of the General Board, entitled "As a Voice Speaking," which we hope will be helpful to you in the Magazine promotion program. This presentation will be available to stakes, missions, and local Societies. Stake Boards Sisters, I remind you that Relief 727 Society is a mature, experienced, adult organization. It was founded under divine inspiration and it has had inspired counsel and direction for more than 118 years. We must not be content with standards of performance that are in any way short of the best. The Handbook of Instructions places certain definite responsibilities upon stake boards for the proper conduct of the work and for the maintenance of good _ standards within the stake. There has been confusion in some stakes relative to the pattern of the Relief Society stake board. According to our understanding, other Church auxiliaries have recently modified, in some selected stakes, the pattern of their stake boards as an experiment. These modifications do not applv to Relief Society. The work of Relief Society is peculiar to itself; many of our very important duties are performed outside the regular meeting; special obligations relative to the Church Welfare Program and ward programs, conducted under the direction of the respective bishops, rest heavily upon ward Relief Society presidents and other workers. Because of misunderstanding relative to this, we are authorized by our advisors from the Council of the Twelve, to instruct you at this meeting that the approved patterns for the Relief Society stake board are as follows: A full Relief Society stake board consists of twelve members; namely, a president, two counselors, secretary-treasurer, chorister, organist, Magazine representative, visiting teacher message leader, theology class leader, work meeting leader, literature class leader, and social science class leader. In a comparatively few stakes, where circumstances do not allow for the twelve-member stake board, the General Board suggests a modified stake board of eight members as follows: president, two counselors, secretary-treasurer, theology class leader, literature class leader, social science Class leader, and one sister responsible for the work of both the chorister and organist. In such an arrangement, each member of the presidency would handle the work of one of the other remaining departments, in addition to her own special division of responsibility; i-e., the president would assume responsibility for the Relief Society Magazine work, the educational counelor, the responsibility of the visiting teacher message department, and the work director counselor, the responsibility of the work meeting leader. This modified stake board places heavier responsibilities on the presidency and on the person selected to direct the music of the stake. It means that no department may be held in the leadership meeting for ward Magazine representatives, since the president must conduct the presidencies department. The Magazine work, therefore, must be promoted by some means other than through the leadership meeting; otherwise the whole organization would suffer through imadequate Magazine circulation. With the modified board, the counselors could at no time meet with the presidencies. Their responsibilities would be particularly heavy with a modified stake board, when we consider also the heavy demands made of them in the welfare work of the Church. We would urge, therefore, that even though a modified board must be used as an expedient where adequate leadership for a full board is not available, that officers build toward a full board at the earliest possible time. Extra Copies of 1961 Convention Materials to Be Made Available We are pleased to announce that, in response to numerous requests, additional copies of the lesson helps and selected administrative material which will be prepared for the 1961 conventions will be made available to the stakes, at a small cost, for distribution to the wards where stakes desire this material. One set of the material will be left with the stakes without cost, as usual. The extra copies must be ordered from the General Board through the stake, and not more than one copy per ward can be allowed each stake. This same rule will apply to the missions. Church Missionary Program As I look over this great gathering of women — Relief Society officers, it is true, but nonetheless a representative body of the womanhood of the Church — I realize how dear is Relief Society to you, how much you value your Church membership, how meaningful in your lives are your testimonies of the truthfulness of the gospel restored in this dispensation through the Prophet Joseph Smith. I know how much each one of you would rejoice if every woman with whom you are acquainted, be she relative or friend, enjoyed these same blessings. 'There is a way, sisters, whereby you may help in a realization of this desire. (Continued on page 784) 728 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 Temple Square in Salt Lake City BRIEF HISTORY OF ITS GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT Part IT Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian The Endowment House N the fall of 1854, under the direction of President Bngham Young, workmen began to build, in the northwest corner of the Temple Block, a rather large twostory, adobe building, known as the Endowment House. President Young once referred to the building as "a temporary Temple." At that time he said, "In consequence of our having been driven from our homes, and because of our destitute circumstances, the Lord permitted us to do what we have done, namely to use Courtesy Church Historian's Office this Endowment House for Temple purposes" (Journal of Discourses 18:263). The Endowment House was completed and dedicated in May 1855, and from that time until November 1889, it was in almost continuous use, "for administering sacred ordinances, belonging exclusively to the Church." (My own dear parents, Charles W. And Ellen Ricks Nibley were married in this building in March 1880.) In November 1889, after three temples had been erected in the Territory at St. George, Manti, and THE ENDOWMENT HOUSE, TEMPLE SQUARE, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH This historic building stood on the northwest corner of Temple Square. It was dedicated in May 1855, and was used for ordinance work almost continuously until November 1889, when it was torn down. Page 729 Coie Gitaeh Historian's Office THE LARGE TABERNACLE IN COURSE OF CONSTRUCTION Photograph taken about 1864, showing some of the stone pillars, arches, and supporting framework., Logan, there was no further need for the Endowment House, and under the direction of the First Presidency, it was torn down. The Large Tabernacle The idea of building a large Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, one that would accommodate eight or nine thousand people, grew in the mind of President Young during the pioneer period. After the first Tabernacle was built in 1852, it was soon found to be too small to hold the large numbers of people who came to attend the conferences. In a letter written by George A. Smith to Hosea Stout, in March 1863, he is quoted as saying: The President (Brigham Young) is discussing the propriety of building a Tabernacle this season, a circular ended building, 250 feet long and 150 feet wide: 500,000 feet of lumber will be requisite for its erection; the site proposed is the west gate of the Temple Block, or between that and the Temple (Journal History, March 20, 1863). To think with President Brigham Young was to act, and, during the following month, Aptil 1863, the work of 'clearing the ground for the foundation of the great building was begun. The stone pillars on which the large arches were to stand, were constructed in 1864. The wooden arches, supporting the roof, were designed and built under the direction of Henry Grow, who had been a bridge builder in Pennsylvania before coming to Utah and who was acquainted with the lattice type of construction. He had many problems to meet in constructing the roof of this famous building, without supports, and with only a small amount of iron. Wooden pegs were 730 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 TEMPLE SQUARE IN SALT LAKE CITY used to hold the beams together, and rawhide was tied around them to make them more secure. But at last the great building was ready— sufficiently ready so that the October Conference of the Church, in 1867, could be held within its walls. President Brigham Young was greatly pleased with what had been accomplished. At the opening session, on the forenoon of Sunday, October 6th, "the President kindly expressed to the workmen the thanks of all the Apostles and all the brethren and sisters for the steady perseverance and faithfulness that they had manifested in completing, thus far, the building. For one, he said, he had not ceased to pray for them, that no accident might befall anyone, and that we might rejoice together in such a work. He felt to bless them, and to continue to pray for them, and he took the opportunity of expressing that he: oath tesy Church Historian's Office, THE LARGE TABERNACLE, SHOWING SOME OF THE ARCHES PARTLY COVERED Photograph taken about 1866. 731 would be very much pleased did he witness as resolute a spirit in the Elders of Israel to favor the early completion of the Temple. He thought it proper to say something about the unfinished condition of the organ. Not over one-third of the pipes were up, and till the casing was built, they had thrown around it a loose garment. It was now only about fifteen feet high, and when completed it would be forty fect high. Brother Ridges, and those who labored with him, had done the best they could, and notwithstanding their diligence by early day, noon and night, they had been unable to have it properly tuned. It was however, in a condition to accompany the choir, and he was pleased with i (GE HH. October 6, 1867). FTER the opening hymn by the choir, President Young arose again to offer the prayer. Note the | Note the stone pillars, the bowery type of covering used to protect some of the materials, and the masonry blocks used for placement in the structure. sincerity and deep devotion of this prayer. It was all so characteristic of him; the solemn, reverent, deep feelings of his heart. "Te expressed to the Most High, the grateful feelings of the Saints, for the favors which He had multiplied upon them, enabling them to have finished thus far, an edifice in which they could assemble and worship Him, their Creator, in the name of His Son Jesus Christ; imploring the aid for the Holy Spirit to teach them how to pray and what to ask for acceptably in His sight. "He implored the blessings of the Lord upon the congregation assembled, upon the Priesthood, and all in authority in His Church and Kingdom, that they might enjoy the outpouring of the Holy Spirit to qualify them in the discharge of Courtesy Church Historian's Office every duty; that the workmen who had labored upon that house might feel blessed, and feel satisfaction in that labor, and recompense in the love of Christ; that the Apostles might be blessed and qualified to discharge the duties of their Holy Apostleship; that the Bishops might have the ability their arduous labors demand, and be filled with wisdom, kindness, patience and forbearance, and so be fathers to the people; that the High Priests, Seventies, Elders, Priests, Teachers and Deacons might all enjoy the blessings of their callings.... "Te craved the blessings of the Lord upon the children of the Saints; that the power of the Almighty might heal the sick; that the Saints in foreign lands might be the object of His care; that the misa indian TEMPLE SQUARE AS IT APPEARED ABOUT 1879 This panoramic view of Temple Square was taken about 1879, some two years after the death of President Brigham Young. Note in the background at the left, the Assembly Hall, almost finished, the Large Tabernacle, and the Temple, partly finished. The building at the left, enclosed by the white picket fence, is the Council House, the first public building built in Salt Lake City, Utah. 732 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZ! INE—NOVEMBER 1960 TEMPLE SQUARE IN SALT LAKE CITY Photograph by C. R. Savage Courtesy Church Historian's Office 733 AN EARLY VIEW OF THE INTERIOR OF THE SALT LAKE TABERNACLE This picture, taken about 1900, shows the small organ and the choir seats only partly built up. The organ has been considerably enlarged. Sionaries among them might have the ability to do their duty, be preserved and returned again to the Church in Zion; that the poor Saints might be blessed and prospered, so they may gather with the Saints here, and that the emigrants that have lately arrived may seek to do right, and be blessed and prospered. "He implored the blessings of the Most High upon our families, our wives, our children, and upon our ficlds, our barns, and all we possessed; asked the Lord to inspire the speakers, the hearers, during the conference, so that all might be done according to His Holy Will" (J. H., October 6, 1867). This first conference in the new Tabernacle continued for four days, with great enthusiasm. It proved to be the largest conference, from the standpoint of attendance, ever held in the Church up to that time. The seating capacity in the Tabernacle was considerably increased, during the years 1870-71, when the gallery was constructed. A reporter writing in the Deseret News of a meeting held in the Tabernacle on May 1, 1870, had the following to say: "While President Young was addressing the congregation his hearers kept very still, and we are informed by persons who sat on the seats where they were accustomed to sit last summer, that yesterday they heard as they never did before. The gallery had made, judging by their experiences, a great improvement in the acoustic qualities of the building" (Deseret News, May 2, 1870). During the ninety-three years that have passed since the Salt Lake 'T'abernacle was first used, the great building has become known around the world. At the present time the organ and choir and "the spoken word," through the medium of radio, are heard each Sunday by millions of listeners. 734 The Assembly Hall The plan for building the Assembly Hall was also projected by the great pioneer leader, President Brigham Young. I find the following in the Journal History of the Church under date of September 12, 1877. "At a priesthood meeting of the Salt Lake Stake, held August 11, 1877, President B. Young proposed pull down the Old Tabernacle, and build a new one to accomodate about 3,000 people. In obedience to this wish, work was commenced on this date, as reported in the Deseret News." President Young lived only eighteen days after he attended this a phen zsraph by C. R. Grcriee Courtesy Church Historian's Office RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 meeting. He died on August 29, 1877, from the effects of what appears to have been a ruptured appendix. The article in the Deseret News referred to above, gives a partial plan for the new building as follows: "The work of tearing down the Old 'Tabernacle, preparatory to erecting a new and more suitable and commodious structure, on or near the same site, commenced this morning. 'The Bishops of the City Wards were each requested to send one man, but only nine of the twenty-one responded, probably because of the unpromising appearance of the weather. It is likely, however, that the whole number will be on THE ASSEMBLY HALL ALMOST COMPLETED Photograph taken about 1881 shows the building almost completed. Note the unfinished roofing appearing white. Unused building blocks and pieces of lumber may be scen in the foreground and around the building. Note the wall of Temple Square and trees in the background. TEMPLE SQUARE IN SALT LAKE CITY Photograph by C. R. Savage Courtesy Church Historian's Office INTERIOR OF THE ASSEMBLY HALL 735 Note paneling and light fixture on the ceiling, stairway at the right, and the galleries on each side, with the pulpits center front. The ground tomorrow, weather permitting. "Instead of the proposed building extending lengthwise, north and south, it will be east and west. Its length and breadth will be 100 feet by 6o feet, [this was later changed to 120 feet by 68 feet] in the clear, and 31 feet from the floor to the ceiling. It will be surrounded, except at the end, where the stand will be constructed, with a gallery; there will be two rows of windows, one under and one over the gallery. The foundation, which will be of sandstone, will rise two feet above the ground level, and above that the walls will be granite, two feet six inches thick. The. Heating will be done by means of pipes, and it will be lighted with gas. "The committee appointed to manage the construction are Bishop Thomas Taylor, Henry Grow, Edward Brain, William Asper and George Goddard. "Brother Grow will have the general superintendency of the construction, and Brother Brain will have the special supervision of the mason work" (J. H., September 12, 1877). Thus began the work of constructing the beautiful little building known as the Assembly Hall. The building was dedicated by President Joseph F. Smith on January 7, 1882. At that time he said: "May the Spirit of the Holy Gospel dwell in the midst of the people that shall come from Sabbath to Sabbath, and from time to time, to attend the meetings and worship in this house" (J. H., January 7, 1882). (To be continued) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1900 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or Att NATIONS" THANKSGIVING IN NEW ENGLAND BEFORE THE WESTWARD JOURNEY:... Soon all were seated, the mother having arranged them all in order on each side with the eldest married son at the head of the table to carve the steaming roast turkey while she served the vegetables, taking special pains to have the baked beans piping hot from the large brown earthen pan in which they had come from the great brick oven in the kitchen. The mother herself pronounced the blessing and the feasting was graced with the usual New England table talk of bounteous harvests and Thanksgiving events, entertainments, sleigh rides and balls.... Never again did those assembled on that evening all meet together. Out from under that roof tree, where so many happy days had been spent, so many festive occasions celebrated, they went, and no doubt the picture lingered lovingly in their memory long years after.... —Aunt Em MARGARET A. CAINE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD VISITS PANGUITCH STAKE: Sister Caine felt pleased with all she had seen in regard to the society here. 'The Lord had never given a law restraining the Latter-day Saints in gaining knowledge.... The Prophet Joseph Smith studied diligently all the time.... Sister Caine wished to extend the greeting of Aunt Zina and counselors, also Sister Wells, who are just as interested as they can be in all the sisters.... Sister Caine wanted the sisters to understand the purpose of the organization, no other can take the place of this. It was to qualify them for high and holy positions. Mothers can better prepare for family prayers than anyone else, also to instil the principle of tithe-paying upon the children. Retrenchment as taught by President Young did not mean altogether in dress, but in cooking good and wholesome food and less pastry, and in all our home work to find time to improve the mind.... —H. A. Crosby, Sec. SOMETIMES Sometimes we meet in life a noble friend, Who true and faithful proves e'en unto death, Our inmost natures seem in one to blend As roses with the summer zephyr's breath.... —Ellis R. Shipp THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN: The National Council of Women of the United States held its annual... Sessions in Minneapolis, Minnesota, this year... The Minneapolis ladies proved their generous hospitality and welcome, as well as sympathy with the cause of woman's work.... Mrs. Fannie Humphreys Gaffney of New York... Is a fine presiding officer, just and courteous to all, with unfailing patience and always punctual and knows how to economize time... As our readers know, we are not given to mentioning costumes... Yet... Mrs. McCune of our own city, might with all due propriety be spoken of, because she wore an elegant Paris gown of black lace.... We met many beautiful women... Of a great variety of faiths and from all points of the compass.... In an assembly of this sort one notices the many highly intellectual faces.... A telegram received from Miss Susan Anthony said: "I send greetings to my daughters of the most comprehensive organization of women, and the one in which I have the greatest hope." —Editorial Page 736 [_AKSHMI MENON is Deputy Minister for External Affairs in the government of India. Her position requires much wisdom, restraint, and courage. RMA ARGANDONA, from Bolivia, South America, is a brilliant and valued researcher at Volcano Ranch, near Albuquerque, New Mexico, where important studies in cosmic rays are being conducted under the direction of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. IZA REDFIELD is Broadway's first fulltime woman orchestra conductor. As conductor for the orchestra in "The Music Man" at the Majestic Theater, New York City, Miss Redfield has demonstrated a marked ability in a field new to women. Beginning as a child prodigy at playing the piano, Miss Redfield had considerable experience in playing in orchestras before her successful and outstanding studies under Vladimir Brailowsky. RS. GEORGIA WHITE, explorer and famous river guide, who has accompanied many boating parties down the turbulent canyons of the Colorado River of the United States, is now planning an expedition to run the great rivers of Alaska, including the Yukon. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon HARIETTE SIMPSON — ARNOW, in her recent, highly praised and authentic Seedtime on the Cumberland (The Macmillan Company), has detailed with color and truth "a few of the most important aspects of pioneer life as it was lived on the Cumberland." 'The locale covers areas in Kentucky, Tennessee, and Ohio during the years 1759 to 1803. AE THOMAS, formerly of Salt Lake City, Utah, is the producer of "Expedition," a new major TV program, consisting of adventure and documentary films from all over the world. Miss Thomas is one of the very few women television program producers in the United States, and is also one of the youngest producers in the entire industry. HE United States Census Bureau figures for July 1959 reveal that there are 55,250,000 potential women voters in the United States — 3,378,000 more than there are potential men voters. [KAREN KETCHIE, seventeen, of Cedar City, Utah, is a national vice-president of the Future Homemakers of America, serving thirteen western states, including Alaska and Hawaii, for the year 1960-61 (July to July). Page 737 QD EDITORIAL c©O VOL. 47 NOVEMBER 1960 NO. 12 Shankfulness for a Prophet S Latter-day Saint families surround their tables of bounteous feasts on Thanksgiving Day, it may be well to recall, in addition to other blessings, the paean of thanksgiving which the saints throughout the world offer to the Lord continually, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." The history of God's dealings with his children reveals that so long as men follow the Lord's will as revealed through his prophets, they prosper and attain salvation. For eight years the followers of Lehi wandered in the wilderness. As they rebelled against the words of prophet Lehi they suffered, but as they humbled themselves and became obedient, they were delivered from their afflictions and led out from the wilderness to the Promised Land. Today, afflictions and sorrows walk with men, and the wisdom of the wise, as foretold, has perished; but the Lord makes known his will to his prophet, and as his people have listening ears thev are delivered from sin and spiritual bondage. How thankful should one be for a prophet's voice to guide him through the quagmires of the world's errors and sins! One grcat wickedness today lies in the unrighteousness of many of the young, and the cause is traced by leading authorities to the breakdown of marriage and consequent insecurity of children. For many years the prophPage 738 et President David O. McKay has plead with the saints to sanctify the bonds of holy matrimony. 'This is but one example of obedience to the voice of the prophet which results in eternal blessings. President Moyle clared: derecently It behooves us to recognize in President David O. McKay the mouthpiece of our Heavenly Father here upon the earth. I bear witness in all solemnity that the closer you come in contact with the President of the Church, the deeper you realize that his decision, his judgment, his word, comes to him as a matter of inspiration and that Israel today is led by the prophet of the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. We are not wandering around in the wilderness trying to find the promised land because of our iniquities, as were the people in the days of Moses. We are in the promised land.... President McKay says almost every week of our lives, when the difficult world problems of today come before us, "Brethren, we have no need to fear, there are no world events that need concern us. We need only to keep the commandments of God and recognize that Jesus Christ is our head" (Church News, September 3, 1960, page 13). For the blessing of a modern-day prophet, one should give thanks as the Lord says, And he who receiveth all things with thankfulness shall be made glorious; and the things of this earth shall be added unto him, even an hundred fold, yea, more (D & C 78:19). With hearts and voices may all sing with heightened perception in the spirit of Thanksgiving, THANKFULNESS FOR A PROPHET We thank thee, O God, for a prophet To guide us in these latter days. We thank thee for sending the gospel To lighten our minds with its rays. 739 We thank thee for every blessing Bestowed by thy bounteous hand. We feel it a pleasure to serve thee, And love to obey thy command. —M. C. S. Home for Christmas Myrtle M. Dean side by side on the desk. One letter was from her mother. The envelope was addressed in a hurried, sweeping hand. The lJetter inside was full of loving, newsy words galloping across the pages. "How glad we will be to have you home again. We can hardly wait to see the baby. It is wonderful that you will be 'back in America for Christmas," Anne's mother wrote. 'The second letter was from Bob's mother. It lay unopened, for Anne always left Bob's mail for him to read first, even though it was addressed to Mr. And Mrs. Robert Andrews. Anne knew that this letter would be as methodical and prim as the woman who wrote it. Bob's mother wrote with a meticulously neat and even hand. Anne smiled as she compared the two envelopes and looked over at her little son. "Only ten more days and we will be back home in America, Jamie darling. Home for Christmas, with Grandpa and Grandma. We will fly over the ocean in a big, big plane. Just like birds flying home to their nests." Anne waved her arms up and down like a bird flying, as she talked to baby Jamie. Jamie laughed and waved his arms. "Home to you, is right here in Germany where you were born, baby darling, but now you are goA NNE placed the two letters ing to learn about another country; a wonderful country, America that will be your home. "Your daddy has gone right now to get your papers all fixed, so you can be a real citizen of our United States, little Jamie." For more than two years Bob Andrews had been in foreign service in Germany. Bob and Anne had been married only two months when they arrived. At first they had kept busy and happy, but when Anne was to have her baby, she became homesick and felt a great need for her own mother. It was almost Christmas time then, too. That was just one year ago. Anne remembered still, how lonely and frightened she was then. "T think when we trust him, God has a way of taking care of mothers and their babies so they won't be too afraid," Bob had comforted her. Anne smiled now at her baby. Bob was right, she thought, Heavenly Father has been very kind to us. Suddenly an awful thought crept into Anne's mind. What if. Oh, no, Bob's mother just couldn't expect them to come to her home for Christmas. Anne thought of the big dreary house with its many rooms with everything so somber and untouchable. She had often wondered how a warm, live person like Bob could have grown up in such a place. Anne had never known Bob's father, for he had died several years before her marriage to Bob. Mrs. Andrews lived alone now, and she seemed as solemn and quiet as the old house. Anne lifted the letter from Mother Andrews. Bob had always said, "You should open Mother's letters, Anne. They are to both of us. Mom would like you to feel like a daughter." For a moment Anne thought she would read this letter to quict her fears, but she laid it back on the desk unread. "Don't be silly," Anne told herself. "Of course, Bob's mother will realize that I will want to be with my family for Christmas." She pushed her anxiety aside and began her work again. LMOST every day, Anne told Jamie about her family, about her younger sisters and_ brothers who would love to play with him. She was determined that he should learn a few words to show off to the family. Bob laughed at her, and told her that Jamie didn't understand a bit of the foolishness she tried to tell him. Only this morning she was rewarded for her efforts. Jamie said Gram-ma, Gram-ma. Over and over she had repeated the words to him. Now he laughed and _haltingly spoke the syllables. Anne could hardly wait for Bob to come to hear him. She could picture her mother's delight at her first little grandchild speaking those words. Soon, Bob came in flourishing a large envelope. "Now we are all set to leave." "Three cheers for the Red, White, and Blue," Anne called out happily. "Oh,. And there are letters from our mothers. Mom says they can hardly wait to see us. Won't it be fun showing off our son? And home for Christmas, just think!" Bob clasped her about the waist and swung her around happily. "Mother is going to like having a grandson around. And you know, Anne, I believe the little guy looks a lot like Dad," Bob spoke thoughtfully. Again, that anxious feeling crept over Anne, and her hand trembled as she handed Bob his letter. She waited tensely for him to open it. "You should have read Mother's letter, too," Bob said once more. Anne saw that he looked a trifle hurt. "Tl go on packing while you read the letter to me," she said. Anne's face was stricken and her arms fell listlessly to her sides as she heard the words of the letter. "IT am planning a fine Christmas this year, Bob, with a tree in the corner of the living room just as we used to have when you were a little fellow. You were married just a little while before you went away, so Anne and I hardly know each other. We need to get acquainted, and now you have a little son; how wonderful. I will count on all of vou for Christmas." Bob raised his eyes to Anne's. The bright happiness was gone from her face. She turned away to hide her tears. "Anne, dear, of course you expected to go to your family for Christmas. Don't feel bad, Anne, that is where we will go." Bob spoke reassuringly. "But you heard it — in the letter — you heard your mother say she expects us for Christmas. She is 740 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 HOME FOR CHRISTMAS? Counting on us,' Anne replied brokenly. "There won't be time to write now, but when we get to your home we can phone Mother. We'll tell her we had planned to be with your folks, but will go on after Christmas week." Bob's voice was troubled. "But we didn't plan. I just supposed she would know that I would want to be with my family for Christmas." Anne's voice held reproach. She wanted to say, "Your mother is selfish. She should understand that a girl wants to be with her family. That she wants to show off her baby to her folks. She should know how I'd hate the big, lonely house where she lives." NNE almost wished that Bob would argue about the situation, that he would say, "Mother is lonely and needs us. I have as much right to go to my mother for Christmas as you to yours." But Bob didn't say anything. He was leaving it for Anne to decide. Anne remembered now that her mother's letter had not mentioned their coming to her home for Christmas. Of course she expects us, and will be very disappointed if we don't. She just doesn't want to be selfish, Anne thought. After Bob left the room, Anne let the tears flow freely. Little Jamie looked on silently, as though he sensed her changed mood. "We can't go home for Christmas, honey. We've got another grandma. She wants her boy, and you, too, Jamie. We must go to her. We've just got to." Anne's voice was muffled by her crying. Jamie's eyes looked big and sol- 741 emn. Then he waved his arms and began saying, "Gram-ma, gram-ma." IME passed quickly now. Soon they were on their way, and the wide expanse of gray-blue ocean lay below them. 'Then there was the Statue of Liberty welcoming them. "This is America, Jamie darling. This is our own country," Anne spoke breathless with emotion and homesickness. Bob pointed out the Empire State Building and the United Nations Building of New York. Anne saw how happy he was to be back in America, too. 'They skimmed over the cities, Chicago, Kansas City, and all the others as they flew westward. Soon they would be coming to the outskirts of the town that was Bob's home. "See how beautiful everything looks so far below us," Bob said, and Anne saw the happiness in his eyes. She saw the dark green of the trees on the foothills, and the town nestled down in a valley like a babe wrapped in a soft, white blanket. The lights from the houses twinkled out dimly, and Anne knew one of those houses below them would be Bob's boyhood home. Yet her heart sank as she thought of the hundred miles that still lay between them and her own parents' home. "We will be there soon, Bob. To your mother's I mean," Anne said. Her voice was low, but she tried to smile. "Oh, Anne, I can't let you do this. I know how you feel," Bob protested. "We can't disappoint your mother. You know she expects us. We'll have to do it, and go on in a few days to my family." Anne tricd to keep her voice even as she told him, "You are so swect to do this, Anne." Anne thought to herself, I don't feel at all sweet or gencrous. I fee] mean, and still think Boh's mother is selfish and unthoughtful. I still want to cry and I still want to hur. Ty on home, and hear little Jamie say "Gram-ma, Gram-ma"' to Mother. She was thinking that right now there would be a tree Waiting to be trimmed in her mother's living room, T was now dusk dark, and very beautiful with soft pink color in the skv. The winter moon was pale and cold. Little snow crystals fell and frosted Anne's hair as they left the cab and came up the walk to the Andrews' house. Bob walked ahead with his son in his arms, On the door a hght shone from the large holly wreath. A soft glow came from the windows, out to the evergreens in the yard. Bob rang the doorbell, and 'as they waited, Anne took hold of Bob's arm. They heard hurried footsteps in the hall. Anne saw the happiness light the woman's face as she embraced her son and her little grandchild. Anne stood back silently, allowin them time to greet each other. Then Mrs. Andrews came to Anne. She seemed a bit awkward and shy. She kissed Anne on the cheek, but still Anne could not feel a great warmth toward this prim, unfamiliar woman. As they went into the living room, little Jamie clung tightly to his father's neck, "He isn't used to strangers much yet," Anne said. "But he soon gets acquainted, then he is alinost too sociable," Bob told his mother, They saw the lovely, decorated tree in the corner of the room. It Was much more imposing than any Anne had ever had at her home. Jamie held out his arms to the tree, reaching toward the pretty lights. Mis. Andrews reached to take him, but he pulled back. He was still not ready to make friends. "TIL show you' the pretty tree," Mrs. Andrews said. "He is learning to say a few words, Mother," Bob said. "He can say Grand-ma. Here, Anne, he will say it for you. Have him say Gram-ma for Mother." Anne felt sick with disappointment. She had labored so hard to see that Jamie would say these words for her own dear mother. She had never once thought of Bob's mother being the one to hear him first. She took Jamie in her arms and pointed to Mrs. Andrews, "Say Gram-ma, Jamie. Say Gram-ma," Anne te. Peated. Jamie looked Strangely at this woman smiling at him, then began to say over and over, "Gram-ma — Gram-ma, Gram-ma." He Was delighted by so much attention. Bob and his mother laughed together and were very pleased, not noting that Anne stood without even a smile. "He is starting to walk, too," Bob said. "Put him down, Anne, and let him walk to me." Bob held out his arms, and stooped low for Jamie to come. "Walk to Daddy," he said, Jamie wobbled unsteadily toward his father, then spying the bright tree, he turned and waddled across the room with his arms out- 742 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 HOME FOR CHRISTMAS stretched. Squealing with delight, he clasped a pretty bauble from a low limb. Anne rushed to take him. "He will play havoc with everything, and probably cat the glass ornaments. He is tired and excited and should be in bed,' Anne said a bit too abruptly. "Of course he is. I will show you where he will sleep." Bob's mother led the way to the stairs. Anne, looking at the lovely, mahogany stairway, thought, did a mischievous boy named Bob Andrews ever have fun sliding down this polished banister from his room? Mrs. Andrews stood back watching as they opened the bedroom coor. "Why, Mother, you have fixed my old room with all my baby things, just as it was when I was a toddler like Jamie." Bob laughed, delightedly. "Would you think that my _ six-feet-two could have ever been little enough to fit into that crib?" "This battered up old Teddy bear always went to bed with Bob. He said he had to have company until he got a little brother, but we could never get a little brother for him." Mrs. Andrews eyes were serious as she told them. Bob reached down and poked the little brown bear in the tummy. "You were surely my pal," he said. "You two will have the room across the hall, I hope you rest well," Bob's mother said, then she moved slowly down the stairs. "That was Father's and Mother's room as long as I can remember, until he went. Now mother takes a little room downstairs," Bob said 743 solemnly. He reached for Anne's hand and they entered the lovely room together. Early the next morming they heard Mother Andrews moving about the kitchen. "We will have our big dinner on Christmas Eve," she had told them. All day Anne cffered to help, but there didn't seem to be much that Mrs. Andrews hadn't prepared already. "Tt looks as though there will be turkey left over for weeks and plum pudding, too, for we are not staying on here to help eat it up,' Anne said to Bob. "Td better get down town and sec about our reservations to go on after Christmas. 'Things may be crowded through the holidays," Bob said, NILE Bob was gone, Anne offered to set the table for the dinner. She thought of the hustle and bustle there would be at home now. Her father would call all of the family into the living room where they would gather about the piano and sing all the Christmas carols, and afterward her father would read the story of Jesus' birth from Luke. Later, Anne took Jamie out for a stroll to rest him so that he wouldn't be too tired before dinner was over. She wanted him to be awake for the opening of the gifts. When Anne returned with Jamie, Mother Andrews told her she had already set the table. Anne felt resentful that she was not allowed to help more. Everything seemed to be ready and Anne wondered why they did not eat. "It's always been an iron-clad tule that we ate dinner at six. I see mother still hasn't forgotten it," Bob said to Anne. "T hope there will be no iron-clad tules at our house," Anne said. "The turkey smells so good," Bob hinted. "I speak to do the carving." Mrs. Andrews seemed a bit restless and kept glancing at the clock. She is nervous, not being used to company, Anne thought. The time slipped by, and it was six fifteen, and still they did not eat. "What is wrong with Mom, she is always so prompt?" Bob asked. Just then they heard the doorbell ring sharply. Bob's mother hurried to the door. "Surprise — surprise!" Big and little voices called out happily as Anne's family entered the hall. "Mother — Daddy — all of you. How did you get here?" Tears of happiness ran down Anne's cheeks. After she had greeted her family, she walked quickly to Mother Andrews and kissed her on the cheek. "How wonderful of you," she said. "T thought it would be nice to be all together,' Bob's mother spoke softly. Anne chided herself. All the time I was thinking her so selfish, but I was the selfish one. I would have left her here all alone for Christmas, thinking only of myself. "Bob, did you know this all the time?" Anne asked. "I'm as surprised as you." "Anne has been wonderful," Mrs. Andrews declared. "I was a bit worried at first that she might think me quite mean to bring her here." "T was afraid to tell you, Anne, there were no reservations for train, plane, or bus for at least two weeks," Bob announced. "Don't worry," Anne's father declared. "We brought the station wagon along. There will be plenty of room for everyone going home." Mother Andrews stood back smiling, as though she felt real proud of the results of all her maneuvering. She opened the door to the dining room to show the table all set for a large family. "IT wondered this afternoon, why Mother Andrews wouldn't let me set the table, but I see, it was part of the surprise." Anne placed her arm lovingly around Bob's mother's waist as she spoke. They all bowed their heads gratefully over the table spread with delicious, steaming food, as Mrs. Andrews asked Anne's father to offer the blessing. Even baby Jamie folded his tiny hands and bowed his head. The candle light flickered over the crystal and silver, casting a soft glow all about them. Anne reached for Bob's hand. 'There is something so warm and close and precious about this new togetherness of our two families, she thought. Then her eyes turned to a picture of Bob's father that hung on the wall. As Anne looked up, all eyes turned toward the picture. It seemed that he was smiling down at them. Suddenly, Anne's father spoke, "See little Jamie. He looks like his Grandfather Andrews." As they all looked, Mrs. Andrews brushed a tear from her cheek as she said, "Wouldn't Grandpa Andrews be proud of the little boy?" Now Anne spoke. There was a sweet earnestness in her voice. "I think he knows that we are all here together tonight, and he is very near. Don't you think that Christmas extends into eternity, too?" 744 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 GYessie Gvans Smiths Hobby - A Useful Ynvention ESSIE EVANS SMITH, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith, is a woman of many gifts and talents. She is noted for her lovely voice and has been a member of the Tabernacle Choir for many years. As a needlecraft project, she gathered neckties from the male members of the choir and made the beautiful quilt shown in the picture at the right. Many pieces of exquisite handwork, including needlepoint, adorn the Smith home. Particularly outstanding for design and workmanship are the needlepoint pieces on the chairs, benches, and on the tilt table top. Mrs. Smith is not only a musician and needlecraft artist, but an inventor as well. A few years ago as an aid in doing petit point, she began work on her invention, the "Magnu-Vu." She cut the bottom out of a metal soap tray, and anchored a rectangular magnifying glass within the frame. Her husband fastened a piece of wood onto one side so that the glass would extend outward away from the body. Then, with some ribbon, Mrs. Smith supported the magnifying glass from her neck, thus leaving both hands free for sewing. With a little more engineering, the invention was perfected and placed on the market. It has been referred to as "the vision of youth and the dream of old age," and has proved to be a great blessing in reading, embroidery, crocheting, mending, quilting, and other types of handwork. Page 745 Pla ythin gs atom Castawa ys Holly B. Keddington OLD it! You don't intend to throw that away, do you? Look at it more carefully. You may see a usc for it m your Relief Socicty nursery. All sizes of cans, spools, salt and ccreal boxes, tubes from paper and foil rolls, tin boxes, and small, firm cardboard containers can be made into attractive toys and games. Discarded tinker toys and blocks find a new purpose. Those shoelaces can be washed and used by a very young child, on which he can thread colored spools. Whether the finished product of this spool, can, or box art is a masterpiece is not important — that he made it himself and can take it home if he wants to is what really matters to the child. From various sized tin cans can be made a tetem pole with gay figures and symbols of felt or other available material pasted on. A paint thinner can becomes a cute fat pig with felt features, dots, and a curly pipe cleaner tail. Four short spools become stubby legs. A small shortening can (with a hinged lid) is a chalk container, and the large shortening can with the lid removed becomes a two-toned drum, if scraps of naugahyde are laced with boondoggle over the ends of the can. A painted band-aid box is fine for cravons. Salt boxes make an engine and tank, coal, and flat cars bright and gav with paint or wall-tex scraps and tinker toy wheels. A Sant-flush can makes an oil tanker, again with discarded tinker toy spools for wheels. These nursery toys can be made with practically no outlay of money, Page 746 if willing hands will help with the supplying of materials and doing the painting, gluing, and assembling. Many women love to paint, and no matter what color paint would be donated from that shelf in the garage or basement, they can mix and make beautiful combinations of colors from those odds and ends. Spools and salt boxes need a coat of shellac first, then one coat of paint will finish it. Tin cans cover well with one coat. These toys will be used and will have to be replaced, so have extra cans and spools painted or wall-texed. ORK meeting would be a fine time to have the older children help repair damaged toys. The breakage of a toy should not become a big issue, but rather show the children that with a little effort the toy can be restored. To cast away is wasteful, so it is good to mend, if possible. William Beal CUT-DOWN CARD TABLE WITH MATERIALS ASSEMBLED FOR MAKING TOYS Pieces of colored felt, assorted cans and spools, cast-off tinker toys, shoelaces, and string. PLAYTHINGS FROM CASTAWAYS If you know a paper hanger or upholsterer, his discarded sample books or largest scraps will make many things. The following were saved for the pictured articles: 2 shortening cans, 1 large and 1 small; vegetable juice, frozen juice, small milk, baby and junior foods, paint thinner, and Saniflush cans; various sized spools; salt boxes; small lid; one 2% gallon sherbet carton; scraps of mastic; walltex, felt, boondoggle, rickrack, and discarded blocks and tinker toy parts. Couplings for the train cost 15c, with some left over; shellac and paint were leftovers supplemented by a very small amount of new paint. As you work you will find 747 more things to use and more articles to make. A production line technique is best when working on this project. 1. Clean cans and be sure the glue is off the side where labels were joined. Punched cans are best, but if the tops are entirely off, be sure cans are smooth on the inside. 2. Separate into groups, different sizes in each group. Shellac spools and _ salt boxes. 3. Paint one group at a time, all one color. 'Then go on to the next color. Don't be afraid to paint an extra can or two, since you never have too many. 4. Don't rush! Let each article dry thoroughly. While these are drying, cut out and assemble the other materials to be used. Glue wall-tex, wallpaper, etc., on other cans and boxes. William Beal TOYS MADE) FROM CANS Left to right: Container for crayons, chalk box, and drum. 5. Now make the selection of colored cans or spools for each toy. Use as many different colors as possible for cach project. 'The little tots like things gay. Now to Assemble: Totem Pole: 4 or 5 cans of various sizes and colors; glue cutouts of varicolorcd felt to sides of can. Stack with large can as base and taper up smallest can. Holes can be punched in top and bottom of cans and a dowel run through if pole is to be permanent, but you will find that the children love to stack the cans themselves. A gay fluff of wool or felt or a point of some discarded toy pasted to the top can make a nice finish. Pig: One paint thinner can, top of can as the head. Place assorted sizes of felt or mastic dots of a contrasting color on the body of pig. Add pink ears, eyes, and nostrils to the screw top of can, and four stubby spools for legs. A curly tail of three inches of pipe cleaner wrapped around a pencil is added at the very top of the back of can. Train: 'Three or more salt boxes of various colors, the engine preferably painted a bright yellow. A spray paint can lid is also painted yellow and glucd to the top of the front for a headlight. Place two rounds of felt on the front of this headlight, the smaller one on top of the other. 'The top one, yellow, simulates hight. Paste five narrow strips of felt or wool yam % inch below this light to resemble a cowcatcher. Make holes by screwing large size screw carefully through sides of salt box % inch up sides and 1% inches from front and back of box. Run tinker toy stick through these holes and attach four tinker spools for wheels. Wheels will turn if they don't touch the sides of the toys. Flat cars are made by cutting "4 inch off side of box. Finish around top edge William Beal TOYS MADE FROM CAST-OFF CONTAINERS In the foreground: background: 'Vanker and Pig. Relicf Socicty 'L'rain. At the left: 'Totem Pole. In the 748 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 PLAYTHINGS FROM CASTAWAYS with mastic tape. Place wheels as for engine. Label sides Coal and fill with spools and blocks for cargo. Tankers are whole salt boxes with names printed or glued on the sides for variety. All of the cars are joined together with small hook and eye screws from hardware store. A thin piece of wood should be glued to cars so screws will hold tight. Place four wheels on can, as for trains. Add two headlights below red top of can, Write GAS on sides. Junior will thus learn another word. Sani-flusli tanker: Spool Telephone: Punch hole in the bottom of tape can or drill a hole in a 5 x 5 x 1 piece of plywood or pine. Place dowel through hole and stack three large spools on dowel. Glue two rounds of felt on top of third spool. Felt must have a piece cut from center to outside of circles to hold the receiver hook which is made from the hook of a coat hanger looped around a dowel. Pliers are used to cut and bend the wire. The next spool is placed above this and has a mouthpiece which is the top of a spray can nailed to the side of the spool. The top spool is a small one. A wing nut is used to fasten the top of the dowel. A heavy. Cord holds a 5ooo-yard spool, which is the receiver. Waste basket: 1—2% gallon sherbet carton. Scraps of naugahyde, oilcloth, or wall-tex are glued to the outside of the carton. Finish the top with a fold of material, two or more inches wide; cut fringe, scallops, or any desired pattern and glue this to the inside of carton, % inch from top. Fold over to outside of carton and glue in place. Stack toy game: One piece of board 2 x 4 x 14 with two %-inch holes bored four inches from each end of the top of the board. Two dowels % x 24 inches are glued into the holes so they stand upright. Scrap lumber blocks, 6-inch tubes from paper rolls, small evaporated milk cans, and wooden spools from the ends of butcher paper arc divided into two cqual piles, placed some distancc from the upright poles, and the teams place one object at a time on their dowel. The team placing all of its objects on the dowel first wins the game. 749 William Beal COMPETITION, CONVERSATION, AND CLEAN-UP TOYS Left to right: stack toy game; telephone; waste basket. Play table—large: 1 large 5 x 5 foot piece of % inch plywood. Edges are sanded smooth and rounded slightly. Shellac all over. Two 17-inch high trestles act as legs. (Not illustrated.) Play. Table—small: A wooden-legged card table with seven inches cut from legs makes a play table just the right height for playing or eating. Outlining Pictures: Did you have a strip of peg board left over when you made the new bulletin board? If you cut it in small 4" x 6", 6" x 6", round or oval pieces, your children can paste or paint designs or pictures on them, and with boondoggle, colored yarns, or shoe laces, lace through the holes outlining the pictures. It helps so much with the small child's co-ordination. These are only a few of the possibilitics of such articles. Even before this is in print other ideas will have been worked out. You will have many ideas of your own. Make these ideas become realities. You will be William Beal PEG BOARD ART Outline Pictures: ship, pup, and desert scene. Glad you did and so will your little Relief Society nursery friends. All of the above articles are fine for grandmothers to have on hand when tots come to call. Grandmothers are expected to have something special for the small guests. You will be surprised at the interest in these "homey" toys. Have a boxful ready for the next time the children visit. Grandpa may even help with the project. Oe —_ Hlovember Gnstant Maude Rubin Now the brawling creek is liquid amber Loitering between ice-necdled banks; One relic apple, summer's ember, Still burns on the naked bough and links 'That lost Maytime with this tranquil instant... Then petalled perfume rinsed the night, Promised this quictude and casement Before the pillowed winter white. 750 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 My Shird Gra n dma Part ITI — Ants Ilene H. Kingsbury ICK the ant bed apart. Scatter the pointed top over the ground. Prod with a stick into the tunnels and the byways of the frantic, scattering multitudes of creatures whose fury and frustration are signaled deep beneath the garden level. Look at the purposeful hurry they have attained as they repair the damage, recover stores of food, and rescue their precious eggs from giant footfalls. We stomp. We brush the scurrying insects from our shoes, and as we see them making headway up our stockings and even onto our hands and arms, we fling ourselves about and dance away from the anthill and wish we hadn't disturbed it. We wonder what is the use of ants, anyway. Ke OR We ran to safety under the shade of Grandma Morgan's back porch and met her coming to meet us. In her hand was a bowl of white flour paste which she stirred vigorously as she hastened toward the ants. She stopped just short of them and then, with a pinch of this rice flour paste, started to make a design on the ground. At first we couldn't see much sense or pattern to what she was doing. Just a lot of dots in measured rows, then continuous swirls and curves to enclose the dots and to create a tracery of beauty resembling a delicate oriental screen. A fine filigree of rice flour was at our feet. It was as if precious lace had been held above the ground for its shadow to fall as a benediction on the ants. This was too silent and too beautiful for us to endure. At eight one must have an explanation for even the most simple demonstration. We asked Grandma what she was doing, and she said she was feeding the ants. Well, then, why not just spill the rice flour on the ant hill and let it go at that? From what she said that morning, I knew that if I never reached India, that she had brought India to me. Back in her childhood she had been taught to believe that kindness to all living creatures was a duty, the violation of which placed one under most serious penalties. 'Thus, if any of God's creatures needed shelter or food, the way should be opened. In fact, to anticipate the wants of such creations as the ants, was a mark of utter consideration. Therefore, on holidays especially, all Hindu women chose a small area in front of their homes on which to make a banquet for the ants. The designs of rice flour paste were marvels to please the eye. Often they were copies of a design known as the Tree of Lifc, or were replicas of ancient legends carved in oriental woods. In most cases they bespoke the originality of the individual. In the present enlightened world, the custom still stands, but with the good luck charm idea as the interpretation. As Grandma stooped to make her ricc picture, we backed up a bit, hands clasped behind us to sort of control us from disturbing her. Be- (Continued on page 786) Page 751 Holiday Food Suggestions Ethel C. Smith N retrospect at Thanksgiving time, how often we discover that our blessings throughout the year have been too numerous to count. And we resolve not to be found guilty again of a complacent acceptance of our privileges and opportunities, but to be more aware and more appreciative each day of our good fortune. How grateful we should be for a bounteous harvest and for the help this gives us in planning and preparing meals. In spite of the many foods available, however, we still must have recipes. In almost every family there are traditional recipes and _ special dishes which make their appearance each year during the holiday season. But homemakers are always looking for new and different recipes to add to those treasured ones. It is in keeping with the neighborly gesture of exchanging recipes prevalent among Relief Society sisters, and in the spirit of gratitude and thanksgiving, that the following brief suggestions are offered: STEAMED PuppING 1 c. Whole-wheat bread crumbs 1 c. Milk ¥% c¢. Butter % c. Brown sugar (packed firmly) 1 c. Whole-wheat flour 1 tsp. Soda 1 tsp. Nutmeg 1 tsp. Cinnamon "' tsp. Salt % c. Chopped nuts 1 c. Maraschino cherries (cut up) 1 c. Seedless raisins Soak bread crumbs in milk. Cream butter and sugar until fluffy. Add to soaked crumbs. Other mixture. Sift dry ingredients together twice and add fruits and nuts. Fill greased pudding molds two-thirds full and steam 2 hours. Hot with lemon sauce topped with hard sauce, or with ice-cream sauce. Blend well into Serve (Note: If pudding is steamed in wide-mouthed pint fruit jars, lids tight, it will keep indefinitely. IcE-CrREAM SAUCE (For Pudding) 1 egg dash of salt "" C, sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Whipping cream Beat egg until light. Add sugar, salt, vanilla, and beat well. Whip cream until stiff. Fold egg mixture into cream. About a half hour before serving time, pour into refrigerator tray and chill until partially frozen. Put on warm pudding and serve immediately. Fruit Cocxrait Puppine % c. Chopped nuts % c. Brown sugar 1 C. Sugar 1 c. Flour 1 tsp. Soda Page 752 Y% tsp. Salt 1 egg (well beaten) 1 no. 2 can (1 Ib.) fruit cocktail (drained) HOLIDAY FOOD SUGGESTIONS 753 Mix the nuts and brown sugar together and set aside. Mix other dry ingredients together and mix in the beaten egg. Then blend the drained fruit cocktail by hand until well mixed. Put into greased nine-inch baking dish and spread the brown sugar-nut mixture on the top. Bake at 350 degrees for 20 to 30 minutes. Serve hot, topped with whipped cream. CRANBERRY-ALMOND PIE 4 c. Fresh cranberries 2 tbsp. Quick cooking tapioca 2 ¢. Sugar ¥% c. Slivered almonds 1 small can (8% oz.) crushed pineapple 1 tsp. Almond extract Wash cranberries and combine with sugar and pineapple in saucepan. Cook over moderate heat, stirring occasionally, for about five minutes, until berries pop. Remove from heat and stir in tapioca, almonds, and flavoring. Line a nine-inch pie plate with half recipe of your favorite pastry. Trim, leaving one inch of pastry over edge of pan. Roll out remaining pastry and cut into one-half inch strips. Pour filling into pan and lay strips across the top about one inch apart. Weave pastry strips across the other way to make a lattice, folding back alternate strips of the first layer to do this. When lattice is finished, bring edge of the lower crust up over edge of strips and press down to seal edges; then flute edges. PuMPKIN CHIFFON PIE 3 egg yolks % tsp. Cinnamon c. Sugar "" tsp. Nutmeg 1% c. Cooked or canned pumpkin 1 tbsp. Unflavored gelatin % c. Milk % c. Cold water " tsp. Salt 3 stiffly beaten egg whites Y, tsp. Ginger ' c. Sugar Beat egg yolks and % cup sugar until thick; add pumpkin, milk, salt, and spices and mix well. Cook in double boiler until thickened. Soak gelatin in cold water and when softened add to the hot mixture, stirring until gelatin is dissolved. Beat egg whites until stiff, then beat in the remaining % cup sugar. Remove hot mixture from stove and fold in the egg whites. Pour into baked shell and chill. Top with ring of whipped, sweetened cream. Nut Pie SHELL (Especially good with the Pumpkin Chiffon Pie) 1 c. Flour % c. Brown sugar "" ¢c. Butter % ¢. Finely chopped nuts Mix together well and spread in nine-inch pie pan. Cook at 350 degrees for about 15 minutes or until lightly browned. Remove from oven and press firmly into shape in the pan. Cool before putting in the filling. CHERRY-CHEESE SALAD 1 package lime jello "% ¢. Pineapple chunks 1% c. Hot water 1 small package Philadelphia cream % c. Fresh lime juice cheese 1 tbsp. Sugar chopped nuts (optional) 1 c. White cherries (pitted) (This takes a no. 2 or 1 Ib. Can) Prepare jello according to directions on package, substituting 4 c. Lime juice for % c. Of the water called for. Stir in sugar. Put in refrigerator until mixture starts to set. Add fruits and put into individual ring molds. Make small balls of the cream cheese and roll in finely chopped nuts, or use the cheese plain. When jello is unmolded, place two or three of the cheese balls in center and garnish the ring with mayonnaise. (If you prefer to have solid molds, stuff the cherries with the cheese balls before adding to jello.) 754 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 Jevuiep Fruit Saab 6 ¢. Diced pineapple oy 1 ¢c. Pineapple juice (drained from canned pineapple) % ¢. Diced oranges (Mandarin oranges 1 package lemon jello may be used if desired) 1 ¢, orange juice % ¢c. Chopped Brazil nuts 1 c. Whipping cream Heat pineapple juice. Add to jello and stir until dissolved. Add orange juice and chill. When jello starts to thicken, beat with rotary egg beater or electric mixer until frothy. Whip cream stiff and fold into the jcllo. Blend in fruit and nuts, and put to set. Serve either with fruit salad dressing or mayonnaise. Ho. Wipay CAKE 2 lbs. Pitted dates 3% c. Flour % Vb. Glazed cherries 4 tsps. Baking powder 1 medium-sized bottle (8 oz. Or little % tsp. Cloves more) maraschino cherries % tsp. Allspice ¥, ¢, maraschino cherry juice % tsp. Nutmeg 1 c. Butter 1 tsp. Cinnamon 3 c. Brown sugar (packed firmly) 1 tsp. Salt 5 eggs, separated 2 tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Milk 2% or 3c. Chopped nuts Cut dates and cherries into small pieccs and soak in 14 cup maraschino cherry juice until juice is absorbed by fruit (preferably overnight). Cream butter and add half the sugar. Beat until light and fluffy. In another bow] beat the egg yolks until very thick and lemon colored. Add the remaining sugar and beat until light and fluffy. Combine the two mixtures and beat. Add _ vanilla. Sift and measure flour. Then sift three times with salt, baking powder, and spices. Add dry ingredients and milk alternately, beating well after each addition. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Last, add fruit and nuts which have been dredged lightly with a little of the flour. Bake in loaf pans which have been lined on the bottom with waxed paper and well greased, both bottom and sides. Bake in slow oven (250 degrees) two hours, if regular loaf size pans are used, one hour if very small pans are used. Makes three regular loaf size cakes or eight small ones. Most people have their special way of cooking the turkey and a favorite stuffing recipe. But sometimes it is hard to know just what to do with leftover turkey, so it will have an appetite appeal after the big Thanksgiving dinner. Here are two suggestions: EscALLoPeD Turkry Witt CauLIFLOWER OR BRoccoui 1 head of cauliflower or tion of these liquids broccoli stalks to equal that amount. (Note: To make turkey stock, break 3 tbsp. Turkey fat or butter up turkey bones and boil over low 3 tbsp. Flour heat with some chopped celery, salt and pepper onions, parsley, and seasonings. ) 1% c. Turkey stock or milk, or a combinaBreak cauliflower or broccoli into pieces and cook in boiling salted water until almost tender. Drain. Melt fat and add flour and seasoning. Stir in stock or milk and cook until thickened, stirring constantly. Arrange turkey and vegetable in greased casserole in alternate layers and cover with sauce. Bake in moderate oven (350 degrees) until heated through — 20 to 30 minutes. Note: A variation to this is to use alternate layers of turkey, vegetables, and ham, and cover with a nippy cheese sauce (medium white sauce with cheese added). TurkEY-DRESSING CASSEROLE In greased casserole, arrange alternate layers of sliced turkey (or pieces) and sliced cold dressing. Pour gravy over this and top with creamy mashed potatoes. Brush with butter and bake in moderate oven for 15 or 20 minutes, until heated through and the potatoes are browned. Orchids in the Snow CHAPTER 7 Rosa Lee Lloyd Synopsis: Sharry and Sam Wynter, newlyweds from Utah, make many friends in their new home in Alaska, including Angus McFarland, a widower, his daughter Marie, and Susan and Herman Elge from Bristol] Bay. Sister Jensen, President of the branch Relief Society in Fairbanks, introduces Sharon to Mary Billings, who is blind, and to other neighbors. Sharon and Sam repair a log cabin for their home, and Marie comes from Anchorage to visit them. When Sharon finds that she is expecting a child she sends for Aunt Jewel, a nurse. McFarland brings Jewel from Anchorage to Fairbanks in his plane. Later, when Sharon is feeling well enough to travel, the Wynters, Marie, and Aunt Jewel go to visit McFarland and Herman and Susan Elge in Bristol Bay. Jewel leaves for a ten-mile trip by dog tcam at once after their arrival to nurse a very ill woman. HARRY was awakened by the S shrieking storm. The radium hands of her wrist watch were the only speck of light in the black night. It was after midnight. "Sam," she called. "Are you awake, dear?" He sat up rubbing his eyes. "Some wind! Sounds like a steam roller!" "Tr's awful. I'm scared for Aunt Jewel." "Yes — I hope they make it okay. Listen to that ice splinter against the windows!" He got out of bed and made his way to the living room in the darkness. Sharry slipped on her robe, following him. Marie was there already. "T'll_get the storm lantern," she said. "It's in the kitchen. This sounds like a real shocker." Sharry and Sam dressed hurriedly while Marie got the lantern. "Put on your parka," Sam_told her. "It's freezing. We can't build a fire with this wind running wild." Sam was eyeing the big front window overlooking the bay. It was creaking and moaning with cach furious blast of wind. "We'll have to brace it,' Maric said. "Help me get the iron grating and the two-by-fours from the storage hall. The wind is off the Bay. Hear the waves lashing!" "Stay here, honey,' Sam_ told Sharry. He pushed her gently into the leather chair. ""Here—cover up with this blanket." "But I want to help,' cried. There was a thunderous roar on the roof. "There goes the chimney!" Marie called. "The wires holding it have snapped. I'm glad the fire was out. Here, Sharry, guard this lantern. If the wind catches the flame, smother it with your blanket." They disappeared into the blackness, Sharry shivered as she watched the lantern. Suddenly the wind swept through the fireplace, raced through the living room, tumbling everything loose in its path. It roared into the kitchen, banging kettles on their hooks, sweeping dishes and glasses to the floor. Sharry was terrified. Aunt Jewel was out there somewhere in this awful storm. Oh, please, dear Heavenly Page 755 Sharry Father, she prayed, bless her and McFarland and all of us. Sam and Marie worked furiously to reinforce the windows. Sharry tried to help them, but Marie pushed her out of the way. "Watch that lantern!" she demanded. "lhat's your job." Marie was her father's daughter, fighting like a little tigress hour after hour. Sam worked right along with her, lugging the huge pieces of lumber, bracing them in exactly the right places. "That's perfect, Sam," Sharry heard Marie's voice above the storm. "T wouldn't have known enough to put it there." Sam knows so many things, Sharry thought. He always figures everything exactly right. HE lantern flame flickered, then flamed to the top of the chimney. Sharry screamed to them. "Get under the blanket with it," Marie called back. "Don't be such a fraidy cat!" "But [ am afraid!" Sharry cried out. "TI can't help it. Aunt Jewel is out there freezing, and you say not to be afraid. It sounds crazy!" There was a lull in the storm. Marie turned to Sharry in the weird silence that followed. Her face was strained in the lantern light. Her freckles were spots of gold in her pale face. "Listen, Sharry," she said, in a deadly, solemn voice. "This is life in Bristol. I was reared in_ this country, and it's no joy ride. Jewel might as well know what it's like before she marries my Dad!" "T hope she doesn't marry him!" Sharry replied angrily. "I hope she has better sense than to marry him and live in this wild forsaken place —I'd rather die...." Her voice broke in little pieces. Sam was staring at her, his blue eyes stricken as though she had struck him physically. "Oh, no!" She closed her eyes against his look. "I didn't mean it — please forgive me...." The wind rose again in sudden fury, drowning her voice. Sam reached for another blanket and tucked it around her before he turned again to the windows. Gradually the wind whined to a low moan, then finally stopped. "It's gone out to sea," Marie said, throwing herself on the lounge. "It won't come back tonight. The windows are safe, Sam. The roof is still on. We can sleep in peace." Sam lifted Sharry in his arms and carried her into the bedroom. "It's been too much for you," he said in his tender way. His eyes avoided hers. She knew he was deeply hurt by what she had said, but he did not mention it. He slept exhaustedly. HARRY awakened at ten o'clock the next morning. The sky, from the bedroom window, was a dim wash of gold above the Bay. She closed the door and hurried to the kitchen, hoping to get the broken glasses and dishes swept up before Sam and Marie awakened. The delicious odor of frying food greeted her as she went in. "Susan! How good to see you. You've cleaned up in here." Susan was cooking on a small, portable oil stove. She smiled at Sharry. "T heard the chimney tumble so I knew the range couldn't be used. 756 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW I brought my little stove. You need something hot, dear. This is powdered milk but it tastes real good." Sharry sat on the stool, sipping the hot milk. "Try a piece of this fried mush," Susan urged her. "It's crispy good with jam." "T — can't eat," Sharry murmured. "T know," Susan said. "Storms are upsetting. It used to take me days to get over one when we first' came here." "The storm was awful,' Sharry said, "but it wasn't just the storm. I said something mean — I wish I hadn't...." Brokenly she told Susan how she had flared out at Marie; that Sam had heard what she said. Now he knew how she felt about living in Alaska. Susan turned another piece of mush, then she sat down in a chair opposite Sharry. "Life is full of storms," she said, her dark eyes tender with understanding. "We must ride them out, Sharry. Prayerfully and trustingly. Don't ever let a shadow of any kind come between you and your husband. He is God's blessing to you. You must always come first with each other." The clock on the table ticked on steadily. Sharry looked at Susan's toilworn hands folded in her lap. Her face was lined and looked older than her years. She was only Jewel's age. 'Time was running out for her husband, and she knew it. Each tick of the clock brought the parting nearer. And yet — Susan's eyes were those of a woman who looks >? 757 beyond the trials of each day toward some brighter tomorrow. "We have had a good life together, Herman and IJ." Her voice was so low Sharry bent her head to hear her. "We have fought things through together, storm or shine, sick or well. Herman always put me first. 'That to me is the sweetest part of marriage — you always come first with each other. What does it matter where you have to live if you have each other?" Sharry couldn't speak for the great hot lump in her throat. She held Susan's hand for a long, quiet moment. Then Susan lifted her head. Her eyes held a new promise. "T have sent for my son Swenson," she said. "He should be here this week. That will make Marie happy, I hope." "Marie?" Sharry questioned as a little bell tinkled in her mind. Marie had told her she was in love with a boy who thought she was still a little girl. It must be Swenson! "He has told us of girl friends," Susan went on. "But there is no special girl. Does Marie have a special boy?" Sharry shook her head. "I think she has been waiting for Swenson," she confided. "But that's her secret. Susan, it would be wonderful for you if Swenson stayed here in Bristol." QGUSAN'S face sobered. "That is too much to hope for," she answered. "He is a surgeon. 'The hospital in Anchorage needs surgeons. I will be contented if he is there." The door opened and Marie came in. She looked fresh as a rosebud with no traces of the strenuous night on her bright face. "Umm! Fried mush. My favorite," she said. "Have you tried it, Sharry?" "No — but I will," Sharry said as Sam came in. "Try what?" he laughed. "Susan, you're a great cook. ['m hungry as a bear!" He stooped to kiss Sharry. "How's my sweetheart?" he asked her as though that was the most important thing in the world. "Fine," she answered, smiling up at him. He was clear-eyed and happy this morning. Sharry wondered if he had really forgotten what she had said to Marie last night. Maybe he hadn't heard, she thought, hopefully. But she was still heartsick about it, wondering what he was really thinking under his pleasant manner. Sam was like that. He thought things through carefully before he discussed them. During the next two days, everyone worked strenuously to get everything back to normal before Jewel and M{cFarland returned. 'There had been no word from them, and by the third day Sharry's eyes were constantly anxious as she stood at the window peering through field glasses into the blue darkness. "They are all right," Susan assured her. "I feel it — here. I have a good feeling when I think of them." Marie said, "Come on, Sharry. Get your guitar. Let's sing for Uncle Herman. You, too, Sam," she called. He was enjoying McFarland's books that lined the walls of the den. "We need your harmony." "That's quite a library," Sam said, as he sat down beside them. 'He has every kind of book from encyclopedias to the latest fiction." "Yes," Marie said. "My Dad has a theory. He says that to be a successful Alaskan you have to like to read a book. So you're a successful Alaskan, Sam." Her eyes met his with frank admiration. "In ever way, I'd say. Very successful." HARRY looked at Sam. He winced. He put the book he had brought with him on the table. His smile was forced. Where was his boyish grin? She wondered. Sam usually liked a real compliment. He's hurt deep inside, she thought with a little stab. He hasn't forgotten what I said last night about Alaska. "What song shall we sing, Uncle Herman?" Marie asked. Susan arranged the pillows so Herman was in a sitting position. As Sharry watched them her throat tightened. How wistfully Herman looked at Susan as though treasuring every minute of his time with her, grateful for all the rugged years they had shared together. Sharry had realized in the last two days that Herman was a man of dauntless faith. It was the courage in his ready smile in spite of pain, in the unconquerable lift of his chin, and it was always shining in his loving blue eyes when Susan was near him. It was faith and courage that gave his voice a confident, lilting ring when he sang with them, forgetting the weakness of his failing body, strumming his guitar along with Sharry and Marie. Sharry was grateful for her own unwavering belief in eternal life when she watched Herman and Susan. Such love as theirs would never die, even though Herman 758 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW would leave her for awhile. 'They would be together again. So they could all sing bravely and cheerfully together. "T like the ballads," Herman said. "They have a rhythm to them. You take the first verse, Marie, and we'll come in for the chorus." "Okay!" Sam said. "Swing off, Marie. Let's start with "Ballad of Rocky Point.' " They were still singing an hour later when the sound of dogs barking came across the snow. 'Then a long "Hellooo" in McFarland's voice. Marie ran to the door. Looooo!" she called back. McFarland and Jewel came in smiling, their faces the color of ripe peaches and their eyes shining. A little halo of happiness glowed around them. Mcfarland's laugh was like big bells chiming. "Greatest trip of my life!" he said, swinging Jewel's hands. "The wind peppered the sleet against us like cold lead, the dogs were mean as wolves, but we plugged on. We finally got there, near morning. Katie was mighty sick. I was afraid we were too late. But Jewel pulled her through. I've never seen anyone, except Susan, work as hard as Jewel did to save a life. Massage, hot packs — you must have used a ton of mustard, Jewel." "Not quite," she laughed. "But a mustard plaster is still mighty good for congestion. We had no professional medication — I had to ask myself what grandmother Haskell would do in a case like this." "T remembered you used hot fish oil last year, Susan," McFarland added. "Hel- 759 "She needs her tonsils out, too," Jewel explained. "T told Johnny to bring her in as soon as she can travel sled,'' McFarland went on. "We'll fly her to the hospital in Anchorage." "Wait for Swen," Susan said unexpectedly. "He'll be here this week. He can do it right here in the kitchen." Marie dropped the poker she had been using in the fireplace. Her blue eyes were fire-bright, as she looked up at Susan. Sharry knew he was the one Marie loved. McFarland listened while they told about the windstorm. "It was a dilly," Marie said. "But afterwards it was nice and calm, as usual. Sam got up on the roof and mended the chimney so we can use it." "We need a lot of new things," McFarland said. He reached for Jewel's hands again, drawing her close to him. "I want everything new and wonderful for Jewel." He drew a long deep breath. Everyone was staring at them. Ee JEWEL has promised to marry me and live here in Bristol with me," he said. His voice was rich with love and pride. "I am the luckiest man in the world to have a wife like Jewel." Jewel's eyes were tear-drenched with happiness and fulfillment. "T am the lucky one," she said, softly. "Sharry, remember — I caught your bouquet. I didn't think it would ever happen to me." "But it did, Aunt Jewel!" Sharry breathed. "It really did. We are so glad!" McFarland included them all in his big smile. 760 "Jewel and I are leaving tonight and flying to Los Angeles to be married in the temple. We have missed too many years together already, but..." he held his hand up, "we'll return immediately for a wedding reception right here in Bristol Village." His voice mellowed as he looked at Herman and Susan. "Herman will be my best man," he said, his eyes holding Herman's in a long look of tender understanding. "We all know what a wedding reception means to the people of Bristol Bay. It must be just the kind they want, the kind to which they are accustomed. Jewel has agreed with me on this. We wouldn't cheat them out of it, if we had to fly around the world to get back. Susan knows how everything should be done. Marie, too." Marie's eyes were dancing approval. "Oh, goodie!" she cried, as she put her strong young arms around Jewel and hugged her tightly. "I think —<—— RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 you're just perfect for my Dad. Now I have two Mamas. Mama Sue and Mama Jewel. Am I a lucky girl!" "You are!" Sam joined in. "A mighty lucky girl!" McFarland put his parka on again. "Tl have to send messages from the radio station. And sce that my plane is in tip-top condition to fly to Anchorage. We'll take the jet plane from there. There's a lot of planning to do for a wedding," he said in his commanding way. "We must all get busy. Sam, ride sled with me while the girls get dinner." Sharry stood close by while Sam put on his heavy boots, parka, and fur cap. "Hurry back," she whispered as he stooped to kiss her. He put his hand under her chin, tipping her face so he could look at her. His eyes were deep blue question marks as he went out into the azure darkness of the winter afternoon. (To be concluded) Silver Web Mabel Law Atkinson Dear Granny's voice held flute-tones bright as dawn, "Call not the spider's weaving gray, my child, But a shining silver web an artist styled. Come, you must put my star-rimmed glasses on To see a crocus thrusting through the clod; A lilac blossom with an April breeze Light dancing a ballet; view emerald seas Of meadows daisy-crested, not mere sod." A silver web of beauty! Granny's art I came to understand: As years sped swift The commonplace illumed when I would lift My eyes and see with vision of the heart. To Granny's garden, walled by crumbling stone, I have returned, and through nostalgic tears I view the silver web spun by the years, For I have star-rimmed glasses of my own. LS SNE Ee LESS N DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 29—The Law of Administration to the Sick Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 42:43-52) For Tuesday, February 7, 1961 Objective: To learn some principles of the law of administration to the sick. Background The introduction of Section 42 of The Doctrine and Covenants has been given in other lessons. In general, the receiving of this revelation arose out of the Lord's recognition of the poverty of some saints. The law concerning this condition and the promises of the Lord that the earth is to bring forth its fulness for the benefit of his people "in the due time of the Lord" is provided in this revelation. We have already learned that there are other laws mentioned in this revelation, one of which is the subject of this lesson. Objective of This Lesson Although reference is made to the working of miracles, including healings, in other revelations yet to be studied, this lesson will be limited in subject matter to some of the principles of administration to the sick. All of the ramifications of this important subject are not to be discussed in this lesson. Some Aspects of This Ordinance The healing of a person's infirmity, or disease, or the correction of some impediment such as in specch, use of legs or arms, have always been a part of the gospcl of Jesus Christ. One of the most direct references to the practice of administering to the sick during the meridian dispensation is that given in the New Testament, as follows: Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church; and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord: And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up; and if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be healed. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much (James 5:14-16). There are several factors to be noted in James' counsel concerning Page 761 this ordinance. One of these is that the Lord provided in his plan such an ordinance as administration to the sick by the elders of the Church. In other places in the New Testament are found references to the laying on of the hands for this purpose. The Savior said that his believers should "... Lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover" (Mark 16:18). In our own dispensation, the Prophet Joseph Smith has told us that the sign of the healing of the sick is the laying on of hands. (See D. H. C., IV:555.) The use of oil is indicated by James as a part of the ordinance of administration to the sick. In the call and commission to the Twelve Apostles, it is recorded by Mark that Jesus,. Called unto him the twelve, and began to send them forth by two and two; and gave them power over unclean spirits.... And they went out, and preached that men should repent. And they cast out many devils, and anointed with oi] many that were sick, and healed them (Mark 6:7, 12-13). After asking this question "Can not the Lord hear prayer and heal the sick just as well without laying on of hands and anointing with oil as with?" Elder Pratt said: He could have thrown down the walls of Jericho without the children of Israel walking around them and blowing rams' horns; but the Lord has a form, then why not comply with it, and leave the event with him (Journal of Discourses 16:290). A frequently raised question arising out of James' instructions is this one answered by President Joseph Fielding Smith: James says when a man administers to a sick person he has power to remit his sins; how does the clder get power to remit sins?" It is not the elder who remits or forgives the sick man's sins, but the Lord. If by the power of faith and through the administration by the elders the man is healed it is evidence that his sins have been forgiven. It is hardly reasonable to think that the Lord will forgive the sins of a man who is healed if he has not repented. Naturally he would repent of his sins if he seeks for the blessings by the elders (Smirn, Josepn FIELDING, "Your Questions," The Improvement Era, August 1955, page 607). The Lord Speaks to Us From the law of the Lord: And whosoever among you are sick, and have not faith to be healed, but believe, shall be nourished with all tenderness, with herbs and mild food, and that not by the hand of an enemy. And the elders of the church, two or more, shall be called, and shall pray for and lay their hands upon them in my name; and if they die they shall die unto me, and if they live they shall live unto me (D & C 42:43-44). The elders of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints are to administer to the members of the kingdom of God in this dispensation by the "prayer of faith" and the power of the Priesthood. Rather than restricting or limiting the operations of the Priesthood of God, the fulness of times is the period when greater evidence of the power of the Lord is to be manifest. 'This dispensation is the time of gather-, ing together in one all dispensations of times to culminate in the salvation of mankind. In the beginning of this dispensation, the Lord said in his preface to The Doctrine and Covenants that he had established 762 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT the gospel upon the earth "That faith also might increase in the earth; That mine everlasting covenant might be established" (D & C 1:21-22). Medical Aid? Throughout the law of administration to the sick, as given in Section 42, emphasis is placed upon the principle of faith in bringing about a restoration to health. (See D & C 42:48-51.) It does not follow, however, that Latter-day Saints believe that the use of medicine and the skill of the surgeon are not to be used. In commenting upon verses 43 and 44 of this revelation, the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary (Revised Edition, 1951, page 232) gives the following information: The Latter-day Saints believe in the healing virtue of the prayer of faith, but they do not proscribe the use of "herbs and mild food," nor the aid of a physician. In the month of November, 1842, Brigham Young was seriously ill. In his diary the Prophet Joseph notes that, "He was suddenly and severely attacked by disease, with strong symptoms of apoplexy,' and then he adds, "We immediately administered to him by laying on of hands and prayer, accompanicd with the use of herbs." Under date of December 26th, 1842, the Prophet writes: General Law gave me in custody of Doctor Richards, with whom I visited Sister Morey, who was severely afflicted. We prescribed Lobelia for her, among other things, which is excellent in its place (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 232). Revelation Continued In continuing this law the Lord reveals some important truths relative to the Latter-day Saints' attitude toward the dead and also the bless- 763 ing awaiting the faithful of his kingdom. Thou shalt live together in love, insomuch that thou shalt weep for the loss of them that die, and more especially for those that have not hope of a glorious resurrection. And it shall come to pass that those that die in me shall not taste of death, for it shall be sweet unto them; And they that die not in me, wo unto them, for their death is bitter. And again, it shall come to pass that he that hath faith in me to be healed, and is not appointed unto death, shall be healed. He who hath faith to see shall see. He who hath faith to hear shall hear. The lame who hath faith to leap shall leap. And they who have not faith to do these things, but believe in me, have power to become my sons; and inasmuch as they break not my laws thou shalt bear their infirmities (D & C 42:45-52). Death is a part of the eternal plan of the Father. Jacob taught that death "... Hath passed upon all men, to fulfil the merciful plan of the great Creator..." (2 Nephi 9:6). The Prophet Joseph Smith spoke of death as the last enemy to be overcome. (See D. H. C. V:387-388.) The ancient prophets heralded the day when the bands of death would be broken by the resurrection of the body from the grave. Thus, there would be no victory in the grave. Life would be endless. 'The removal of death by the resurrection was proclaimed as a grand objective of the atonement of Christ. Sorrow would depart from the land in the realization that no longer would there be a parting of loved ones. (See 2 Nephi 9:19; Mosiah 15:20; 16:9; I Cor. 15:53-55; D & C 63:49.) They That Die Not Unto the Lord A scene of mourning is depicted in The Book of Mormon account of the great destruction upon this continent when the Savior was crucified. (See 3 Nephi 8:23-25.) Following this destruction a voice was heard, crying: "Wo, wo, wo unto this people; wo unto the inhabitants of the whole earth except they shall repent; for the devil laugheth, and his angels rejoice, because of the slain of the fair sons and daughters of my people.. (3 Nephi 9:2). But for what reason was there rejoicing on the part of the devil and his cohorts? 'The scripture continues, and it is because of their iniquity and abominations that they are fallen" (3 Nephi 9:2). So strongly did the Nephites feel against the necessity of taking the lives of the Lamanites in the days of Helaman and Moroni (the great general and prophet) that they sorrowed in sending so many "... Out of this world into an eternal world, unprepared to mect their God" (Alma 48:22-25). Mormon's lamentation over the fallen Nephites in the last great battle with the Lamanites reminds one of the eternal truth that all must stand before the judgment-seat of Christ where every man will be rewarded according to justice and mercy. (See Mormon 6:16-22.) "Death Shall Be Sweet Unto Them" When death strikes in a family, it is natural to weep for the loss thus sustained. 'The extent of such mourning, among Latter-day Saints, however, may also be determined by the circumstances. President John Taylor had this to say at a funeral service: It is proper to sorrow; it is proper to show respect for the departed. It is proper that our sympathies should be drawn out; it is proper that we should assemble together to attend to appropriate funcral services, as we are now doing, that we may reflect upon our lives and upon the uncertainty thereof, and upon death and the results that may follow after; and that we consider the Gospel of the Son of God, and reflect upon our position, etc.... We, above all other people upon the face of the earth, ought to be free from outward show, and from the appearance of sorrow, and mourning, having had planted within us the germs of immortality and eternal life; inasmuch as when we get through with the affairs of this world, we not only expect, but we know that we will inherit eternal lives in the celestial kingdom of God. And knowing this, it would not be for us to moum as people without any hope (Journal of Discourses 22:355). In quoting the words of President Joseph F. Smith, the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary (page 232) gives the following statement which applies to the expressions from the text of our lesson "... And if they die they shall die unto me..." (D & C 42:44) and "... Those that die in me shall not taste of death, for it shall be sweet unto them" (D & C 42:46). That which we call death is merely the slumber and rest of this mortal clay, and that only for a little season, while the spirit, the life, has gone to enjoy again the presence and society of those from whence it came, and to whom it is joy again to return. And this will be the condition of the righteous until the morning. Of the resurrection, when the spirit will have power to call forth the lifeless frame to be united again, and they both become 764 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT a living soul, an immortal being, filled with the light and power of God.... What reason have we to mourn? None, except that we are deprived for a few days of the society of one whom we love (Journal of Discourses 19:263). The same sermon from which the above excerpt is taken pertinently points out that the gospel is a message of hope and comfort: We live then, we do not die, we do not anticipate death; but we anticipate life, immortality, glory, exaltation, and to be quickened by the glory of the celestial kingdom, and receive of the same, even a fullness. This is our destiny; this is the exalted position to which we may attain, and there is no power that can deprive or rob us of it, if we prove faithful and true to the covenant of the Gospel (Journal of Discourses, 19:265). Faith to Be Healed The scriptures teach us that where faith is present, blessings follow. Miracles are performed by this principle. (See Mark 16:17-18.) Jesus said to the woman healed by him, i.. Thy faith hath made thee whole..." (Mt. 9:22). On the other hand, no mighty miracles were performed by Jesus in "his own country" because of the unbelief of the people, who knew him as the carpenter; yet "... He laid his hands upon a few sick folk, and healed them" (Mark 6:5). (See Mark 6:1-6.) Upon one occasion Paul healed a lame man because he had faith to be healed (Acts 14:8-10). Are All of Faith to Be Healed? From an informative sermon by Elder Spencer W. Kimball of the Council of the Twelve, this thought is expressed on this question and the subject of pain, sorrow, and punishment: Now, we find many people critical 765 when a righteous person is killed, a young father or mother is taken from a family, or when violent deaths occur. Some become bitter when oft-repeated prayers seem unanswered. Some lose faith and turn sour when solemn administrations by holy men seem to be ignored and no restoration seems to come from repeated prayer circles. But if all the sick were healed, if all the righteous were protected and the wicked destroyed, the whole program of the Father would be annulled and the basic principle of the Gospel, free agency, would be ended. If pain and sorrow and total punishment immediately followed the doing of evil, no soul would repeat a misdeed. If joy and peace and rewards were instantaneously given the doer of good, there could be no evil — all would do good and not because of the rightness of doing good. There would be no test of strength, no development of character, no growth of powers, no free agency, only satanic controls. Should all prayers be immediately answered according to our selfish desires and our limited understanding, then there would be little or no suffering, sorrow, disappointment or even death, and if these were not there would also be an absence of joy, success, resurrection, eternal life and Godhood (Kimsatit, SPENCER W.: "Tragedy or Destiny,"' address to the Brigham Young University Student Body, December 6, 1955, pp. 4-5). Elder Kimball continues in pointing out that death is a part of life's experiences: Everyone must die. Death is an important part of life. Of course, we are never quite ready for the change. Not knowing when it should come, we properly fight to retain our life. Why are we so afraid of death? We pray for the sick — we administer to the afflicted —- we implore the Lord to heal and reduce pain and save life and postpone death, and properly so, but is eternity so frightful? So awful? The Lord takes many away even in infancy, that they may escape the envy of man and the sorrows and evils of this present world; they were too pure, too lovely, to live on this earth. Therefore, if rightly considered, instead of mourning we have reason to rejoice as they are delivered from evil and we shall have them again. The only difference between the old and the young dying is, one lives longer in heaven and eternal light and glory than the other, and is freed a little sooncr from this miserable world (KimBALL, SPENCER W.: "Tragedy or Destiny," address to the Brigham Young University Student Body, December 6, 1955, page 8). "Appointed Unto Death" In commenting upon the Lord's statement that "... He that hath faith in me to be healed, and is not appointed unto death, shall be healed" (D & C 42:48), Brother Kimball states in the source already quoted: If not "appointed unto death" and sufficient faith is developed, life can be spared. But if there is not enough faith many die before their time. It is evident that even the righteous will not always be healed and even those of great faith will die when it is according to the purpose of God. Joseph Smith died in his thirties as did the Savior. Solemn prayers were answered negatively.... {72 "Tf he is not appointed unto death! That is a challenging statement. I am confident that there is a time to die. I am not a fatalist. I believe that many people die before "their time'' because they are careless, abuse their bodies, take unnecessary chances, or expose themselves to hazards, accidents and_ sickness (KimBALL, SPENCER W.: "Tragedy or Destiny," address to the Brigham Young University Student Body, December 6, 1955, pp. 6, 9). In confirmation of some of these ideas, Elder Kimball refers to the scripture in Job 22:15-16; Eccleslastes 3:1-2, 7:17, with the stated belief that "we dic prematurely but seldom exceed our time very much though there are exceptions." As an exception, reference is made to King Hezekiah of Judah (2 Kings 20:1-6). Examples from The Book of Mormon bearing out the fact that efforts were made to bring some of the Lord's servants to an early death before their "time to die" were cited in the cases of Abinadi (Mosiah 13:3, 7; 17-19); and Lehi and Nephi, sons of Helaman, (Helaman 5:26, 29). Bible examples include Enoch (Moses 6:39), and Paul (2 Cor. 11:23-27; Phil. 1:23; Acts 21:13). In conclusion, Brother Kimball says: God controls our lives, guides and blesses us. But gives us our agency. We may live our lives in accordance with His plan for us or we may foolishly shorten or terminate them. I am positive in my mind that the Lord has planned our destiny. We can shorten our lives but I think we cannot lengthen them very much. Sometime we'll understand fully, and when we see back from the vantage point of the future we shall be satisfied with many of the happenings of this life which seemed so difficult for us to comprehend (KimMBALL, SPENCER W.: "Tragedy or Destiny," address to the Brigham Young University Student Body, December 6, 1955, pp. 11-12). Questions for Discussion 1. If faith in the Lord is necessary as a requisite to healing the sick, what evidence would you give that such faith is among the members of the Church in this dispensation? 2. Discuss: Latter-day Saints believe in making use of medical skill when needed. Why would you believe that death shall be sweet to the faithful Latter- -day Saint? ' 766 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT 4. According to Elder Spencer W. Kimball, what is the meaning of the scripture that "... He that hath faith 767 in me to be healed, and is not appointed unto death, shall be healed" (D & C 42:48)? Visiting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 29—Wherefore, | Am in Your Midst, and | Am the Good Shepherd...." (D & C 50:44) Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, February 7, 1961 Objective: To persuade us that Jesus is with us and, if we live righteously and will seek him, he will guide, sustain, and comfort us. NE of the most beautiful examples of poctry ever composed is found in the Twenty-third Psalm, which begins with the immortal words: "The Lord is my shepherd; T shall not want." This soul-stirring poem by the prophet David, has been, and likely will ever be, a source of comfort, inspiration, and uplifting guidance to most people. This is true not only because of the beauty of its inspirational language, but, chiefly, because herein the Lord assures all of us that he is our shepherd and that even though we may be required to "... Walk through the valley of the shadow of death... He is with us and his presence will sustain, comfort, and guide us. What a wonderful, consoling, and motivating conviction! How diligently and conscientiously we should strive for this conviction, for it is, in reality, a fact. Both anciently and in modern times the Lord has literally pleaded with us to have faith that he is with us, ready, willing, and anxious to help and guide us, if we will only live so as to build this conviction and to deserve his presence. The blessedness of this comforting conviction was brought again into vivid focus some time ago when a charming and talented woman passed away. She and her husband were a devoted couple, whose many years of marriage had prospered on the foundation of love, understanding, and faithful adherence to the principles of the gospel. Her loving husband was deeply shocked and severely bereaved at her passing, yet the positive assurance he possessed that the Lord was with him, and the Lord's promise, through their temple marriage, that they would be together throughout eternity, gave the husband rich solace, fortitude, and peace. A very wealthy acquaintance, who a short time before had also lost his wife, sensing his friend's peaceful conviction, was so impressed that he declared he would give everything he owned in this world if he, too, could possess the same sustaining comfort. Without doubt, the possession of a sublime faith in the Lord and in his constant presence, is the safest anchorage of the soul. It brings peace and solace under all conditions. Someone has wisely said:.. It is only reasonable that the power which made you can sustain you. It does sustain you. Listen much to God and he will instruct you and show you the way to go. In the degree of your meekness and obedience he will guide you toward light, truth, and perfection" (Kleiser, Greneille: Inspiration and Ideals). During Jesus' ministry upon the earth he frequently emphasized the fact that he was the good shepherd and that those who followed him were his sheep. On one occasion he said: My sheep hear my voice, and I know them.... And I give unto them eternal life; and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand (John 10:27-28). Blessed indeed are those of us who always remember that the Lord is in our midst and that he is our good Shepherd; for if we build upon this rock we "... Shall never fall" (D & C 50:44). Work lecting— Caring for the Sick in the Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 5 — Routine Comfort Measures — The Patient's Bath and Care of the Mouth and Hair Maria Johnson For Tuesday, February 14, 1961 Objective: To Icarn the importance of certain measures in meeting the needs of the patient. To learn the key points in giving this care. ATHING the patient, giving mouth care, and caring for the patient's hair are important comfort measures and contribute to the patient's welfare and recovery. "Moving and Lifting the Patient," A. Bathing the Patient in Bed Remember to apply the rules given in Lesson 3, as you carry out these procedures. The bed bath should cleanse and refresh the patient and give you an opportunity to observe reddened areas at end of spine, and over the bone prominences, such as elbows, shoulder blades, and heels. These reddened spots come from pressure and can develop into pressure sores, if preventive measures are neglected. Before starting the bath, assemble all articles needed for the bath, and clean linen and gown, if linen is to be changed. Cover table top with newspaper or rubber to protect it from spots. A few general rules: The room must be warm and free from drafts. Use a sheet blanket or light-weight cotton blanket to cover the patient. Hospital we call this a bath blanket.) (In the The patient must be kept covered at all times except for the part of body that is being bathed. Protect the bed by placing a bath towel under each part as you proceed. Use soap sparingly, rinse well, and dry each part thoroughly before proceeding to next part. Change the water at least once during the bath. 768 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT 769 Inspect and wash well creases under the breasts or fatty folds of skin and dry thoroughly. Put the hands and the feet in the basin of water when washing them and give any special care needed. Toenails should be filed straight across — never cut a toenail at the corner. If the nail tends to grow inward at the corners, a wisp of cotton will prevent pressure which causes discomfort and soreness around the nail. Never cut corns or callouses with a razor blade. B. Mouth Care Mouth care is important in keeping the mouth, teeth, and gums clean and healthy and adds to the patient's comfort and welfare. We should not forget that mouth care for the sick patient is as important as it is for the well person. In many cases it is more important. Always wash your hands before giving mouth care. For the mouth care you will need the following equipment: Towel to protect the bed. Toothbrush and tooth paste or other cleansing agent. Glass of warm water. Drinking tube, if patient cannot sit up. Basin to catch rinsings from mouth. Container of mouth wash, if used. Cold cream or lubricant for dry lips. Good mouth wash — glass of warm water to which has been added % teaspoonful each of salt and bicarbonate of soda (baking soda). For dryness or coated tongue — a mixture of one teaspoonful of lemon juice and one tablespoonful of mineral oil or glycerine is often recommended. Important points for the patient able to sit up in bed: Most patients in the home are able to brush their own teeth, but they need encouragement and some assistance. You will need to assemble the articles needed and place them within easy reach of the patient. If the patient can sit up, place a towel over her lap to protect the bed. Some patients will need more help, such as putting the tooth paste on the brush, holding the glass of water for rinsing, and holding the basin to catch the water as the mouth is rinsed. Clean and put away articles used. For the patient who cannot sit upright: Turn the patient on her side and protect the pillow with a towel. Put the tooth paste on the brush and let the patient, if able, brush her own teeth. Place the basin close to her cheek. Give the patient the warm water and mouthwash, if used, through a drinking tube or straw. Have her rinse the mouth thoroughly and hold her head while she lets the water run out into the basin. Wipe the lips and around the mouth with a dry towel. Apply a lubricant to the lips. If the mouth is dry, use the mixture of lemon juice and oil or medication ordered. Clean and put away articles used. Turn the patient and make her comfortable. Patient with dentures: You will need the same equipment as for natural teeth. If the patient is able, have her remove her plates and put them in a cup of water or tissue which you will provide. Clean the teeth under running water and return them to the patient in a clean cup of water. Keep the teeth in water and in a safe place if they are not to be worn. 770 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 C. Caring for the Patient's Hair Daily care of the patient's hair should be a part of the routine care. Encourage the paticnt to do as much for herself as her condition will permit. What she is unable to do, you will do for her. Brushing the hair cleans, stimulates the circulation of the scalp, distributes the oil, and adds to the patient's feeling of well being and comfort. The cleansing effect of brushing should not be underestimated. 'The brush must be clean. A boar bristle brush is most effective. Brushing Equipment: Brush, comb, 2 towels Procedure: Bring patient to edge of bed and turn face away from you. Put a towel over her pillow and one around her shoulders. Brush one strand at a time. Alcohol will help remove tangles. Arrange hair and make patient comfortable. A Drv Shampoo A dry shampoo can be effective and less tiring than a wet shampoo. There are many dry shampoos on the market, but oatmeal or cornmeal can be used. Oatmeal brushes out more readily. Equipment, same as for brushing, plus oatmeal Procedure: 1. Bring patient to edge of bed and put a towel over pillow and one around patient's shoulders. 2. Part hair, strand at a time, and apply oatmeal to scalp. When all areas of scalp have been covered, rub the scalp well with a rotary motion. Let stand for about ten minutes while the oatmeal absorbs the oil. Brush thoroughly, one strand at a time, to remove oatmeal and dirt. If patient tires, let her rest and brush again later. An astringent such as alcohol or bay rum may be rubbed on the scalp following a dry shampoo. Use a small piece of cotton moistened with the astringent. This is not necessary, but leaves a cool, clean feeling. Yn os Washing the Hair of a Patient in Bed Washing the hair can be tirmg to the patient. It is well to have the physician's permission and to wash hair at a time when the patient feels rested and can rest afterward. Protect the patient from drafts and be sure that the room is warm. Equipment A waterproof trough, washboard, or piece of heavy plastic (see illustration), small container of soap solution or shampoo (never rub bar soap on hair), large pitcher of warm water for rinsing, small pitcher for pouring, pail or foot tub, newspaper to protect the floor, chair, and table, plastic pillow cover, three bath towels, one washcloth, and two cotton balls. LESSON DEPARTMENT 771 MAKING A WATER-PROOF TROUGH FOR SHAMPOOING THE HAIR Step 1 Step 2 Illustrates a piece of plastic or waterMlustrates the bath towel rolled securely proof sheet with a bath towel rolled over around the edges of the plastic or waterthe edge at the top. Proof shect, and shaped to make an improvised trough. WASHBOARD AND TUB ARRANGED FOR USE IN SHAMPOOING THE PATIENT'S HAIR Note that the top of the washboard is placed in the tub, and the bottom sidebars of the washboard serve as an additional support against the patient's shoulders. 772 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 Procedure Cover patient with light-weight blanket and turn back bed clothing. Ends of trough must A good If clean, the hair will i. 2. Cover pillow with plastic and muslin cases. 3. Place pail on floor or stool at side of bed. Protect floor and table. 4. Assemble rinse water, shampoo solution, and pouring pitcher on table or chair where convenient. 5. Have patient lie crosswise on bed and bring head to edge of bed. 6. Pin towel snugly around neck; put cotton ball in each ear and a folded washcloth over eyes. 7. Put waterproof trough under head to carry away water. Hang down into the pail. 8. Moisten the hair, apply the soap solution, and rub the scalp and hair. Lather is necessary. 9. Use an ample supply of rinse water to wash out the soap. Squeak as you rub it. Repeat 8 and g if necessary. 10. Put a bath towel around the hair, remove the trough, and make the patient comfortable. 11. Rub the hair dry with a second towel. If the hair is long, it can be spread out over a covered hot water bottle. To Give a Shampoo When the Patient Can Sit Up (Check with the doctor to make sure it will not tire the patient too much.) The shampoo can be given in the bathroom over the basin. Protect the shoulders with a plastic sheet and towel. Patient can rest her forehead on the towel. Place a folded towel over the edge of the basin. The Proceed as when giving a shampoo in bed. Le Gh — America's Literature Comes of Age Lesson 21 — William Cullen Bryant (1794-1878) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 236-249) For Tuesday, February 21, 1961 Objective: To become more appreciative of Bryant both as an influential creator and as a revered representative of nineteenth-century America. There is Bryant, as quiet, as cool, and as dignified, As a smooth, silent iceberg, that never is ignified.... Unqualified merits, Pll grant, if you choose, he has 'em, But he lacks the one merit of kindling enthusiasm; If he stir you at all, it is just, on my soul, Like being stirred up with the very North Pole. "A Fable for Critics," 1848 Hus wrote up-and-coming ames Russell Lowell, seven years out of college and now, at age twenty-nine, editor of an antislavery magazine and straining to make a name for himself. In this he succeeded, in the process succeeding also in establishing within the American mind his best-known generalization about Bryant, the one which still hovers about him yet which never represented him LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture Copyright 1908 by Eugene A. Perry WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT 1794-1878 either quite fairly or entirely. Next, add the second fact which "everyone knows" about him: picture the seventeen-year-old Bryant just writing out the last line of "Thanatopsis," his most famous poem. Combined, these two impressions comprise the usual, easy definition of William Cullen Bryant as someone to name public schools after and to read in school, when trequired. For contrast, read aloud these lines from his little-known poem "Earth" written in 1834 when, at age forty, he was touring Europe for the first of six times:... Who, alas! Shall dare Interpret to man's ear the mingled voice That comes from her old dungeons yawning now To the black air.... The blood Of freemen shed by freemen, till strange lords 773 Came in their hour of weakness, and made fast The yoke that yet is worn, cries out to heaven. What then shall cleanse thy bosom, gentle Earth, From all its painful memories of guilt? The whelming flood, or the renewing fire, Or the slow change of time? — that so, at last, The horrid tale of perjury and strife, Murder and spoil, which men call history, May seem a fable, like the inventions told By poets of the gods of Greece. O thou, Who sittest far beyond the Atlantic deep, Among the sources of thy glorious streams, My native Land of Groves! A newer page In the great record of the world is thine; Shall it be fairer? Fear, and friendly Hope, And Envy, watch the issue, while the lines, By which thou shalt be judged, are written down. Bryant, Espouser of Causes Hear Bryant giving the principal eulogy honoring James Fenimore Cooper when, in 1852, his frends organized a public meeting in respect to his memory. Or, on the evening of February 27, 1860 (in the halls of the newly opened Cooper Union jammed with crowds to hear rawboned Abe Lincoln deliver his first speech in the East), listen to Lincoln's introduction by William Cullen Bryant, ardent campaigner for free trade, free soil, free slaves, free bargaining power of working men, and one of the founders of the Republican Party. Listen to William Cullen Bryant, known in his youth for his "torrid temper," whose fearless pen often called the radical editor Horace Greeley to task, and who once horsewhipped 7714 an unscrupulous editor on a New York City street. At this same time Bryant brought his newspaper, the Evening Post to a position of such dignity and high esteem, during the fifty years of his editorship, that Vernon Louis Partington calls him "the father of American poetry and the father of American journalism." It is full June time in New York City's lovely Central Park which Bryant was instrumental in establishing along with the Metropolitan Museum of Art and_ the National Academy of Design. A large crowd has gathered to witness the unveiling of a statue of Giuseppe Mazzini, the Italian patriot, and to hear him honored by the speaker of the day, William Cullen Bryant. He is now in his eighty-fourth year, white-bearded, dignified in his patriarchal role as dean of American poets, and still filled with majestic fire as he brings his short address to a close: Image of the illustrious champion of civil and religious liberty, cast in enduring bronze to typify the imperishable renown of thy original, remain for ages yet to come where we place thee, in this resort of millions; remain till the day shall dawn — far distant though it may be — when the rights and duties of human brotherhood shall be acknowledged by all the races of mankind! While returning home after giving this address, Bryant fell, and fourteen days later he died. Thus to the end of his full life Bryant was a man of honor, integrity, courage, kindness, and tireless action in behalf of those causes he loved — beauty in nature, poetry, and in classical literature; an American culture creative and free from EngRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 lish domination; honesty and justice in government; honor and dignity in all affairs of men; and the necessity of human freedom. Bryant will always live as an important minor American poet. In addition to his poetic pioneering, he deserves also to be remembered as one of the great pioncers of the nineteenth-century American spirit. The Young Poet Cullen was born November 3, 1794, at Cummington in western Massachusetts. His early years were dominated by his grandfather, a staunch Federalist, disciplinarian, and old-school Calvinist who also loved books and the current fashionable, neo-classical literature. When he was eight, Cullen wrote his first verses imitating classical Greek models, even though his own father ridiculed them and _ prophesied that one day he would be ashamed of his poetic impulse. In 1808, when he was thirteen, he repaid his grandfather's interest in him by writing "The Embargo," a poem containing all the political and economic convictions he had taught him. Reviling Jefferson, whom all Federalists opposed, zealous young Bryant advised him to "Go, wretch, resign the presidential chair." Similarly, during the war of 1812, when threats of conscription and increased taxation caused Massachusetts to make a separate peace with England, Bryant wrote poems praising Britain as the source of all man's liberties and condemning the unjust war his countrymen were carrying on against her. Bryant's year at Williams College was all his family could afford, but, by the time he had completed that LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture 775 WILLIAM CULLEN BRYANT'S HOMESTEAD CUMMINGTON, MASSACHUSETTS year and had "read" law for three more, he was completely "liberated" from his childhood pattern of Calvinism and Federalism. His "Thanatopsis" was written at college while he called himself a Deist (one who bases his belief in God on reason); his lifelong interest in politics was devoted to opposing the privileged moneyed class who were Federalists; however, his interest in the classics and in languages increased throughout his life, for, in later years, he translated poems written in Spanish, French, Portuguese, and German, plus Homer's entire Illiad and Odyssey from Homeric Greek. In 1821, he married in the country village where he had settled down, but though he continued practicing law he disliked it, feeling his profession forced him to: drudge for the dregs of men, And scrawl strange words with a_barbarous pen, And mingle among the jostling crowd Where the sons of strife are subtle and loud.... He published his first books of poems the same year, but, when his published works earned him only $14.92 in four years, he moved to New York City where he soon became editor of the New York Evening Post, a position he held so successfully for the next fifty years that, with wise investing, he died a millionaire. Literary Theory Wide reading in his father's library and those of two ministers to which he had access, gave him an early liking for such neo-classical writers as Samuel Johnson, Alexander Pope, and Addison. The influence of the "graveyard school" is strong in ""Thanatopsis," as absorbed from Young's "Night Thoughts," 776 Gray's "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard," and Henry Kirke White's "Time," which were concerned with the shortness of mortality and the omnipresence of death. Later, through his own reading and literary friendships formed in New York and abroad, Bryant achieved a genuine appreciation for the fullblown romantics who were then dominant in England: Wordsworth, Coleridge, Burns, and Scott. While many similarities appear between his nature-writings and those of Wordsworth, Bryant was not merely imitating him, or anyone else. From his early lecture, in 1819, on "The Use of Trisyllabic Feet in Poetry" through his influential "Lectures on Poetry" given in 1825, he established himself as the leading critic of American poetic theory. His constant plea was for an original poetry through which the new Nation could express itself in its own terms. America's poetry should be "a newborn _ thing, full of youth and life," not the cold, formalized lines of the past or of English romantics woodenly imitated. He provided further leadership to American poets by showing them in his own poetry a careful, specific observation of nature at first hand rather than the cliche generalizations about her moods and charms. Bryant cited some thirty birds in his poems and named a similar number of specific kinds of trees, more than any other American poet save Whitman. From his childhood walks with his father through the woods at all seasons of the year, Bryant learned a love of nature which brought him out-of-doors all his life, a love everywhere evident in his poems. Finally, his classical backRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 ground and _ self-disciplined lines set a pattern of excellence and restraint which had a powerful influence throughout his life on American poetry. Bryant believed that because poetry appeals to the understanding — by arousing the reader's imagination through presentation of a direct imitation of life — therefore, poetry has the power to move one to action and to "teach direct lessons of wisdom." 'Thus, he felt, the poet is morally obligated to deal only with noble subjects, leaving the low and the trivial for prose treatment. Of all the arts, poetry appeals most powerfully to the imagination, but its greatest source of power is the emotions, its highest purpose being to "touch the heart." And for Bryant "the most beautiful poetry is that which takes the strongest hold of the feelings, and, if it is really the most beautiful, then it is poetry in the highest sense." Yet though poetry should thus move man, it should not be merely didactic, for then it is artificial. Increasingly in an age of big-city bustle and trade, Bryant felt that poetry was needed to balance man, and to keep him from becoming merely a machine. Thanatopsis Young Bryant was never strong, recording that the strain of farm work left him extremely faint. Evidently "Thanatopsis'" was written while he was concerned that he, too, might die of tuberculosis, the frequent destroyer of poets. "Thanatopsis" was composed in 1811 during his year at Williams College. The title, which means "view of death," was added by the editors of the LESSON DEPARTMENT North American Review. The first sixteen lines and the epilogue were added by Bryant when "Thanatopsis" appeared in his first book of poems. As the poem was submitted to the Review by Bryant's father, naturally he was thought to be its author, even though the editor saw in the poem such quality that he really believed it "was never written on this side of the water." With majestic smoothness and serenity the poem contemplates death and finds peace and solace in a return to all-enfolding nature. No-. Where in the poem is mention made either of Christianity or immortality. Not until his later poems did Bryant record his more mature belief in an afterlife, in contrast to this earlier stoicism. 'The poem begins in a tone of controlled calmness: To him who in the love of Nature holds Communion with her visible forms, she speaks A various language: for his gayer hours She has a voice of gladness, and a smile And eloquence of beauty, and she glides Into his darker musings with a mild And healing sympathy that steals away Their sharpness, ere he is aware.... Therefore, when one becomes oppressed by thoughts of the shroud and "the last bitter hour," he should: Go forth under the open sky, and list To Nature's teachings, whilst from all around — Earth and her waters and the depths of air — Comes a still voice.... A voice calling man back to "earth, that nourished thee,' and the "eternal resting-place" Yet not to thine eternal resting-place Shalt thou retire alone, nor couldst thou wish 777 Couch more magnificent. Thou shalt lie down With patriarchs of the infant world — with kings, The powerful of the earth — the wise, the good, Fair forms, and hoary seers of ages past, All in one mighty sepulchre.... All that breathe Will share thy destiny. The gay will laugh When thou art gone, the solemn brood of care Plod on, and each one as before will chase His favorite phantom; yet all these shall leave Their mirth and their employments, and shall come And make their bed with thee.... So live, that when thy summons comes to join The innumerable caravan, which moves To that mysterious realm where each shall take His chamber in the silent halls of death, Thou go not, like the quarry-slave at night, Scourged to his dungeon, but, sustained and soothed By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch About him and lies down to pleasant dreams. Not until Whitman is death again to be so revealed as a benevolent, beautiful event in the inexorable though gentle rhythms of timeless nature as she takes her own unto herself. To a Waterfowl In 1815, four years later, Bryant composed ""T'o a Waterfowl," which Matthew Arnold held to be the finest poem of its length in the English language. Beautifully unifed by its central image of the nameless bird floating — serenely through space toward its destination, the poem achieves its grandeur and sense of loftiness from its simple words and the subdued tone which is never broken. Best of all, it creates its own moral or spiritual power within itself. Excerpts follow: Whither, midst falling dew, While glow the heavens with the last steps of dav, Far through their rosy depths, dost thou pursue Thy solitary way? Vainly the fowler's eye Might mark thy distant flight to do thee wrong, As, darkly seen against the crimson sky, Thy figure floats along. Seek'st thou the plashy brink Of weedy lake or marge of river wide, Or where the rocking billows rise and sink On the chafed ocean-side? There is a Power whose care Teaches thy way along that pathless coast — The desert and illimitable air, — Lone wandering, but not lost.... Thou'rt gone, the abyss of heaven Hath swallowed up thy form; yet, on my heart Deeply hath sunk the lesson thou hast given, And shall not soon depart. He who, from zone to zone, Guides through the boundless sky thy certain flight, In the long way that I must tread alone Will lead my steps aright. To say such poems are touched with true greatness is to state the obvious. Reading them once again, aloud and sympathetically, should serve to remind us of the comprehensive American who wrote them, thus combining within himself as within his poetry, those sterling and high principles of art which justly earned him the esteem of his contemporaries as well as our lasting gratitude. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What relationship, if any, can you define between Bryant's public life and his early excellence as a critic and author of poetry? 2. In view of his own life and maturing, why might Liberty be chosen as a key word around which much of Bryant was built? 3. Do you feel that in his poetry Bryant was successful in freeing himself from the influence of the English poets? In what sense do you find his poetry imitative? Original? American? Social Science— Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 11 — Stages of Religious Development Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, February 28, 1961 Objective: develop. Introduction GPIRITUAL living presupposes the possession of certain religious qualities. Last year's series devoted two lessons to the development of religious maturity. The first three lessons of this year focused on exTo understand more fully the manner in which religious qualities panding our religious horizons. But how do religious qualities become a part of us? If we are to be effective in developing these qualities in ourselves, our children, and others to whom we are responsible, it is necessary that we understand the stages 778 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT and processes of religious development. Growth, development, learning, and the emergence of human personality are cumulative processes, each step or stage giving rise to the next. In most instances, it is necessary for an individual to accomplish successfully the tasks appropriate to each stage of development before he can successfully move on to the next one. And so it appears to be with religious development. If an individual has successfully passed through stages of healthy, religious growth and development appropriate to his age, he is more likely to possess in adulthood the traits, characteristics, and maturity which will permit him truly to implement the teachings and values of religion. The Religion of Childhood A child is born with the potentialities of developing divine characteristics within his human nature. A child must learn, through experience, what he comes to _ believe regarding God, regarding himself, his relationship with God, and other religious concepts. Since a child's first experiences are with his parents, we can safely assume that the parental influences will be among the more significant ones influencing his religious development. Our concept of God includes the belief that he is our Father in heaven. We can, therefore, expect that a child's relations with his parents, particularly his father, will have an important influence on his concept of God and, hence, on the whole quality of his religious life. Early Childhood. It is obvious that many things, such as language and self-consciousness, have to be 779 "learned" by the infant before religious life can begin. By the age of two, the child may show apparent feelings of guilt. This behavior, however, is probably imitative of older children or parents. By age three, children may repeat prayers, though with little or no understanding. By the age of four, religion is one of the many things that interest children, and they may ask many questions about it. Thev believe parents to be all-powerful, and it is therefore easy to transfer this belief to the Father in heaven. At five, children see God as being responsible for many of the details of life. Children do not become capable of the higher and more complex process of learning until they get older. This means that one should not expect anything more than the elementary forms of abstract and reflective thinking of the young child. This explains the emphasis on rote learning with them. Rote learning seems within their grasp while the higher kind appears to be beyond them. The danger in rote learning is that this habit may crowd out other kinds so that the individual, in the later years, does not become capable of rational and reflective thinking. There is certainly ample evidence on the part of many individuals and within many religious groups that memorization has persisted into adulthood, and that rational, reflective thinking has failed to become an integral part of religious experience. Middle and Later Childhood. By the time a child reaches six, his ideas of good and bad become broader and more general as in obeying, helping, hurting, etc. The idea of being fair becomes important and 780 moral evaluations are eventually made in terms of nght and wrong. Increasingly, children between the ages of six to nine want to feel that they have done what is right and approved. Wrongdoing leaves them worried and unhappy, even though they may be reluctant to confess the act. During the earlier years, children regard themselves as the center of the universe, but during this age period, they establish a truer perspective of their relationship to other people. They are more interested in the idea of God, heaven, and angels, and their idea of God reflects more realistic concepts. Prayers are important to them, and they may expect immediate literal answers. From the ages of approximately nine through eleven, the child makes substantial growth in his understanding of and feelings toward right and wrong. He develops in tolerance, honesty, and justice. Many children during this period begin to show deep concern for the welfare of others. During this period children tend to accept religious teachings on the authority of parents and teachers and frequently quote these teachings in their own discussions. In summary of the religion of childhood, we may say that the child develops his first attitudes and ideas about God and religion from his parents and teachers, and that he tends to accept ideas from persons of authority. Since he has not yet reached the stage in the maturational process for abstract thinking, the child's religious experiences are essentially unreflective. During the early years, the child is essentially self-centered, which is normal at this stage of development; and during RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 the later years of childhood shows evidence of becoming genuinely concerned about others. A great deal of what passes for religion among children is simply the repeating of faith as by rote, or the performance of religious motions. Most of the child's religious behavior up to this time appears to be primarily learned through imitation and suggestion. The lesson that we should learn is respect for the child's religion which we can improve only if we first respect it. Appropriate to the child's age, it must be expressed in the child's own way. If we prune too closely, it will either yield stunted fruit or become merely a third-rate mockery of what religion ought to be. Religious Development in Adolescence During the years of about eleven through thirteen, the conscience becomes more apparent. At this stage children exhibit strong feelings about honesty. Feelings of guilt based on both real and imagined wrongdoings become more common. Their sense of justice remains strong, and they are quick to challenge the teacher or parent who violates it. Some of them will begin to question the religious teachings of parents and teachers. They begin to exhibit more concern for others and are more willing to be helpful without any tangible reward. As we move into the later adolescent period involving the years from fourteen to eighteen, we find a great deal of idealism existing within the individual. Adolescents now are making more of their own decisions about right and wrong LESSON DEPARTMENT rather than simply imitating the standards of their parents. 'They have more questions and perhaps increasing skepticism about religious values. Many teenagers drop out of church activity during these years, and surveys reveal that, in the United States, only about half of the members of this age group attend church regularly. It may well be that youth at this age become dissatished with what many of the churches offer and tend to turn away from them because they fail to meet their needs. Adolescence being a period of idealism, enthusiasm, and creativity, is a period in which self-direction begins to emerge. We have the example of Joseph Smith who went into the woods to pray at age fourteen to find out for himself which was the right church. To summarize this stage of religious development, then, we recognize that this is the age of greatest religious potentiality. It is during this period that the fruits of our efforts dramatically reveal themselves. If a child's parents have preached a gospel of love, but have demonstrated no affection for him, no amount of indoctrination concerning the exalted character of love can fill the vacuum. Where there is a sharp discrepancy in the home between standards that are professed and attitudes that are actually put into practice, the young person may feel hopeless and have a sense of frustration. The higher the professed ideals, the more intense the adolescent's sense of failure may become. The Religion of Mature Adulthood This section will be brief inas- 781 much as last year's series devoted two lessons dealing with religious maturity. It is recommended that the reader review lessons four and five from last year. (See Relief Society Magazine, November and December 1959, pp. 775-781; 855- 860.) If an individual is going to grow toward the kind of religious maturity we hope to develop, he will find it helpful to have a secure developmental pre-adult foundation. As an adult, he should not have to deflect his energies into refighting childhood battles or nursing old hurts. Unless the individual in childhood has been able to establish basic trusts, his world is quicksand. Without basic trust he cannot establish trust in himself and others, cannot develop a feeling of individuality and a healthy concept of himself which allow him to live comfortably with himself and others. When a person can live with his past without being bogged down in it, he remains adaptable, capable of continued growth. The individual with a mature religious philosophy has found acceptable, realistic, tentative answers for the basic questions regarding life, but he has not insisted upon final answers for all of his questions. He is still constantly seeking to understand himself and others more fully, to expand and increase the quality of his relatedness to the world, and to find increasing satisfaction in his creative relationship with God. Still, we wonder why down through the ages religion has failed to teach people how to live together in love so that our rapidly increasing knowledge of destructive weapons has now reached a point where 782 ( ( Fo ee ad Christmas Music For Women's Three Part Choruses ) BETHLEHEM—Bowker...........---.20 ) BETHLEHEM BELLS—Dunhill.....18 ) BIRTHDAY OF A KING— Neidlinger _.....-....------secsseceneee.20 ) CANTIQUE DE NOEL—Adam...22 ) CHRIST IS BORN TODAY— Nyquist -....2.......--eseceeeeeeeeeneeeee.20 ) CHRISTMAS CANDLE—Warren.22 ) COME, HASTEN, YE SHEPHERDS—Ehret ow...25 ) GESU, BAMBINO—Yorn.........-.20 ) JOY TO THE WORLD—Marzo.20 ) 1 WONDER AS | WANDER— Niles. 20 ) NOWELL—Brett.............--....----- 16 ) O HOLY NIGHT—Adam..........20 ) SILENT NIGHT—Epperson.......20 ) STAR OF THE EAST— Kennedy......25 ) VIRGIN'S SLUMBER SONG— Reger ee 20 Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Salt Lake City 11, ame ddress ity & State AO > Z Ist South Utah Please send the music indicated above. 1] On Approval O Charge O Money Enclosed Use this advertisement as your order blank LECTTRTETTOTTT: 15 E. Ist South salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 all humanity is threatened. The answer is, we are talking love but not living it. "Do unto others as you would have them do unto you," is a principle which must be done, not talked about. A mature concept of religion, then, is not a gush of sentiment or a ritual of worship. It is the underlying philosophy by which one truly lives and without which one has a sense of moral incompleteness. The religion of a mature adult is what he does, not what he professes. In summary then, the religion of the mature adult is one which helps him feel at home with himself, at home in the world, and _ helps him establish creative relationships with his fellow man and with his God. It has helped him develop genuine concern for other people and respect for their individuality. It has taught him not to accept values ready-made, but rather to realize that he not only has the right but the responsibility to examine carefully any and every aspect of his philosophy. This latter point was dramatically expressed by John A. Widtsoe as follows: The essential thought must ever be that a man does not, except in his spiritual infancy, accept a statement merely because the Church or someone in authority declares it correct, but because, under mature examination it is found to be true and right and worthwhile (WintsoE, Joun A.: Program of the Church, Fourth Edition, page 24). Summary We have said that a child is born with the potentialities of developing divine characteristics within his human nature. Beginning in childhood the individual goes through stages of religious development, moving LESSON DEPARTMENT ideally to a point in mature adulthood of possessing mature religious concepts which are functional and useful to him. As is true in all other facets of human growth and development, appropriate timing for presenting information and experiences is particularly important in order for optimum learning to take place. The great responsibility of parents and teachers lies in leading a child step by step toward new powers and new understanding without pushing him too fast or expecting more than he can do. Parents do this best when they enjoy each new step with him, sharing his own pleasure in his new accomplishments and encouraging him to develop in his own special way without showing great anxiety when he does not appear to be molding himself into a stereotyped pattern. Like the good husbandman who knows that there is a time to till and a time to refrain from tilling, a "time to plant and a time to pluck up that which is planted," so the sensitive parent or responsible teacher mingles care with forbearance if the "tree planted by the river of water" is to bring forth fruit in due seasons. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why is it important to be aware of various stages of religious development? 2. Give illustrations of ways in which basic religious concepts could be approptiately taught at various stages of religious development. 3. Give illustrations of presenting religious concepts that are inappropriate for an individual's understanding. 4. List suggestions of how we can help individuals grow into adults who have the characteristics of religious maturity. 783 PASADENA ROSE PARADE TOUR Eight days, Dec. 27-Jan. 3 including SAN DIEGO TIJUANA, MEXICO CATALINA ISLAND Spend an evening with Lawrence Welk Knotts Berry Farm, Marineland, Disneyland, Cinerama, China Town. Grandstand seats for Parade. Esther James Tours 460 7th Avenue Phone EM 3-5229 EL 9-805] Your Best Buys in CRAFTS K. D. NOVELTY 1940 West 3500 South Salt Lake City 4, Utah AM 6-8163 Art Foam and "Totes" Christmas Materials Artificial Flowers and Plants Florist Supplies Decorations Balloons Crepe Paper Eyes for Stuffed Toys Fish Pond Items Carnival Supplies Many Other Items Wholesale and Retail (Catalogs Available) REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS (Continued from page 728) At the present time the missionary program of the Church is being greatly accelerated. _Proselyting methods are being improved and convert baptisms are being increased in amazing numbers. As the missionary program grows and expands, more missionaries are needed — young men and women of intelligence and testimony, circumspect in behavior, willing to devote a few years of their young manhood or womanhood to missionary work. The mothers of the Church play an important role in holding before their children the ideal of a mission, and in training them to serve as missionaries. This is an extremely important Church service for all mothers of the Church to perform — one that must be kept before us. We are advised by President Henty D. Moyle that wonderful records of conversions have been set through a proselyting system called "the referral system," whereby names of persons who are nonmembers of the Church are referred to the missionaries by members, friends, relatives, and acquaintances. The missionaries then call upon these nonmembers. Having been given their names by a mutual friend, acquaintance, or relative, proves to be a nat: ural introduction and an effective entree for the missionary in presenting the gospel message. The referral system is greatly increasing the number of baptisms, we are told, and it is cutting down the tedious, less profitable door-to-door tracting. It would seem that if our Relief Society members would take note of this and refer to mission presidents, the names of nonmember friends or relatives who may be living in the mission field or in the stakes, it would be an effective method of sharing those blessings which we today hold so dear. I urge you to lend support at this time to the referral program, both as officers of the Society and as individuals. Relief Society work is a joyous, enlightening, satisfying experience for any woman who devotedly enters into it. Nonetheless, it is a serious and responsible work which calls for humility, faith, prayer, and the intelligent application of our energies and talents to our respective assignments 'This is a day of tremendous growth and expansion in the Church. Relief Society must measure up to its full responsibilities as an auxiliary of the Church. May the Lord bless each one of us to appreciate the importance of our calling in relation to the work of the Church as a whole, and may each one of us direct her energies toward building a strong Relief Society. >< &a rm in gq Lea fn in g Roberta L. Theobald How gently firm The lessons must be taught. How short the term To teach that knowledge is not bought. 784 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 Jo an Aged, Beroft Mlother Zara Sabin So, they are all tucked in— Each in his Jone, low bed, Among his friends and kin— May your heart be comforted. When in their youth you would wait Their return with weary sighs— Though sometimes they were late, You did not close your eyes Until the last straggler had come To your side for a good-night kiss... Once more they have all come home, Never to be remiss. Your days will be lonely, yes, Your heart will often weep.... May he, who rules wisely, bless You now with restful sleep. > She Listening Ones Leslie Savage Clark These are the listening ones, The women-folk who wait Some dear returning step And hand upon the gate. Music fills their lives, These fortunate who heard, In the dark, a baby's cry, And a child's whispered word. <- Wild Geese Matia McClelland Burk One night when the moon was shining And the autumn flowers were dead, I heard the wild geese crying, Crying overhead. A whispering voice was luring Them swiftly far away. I stood there hushed and listening. What did that strange voice say? Christmas Special Jessie Evans Smith's Amazing New Invention MAGNA-VU The best Christmas gift possible for a loved one. Help them to see better so they can work with both hands by using a ""Magna-Vu." It is supported by an adjustable strap around the neck. With this beautiful chrome-plated magnifying glass you can again thread needles, sew, read, etc. You can do many of the things you used to do. A handy aid for workday. $5.00 each prepaid Send money fo: SUPPLY HOUSE Box F. G. 145 Salt Lake City, Utah New Year Rose Parade Tour Tour for HAWAII leaving in November and December Mediterranean Tour Cruise for 39 Day March 15 to April 24 Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East Salt Lake City AM 2-2337, IN 6-2909 Page 785 786 Music For Christmas IN YOUR CHURCH, HOME or for GIFTS [|] Christmas Carols _......35 For church, home or community singing. Unison or four-part mixed voices. Folio of 31 songs. Add 5c for postage and tax. [} Songs We Sing.........2.95 From Rodgers and Hammerstein. Easier edition with words. IIlustrated and bound. Add 26c for postage and tax. [|] Family Music Book....6.00 800 pages, 300 favorites. Hard back binding. Add 44c for postage and tax. [| Jerome Kern Song Book ___.........--..2--.-..---7.50 All of his favorites. Rodgers and Hammerstein.......-.--.------------12.50 Original music of all their shows —South Pacific, Carousel, etc. Beautifully bound. Stories and Pictures. Add 60c for postage and fax. USE THIS AD AS YOUR ORDER FORM. CHECK THE ONES AND HOW MANY YOU WANT. Glen Bros. Music Co. 246 So. Main Salt Lake City, Utah Beginning and adsoon. Type your letters, minutes, reports, genealogy sheets, etc. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main — EM 3-2765 Salt Lake City, Utah vanced classes start RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1960 MY THIRD GRANDMA (Continued from page 751) cause she was deeply philosophical and Christian, even with this Hindu culture which she never forgot, she could not resist making a moral story out of an ant hill adventure. Never take a life. Never crush a living creature with your feet. Always provide for the needs of living things. Be kind and loving to all of God's creatures. I skirt around an ant bed to this day! Snowbird Ethel Jacobson My Snowbird is playing In winter's first snow, Hooded and mittened, White head to toe— All but the nose That's growing quite rosy.... Snowbird, come in Where the fire is cosy! GET FULL HOUSEPOWER TUS HOUSEPQWER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Birthday Congra tula ttons One Hundred One Mrs. ABIGAIL STAMFORD Cox Hitchin, England Mrs. Hutpa A. ERICKSON Grantsville, Utah Ninety-seven Mrs. Katruryne Rocers GAuFF Wenatchee, Washington Ninety-six Mrs. Mary EvizABeru JENSEN BINGHAM + Los Angeles, California Ninety-five Mrs. EvisE OvERN OLSEN Drammen, Norway Mrs. SELENA ANN Watt SuAw Aurora, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Mary Hecsrep Rawson Ogden, Utah Mrs. ANNIE Norserc GuaDE NutTaLh Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Exizaspetu Trosras SHAW Los Angeles, California Ninety-one Mrs. Mary R. Murpuy Norris Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary ELLEN Swann TOonE Gooding, Idaho Mrs. Ruopa ANN McCLeLLan CARDON I] Paso, Texas Mrs. HeLten Hoyr Morritn Junction, Utah Mrs. Ottve D. ANDERSON Nephi, Utah Ninety Mrs. ANNIE Kraut BurnHAM Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Vioter AMELIA GLEDHILL ANDERSON Richfield, Utah Mrs. Emity Jupp Toone Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Jut1a Booru Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. AMANDA JANE Moon Duncan Neola, Utah Mrs. Marcarer Maxwett Urry Salt Lake City, Utah Choose from an enchanted wonderland of gifts Mail and phone orders promptly filled 1047 E. 21st S. Sugar House 24 E. Broadway Salt Lake City Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT PIANOS Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built THE WORLD'S FINEST Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Page 787 MOIYYPRYYLIIYTINYELYTCLY TYTN LLY CLIT STON RYT LY Y LOTTI ITLL VIMY NILLIYTLINIWIONITLITLITILN IT NTONTT NTN. Available at Office of the General Board hab mas if ts 76 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah "WIST YE NOT THAT I MUST BE ABOUT MY FATHER'S. BUSINESS?" Book by President J. Reuben © Clark, Jr. This book is an engaging and highly informative account of the Passover and a valuable addition to any home library. $2.00 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE: Inspirational articles, fiction, poetry, and the Relief Society educational program. $2.00 SEGO LILY JEWELRY: Necklaces Heavy chain, goldfilled ~ with double gold - filled | pendant. $9.75 Light chain, gold - filled with double gold - filled pendant. $6.00 © Bracelet Gold - filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.75 Pins Double gold-filled. $5.00 Gold-filled. $3.75 SMALL RELIEF SOCIETY EMBLEM PIN (12 kt. Gold). $1.75 SOUVENIR RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING PLATE: Made of Old English Staffordshire Ware, with bordered pictures of the Relief Society General Presidents. $3.50 All prices include federal tax. Hitagntegattegnttngettegnttegentenettagentegettegattegettegantogettegnttngettepnttngentegnttnpentng etre gating ettegettn—antngettegattanedtogettegattn ettege tt oo oY oY OW OW ON OW ON ON ON ON ON ON ey ey a ee a ee a a ee a a ee a a a a ay a F icher, fuller lif ve "the year Sieh R EAD! ANSWERS TO GOSPEL QUESTIONS VOL. III Joseph Fielding Smith President Smith, in this newest volume in a significant series, provides answers on: The Present Status of the Lamanites, A Mother in Heaven and over fifty additional questions. Many have never appeared in print before and come from President Smith's private file. Cee eee eee eee ee eee eens2.50 TRUE TO THE FAITH Harold B. Lee Elder Lee has a sincere and ee to-earth talk with youth and directs their thinking back to the timeless Laws of God in this most readable discourse..........50.$0 SHALL YE REAP Ezra Taft Benson Compiled by Reed A. Benson. Foreword by Herbert Hoover. Introduction by Harold B. Lee. In this bounteous volume of speeches, Elder Benson speaks on America, our Church, the home, youth, and agriculture. Included in the selections, the speech "He Is Risen'', delivered at the Hollywood Bowl on Easter. Many others. Profusely illustrated...........4.95 "THOSE FOOLISH MORMONS" by Rulon Killian This 44-page booklet points out in a very unusual way how many Mormons are foolish because they live their entire lives without discovering the great treasures within their grasp.......-........2---2-.-00-2-0-----+50 44 nae aguth Wie - ee Lake Brine Utah = ' Deseret Book senor City... Ee. Zone..... State... 0.2... Residents of Utah include 22% sales tax. THOSE - 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah: FOOLISH: Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find._........ Check.......... Money aitlen.—_—I °: have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed.............. For encircled ° MORMONS ° (numbered) books::: | 2 5 4: Name... Eee ene eee: ven CC: The Pilgrims: First Thanksgiving owas £00d but... Gonrrn' Since they had no Sugar, the delicious holida Y could not enjoy Y Sweet treats w e have today — Lessons for March DECEMRER 1940 ofrom a Far Country Vesta P. Crawford "Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold there came wise men from the east... Saying, Where is he that is born King of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him." Why should they seek another lamp in diamond galaxies, Whose fathers knew the planets back a thousand years; Who saw Orion and the belts of Pleiades, The flame of Vega, the meteors and the spheres? (So wondered old Chaldea— So questioned Babylon....) And were there not unnumbered roads In Median lands among the satrapies Where questing caravans might go? Why leave the palace and the ivory gate For paths as desolate as these? (Thus they asked in Nineveh And on the Euphrates....) *K OF OK OK OK Thin-lined as a silver thread the road runs back Through long meridians to Bethlehem, And in the jeweled watches of the night We trace the Magian path and walk with them. For we have known the orbit of a broken world, And we have seen the fire and the stone, Have searched the fields of space of signs.... As Magi on the Persian roofs who once had watched alone. And we who sought for wisdom long latent to our sight Have found the answer and the prophecy Revealed upon the scripture of the night! The Cover: The Virgin and Child, From a Painting by Murillo (1618-1687) Used by Permission, The Metropolitan Museum of Art. Rogers Fund, 1943 Original Color Photograph Supplied Through Courtesy of Wheelwright Lithographing Company, Salt Lake City, Utah Frontispiece: Palms at Sunset, Santa Barbara, California Photograph by Josef Muench Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From Tear and Sar Vhe Magazine always comes when I necd a lift on a specific problem. I have five children under seven years old and, needless to say, I run into several problems. Last month, when I was considering ways of offering my children more culture in the home, the Magazine came out with the importance of teaching our families culture ("Enhancing the Joy of Family Living," Editorial by Marianne C. Sharp, September 1960). Now, _ this month, October, comes the story of "Three Silver Boxes," by Mabel Harmer, which helps me to set my mind at ease on the lack of finances, and the abundance of opportunity for creative thinking. The Magazine is sent me cach year as a gift from my mother, and if she gave me nothing else, Christmas could never be complete without my beloved Magazine. I grew up reading it, and now my home would not be complete without it. —Jean M. Holyoak Grantsville, Utah We have been here in the Andes Mission for about six months, and in all that time, the only gospel messages in English that I have truly enjoyed have come from the Magazine. Never before has_ this sweet little book meant so much to me. 1 try to understand the talks in Church here, but as yet, my halting Spanish permits only a sentence or two when the missionaries are speaking. I am sure the saints here join me in sending greetings from Lima, and thanks for the wonderful articles and stories. —Diane Montgomery Lima, Peru I would like to tell you how much I enjoy the Magazine. The poems are very beautiful, and the covers so attractive that my friends at work (not Church members) look forward to the Magazine almost as much as I do. The stories give the sisters in England a very good insight into the lives of our Transatlantic sisters and never fail to keep me alternately laughing and crying over the people in the stories. —Janet Griffiths Wolverhampton, England Page 790 I am delighted with the lovely colored photograph of Taxco, Mexico, which is the cover for the August Magazine. My husband and I spent some happy days at the Rancho Selva there, overlooking the city. I was also intrigued with the account of the restoration of the Bee Hive House. It adds much to the rich heritage of our people. As a working widow, I spent the summer of 1924 there, when it was a boarding house for working women. Although I was older than most of the girls, I enjoyed the association with them. The place was pleasantly and efficiently run. Here in Southern California, we love our Magazine. —Mrs. G. A. McCrimmon Seal Beach, California I join with many others in praise and appreciation of the constantly improving Relief Society Magazine. The covers are beautiful, and the articles, stories, and poems are very commendable. "A thing of beauty is a joy forever" applies fittingly to our Magazine. —Maude O. Cook Tremonton, Utah Today I received the lovely October issue of the Magazine, with its beautiful cover and fine contents. I especially enjoyed the editorial 'Let the Daughters of Zion Rejoice,' by Vesta P. Crawford. It is beautifully written and comes from a full and compassionate heart. —Maude Rubin Santa Ana, California I would like to tell you how much I enjoy The Relicf Society Magazine. I look forward every month to the wonderful recipes, and I especially like the work mecting lessons, and the October lesson (for January 1961) was particularly helpful in its directions for "Making the Patient Comfortable." My husband has been confined to his bed for the last six months recovering from a brain tumor, and still has to be lifted from his bed to a chair. The lesson gave me much valuable help. —Helen J. Markham Mountain Home, Idaho THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - c Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - Louise W. Madsen - - - - - Hulda Parker - - - - President First Counselor Second Counselor Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Christine H. Robinson Edith S. Elliott Alberta H. Christensen Florence J. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Leone G. Layton Charlotte A. Larsen Blanche B. Stoddard Edith P. Backman Evon W. Peterson Winniefred S. Aleine M. Young Manwaring Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Marie C. Richards Josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Irene W. Buehner RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor. - - - - - - = - = < - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford VOL. 47 DECEMBER 1960 NO. 12 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES God's Greatest Gift. Henry D. Moyle 792 Nathan Eldon Tanner Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve............ Hugh B. Brown 801 Franklin D. Richards Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve........ LeGrand Richards 804 Theodore Moyle Burton Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve; Gordon B. Hinckley 807 The Annucl General Relief Society Conference Hulda Parker 810 The Need Is Urgent — A Message From the National Tuberculosis Association Franklin K. Brough 820 FICTION Grandma's Surprise Packages Frances C. Yost 812 My Third Grandma — Part IV — Nandi Ilene H. Kingsbury 832 Orchids in the Snow — Chapter 8 — Conclusion Rosa Lee Lloyd 834 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 790 Sixty Years Ago 816 Woman's Sphere..... Esses _ Ramona W. Cannon 817 Editorial: The 130th Semi-Annual Conference 818 Christmas for the Children Vesta P. Crawford 819; New Serial 'Love Is Enough"' to Begin in January 847 Birthday Congratulations — ——...... 864; FEATURES FOR THE HOME Christmas Treats for Company Winnifred C. Jardine 821 The Trees the Family Made Helen S. Williams 824 Let's Dress Dolls for Christmas Shirley Thulin 827 The Enchanted Clothesline Christmas -. U... Ccsccsccssecece-: Alice M. Graves 831 LESSONS FOR MARCH Theology — The Past, Present, and Future Roy W. Doxey 840 Visiting Teacher Message — *'... Ye Must Grow in Grace... 2° wu... Christine H. Robinson 846 Work Meeting Lesson — Elimination of Body Wastes Maria Johnson 848 Literature — Ralph Waldo Emerson, American Idealist... Briant S. Jacobs 851 Social Science — Values — Their Growth and Meaning Blaine M. Porter 857 POETRY From a Far Country — Frontispiece Vesta P. Crawford 789 First Snowfall] o...... Eeesscccceeecceeees Blanche Kendall McKey 809 Wearing the Smell of Woods Maude Rubin 815 Christmas Morning Child....... Ethel Jacobson 820 NN CehaeKo} o(-}=)) pee ee ee ee Zara Sabin 831 At Winter's Edge Dorothy J. Roberts 833 What Would I Do? Bertha A. Kleinman 839 Thankfulness o.. E.. Eeececcceecececeeeceeeseeeseceeeeee Christie Lund Coles 862 December Road Katherine F. Larsen 862 White Decree Ida Elaine James 964 Wealth... Diane Montgomery 864 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1960 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial] and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 791 God's Greatest Gift President Henry D. Moyle Of the First Presidency [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 5, 1960] Y brothers and sisters, I am sure that the Relief Society Presidency have urged me to make this so long that it will be one they will not print. We are very sorry that President Clark could not be here today, and the length of my talk has been urged upon me to fill in as best I can the time I am sure he would have made much better use of. And the last thing that President McKay said to me today when I left was that he wanted me to bring his grectings to the Relief Society, to you sisters, and to know that you would go forth from this conference with the blessings and the good wishes of the First Presidency I had the very great honor to introduce President David O. McKay to the radio audience last Sunday at the first of our radio Church-wide firesides for this season. I want to repeat here what I quoted there from his words: Looking among my treasures recently, I picked up a piece of old homespun cloth. It was woven by my grandmother. My grandfather clipped from the sheep the wool out of which the cloth was made. It was carded and spun into thread by my grandmother, who had walked across the plains. It was old and threadbare, but genuine, not a shoddy thread in it. Recently I saw my daughter examining a sample of a modern piece of cloth which she wished to use for a special purpose. As she picked the threads apart and examined them closely, she suddenly exclaimed, Page 792 "Why, this is nothing but paper." Outwardly it outshone in newness and attractiveness the old piece of homespun, but in reality it was shoddy. What that piece of homespun is to a modern substitute for genuineness, fundamental unchanging virtues that have stood the test of ages are to promises of pleasure and false ideals of some areas of modern society. 'Those old fundamental ideals are genuine. Some ideals which appeal to people today are attractive but false. Outwardly the latter seem glamorous and glorious, but when tested and tricd in the scrutiny of experience, there is nothing which remains but the dust of disappointment (McKay, Davin O.: Secrets of a Happy Life, pp. 130-31). Among the treasures of these grandparents what can compare with having such a grandson, and no greater gift could come from God than came to his parents when such a noble spirit was sent into their home. There is, nevertheless, a compatrison to be drawn between the growing of the wool, the scouring, combing, carding, and spinning of the yarn into pure woolen homespun, and the treatment given to the precious spirits that God sends to grace our homes. Precious as these spirits are who come straight from the presence of God, for them to become our greatest gift, we as parents and grandparents, and cven grceat-grandparents, when such we are permitted to become, must all give to these souls embodied in our GOD'S GREATEST GIFT children the best there is in us, each in our own generation. The process of development in a child cannot be compared to the simple procedure followed in producing homespun. Into our children's hearts we must engender love and affection for their parents and progenitors. The whole process of raising'a family is one of perfecting our own lives. We continue unceasingly to refine, to purify, to cast off all dross. 'That which we transmit consciously and unconsciously to our children in their rearing in the home and in the community must be the best within us to the exclusion of all weakness. What they absorb from early childhood from our example, as well as our teaching, has its influence on the ultimate gift we receive from God. Charles Dickens once wrote, "No one is useless in this world who lightens the burdens of it for someone else." In his biography Emerson, The Wisest American, Phillips Russell tells of an incident which happened on Emerson's 59th birthday, part of which he spent pottering around the barnyard with his son Edward. Before he returned to the house he decided to put the calf into its stall. The calf, a big heifer, resisted with that calin obstinacy which has often filled otherwise kindly owners of animals with vindictive red thoughts. The son grasped an ear, the father pushed diligently from behind, and together they tried to propel the animal into the barn. Emerson hated being heated like this; he often complained that outdoor activities drugged a scholar and unfitted him for his proper tasks; but he was not the man to forsake an undertaking once begun, and again he put his weight behind the animal. The heifer remained firm, rolling the whites of her eyes and breathing out through her moist nostrils a milky stubborn odor. Emerson paused and gazed upon the animal in bewilderment. The situation was unprecedented. He had read the 793 philosophy of Plato and Plotinus, the science of Newton and Bacon, the poetry of Hafiz and Herbert, the teachings of Buddha and Confucius, the histories of Plutarch and Sieur de Joinville, the mcemoirs of Goethe and Napoleon and only recently had he been through the Etude de la Nature of Saint-Pierre, but none of them had said anything about an effective and harmonious method of pushing a female calf into a barn. Emerson had no physical strength and sometimes lamented that he lacked the commanding presence that awes with an eye, a word; but one merit be possessed in abundance—persistence. He therefore gave an encouraging signal to Edward, and once more they fell upon the animal. The heifer planted her splay feet and remained as before. 'The pale face of the sage reddened and _perspiring beads gathered upon his high white forehead. And then an Irish servant girl came by. With an amused glance she thrust a finger into the animal's mouth, and the calf, seduced by the maternal imitation, at once followed her into the barn. Fidward looked at his father and grinned; but Emerson was already absorbed in thought, his eyes fixed musingly upon the ground. He returned to the house and after cleans. Ing his hands of their bovine smell, recorded the incident in his journal, adding this telling declaration: "I like people who can do things." Yes, so say we, all of us. You and I, everyone, as did Emerson, "like people who can do things" (Epcar W. Smiru— District Governor's Address, Oregon). HAT is why the active Relicf Society mothers are as successful as they are, and I am sure that there are no people upon the earth who can do things like the Latterday Saint Relief Society sisters. They know how to do things. That is why we want every mother active in Relief Society. Let us never forget in our family lives the words found in 'The Doctrine and Covenants 130:20, 21: There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this 794 world, upon which all blessings are predicated— And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated. We may apply this scripture to other matters, but I say unto you, the fruits of our labors in rearing our families are determined by our faithfulness to our task which we have voluntarily and willfully assumed. Indeed, life's full purpose cannot be consummated without our doing our part toward multiplying and replenishing the earth. Our joy must be in our posterity both here and _ hereafter. Over and above all else, the Relief Society must inspire mothers and potential prospective mothers to fulfill their destiny. The sublimest of all. "The Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls," said Joseph Smith. Have you ever heard of any other people in all the earth who have the slightest conception of what it means to a mother and father to be promised through their faithfulness, joy in their posterity even after death hath us separated? I never have. Indeed, they could not, and at the same time voluntarily submit themselves to a marriage "until death do you separate." The divine knowledge which is ours, revealed as it has been for the guidance of all the children of our Heavenly Father and for the blessing of the faithful, carrics a correspondingly great responsibility for those who hear. Again, it is given to the Relief Society to teach and exemplify the gospel truths in their lives, in their families, and in their communities. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 Two wonderful thoughts are brought to us from the teachings of President Mckay: In one of the important institutions of medicine there hangs this significant sign: "Never say a discouraging word while in this sanitarium." If encouragement is good for the sick and ailing, it is also helpful to those who are normally healthy. As encouragement affects individuals, so it is helpful to organizations. Encouragement includes good will and benevolence, a virtue that may be experienced by persons in all stations of life. Everyone may not be beneficent, but all may be benevolent. Good will also includes kindness, another virtue everyone can show, and one which everyone is pleased to receive. Everyone appreciates, too, tolerance, a sense of justice and fair play. There is a difference between destructive and constructive criticism. The former can become harmful, not only to the individual, but also to others as well. It is easy to fall into a habit of negative criticism without offering a solution or substituting something better to take the place of that which the critic would destroy. Pure negativism does not reflect a sound thinker. On the other hand, careful, logical analysis, coupled with a sincere desire to find truth, is praiseworthy. Sound, independent thinking should be encouraged rather than be condenined. The search for, and the acquisition of knowledge is a prime purpose of our existence. Independent thinkers who are well-balanced and who possess the sincere desire to know truth are needed in all phases of living.... Men and women ean curb their tempers, and when prompted to condemn others, to hold their tongues. There is no better way to bring about harmony in the home, in the neighborhood, in organizations, peace in our country, than for every man and woman first to eliminate from his or her heart the enemies of harmony and peace, namely, hatred, selfishness, greed, animosity and envy (Secrets of a Happy Life, pp. 132-133). To those who study and live for GOD'S GREATEST GIFT it, the means of regulating the family and developing the children along proper lines can be found. Like all else in life, it requires work, the overcoming of self, the unselfish dedication of ourselves to our children. This does not mean overindulgence any more than undue severity or unnecessary curtailment in the activities or enthusiasm of youth. Carlyle. Wrote, "Our grand duty is not to see what lies dimly in the distance but to do what lies clearly at hand." OTHERS and_ fathers, but especially mothers, should be sensitive to every bit of evidence of talent exhibited by a child. I heard a mother say of three of her young boys — the oldest is capable of learning a foreign language. 'I'he mother herself had pretty well mastered French. She had an enviable background upon which to judge. 'The important fact is she was using it, and also had two daughters studying languages also. The next son she had detected was adept at drawing. She turned him over to an artist to explore the extent of his genius, if any. 'The third son took a great interest in the piano at a very young age. He was appropriately encouraged, as the daughters who were older had been, one becoming a good violinist, and the other studies diligently on the piano. It is quite evident in this family that several great objectives are accomplished, the development of natural and latent talents, appreciation for time and work, creating worthwhile habits, objectives, and ambitions, to learn to concentrate and to gain control over mind, just as we might by physical endeavor over our muscles, to develop power of accom- 795 plishment and its accompanying self-assurance. I think above all we must become absorbed in self-improvement to the exclusion of less profitable, to say nothing of detrimental thoughts and actions, of which idleness is the most to be feared. Indeed, as youth's opportunities for industry are circumscribed by many modern trends, including the development of mechanized means of accomplishing so much menial labor in the home and on the farm and in office, store, and factory, it is necessary that the utilization of youth's time become more and more a serious family problem to be solved in any event, rather than permit our sons and daughters to become slaves to pleasure, excitement, gambling, indolence, laziness, frivolity, carelessness, abandon, and loss of ambition, deterioration, rather than development of muscle and mind. Much is written and spoken today about the preparedness of our people to defend our shores. Have we become physically soft, unprepared properly to account for ourselves in time of war or other emergency? Are we qualified intellectually to carry on a great scientific conflict? What is even worse, have we permitted ourselves as a Nation to deteriorate spiritually? A great Irish patriot, John Curran, put the thought I have in mind as follows: The condition upon which God hath given liberty to man is eternal vigilance; which condition if he break, servitude is at once the consequence of his crime and the punishment of his guilt. An editorial in the Salt Lake Tribune (February 8, 1960) comments on a single specific weakness which is cultivated on every hand: "Cheating," a speaker said, 'has become a part of the student culture — taken for granted." "The adult example certainly is deplorable. Proof is found almost any place one looks. For example, one company openly distributes a catalog offering crooked dice, marked cards, and other devices, though it piously states that 'the goods are not sold to perpetrate a fraud or for any illegal purposes.' However, we do not think that the goods are sold merely for fooling one's friends with magic tricks. They are designed for making an easy buck in so-called games of chance, and judging from the catalog, there must be plenty of customers. Cheating, of course, is nothing new. The ancient Greeks and Romans knew most of the tricks used today, though modern technology has evolved some refinements. "Cheating as a way of life is something else. "This Nation has not gone quite that far yet, but the signs are ominous. The handwriting is on the wall. It has been there for some time. How long before it will be heeded? "The American people had better take stock — and soon. When a nation's moral and spiritual fabric decays, the end is not far off." HE Prophet Joseph Smith in the 134th Section of The Doctrine and Covenants drew a very marked distinction between the laws of men and the laws of God, and prescribed for us obedience to both. In verse 6 this is what he said:. Human laws being instituted for the express purpose of regulating our interests as individuals and nations, between man and man; and divine laws given of heaven, prescribing rules on spiritual concerns, for faith and worship, both to be answered by man to his Maker. He further said: We believe that the commission of crime should be punished according to the nature of the offense; that murder, treason, robbery, theft, and the breach of the general peace, in all respects, should be punished according to their criminality and their tendency to evil among men, by the laws of that government in which the offense is committed; and for the public peace and tranquility all men should step forward and use their ability in bringing offenders against good laws to punishment (D & C 134:8). In every detail of all our lives we must insist upon the appropriate sustaining of the law and its enforcement, that from a strict enforcement thereof, our communities may be improved so far as the laws of man can go. It is then that we must individually take up a crusade among our fellow men to help strengthen them to carry out the laws of Cod. It is, nevertheless, incumbent upon us, so far as our family and homes are concerned, both the law of the land and the law of God should be obeyed, without which we will be denied the blessings which we intended to be secured to us by the Constitution of the United States. To put into other words, the blessings of the Constitution of the United States, inspired of our Father in heaven as it is, insured us the blessings therein prescribed predicated upon our obedience, not only to the laws of the land but to the laws of God who inspired the Constitution. Now who clse is there in the country to lead out in such 796 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 GOD'S GREATEST GIFT a crusade other than the Latter-day Saints? The answer is easy. 'There is nO one. Alma gives us a rule of conduct which we might well carry into our lives and into our families. If we conform to Alma's counsel, we will never grow soft or incapable of defending and maintaining our rights and "liberties. Pillar of strength around which others can rely and will rely in time of need. And now I would that ye should be humble, and be submissive and_ gentle; easy to be entreated; full of patience and long-suffering; being temperate in all things; being diligent in keeping the commandments of God at all times; asking for whatsoever things ye stand in need, both spiritual and temporal; always returning thanks unto God for whatsoever things ye do receive. And see that ye have faith, hope, and charity, and then ye will always abound in good works (Alma 7:23-24). It would be difficult to follow the foregoing admonition of Alma in idleness or indolence or carelessness or indifference. It is our duty as members of the Church, and _particularly as mothers in Israel, to see that these traits are not developed by our children in the home due to our lack of attention or consideration or planning for their welfare. We might just as readily develop within them characteristics of work, industry, thrift, and virtue. There is no substitute for the home. Our children cannot enjoy the sacred privileges and blessings that should be theirs in the home from their association with father and mother, brothers and sisters, without work on the part of the parents, who are responsible for the upkeep, the maintenance, and the planning of home life. We will become a 797 T is my purpose today to issue a note of warning, of caution, and call upon you to use wisdom, judgment, and discretion and above all, dedicate yourselves, first and foremost, to the proper rearing of your children and grandchildren. I emphasize the responsibility that rests upon grandparents to continue in their generation to affect the lives of subsequent generations in their families by their example, as well as their precept, by the personal attention and consideration which they give. Thrift accompanies industry. Extravagance and carelessness are the fruits of indulgence. I saw a picture the other day of a little boy and a girl meeting. Each had a quarter in their hands. They wanted to go to a movie, but that cost fifty cents, so the girl said to the boy, "Let's go in here where we can sit down and think over our problem." When they got inside the boy said to the girl, "Oh, well, we might as well ask our mothers for fifty cents as for a quarter." So they proceeded to spend their quarter on ice-cream sodas. To me this was a barometer and sign of the time, indicating how easy the present generation realizes it is to obtain what it wants by the easiest and shortest route. Just recently, at the conclusion of the Olympic games, the Deseret News published the following editorial: EASE AND LUXURY, popular goals in modern living, are to blame for America's steadily declining power and prestige in the Olympic Games, and unless the manpower of this country foregoes this process of nurturing comfort, dire consequences lie ahead of us as a first-rate athletic power. This is the warning sounded this week by Avery Brundage, president of the Inter- national Olympic Committee, as he took office for his fourth four-year term. Following the classic games in Rome. A worldrenowned authority on physical fitness and public health problems, Mr. Brundage claims it is high time we examine how we are living, how we are using our energies, how we are working, how we are recreating, and what consideration, if any, we are giving the physical education of our children. Obviously we aren't doing so well when 57%, of America's youngsters flunked Ls Kraus-Wcber physical tests while only 8% of the European boys and girls failed to pass. No wonder President Eisenhower became alarmed and inaugurated a_program which would correet this situation, the so-called "OPERATION FITNESS USA." AS THE PRESIDENT'S Committee carrics on its assignments, it finds subnormal test returns that are disquieting, to put it mildly. Disturbing returns on arm and shoulder strength are almost universal. This is true of both girls and boys, but girls are falling the farthest below the accepted "norm." American youth, living in rapidly changing mobile socicty, spending too much time on their seats w atching television and riding in automobiles and lacking the work assignments that made their parents and grandparents rougher and tougher, are, as Avery Brundage finds, turning into a generation of "'softies."" Rapid urbanization, lack of adequate play and physical education facilities and in many cases lethargic instruction and leadership in schools and on playgrounds, help compound the problem. In this process of waging war on work, we have a tendency to extoll everything as "good" if it reduces the demands on us for work. To struggle, to strain, to strive, to energize and live vigorously. What we do not realize is that this practice of equating an easy life with a high standard of living is selling short the real goals of human existence, not the least important of which is the rich and vigorous physical life. "THE YOUTH FITNESS challenge is in the way we live at home," as Mr. Brundage has said, "in the educational system in the schools, in spreading the doctrine of hard work and sacrifice for a great cause — the cause of a physically strong America" (Deseret News, September 13, 1960). Do we as mothers and fathers in Israc]l ignore such absolute positive, certain, definite evidence, evidence which cannot be refuted, evidence which characterizes the young and the rising generations of this country and at the same time condemns them and exposes their inability properly to mect the problems of life? I have welcomed this opportunity to chat with you, my sisters, this afternoon. J look upon the problem that I am presenting as one of the fundamentally basic problems confronting us in the Nation today. The Church in this phase, as in all others, must set an example. 7E presented to the world nearly twenty-five years ago our Welfare Plan when the need therefor became apparent. We_ have always undertaken to take care of our own. The intensified Welfare Program was instituted to take care of a need, the like of which we had not experienced in our history. My topic today bears a very direct relationship to our need for the Welfare Program. Had we not softened, had we been as willing as our forebearers to engage in hard manual labor when necessary, had we retained their old virtue of being willing to do anything they had to do in order to make ends meet and to meet their responsibilities to their family and to life, there would have been fewer welfare problems. The initial statement of President Grant pre- 798 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 GOD'S GREATEST GIFT senting the Welfare Program to the Church has become a classic in our scriptures: Our primary purpose [said the First Presidency] was to set up, insofar as it might be possible, a system under which the curse of idleness would be done away with, the evils of the dole abolished, and independence, industry, thrift and selfrespect be once more established amongst our people. The aim of the Church is to help the people to help themselves. Work is to be re-enthroned as the ruling principle of the lives of our Church membership (Conference Report, October 1936, page 3). Today, this softening process requires a comparable program of equally if not greater importance to be carried on with equally great, if not greater effort, energy, and enthusiasm. It is always a more difficult problem to stay such a deteriorating tendency in which the moral fiber of the individual and the family is involved than to take care of their temporal needs. To demonstrate how long we have postponed the initiation of such a program we need only refer back to the days of Theodore Roosevelt when he stated our case as follows: DARE GREATLY — It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbled, or where the doer of deeds could have done better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena; whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who knows the great enthusiasms, the great devotions, and spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement; and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly; so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who know neither victory nor defeat. I wish to preach, not the doctrine of ignoble ease, but the doctrine of the strenuous life, the life of toil and effort, 799 of labor and strife; to preach that highest form of success which comes, not to the man who desires mere easy peace, but to the man who does not shrink from danger, from hardship, or from bitter toil, and who out of these wins the splendid ultimate triumph. A life of slothful ease, a life of that peace which springs merely from lack either of desire or of power to strive after great things, is as little worthy of a nation as of an individual. I ask only that what every self-respecting American demands from himself and from his sons shall be demanded of the American nation as a whole. Who among you would teach your boys that ease, that peace, is to be the first consideration in their eyes — to be the ultimate goal after which they strive?... We do not admire the man of timid peace. We admire the man who embodies victorious effort; the man who never wrongs his neighbor, who is prompt to help a friend, but who has those virile qualities necessary to win in the stern strife of actual life. It is hard to fail, but it is worse never to have tried to succeed. In this life we get nothing save by effort. Freedom from effort in the present merely means that there has been effort in the past.... A mere life of ease is not in the end a very satisfactory life, and, above all, it is a life which ultimately unfits those who follow it for serious work in the world (THEODORE ROOSEVELT). OW after fifty years we see the serious results wrought by this trend. We should be stirred by the thought that destruction and disintegration will follow such a course if permitted to continue unimpeded and unabated long enough. Who can say how much more time we have? I would not be happy if I did not suggest to you that this weakening of our physical and our mental, our spiritual and moral characteristics, is and will continue to have a serious effect upon our missionary labors. To this extent we are rendering our- sclves less and less efficient to fulfill that greatest of all commissions which the Lord has given us in these latter days to promulgate the truths of the gospel to the children of men. We are at the moment making up for this weakness, at Ieast in part, by increased numbers. Our experiences in the mission field today indicate that the results of our work could be doubled and_redoubled with our present forces of missionaries by increasing — their effectiveness and their efficiency. You cannot expect young men to go into the mission ficld and become workers over night, if for the first twenty vears of their life they have been permitted to grow up in case, indolence, free from responsibility, and strangers to work, having developed no power of concentration. The very life and existence of the Church, as well as of the Nation, depend upon our purposeful integrity and our ability, as well as our willingness to apply ourselves with all our thought and energy to the tasks ahead. The Relicf Socicty makes service rather than self the basis of every principle, every policy, and every procedure in its work. He profits most who serves best. Sisters, we must begin at home, with the mother and the father. We must educate ourselves to the promotion of our familics, to establish our sons and daughters as worthy citizens of this great Nation, prepared and qualified to carry on the responsibilitics of citizenship without shirking any of them in any respect. It will then follow irrevocably that they will be prepared to take our places and to carry on the work of the Priesthood and of the Church in all its teachings. 'Vo this end Jet us dedicate ourselves as fathers and mothers in Israel. A timely warning I believe to be justified. 'There is a strong, persistent tendency for our boys and gitls to leave home to seck what they want elsewhere. Under no circumstances should they go before they are prepared by their home training to carry on properly when away. Remember the story of the man in the old wife's tale who sought a four-leaf clover that would bring him happiness and all of the luck of fairyland. With his whole heart fixed on this charm, he could not stay at home but must go away to seck it. And the upshot of this was that he traveled around the world and spent both youth and middle age in this vain search. Then, at the twilight of life, very old and sobered, with none of his dreams left to him, and without a penny in his pocket, he crept back to the cottage he had quitted so many years before, and there beside the doorstone, with that amazing suddenness so characteristic of its kind, the fourleaf clover met his eye. The luck had been at home all of the while. It was not in Tartary nor Cathay nor yet in the islands of the Southern Scas. It was at home. That applies to our children today. 'There is no substitute for a good home presided over by good parents, and the word of the Lord to guide and inspire us all. God bless you, my sisters, in this tremendous work that you are accomplishing throughout the Church, throughout the world, and_ bless your homes and bless the msing gencration of this world, I pray humbly in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 800 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 Nathan Eldon Tanner Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Elder Hugh B. Brown Of the Council of the Twelve YEW men are chosen for high office in the Church who have a richer heritage and more varied background of training and experience than Nathan Eldon Tanner, who was appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve during the last October conference. Elder Tanner represents the sixth generation of Latter-day Saints on both branches of his family tree. His paternal great-grandfather, John Tanner, was an associate of the Prophet Joseph Smith in Nauvoo and at Zion's Camp, and his maternal great-grandfather, James S. Brown, was a member of the Mormon Battalion. His parents went to Alberta, Canada, immediately after marriage in 1897, where their first home consisted of a side-hill dugout, with sod roof and dirt floor. His mother returned temporarily to Salt Lake City, where he was born May 9g, 1898. He spent his childhood in Aetna, Alberta, Canada, where he learned the rugged frugality of pionecr life. He continued his education in high school at Cardston and obtained a teacher's certificate at Normal School, Calgary, in 1919. He taught school in Hill Spring, where he supplemented his meager income by operating a store, milking cows, and feeding pigs. After teaching in Hill Spring for sometime, he became Courtesy the Deseret News ELDER NATHAN ELDON TANNER principal of the Cardston Public School. On December 20, 1919, he married Sara Isabelle Merrill. 'They now have five lovely daughters and twenty-two grandchildren. 'The daughters are: Mrs. C. R. Walker, Calgary, Alberta (Ruth); Mrs. W. S. Jensen, Calgary, Alberta (Isabelle); Mrs. H. S. Rhodes, Calgary, Alberta (Zola); Mrs. G. L. Spackman, Regina, Saskatchewan (Beth): and Mrs. L. Williams, Calgary, Alberta (Helen). Sister Tanner has stood loyally by his side through all the vicissitudes Page 801 "4 <7. ELDER NATHAN ELDON TANNER AND FAMILY Seated in front: Sara Isabelle Merrill Tanner; Elder Nathan Eldon Tanner. Back row, standing, left to right: Mrs. W. S. Jensen (Isabelle); Mrs. C. R. Walker (Ruth); Mrs. H. S. Rhodes (Zola); Mrs. G. L. Spackman (Beth); Mrs. L. Williams (Helen). Of their lives, has been an ideal wife, mother, and grandmother, is dearly loved by all her in-laws, has been active throughout her life in ward and stake MIA and Relief Society and as a teacher in Sunday School. Elder Tanner was elected to the Alberta Provincial Parliament in 1935, and was re-elected four times. During the first session of the new Government, he was chosen as speaker of the House, but pnor to the second session—in January 1937 —he became a member of the cabinet with the portfolio of Minister of Lands and Mines. Due to the development that was taking place in the resources of the province, the department was divided in April 1949, and he was named minister of the two new departments—Department of Lands and Forests and Department of Mines and Minerals. In addition he held the appointment of Chairman of the Alberta Research Council. During his administration, and under his sponsorship, the laws governing the development of mines and minerals (including gas and_ oil) were enacted and strictly enforced. The development of the natural resources under his direction was so successful that the Alberta laws and regulations have served as a guide to similar developments in other parts of Canada and the United States. N September 1952, he resigned from Government service to take over the presidency of Merrill Pe- 802 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 NATHAN ELDON TANNER troleums Limited, and in March 1954, he resigned from that position to accept the presidency of TransCanada Pipe Lines Limited, a newly formed three hundred million dollar corporation which constructed a pipeline from Alberta to Quebec to take natural gas to Eastern Canada. He severed his official duties with Trans-Canada in March 1959, but retains his directorship in the company. In addition he is a director of: National 'Trust Company Limited; The 'Toronto-Dominion Bank; Consolidated Freightways, Inc.; Inland Cement Co., Ltd.; The Alberta Gas Trunk Line Co.; Waterous Equipment Limited; Jenkins Groceteria Limited; Merit Oil Limited. At present he is president of Merit Oil Limited; Provincial Products Pipeline Limited; Saratoga Processing Co., Ltd. And VicePresident of Grizzly Petroleum, Ltd. He was president of the Canadian Gas Association in 1959-60 and is at present serving as past president. From 1932-35 Elder Tanner was bishop of the Cardston First Ward and prior to that he served as a counselor. He also served on the high council of the Alberta Stake. On moving to Edmonton he was made president of the Edmonton Branch in 1938 and served in that position until 1952. During that time the first chapel in Edmonton was erected and the seminary established at the University of Alberta. He has been president of the Calgary Stake since its organization in 1953 and, until a month ago (when there was a division of the stake), 803 there were twelve wards and branches; at present there are nine. During his presidency the $450,000 Calgary Stake Center was built. He was Commissioner of the Boy Scouts Association for the province of Alberta from 1945 to 1953. He is a life member of the association and has been awarded the Silver Wolf. He is also a member of the Board of Governors of the University of Alberta. He received an Honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Brigham Young University in 1956. He is a member of the following clubs: Rotary; Petroleum; Ranchmen's; Calgary Golf and Country Club; Toronto Club; Canadian Club, New York; Calgary Chamber of Commerce. He is a man of outstanding executive ability, unquestioned integrity, and throughout his public career has been known, even by his political opponents, for his rugged and undeviating honesty. He is a humble man of great faith, courage, and constancy, an ideal husband and father, and a devoted and capable Church leader. Elder and Sister 'Tanner intend to move to Salt Lake City as soon as they can be relieved of their responsibilities in Canada. He will be welcomed as one of the General Authorities by all members of the Church and will be a distinct asset in the presiding councils of the Church. We, his associates, are proud to welcome him and his lovely wife into the official family of the General Authorities of the Church. Franklin D. Richards Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Elder LeGrand Richards Of the Council of the Twelve Courtesy the Deseret News ELDER FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS ards as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve adds to the General Authonties of the Church, a man of broad experience, with great capacity and faith. Like Nephi of old, he was born of goodly parents. His father was Charles C. Richards, an outstanding leader in the development of the Territory and State of Utah, and a devoted and faithful member of the Church. His father was a regent of the University of Deseret, Secretary and acting Governor of the Territory of Utah, Speaker of the House in the Utah State Legislature, Assistant Page 804 Tee call of Franklin D. RichAttorney General of U. S., niember of the Civil Service Commission and active member of the Bar of the Supreme Court of Utah and of the U. S. For over sixty-two years. He also had a broad experience in Church activity. With his father, Franklin D. Richards, Charles C. Richards visited David Whitincr, one of the three witnesses to the Book of Mormon, and in answer to his query, he replied: "Read the printed testimony of the three witnesses, Which you will find in one of the front pages of the Book of Mormon—and I sav to you that every word of it is truc." While he and his father were touring the Church historic places, thev called on Lewis C. Bidamon, the husband of the Prophct's wife, Emma, at Nauvoo, and acquired from him, sixty pages of the original manuscript of The Book of Mormon, taken from the box in the cornerstone of the Mansion House. This sacred relic was presented to President George Albert Smith in 1946, and is now a possession of the Church. Elder Richards' — grandfather, Franklin Dewey Richards, for whom he was named, was one of the outstanding missionarics of the Church, and was President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles at the time of his death. Out of the first fourteen years of his married life, he FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS spent ten of those years in the mission field. With such a heritage, the Church can well expect much from Elder Richards. He, too, has exhibited great traits of leadership and devotion which have brought to him his present call to full-time Church service, to which call he has responded in a most pleasing and enthusiastic manner. He was born November 17, 1900 at Ogden, Utah, son of Charles C. Richards and Louisa Letitia Peery. He graduated from the Weber Academy in Ogden and from the 805 University of Utah in 1923 with an L. L. B. Degree. He practiced law in Salt Lake City from 1923 to 1934; he was appointed first Utah State Director for F. H. A. In 1934; Assistant Commissioner of F. H. A, Washington, D. C. In 1941 for the eleven Western States, Alaska, and Hawaii; Assistant Commissioner F. H. A., Washington, D. C. For the entire U. S. In 1945, in charge of ficld operations; appointed F. H. A. Commissioner for the entire U. S. In 1947 by President Harry S. Truman. He resigned as F'. H. A. Commissioner Junc 30, 1952 and organHal Rumel ELDER FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS AND HIS FAMILY Front row, grandchildren, left to right: Caroline Judd; Rinda Richards; Franklin D. Richards II]; Daniel Judd; Lisa Richards. Second row, left to right: Gloria Smith Richards and Lance; Helen Kearns Richards and giandson Steven Judd; Elder Franklin D. Richards; Louise R. Judd and Robert Judd. Back row, standing, left to nght: Franklm D. Richards, Jr.; David K. Richards; Nancy Richards; Robert L. Judd. 806 ized Franklin D. Richards and Company, a Nation-wide mortgage financing company with ofttiees im Washington, D. C., New York City, and Salt Lake City, Utah. He returned to Salt Lake in 1954 and organized the Richards-Woodbury Mortgage Company, with the F. Orin "Woodbury family. He is an officer of several business institutions. He filled his mission in the Eastern States from 1920 to 1922, where he was Conference President in Brooklyn and Boston; he served as a member of the Liberty Stake Sunday School Board; President of an elders quorum in Washington Stake; chairman of Chevy Chase Ward Building Committee in 1946; Sunday School Superintendent Silver Spring Ward, Washington; Chairman Genealogical Committee, East Millcreek Second Ward, Salt Lake City, 1954 to 1956; East Millcreek Stake Mission President 1956 to 1959; called to preside over the Northwestern States Mission 1960; set apart as an Assistant to the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, October g, 1960. He married Helen Kearns in the Salt Lake Temple, August 1, 1923, and they have four children: Mrs. Robert L. (Louise) Judd, Franklin D. Richards Jr., David K. Richards, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 and Nancy Richards, all living in Salt Lake City. Elder and Sister Richards are, at heart, real missionaries and have accomplished a great work during the year they have presided over the Northwestern States Mission. In his reports in the mectings of the mission presidents in the Temple, he greatly impressed the other mission presidents and the General Authorities as he outlined the activitics and accomplishments of his mission. He has greatly simplificd the work in his mission, cutting out all unnecessary matters, making it much casier for the missionaries to prepare themsclves to present the gospel message impressively. He has introduced a program of getting groups together, greatly multiplying the effectiveness of the missionaries' time. When missionaries secm the least bit discouraged, he reminds them that President McKay is not discouraged — that he is not discouraged, "and that when they see him discouraged they can become discouraged also. As his cousin and associate in the ministry, I feel confident that in his new calling, Elder Richards will demonstrate to members of the entire Church, as they become acquainted with him, the inspiration of the Lord that has called him to his present high calling. ' Kno wledge of God Celia Luce N KK cold. Sorrow comes our way. OWLEDGE of God is like a shining light after darkness. It surrounds our lives with joy and happiness and gives us — when It is like warmth after Theodore Moyle Burton Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Elder Gordon B. Hinckley Assistant to the Council of the Twelve ROUD of his heritage, faithful to his birthright, unflagging in his testimony, and unwavering in his devotion, Theodore Moyle Burton joins the ranks of the General Authorities of the Church as a man with a great inheritance and a record of service and accomplishment. Determined to be a specialist in the field of chemistry, he has repeatedly left his chosen work at the call of the Church and has _performed notably in every assignment given him. He could do little else. His faith is built on the faith of his forebears who sailed the oceans and walked the plains to gather to Zion. Numbered among them are some of the great pioneers of the Mormon exodus. Most of them were quiet people whose works have gone unsung, but that they were men and women of faith, resourcefulness, and courage can never be contested. Theodore M. Burton was born in Salt Lake City, March 27, 1907, a son of Theodore Taylor and Florence Moyle Burton. He attended the Salt Lake City public schools and the University of Utah. From this latter institution he was graduated in June of 1932. He had interrupted his university education to labor in the Swiss-German Mission from 1927 to 1930. The responsibilities there given him are a testimony of his faithfulness. DurCourtesy the Deseret News ELDER THEODORE BURTON MOYLE ing his mission he served as branch president in Bern, Switzerland, and Altona, Germany, and later as district president in the SchleswigHolstein District. On February 23, 1933, he married his childhood sweetheart, Minnie Preece, in the Salt Lake Temple. At the time he was working as Assistant Salt Lake City Bacteriologist and M. I. A. Superintendent in his home ward. He also was doing work on his Master's Degree which was received from the University of Utah in June of 1934. Page 807 Courtesy, Church Section, the Deseret News ELDER THEODORE MOYLE BURTON AND HIS FAMILY Left to right: Elder Theodore Moyle Burton; Minnie Susan Preece Burton; Robert Preece Burton. With fluency in the use of the German language, he secured employment as Technical Assistant to the United States Treasury Attache in Vienna, Austria. Tle served there from 1934 to 1937 and then took the same post in Berlin, Germany, for another year. Rom 1941 to 1943 he was instructor in chemistry, physics, and mathcmatics at Carbon College in Price, Utah. Then in 1943 he moved to Logan to begin a teaching carcer at Utah State University. He has there served as Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor of Chemistry. In 1950 he took leave to accept a Westinghouse Electric Rescarch Fellowship at Purduc Unt versity where he reccived his Ph. D. Degree in June of 1951. Six years later Dr. Burton inter- 808 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 THEODORE MOYLE BURTON rupted his professional career at the call of the Church to preside over the West German Mission. Few realize the extent of his tremendous burdens in this post. During most of his tenure he had responsibility for what are now both the West German and the South German Missions and also a number of activities now centered in the European Mission office. During the major period of his presidency he not only looked after the proselyting program and administrative duties of this large mission, but also had responsibility for the very extensive servicemen's program in Europe, administration of an old folk's home, and carried the task of getting into print all publications used in the German-speaking missions of Europe, including a monthly periodical, Der Sterne. His previous training as Sunday School teacher, Scoutmaster, Sunday School superintendent, Bishop of the Cache Fourth Ward, High 809 Councilman in the Cache Stake, and President of the Cache Stake High Priests Quorum had equipped him for these burdensome Church assignments. His wife, who had served as ward Relief Society President, was likewise well schooled for her work as mission Relief Society president. He returned to Logan this past summer to resume his teaching, only to be called again from the classroom to the ministry, this time as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. He brings to this new calling qualities cultivated and developed through long experience. His meticulous attention to detail and his educated curiosity, hallmarks of the scientist, coupled with warmth of personality and an unshakable testimony of the divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ and his restored Gospel, equip him for the high and sacred responsibility which now rests upon him. First Snowfall Blanche Kendall McKey All the little things that used to be— Wraith-like trifles of memory— Come drifting back mysteriously. The window shut against the cold Does not disbar them; Like these wavering flakes of snow, Which seem to have no definite place to go, They all float back to the only home they know. A child's first kiss, a birthday rose, a broken kite, A whisper in the hush of night, A tear for old time's sake — Silent, like the fall of flake on flake, They all drift back and seem to be Life's epitome! The Annual General Relief Society Conference Hulda Parker General Secretary-Treasurer ITH nature providing a glo- \¢ rious autumn setting, Relief Society leaders from each of the 303 stakes in the Church and Frei twenty-eight missions assembled in the 'Tabernacle on Temple Square, Wednesday and Thursday, October 5 and 6, for another Annual General Relief Society Conference. As each session of the conference proceeded under the direction of President Belle S. Spafford and her counselors, Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen, and as messages of inspiration and instruction were given through word, music, and dramatic presentation, one felt they were indeed responding to the admonition of the First Presidency in 1942 to members of Relicf Society, "never to forget that they are a unique organization in the whole world...." For the first time since the dedication of the Relief Society Building in 1956, mission Relief Society presidents from Canada, United States, Mexico, and Central America were in attendance. A special allday meeting was held for these sisters in the General Board room on Tuesday, October 4. The opening session of the conference was the Officers Meeting held in the Tabernacle on Wednesday from 10 A. M. To 12 noon for stake and mission officers and board members. President Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve, an advisor to Relicf Society, Page 810 opened the conference with an appeal to the sisters of the Church "to teach their children the truths of the gospel as found in the scriptures." President Spafford then presented the Report and Official Instructions. As the 2508 sisters from the stakes and 101 from missions responded to a standing roll call conducted by Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker, it was impressive to observe the large number of representatives from several missions and the majority of stakes, and that every stake in the Church, including Auckland, New Zealand; Sydney, Australia; and Manchester, England, had_ representation at the conference. Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve, also an advisor to Relief Society, concluded this session with an admonition for every mother to help "build the needed spirituality to preserve the home" against the evils of the day through active affiliation in Relief Society. The music for this session was presented by a chorus of 175 Singing Mothers from the Big Hom Stake in Wyoming, under the direction of Ora M. Welch with Alexander Schreiner at the organ. In the General Session at 2 P. M. Relief Society members and the general public heard inspiring addresses by President Henry D. Moyle of the First Presidency, the members of the Relief Society General Presidency, and Alberta H. Christensen of the General Board. As a prophet speaking to the mothers of modern Israel, President Moyle said, "It is my duty today to issue a note of warning, of caution, and call upon you to use wisdom, judgment, and discretion and above all, dedicate yourselves first and foremost to the proper rearing of your children and your grandchildren." President Spafford emphasized the need for society today to strive more for the enduring, deepseated spiritual needs of mankind and stressed the lasting rewards that accrue through "serving with full intent of heart." Counselor Sharp pointed out the responsibility of mothers to make a heaven at home and how Relief Society can help them to do so. Counselor Madsen discussed the noble calling and privilege of a mother to help build up the kingdom of God by being a good wife, mother, and homemaker. Sister Christensen told of the value of a mother using profitably her time and talents. 5oo-voice chorus of Singing Mothers from seventeen stakes in the Ogden and Northern Utah Regions provided the music. The chorus was directed by Florence Jepperson Madsen of the General Board, and Alexander Schreiner accompanied at the organ. On Wednesday evening from 7 to 10 p. M. The General Board members greeted approximately 2500 stake and mission officers and board members at a beautifully appointed reception in the Relief Society Building. In the 10 am. Departmental Meeting on Thursday morning, dramatic presentations entitled 'Out of the Book" and "This I Remember" featured the current year's theology and literature courses, respectively. 'The second year's social science course was presented through a symposium interspersed with narrations and musical background. The Monument Park West Stake Singing Mothers Chorus, directed by Louise Cook, rendered the music in connection with the theology presentation. Frank W. Asper was at the organ. Elder Marion G. Romney, of the Council of the Twelve, opened the 1:30 P. M. Departmental Meeting with an address defining the duties of Relief Society in the Welfare Plan. The visiting teacher messages for the current year were introduced through a presentation, "Messengers of Love and Service." At that same hour separate departmental sessions were held for secretary-treasurers, work meeting leaders, and choristers and organists. From 2:45 to 4 P. M. Other departmental sessions were held in the Tabernacle for stake and mission presidencies and Magazine representatives, and in the Assembly Hall for stake and mission class leaders. Elder Alvin R. Dyer, an Assistant to the Council of the 'Twelve, spoke in the presidencies department on the missionary program of the Church in Europe. Another special feature of this meeting was an inspiring presentation on The Relief Society Magazine, "As a Voice Speaking." Music was provided by the Bountiful North Stake Singing Mothers directed by Iris H. Moon, with Roy M. Darley at the organ. Thus concluded another glorious conference of the Relief Socicty of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. THE ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 811 Grandma s Surprise Packages Frances C. Yost RANDMA Benson let her (S tired hands rest in her lap. It was Christmas Eve and she was ready for it. Why she had her family. This should be a time a lovely surprise package for every one of the twenty-five members in for real celebrating, the eve of Christmas, but her heart wasn't in it, There was a hurt in her heart she just couldn't shake off, and it wasn't something she could talk over, or confide in anyone. She just had to go on bravely smiling and loving all the family as she always had. Some hurts were best that way, left alone. Grandma Benson knew the very dav the hurt in her heart had started. She was just as happy as a grandmother could be, with her children and grandchildren around her, and thinking they all loved her until.... Well, it happened right after the 'Thanksgiving family gettogether. Why it was the moming after, in fact. It all happened might in the dear old room she loved. It was a big room, with plenty of light. It was a combination living room and bedroom, with an adjoining private bath. She had all the things she loved here in the room, her books and keepsakes, and she was comfortable. If she wanted to have privacy, she could have it, and if she wanted to join the family, she was always welcome. If she wanted her meals alone, one of the children would gladly bring a tray to her room. 'True, the furniture was getting shabby, and the rug was worn, and the curtains were mended. But it was home, and she was Page 812 perfectly happy, until that morning when her son James and his wife Laura had come to her room. Grandma Benson could remember it so well, every word that had been said.. "May, we come in awhile and visit, Mother?" "Why certainly, James, you know you're always welcome in my part of the house." Grandma Benson had chuckled gaily then. Now, she realized she was presumptive to have said, "my part of the house." None of the house w as really hers, it was James' and Laura's home, not hers at all. Her old home had been sold to pay expenses when Grandpa had died. And, anyway, the family had said she mustn't live alone. At that time they had appeared to mean it. "Did you sleep well, Mother Benson?" "Why yes, Laura, thanks to you, keeping clean, lovely, soft sheets on my bed, | sleep like a child. I love my dear old bed." "Mother, that's what Laura and I wanted to talk to you about. Would you mind so much living with Chris and Sarah for awhile?" James hadn't said for how long. He hadn't said she was too much work for Laura, or that she needed arest. Just that. Would you mind living with Chris and Sarah awhile? It sort of took her breath, really, but she quickly moistened her lips and smiled faintly and said, "Why, James, it would be fine to stay a spell with Chris and Sarah." She guessed she should have been moving from one child's home to GRANDMA'S SURPRISE PACKAGES another, before someone suggested it, not bother any one family too long. But she had felt so at home here with James and Laura, and they had acted as if it was all right to stay permanently. "Well, then, if you'll pack a suitcase, I'll take you over to Sarah's place first thing after breakfast." "Mother Benson, why don't you pack the little trunk. You know, take all the things you'll need, and your Christmas sewing and crocheting, and...." "Yes, Laura, Pl get my things right now." She turned quickly. She mustn't ever let anyone know. She must finish life bravely, serenely, no matter what happened. No matter if she were passed around among the children the rest of her days.... (RANDMA Benson went over the last month while living here at Chris' and Sarah's. They had treated her nice enough. They really had. The children had been happy to have her read to them occasionally, and she had had time to make all of her Christmas gifts. She had made cute little aprons for the smaller girls. Some were ruffled pinafores, and some were appliqued with flowers or birds. The older granddaughters would receive a length of fine lace for pillowcases. They were all filling hope chests. The boys in the family would get colorful crocheted bookmarks. Boys needed to be encouraged to sit down and read, Grandma thought. The men would each receive a knitted tie, and the ladies crocheted bedroom slippers to match their favorite robe. Besides the present, Grandma had written a little personal verse for each per- 813 son. It had all taken lots of time and thought. In fact, it had been good for her. When one was doing things creative, one didn't have so much time to remember hurts. Chris and Sarah and their children had been ever so nice. She didn't have any complaints, exccpt that Chris and Sarah were gone a great deal evenings. And Sarah usually made some excuse, almost every afternoon, to go to the library, or shopping. Then, too, they were rather crowded. She shared a room with Janice, who was working downtown, and was dating. She knew her being there was inconvenient for Janice. She never turned on the light to undress, and just felt around for her nighty and slippers in the dark. James and Laura had come to see her quite often, but not once had they said anything like, "Do you want to come home, Mother?" She guessed she had worn out her welcome at James' and Laura's completely. Now, it was the day before Christmas, and they were all to spend Christmas Eve at James' and Laura's. 'They would have the usual program, mostly the little tots singing and reciting. Then the presents would be opened, and light refreshments served, before each family went to its own home to await Santa's visit. GRANDMA Benson had assumed the family usually came to James' and Laura's because she had made her home there. Now, she realized, it was because their house was much larger. It would be different this year. Instead of her being there to greet the others when thev arrived, being one of the hostesses, she now was just a guest in James' and Laura's home. Grandma Benson had a sudden impulse to pull out her lace-edged handkerchief and fill it with the tears she had held back ever so long. But she mustn't give way to grief. Not at Christmas time. Not cver! Life had been hard many times, and she wasn't going to Iet down when she was pushing seventy-seven. What had Grandpa Benson always said? "Keep a stiff upper lip, Susan, things have a way of working out!" "Are you ready to go, Grandma?" Sarah asked. Sarah always. Said, Grandma. And she was her own daughter. It made her feel so old. Of course, she knew Sarah did it to set an example for her children. "Why, yes, Sarah, I'm ready, all but my coat and scarf." "Roger, go get Grandma's coat in the hall closet. Don't drop the scarf tucked in the sleeve." 'Sardi turned to the others. "The rest of you get in the car." Then all at once they were driving up to James' and Laura's. The dear old home looked so lovely, all the evergreens starlit with snowflakes. James had strung lights on the biggest pine tree, making a real outdoor Christmas tree! The drapes were drawn, and the lighted tree in the living room was even more beautiful than when she had been there to help decorate, or sit back and suggest where to hang the ornaments. And the little stockings she had made for all last vear, were hanging on the mantle. They had remembered to use them, even though she hadn't been there to suggest it. The door was swinging open now, and both James and Laura were calling: "Merry Christmas all of you!" "Welcome home, Mother." James and Laura said together, then they looked at each other and laughed softly. "Mother, you might as well take your scarf and coat right up." James took her arm, and Laura took her other arm, and thev were taking her up the stairs. Perhaps they didn't want her in the living room, and yet they had said, "Welcome home, Mother." What were all the others doing following at their heels? JAMES swung the door to her old room open, and a silence fell on all the family, even those still at the foot of the stairway. Grandma Benson caught her breath and just looked. Why a miracle had happened! Instead of the drab old flowered wallpaper, there was a lovely soft pink on the walls. The old gray woodwork was all pink now. The dear old bed and dresser and vanity were all refinished in limed oak. The overstuffed chair was reupholstered in a lovely blue. The floor was covered with wall to wall carpeting in a soft blue shade. At the windows hung flowered cretonne draw drapes. They had little pink and blue flowers, carrying out the color scheme of the room. "Sarah made the drapes, Mother Benson," Laura said, "that's why she left you so much, she was sewing every minute over here. And here are the lovely hooked rugs you gave me. I cherish them as much as evcr, but they just seemed to belong in this room." 814 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 GRANDMA'S SURPRISE PACKAGES "Yes, they do add a cozy touch," Grandma Benson murmured. It was so like Laura, giving someone else what she herself cherished. Why had she doubted her unselfishness for a time? Grandma Benson had a big lump in her throat, but she must speak up. The family would think her ungrateful. What was James saying? "All the family helped, Mother. They helped lovingly, with their hands and with their purses, and we've all enjoyed doing it. You see, we didn't wrap your presents as surprises by the tree this year, we hid them behind your own door." 815 "Your own door," the words were sweet to. Grandma Benson. She wanted to cry, but they were tears of joy she was holding back now. Her lip quivered, but she managed to contro] herself and gave her biggest smile. "You children surely did surprise me all right. And you have made me very, very happy. You're all dears, and I love you every one. Now let's go downstairs and start our program. I want to hear the little folks' pieces, and...." Grandma Benson laughed gaily, "I have a few surprise packages to pass out myself." Wearing the Smell of Woods Maude Rubin Wearing the smell of woods, the morning air, Its resiny freshness brings the outdoors in; The house, already bright with berries' flare, Now puts on soft green sable.... Clear and thin The call of robins once rang through these boughs; A squirrel skittered to his needled tip— A chipmunk hurried to her hidden house; A chickadee sat here to swing and dip. Now I must dress this fragrant forest thing With glittering toys and baubles blue and gold; Must string light-cord where winds no longer sing Or icicles ring crystal chimes of cold. I spread the new white cotton on the floor, Pour star-dust from a package; close and snug I draw the window curtains. One thing more, To sweep the shining litter from the rug. All this for children's magic morning-sight This tree, now leafed with silver, flowered with light! Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1900 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL Nations" THE NEW CENTURY: Whatever may be the fate of the world a century later one cannot help feeling and realizing that the United States, the Republic of America is marching onward to a high destiny.... Development goes forward and ideas accumulate as the world grows older, and men and women who seriously contemplate life and action... Enter upon the century heart and soul and seem to be lifted by a sort of mental and spiritual enthusiasm into higher ranges of sublimity than were known a hundred years ago.... —KHditorial CENTURY'S GREETING TO AID RED CROSS: The parting of the centurics on the night of the 31st of the coming December will have a celebration of world-wide import and interest in the unique watch meetings to be held in this country under the auspices of the American National Red Cross. The specially organized Twentieth Century Department of the Red Cross is now preparing to hold watch mcetings, as far as practicable, in every city, town and village in the United States. Mammoth meetings are already arranged for in New York and other leading cities, in Madison Square Gardens and other great auditoriums, to see the old century out and the new century in.... Probably no sign or figure in the secular world is saered to so many eyes as the Red Cross of Geneva. It is the insignia of a humanity that knows no foe.... Its international organization is founded on the welcome and authorization of the united governments of the civilized world.... —E. B. W. CHRISTMAS REVERIES... While the tremulous pulse of the universe Is throbbing with "peace and good will," Thus my soul is replete with reveries sweet, Brightest hopes my being to thrill; That the waning days of this century May carry all doubt from the world; That love among men forever may reign, With the banner of peace unfurled.... —Ellis R. Shipp RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN UINTAH STAKE: President Sarah Pope was pleased to again have the privilege of meeting with the sisters in conference, and said we had with us two sisters from headquarters and no doubt all would be pleased to hear from them.... Sister Mary E. Irvine said... President Joseph Smith turned the key in behalf of women, and how they had advanced since that time. We should look after ourselves and not spend so much time bothering our neighbors. When we go before our Father in heaven He will not ask us what everyone clse has been doing, but what we ourselves have done. Sister Susan Grant said one of the important missions of the Relief Society was to store up grain and then take care that it is not destroyed. We should always remember our prayers.... —Addie Longhurst, See. THE FUTURE: Those who are permitted to live far into the twentieth century are likely to see and learn still more marvelous things than have been made known in the past. —I'ditorial Page 816 ISS MARY E. SWITZER is director of the United States Federal Office of Vocational Rehabilitation. She was recently named by the Eighth World Congress of the International Society for the Welfare of Cripples as one of three recipients of the Albert Lasker Award, medicine's highest. She is the first woman to receive this honor. She has also been presented with awards by the National Rehabilitation Association, the Cerebral Palsy, AmVets, Institute for the Crippled and Disabled associations, among others. RS. HALIMA ANEGAY, a twenty-five-year-old widow from Casablanca, is cultural attache of the Moroccan Embassy in Washington and is also assigned to the social, humanitarian, and cultural committee of the United Nations. RS. ELEANORE J. GREENE, a Latter-day Saint of Pasadena, California, has recently been inducted into the Multi-Millionaire Club of a national life insurance company for her outstanding record in life insurance salesmanship. She is the only woman to receive this distinctive honor from her company, and is one of the few women in the United States to receive a similar award. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon PRINCESS MICHIKO, beautiful, charming, and intelligent commoner wife of Crown Prince Akihito, of Japan, arrived in Washington, D. C., with her husband on September 27, to celebrate the hundredth anniversary of Japan's entrance into diplomatic relations with the United States. MBs. OSWALD LORD is the best known American woman delegate to the United Nations, being in attendance the year around. Mrs. Agda Rossel, of Sweden, is the only permanent woman head of a United Nations delegation. INETTE DE VALOIS, Director of Britain's Royal Ballet, in October presented eighty-four artists, including "jewel-like' Prima Ballerina Margot Fonteyn, at the Metropolitan Opera House, New York City. The company also made appearances in twenty-five other cities of the United States. "Madame Valois," born Edris Stanus, in Ireland, was made a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1951, in recognition of her long years of devoted service in training the Royal Ballet (formerly Sadler's Wells) to such a point of perfection that the troupe has been recognized as "matchless in the West." Paae 817 EDITORIAL c~2 VOL. 47 DECEMBER 1960 NO. 12 She 130th Semi-Annual Church Con ference HE 130th Semi-Annual Conference of the Church was held in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, October 7, 8, and 9, 1960, with our beloved President David O. McKay conducting all six general sessions and the Priesthood meeting. With the temple spires reaching heavenward, and the welcoming doors of the great 'Tabernacle open, the saints assembled and heard again the message of eternal life from those chosen and anointed of God to direct the Church in this crucial time of world events. Two of the General Authorities, Elder George Q. Morris of the Council of the Twelve, and President Levi Edgar Young of the First Council of the Seventy were unable to attend the Conference because of illness. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Of the First Presidency was present on Sunday morning. On Friday, the Singing Mothers from Ogden and Northern Utah presented the music under the direction of Florence Jepperson Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society, with Roy Darley at the organ. Three new Assistants to the Council of the Twelve were sustained: Elder Nathan Eldon 'Tanner, President of Calgary Stake; President Franklin D. Richards, President of the Northwestern States Mission; and [elder 'Theodore M. Burton, recently released as Page 818 President of the West omen Mission. The Conference latent emphasized the spiritual sccurity obtained by adherence to the gospel plan. In his opening address, President McKay welcomed the vast throngs in attendance and those who were tuned to the proceedings in homes and towns and cities far and near. He spoke of leaders among men who have denounced a belief in Jesus as the Savior and have taught atheism to the children of many nations. He declared: The members of the Church. Throughout the world find confirmation of their testimony in every performance of duty. They know that the gospel teaches them to be better individuals; that obedience to the principles of the gospel makes them stronger men, and truer women. Every day such knowledge comes to them, and they cannot gainsay it. They know that obedience to the gospel of Jesus Christ makes them happier, better, and truer husbands, true and honored wives, obedient children. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Delivered a vigorous and_ stirring testimony of the power and strength given to men through the divine mission of the Savior. "I renew to you this morning," he said, "the testimony I have given to you for over a quarter of a century'... A testimony that God lives, and that Jesus is his Son." Let us try always to learn what the EDITORIAL Lord wants. If we are living the kind of lives we should live, that I hope we do live, we will find that no question ever arises in our minds for determination as to whether or not we should do a good deed, take a good course.... "Prayer is the soul's sincere desire." And in praying, no matter what our words may be, there will be in the back of our minds the real prayer, the real desire, and that will be controlling. President Henry D. Moyle urged the saints to live in righteousness. We are the children of promise so long as we keep the commandments of God. 819 blessings which will flow to us automatically merely because we ask for them. We will be justified, however, if we follow all that God reveals through his servants, the prophets. We have been given direction, sometimes thought of as temporal in its nature.... We can draw no hard and fast line between temporal and spiritual. All that is good is spiritual. In the concluding session, President McKay admonished: God help us to be partakers of the divine nature. May the spirit of this great conference radiate from your hearts to those whom you will meet when you go back to your stakes and wards, and especially may it radiate in your homes. I have no doubt it will take continuous effort... Upon our part. These are not —-o Christmas for the Children HE first Christmas, with its worship and its singing, its fulfillment and its promise, brought the Magi of the East to the manger place, and the shepherds from the hills, to worship a newborn Child, the Savior of the world. When the Child became a man and walked the hills and valleys of the Holy Land, bringing to the earth his message of eternal life, he called the children to him and blessed them. In the long years since that star-illumined night, many people have forgotten the meaning of Christmas and have retained only its symbols, and even these have been changed. But the children are the same as in ancient times — they are the same the world over. 'Their minds are eager and receptive, to them the world is new and full of wonder. So lately come from their Father in heaven, they seem to be hearing still the voices of the angels. These little ones are capable of understanding much more about Christmas than they can learn from seeing the glowing trees, the lighted windows, or from hearing the bells and the carols. Even small children can experience a Christmas that can give them a basis for knowing that the Babe of Bethlehem was the Messiah, the Lord of this world, and their Redeemer. Let the children hear for themselves the words from the Bible: "Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold there came wise men from the east...." But these wise men came for greater learning, for they had not discovered the way in which the children of earth could return to their Heavenly Father and live with him forever. This message was brought to the earth by Jesus and through him we may return to that home which was ours in the beginning. Let us cherish each moment with the children that the glory of the first Christmas may become for them the reality of reverence and rejoicing. —V. P. C. She Vleed Js Urgent A Message From the National Tuberculosis Association Submitted by Franklin K. Brough Executive Director, Utah Tuberculosis and Health Association NERE'S a killer loose, and if we don't nail him quickly, we may never get him. The killer js the tuberculosis germ. We have the weapons —modern drugs. We must use them now or we may not have another chance. Drugs that fight discase when they're first used sometimes fail to work after awhile because the scrms develop defensive tactics. If that happens with the TB germ before the thousands of people with active disease are found and treated, we shal] have lost our Opportunity to Wipe out this dread disease. Remember that TB is infectious. One person who has it can give it to many others, who in turn May infect stil] more people. Right now, thirty-six million Americans are infected with the TB scrm. Based on what js happening today, it is estimated that about 156,000 of these infected People will break down with active tuberculosis during the next four or five years. Many of the rest of them may well develop active discase ten or twenty years from now and become a source of new infections far into the future. The tuberculosis Problem is so crucial right now that the US. Public Health Service and the National Tuberculosis Association held a conferCncee at Arden House, in Harriman, N. Y., to find Ways of dealing with it. They recommended an all-out country-wide community effort to find all people with active TB and treat them with modern drugs until they are no longer infectious. This is vital, urgent work. Your Christmas Sea] contribution can do alot to help. Send it today to your local Tuberculosis Association, ———_—s. Chir stirias Morning Child Ethel Jacobson The laden tree js dazzling, Its strings of tinsel drip; And colored baubles glisten, And a star shines from the tip. Lights glow like golden sparklers Where glittering toys lic piled, But nothing's quite so shining As a Christmas morming child, Page 820 Christmas SJreats for Company Winnifred C. Jardine CHRISTMAS time always brings visions of sugar plums — or so the legend goes — and it's little wonder, for good things to eat go with Christmas. When mothers look to the holidays, much of their busy-ness is concerned with food. Menus for family and company meals take much advance thought. Mother must also plan for tasty tidbits and snacks to serve to drop-in guests, for, during the Christmas season, the word hospitality is spelled food — and every homemaker knows it! In planning special snacks for the holidays, there are two requisites for any recipe used. They must make luscious eating. And they must be quick and easy to make. It's best if some of the fixing can be done ahead of time, so that the last minute put-together won't frustrate the hostess. Because so much of Christmas is sweet, it is an ingenious hostess who prepares some snacks that are not sweet. A fresh bowl of crisp vegetable sticks and chilled olives and pickles could be a hit of the holiday, or a mound of fresh fruit surrounded by cheese and crackers would be welcome any time of day or evening. Tomato juice, already spiced and seasoned, would take just a minute to heat and serve — and how good and warm it would taste on a wintry Christmas night! Serve it with tender flaky cheese straws that have been made and carefully stored to hold their freshness. Very elegant are tiny little mushroom tarts, made and baked ready for a last-minute heating up in the oven. No tidbits were ever more tasty than these. Looking like a piece of candy, but definitely not, is a cheese pecan log. It is a tasty combination of cream and blue cheese, seasoned and shaped, then rolled in chopped pecans, chilled and sliced. Tiny cream puff shells filled with chicken, crab, or salami salad also are good accompaniments to a hot punch. These little shells can be previously made and the ingredients for the salad ready for a last-minute tossing with mayonnaise and a little sandwich spread. (Sandwich spread provides the flavors of pimiento, pickles, and seasoning all in one and adds lots of flavor in a hurry.) Hor Spicep Tomato JuIcE 5 ¢. Tomato juice 2 sticks cinnamon ¥% c. Brown sugar, packed 4 slices lemon 6 whole cloves Combine all ingredients, bring to a boil, and simmer 5 minutes. Strain and serve hot. Makes 6 servings. Jack's CHEESE STRAWS oz. Sharp American cheese dash of pepper 1% c. Sifted flour dash of cayenne pepper % tsp. Salt % c. Butter Grate cheese finely or rub through a wire sieve. Sift flour and seasonings together. Cream butter until light and fluffy; add seasoned flour and cheese. Blend thoroughly. Let stand in refrigerator for 1 hour. Roll pastry %-inch thick. Cut into 4-inch squares. Cut each square into straws 4 inches long and 14-inch wide. Lift carefully with spatula and place on ungreased cookie sheet. Bake at 4oo° F. For 8 to 10 minutes. When done, the cheese straws should be a light golden color. Be careful not to brown too much, for they burn easily. Makes about 3 dozen straws. Page 821 822 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 Musuroom Tarts 2 dozen unbaked miniature tart shells 1 tbsp. Chopped chives or green onions (See recipe for Dainty Christmas 1 tbsp. Chopped parsley Tarts.) 1 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 ¢c. Canned mushrooms, drained " c. Light cream 2 tbsp. Butter 1% tsp. Paprika Make pastry shells as directed. Slice or chop mushrooms and saute in butter. Add chives and parsley; then add lemon juice and simmer for 5 minutes. Add cream and paprika. 'The mixture is thin; but don't worry — the filling will be the right consistency when baked. Put one teaspoonful of mixture into each tart shell. Bake at 400° I. For 20 to 25 minutes or until pastry is golden brown in color. Makes 2 dozen tarts. Curersre Pecan Loc 3-3-0z. Packages cream cheese 1 clove garlic, finely minced 2 tbsp. Cream "2 tsp. Paprika " |b. Blue cheese 1 ¢. Chopped pecans 2 tsp. Grated onion Mix cream cheese with cream. Blend with blue cheese. Add onion, garlic, and paprika. Form into ball about 1 inch in diameter. Spread chopped pecans on waxed paper. Roll cheese in pecans. Wrap in waxed paper and chill. Slice in thin slices. Serve with crackers and assorted cheeses. Tiny Cream Purr SHELLS Y, c. Butter or substitute % tsp. Salt 1 c. Boiling water 4 eggs, unbeaten 1 c. Sifted flour Combine butter and water in saucepan and bring to boil. Add flour and salt and stir constantly until mixture leaves sides of pan in smooth compact mass. Remove from heat and cool slightly. Add eggs, one at a time, beating thoroughly after each addition. Beat steadily until mixture is smooth and satiny. Drop % teaspoon batter for each puff onto ungreased cookie sheet. Bake at 450°F. For 6 to 8 minutes, then at 325°F. For 15 to 20 minutes. Cool. Fill with fish or chicken salad. Or, if desired, for sweet eating, fill with a dab of cream filling. 'Two packages vanilla pudding (pie mix) will fill one batch of tiny cream puffs. Op with a bit of colored frosting. Makes 70 miniature puffs. Dainty Curistmas Tarts This recipe is practically fool-proof. Crusts ¥, oz. Package cream cheese 1 c. Sifted all-purpose flour " ¢. (1 stick) butter or substitute % teaspoon salt P Allow butter (substitute) and cream cheese to come to room temperature. In a bowl with a fork, cream butter and cheese together until well blended, then add flour and salt that have been sifted together, 4 cup at a time, and blend with a fork. Chill for 1 or 2 hours, if desired, then roll dough into 24 balls the size of marbles. With fingertips, press cach ball to fit ungreased tart shells (1% to 2 inches in diameter). Fill each tart with 1 teaspoon filling, as suggested on following page. Bake at 350°F. For 15 minutes, then at 250° for 10 minutes. Makes 2 dozen shells. CHRISTMAS TREATS FOR COMPANY 823 Courtesy California Dried Fruit Research Institute RAISIN SURPRISES Pecan Filling: 1 large egg, beaten with fork % tsp. Vanilla % ¢. Brown sugar, packed % c. Chopped pecans Combine ingredients thoroughly, and use as directed on previous page. Raisin SURPRISES Pastry: 2 c. Sifted all-purpose flour ¥ c. Shortening 1 tbsp. Sugar % c. Milk 3% tsp. Baking powder melted butter (or substitute) % tsp. Salt granulated sugar Sift flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt into mixing bowl. Cut in shortening until in small pieces. Add milk and mix to moderately stiff dough. 'Turn out onto lightly floured board, knead once or twice, then roll out to an oblong about 12 x 9 inches (dough will be about %4-inch thick). Cut into 12 squares (about 3 inches). Raisin Filling: Mix together until blended 1 c. Light or dark raisins, 4 c. Brown sugar (packed), 1 tsp. Cinnamon, and 2 tbsp. Melted butter or margarine. Sufficient for one dozen surprises. Drop spoonful of raisin filling in center of each square. Bring the four corners of each square together and twist lightly at the top. Place in greased medium-sized muffin cups. Brush each "surprise" with melted butter (or substitute) and sprinkle with sugar. Bake at 400°F. For 15 to 20 minutes. She Srees the Family Mlade Helen S. Williams REES grow in woods, in orchT ards, and gardens, while some spread their wide branches to give shade from scorching summer suns. The trees of springtime, with their delicate blossoms of pink and white, are harbingers of the bright luscious fruit of autumn days. Whether trees are the silver-trunked aspens of the mountains, with their trembling leaves, or the dark, velvety sentinel pines of the forest, nature has made them beautiful to behold, and man stands in wonder at God's handiwork. As Yuletide approaches, the season during which the Christian world celebrates Christ's birth, a tree becomes a symbol. Nations, countries, communities, and families have their own traditions about Christmas trees, and throughout the world grandparents and parents pass on to their children and grandchildren, customs, stories, decorations, and ideas which keep alive the warmth and glow of the Christmas tree. The Christmas tree truly becomes a family affair, as little ones, with father and mother, pop corn and string chains of the white kernels, or string cranberries on branches or hang rock candy, frosted cookies, Or peppermint canes on the soft grecn boughs. Whether the decorations are precious old-fashioned ones, gay, new icicles smoothed and hung just so, or the modern exotic balls of colored glass, or those made of velvet and sequins, the decorating becomes a joyous pastime when each and every member of the family takes a part Page 824 in creating a tree of loveliness and beauty. The tree the family makes becomes not only a symbol of Christmas, but an expression of family mutuality and solidarity. In Florence Williams' family is an example of the old axiom that a family which works and plays and laughs together stays together, and is bound by lasting tics of loving affection, spirit, and interests. As Christmas draws near, Florence goes to the homes of each of her children laden with materials to help with ideas, to work with them, and to give guidance, for she has had years of experience in decorating and making unusual Christmas articles. At the home of son Richard and his wife, Marion, at Christmas time, there will be a most unusual Christmas tree on their front door with two glamorous ball trees at either side of the doorway as pictured. Each and every member of the family helped in one way or another to create these trees. Mother Marion and Grandmother Florence assembled all the materials. When everything was in readiness the family all gathered in the work room, and the fun of making the family tree began. Father was supervisor and consulting engineer and really did most of the hard, intricate work. First, he cut a piece of styrofoam in the shape of a perfect Christmas tree. Ricky, aged eighteen, aided by Florence, drilled small holes through hazel, Brazil, almond, pecan nuts, walnuts, and peanuts. This was accomplished with a very fine drill. While this was going on, Ann, Hal Rumel THE CHRISTMAS TREES THE FAMILY MADE aged fifteen, and Janie, eleven, busied themselves cutting pine cones in half to resemble rosebuds. Five-yearold Tommy had the time of his life snipping wire into two-and-one-half inch lengths with some tin snips. OTHER Marion was busy cutting a basket in half, gilding it, and filling it with artificial moss. The basket was cut in half so that it would be flat against the door. The materials were all ready at last and everyonc helped by dipping the florist wire pieces into glue, then quickly slipping them through the holes in the nuts and into the styrofoam tree. The spaces left exposed were filled in with bits of artificial green foliage. Finally, the styrofoam tree was covered completely with nuts, pine cones, rosebuds, and soft greens. The tree was then planted and held with wire in the golden halfbasket filled with the moss — but before the family could take the tree upstairs to hang on the door, the tree balls to stand on either side had to be made. Into perfectly round balls of styrofoam was inserted a_ brush handle which had been sprayed with gold paint. 'These round handles were planted in flower pots filled with plaster-of-Paris, then placed in old-fashioned milk buckets. 'The handles were inserted into the pots while the plaster was moist and held very straight until the mixture solidified. 'This process didn't take long. The styrofoam balls were then covered with the nuts, cones, and greens in the same manner as the tree for the door was made. Under each ball Anne tied a glistening bow of three-inch-wide gold metallic ribbon. The trees were beautiful and would give perfect balance to the front entrance of the house. When all was in readiness, the family followed Father and Ricky as they carried the tree to the front porch. 'They watched as Ricky hung the tree with a wire attached to a hook at the top of the front door and then he secured it to the door knocker with another piece of wire. The girls placed the round trees, just so, on either side of the doorway, and father adjusted the spotlight so it would shine brightly on the decorations when dusk descended. With the green door as a background, all the rich tones of the brown nuts and dark foliage, the bright gold of the ribbon bows, handles, and baskets, seemed to radiate in the darkness. We're grateful for the lovely trees created by nature that beautify our land, and we're thankful for the family spirit, the traditions, the joy of having ideas which grow into unusual and picturesque family trees at Christmas. Florence has been blessed with a rate gift of being able to create, to make her ideas materialize into things of beauty, but her greatest blessing is the quality of wanting to share with others her talents and abilities. As she enters her sons' and daughter's houses, on Christmas she will have the satisfaction and great joy to behold the beautiful "Trees the Family Made." 826 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 William Beal A CONVENTION OF DOLLS Front row, left to right: HL girl doll in everyday dress; baby doll with bonnet; doll in a party dress. At the back, left: doll wearing pajamas; right: doll in fancy dress. Lets Dress Dolls for Christmas Shirley Thulin rpOr on the list of every little girl's Christmas desires is a brand new doll, but did you know there is something she really wants more? Family she already has. A new wardrobe for the doll To buy the new dresses, panties, slips, er coats, to clothe her beloved dolls properly, would cost much more than the price of a new doll, but you can make them yourself for pennies. Work they once were. Robe. First, look carefully at the doll you are about to dress, and decide her type. Is she a baby doll, a teenage doll, a mother type doll, or a little girl doll? Some dolls also lend themselves to dressing in costumes of Orientals, Europeans, or as pioneers. Little girls love to see their dolls in different costumes. Make at least the following for each And with the help of some tried and proved shortcuts, they aren't the tedious If you are a grandmother, you can assist with the dolly's warddoll: A nightgown or pajamas, everyday dress, skirt and blouse for the teen doll, party or best dress, coat, robe, and underclothing. Don't forget to make pillows and quilts, or other household extras. They are really a desirable touch. The main thing is to have the accent Page 827 William Beal BRIDE DOLL AND WINTER DOLL on authenticity. If you make a "eather" belt or purse, it will add just the right touch of "realness" to thrill a little mother. Make belts of leftover oilcloth or plastic. Put tiny pockets in all skirts, coats, or wherever you think one would look nice, and for a touch of realism, which is the secret of dressing dolls, add a tiny, laceedged hanky. Always use the tiniest of buttons or snaps. Too large a button will look cumbersome and take away the miniature appeal. If you have a little sprig of flowers, take them apart and use the little individual blossom for the corsage on a coat, or a touch on a hat. Pearls to go around the doll's neck or to match around the skirt of a party dress can be made from an inexpensive packet of beads. You can also buy many other aids, such as sequins or glitter, but to save moncy, look in your trunk or in the discarded sewing basket, for bits of lace, fur, or other sewing treasures. You will also need some narrow elastic for the panties and pajamas. Second, look over your material. Be sure to use the correct fabric for the article of clothing. Use flannel for. The nightgowns, corduroy or wool for the skirts and coats, nylon or satin for party dresses. If you sew for your daughter, you will really thrill her by making clothes for her doll to match those you have made for her. To make underpanties, use a piece of knitted underskirt, or underwear. Ribbed stocking tops also are good to use. 'These have "give" to them, and will fit the doll well, and be easy to get on and off. Which brings us to the most important part of making doll clothes. They must be made with an eye to a lot of taking off and putting on. That is the fun of having many clothes for a doll. Making them open all the way down the back is the best way, since most dolls' arms do not bend readily. Snaps can hold the dress or slips together, and the article of clothing will stand much more wear than if it is stitched up too tightly. Sew trim on the sleeves before sewing them together, also sew trim on dresses before completing them. Almost all work can be done on your sewing machine, thereby making the project less of a chore. Third, make a basic dress pattern for each doll. To do this, cut the sleeves and bodice all in one piece as in figure 1. Make it from paper, being sure to allow plenty of room for scams. Try making the dress front as wide as the dell is around. To do this, take a piece of string and measure around the doll's body at the largest part. Then lay the string on the paper and make the dress front that wide. The sleeve should be about as wide as the doll's arms are around. For the back of the dress, you will have to fold the dress front pattern in half down the center, and, putting the fold about one-half inch away from the edge of the material, cut around the sleeves and neck. This makes the back just like the front, except it has room to lap over all the way down for snapping together. (See figure 2.) This pattern can be used for blouses, too, except the opening will be down the front, and it will be shorter. After you have the pattern cut out of paper, cut once out of scraps and sew it up the seams. Try it on the doll and make the necessary adjustments. The baby doll must have several tiny white flannel diapers, easy to cut with 828 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 LET'S DRESS DOLLS FOR CHRISTMAS Figure 1 Basic Dress Pattern your pinking shears, or cut a little larger if you wish to hem them. Put a new shiny miniature safety pin in the diaper the doll wears. A_ gold-colored one catches the little mother's eye most readily. FOLD Lt ALLA: Figure 2 Back of Basic Dress Pattern For the baby's dress (see figure 3), make it of shiny satin or nylon. A very easy way to do it is to cut a rectangle as wide as the desired length of the dress (measure from the doll's shoulders to below her knees) and measure two times around her at the largest part of her body, for the length of the rectangle. Cut two tiny semicircles about one half inch from the top edge, and equal distances from the front center, for the armholes. The top of the semicircles makes the cap sleeve. Stitch gathered lace on 829 DRAW STRING ~ 0) 10; ra? Cry scP SS SNAPS: LACE ON CAP SLEEVE | r a ry LACE AT BOTTOM Figure 3 Baby doll's dress the cap sleeve, and blanket stitch or bind or otherwise finish the under armhole. Wherever a raw edge is left, and it is too small to bind, or would be too cumbersome, blanket stitch or buttonhole stitch around it. This is one of the easy ways to cut down on the work of making doll clothes. Now hem the bottom edge, or put lace across it, and hem the top edge wide enough for a drawstring (ribbon) to thread through. Hem up both ends with a narrow hem and sew two snaps, one at the very top and one in the center. Put it on the doll, with the opened edges in the back, and draw tightly around her neck. Now tie a bow at the back of her neck, Make other baby dresses using the same basic dress pattern, also nightgown, and tobe of flannel. Make as fancy as you desire, using lace and ribbons. You can also make undershirts out of ribbed undershirts, using the basic dress pattern, and if you are handy with the crochet hook, you will want to make the bonnet and jacket of wool. To make a bonnet (see figure 4), measure from the center of the back of the doll's head to the hair line in front, for the width; and from just under one ear up over her head to just under the other ear, for the length of the rectangle. Sew a tuffle of lace along one long edge of the rectangle, making a little hem by turning up the raw edge as you go. Now sew a narrow ribbon along each short end of the rectangle, extending far enough beyond the lace edge to tie under the doll's chin. Now gather along the other long edge of the rectangle and pull up tightly and join.. This forms the bonnet. GATHER THIS EDGE TIGHTLY Av Al VA LACE RUFFLE —~ RIBBON TIE —| Figure 4 Bonnet The teenage doll will need at least one slip. (See Figure 5.) 'Take a straight piece of matenal twice as long as the doll is around, and as wide as from her waist to the desired length of the finished slip. Sew lace across the bottom, turning up the raw edge once as you sew. Make a band about one-half inch wide as long as the doll is around at her waist, plus enough for a lap over and snap. Gather the slip BAND. "SNAP Figure 5 Half Slip to the band, fold band down and top stitch. Put tiny hem or pink along both ends of rectangle. Sew snap at top corner. You may make the slip fuller than twice around the doll, if desired. She will also need a party dress. Make it fancy, with tiny pearl trim, or flowers. Lace or netting trim, or a stole to match, gives an elegant touch. Use the basic dress pattern for the party dress. Make her some pedal pushers from a dark-colored stocking top. They will fit tight and be easy to put on. Place the doll on paper. Draw the outline from her waist to just below her knees. Allow for just a little seam on these, depending on the stretchability of the fabric being used. Make a little white blouse from her basic dress pattern top. To make it look as though the blouse buttons down the front, stitch tiny buttons on the other side of the snaps, and you can just snap it and won't have to make buttonholes. Make this doll several gathered skirts. They are easy. Just gather a straight piece of fabric onto a band and snap the back, also, make big pockets on the skirt. Make her a pair of pajamas, using flannel or other fabric suggesting nightwear adaptability. Use the basic dress pattern fcr the top, a little longer than waist length, and snap it in the front. The pajama bottoms are made of two rectangle pieces of cloth as long as the doll is from her waist to her ankles, and as wide as she is around. Sew them together down the sides. Mark spot of doll's crotch. Now stitch up just off the center of the rectangle, from the bottom edge of the marked crotch. Turn with the needle still in the fabric and take four stitches over and then stitch down to the bottom edge parallel to the first stitching. Then cut up between these two rows of stitching, to form the legs. Hem the leg bottoms. Measure elastic around the waist of the doll. Do not allow for a seam in the elastic, then it will be tight enough to hold the pajamas on. Turn the top of the pajamas under one turn, stitch. Now stitch the elastic along inside the top hem, pulling the elastic tight as you stitch along. Clothes for a little girl doll are fun to make. Make a basic dress pattern for her and then change it to make all kinds of things from party dresses to school dresses to nightgowns, to blouses and skirts. You will want to make her a full petticoat, not just a wrap-around half slip as you did for the teen doll. Make the top of the petticoat using your basic dress pattern, only cut out the sleeves. Make it come to the waist, and then put a gathered skirt on it. Purses are made by cutting two squares of plastic or oilcloth and stitching around three sides and making a handle so the doll can carry it. 830 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 She Enchanted Clothesline Christmas Alice M. Graves HIS was to be the best Christmas ever. As newcomers to Kemmerer, we had lived all summer in a tent in a meadow on the Hams Fork River, and now we had moved into a house. Not much of a house, to be sure, but it had a large kitchenliving room, a small bedroom, and a real floor. Not only all this, but Grandpa and Grandma Morris were to spend Christmas day with us, and to have a turkey roasted by Grandma and to anticipate one of her plum puddings were really something! It seemed that Christmas Eve would never come, but it did, and four little tots begged to go to bed long before dark. But supper dishes must be washed and placed neatly in the cupboard before the big folding bed could be let down in the kitchen. Finally, we were tucked in for the night, four little shining faces, side by side in the big bed. We had no official Christmas tree, but from our bed we could see our clothesline tree, about seven feet up in the air, stretched clear across the room. Near one end hung four stockings, the largest ones we could find. We felt too excited to sleep, but after what seemed an eternity, one by one we drifted off to the land of dreams, while the coal-oil lamp, with its wick turned low, dimly burned on the table. Before daylight we were wide awake, sitting up in bed and gazing in awe at the enchanted clothesline, for bright-colored, sparkling gifts hung from it, all along like Mama's wash on Monday. Luke guessed the train was for him; Mary knew a certain doll must be hers; Orson chose a dozen gifts that he would like; there were toys that I hoped were for me. What fun we had naming each new toy we saw, and guessing which gifts were ours. We knew we must wait till Father built a fire in the big range, for it would never do to get out of bed on a winter morning in Wyoming until the room was warm. But, at last, we were up and dressed, and Father had cut down each child's gifts from the line, and we were happy as. Larks; no one envied anyone else. Santa had known just what gifts each little boy and girl liked best of all. More than fifty-five Christmases have come and gone since then, but not one has been so engraved on my mind, or tugged at my heartstrings as did that sweet, humble Christmas with its enchanted clothesline Christmas tree, in that little frame shack in Wyoming. Vlemonies Zara Sabin Life is a looking forward, But somewhere along the way We suddenly find that we look back— It may happen any day. And we learn to our joy or sorrow, In happiness or tears, That we have been making memories All through the years! Page 831 My Shird Grandma Part IV — Nanpl Ilene H. Kingsbury UR air machine cruised with a quict throbbing of multiple engines at the height of 20,000 feet above the South Pacific. It was five in the morning and even as far "down under" the earth as we were, the same soft light covered the clouds and the atmosphere as it does at home in the Southwest of North America. 'Vhrough the window we stretched our gaze to see whether the waters of the deep were still below, or whether our pilot had at last decided to ignore the earth's pull and try an astral exploration on his own. At that moment the stewardess made her good morning salutation. But who cared at that unearthly hour, we said to ourselves! She went on to caution us to fasten our seat belts, for we would land shortly in Nandi. As I said, the early hour and the clouds below created an unbelievable atmosphere. I responded by saying, out loud, "But that's the name of Grandma Morgan's cow!" Odd that I hadn't remembered this when we received our itinerary for a flight to New Zealand, that spring of 1958, and had read that }'ijl was one of our landings, and at Nandi International Airport, at that. But here we were rapidly losing altitude. Even now there was not a trace of the seas below us, let alone that minute piece of earth that scarcely merited a place on the map. Pray that the pilot had read page 34 of his manual and could find it. Pray that Nandi was really there and Page 832 hadn't existed just because Grandma once had a cow by that name. All that day on Fiji I lived in two worlds. One was that of Grandma Morgan's era in the last century. The other was the most modern present with highways and a taxi journey of eighty miles to a coral beach. 'There, under leaning palm shade, we watched natives scoop out from a sandy oven, dug deep, a feast of fish, each tasty bit woven into marvels of palm frond basketry. Two races live on Fiji. The first race consists of the natives of Fiji, each person with a bushel basket of kinky hair trained with brooms and wet lime to stand up and out from the head. The second is an imported population of malcontents from India. No feature of eye or skin or hair of the East Indians even slightly resembles those of their hosts. The Indians are to be scen on lonely roads or bunched in the shade of trading centers in the frequent villages, although they are said to outnumber the Fijians at present. The men from India wear turbans wound in ceremonial pattern. 'The women cling to Mother India's style of the long, flowing outer garments and the draped sari of exquisite workmanship. 'They are never for a moment to be confused with the other race with whom they have lived for generations. The tortuous road over Fiji followed every up and down clevation of the island, which is the top of a mountain range that crawls the bot- MY THIRD GRANDMA tom of the Pacific. After a day of feasting and swimming in a paradise called Corolavu Bay, we carcened back to Nandi. I kept thinking of my _ grandma and hoped to see her counterpart now that I did not have to go to Calcutta to find her. But the women were retiring. Only one daughter of India could be found. Beside a road she waited. Her coral sari was folded over her dark, straight hair, billows of silk followed the contour of her shoulder, a Grecian fold of it fell to her sandals. In her arms she held a child, all eyes, limpid as a well. At her side, or rather sidling behind her mother, was a replica of what Grandma Morgan must have been when she gracefully fanned her mistress in the southern India garden over a hundred years ago. Grandma's old white cow, of the 833 Southern Utah community, kept coming to mind. I remembered that she had always insisted that it was Nandi and not Mandy, and we had sort of indulged her in the spelling and the pronunciation. Now | found out that she had been right all of the time. The ancient worship in India of the white bull called Nandi is memorialized in this modern airstrip in Fiji. As these people adventured the ocean through the down under part of the world, they took with them their culture and left place names to remind them of their heritage. Nandi, the guardian of all quadrupeds, lives forever! Dear little, old, gencrous Third Grandma and her cow called Nandi! She brought a culture to the valleys of the mountains the like of which, and the source of which could never have been dreamed up by the most fanciful fiction writer. I was homesick in Nandi! At Winter s &dge Dorothy J. Roberts I felt there was no beauty left; The snow lay tattered on the ground. Then far above the winter's wane I found one alabaster mound As flawless as a dome of pearl. No stem of mallow marred its face; Only a single lavaliere Of doe-tracks twined around its base. There, circled by a ring of trees, Whose wakening stems wore saffron dye, I let my hunger take its fill Against the opal of the sky. Orchids in the Snow Craprer § (Conclusion) Rosa Lee Lloyd EWS of the wedding scurried around the village like a rollicking breeze. McFarland had explained to Jewel before their departure, that everyone should know about the event and be included in the preparations for the reception. That was the way thev lived in Bristol. 'They enjoyed each other's happiness and shared each other's sorrows. Gifts of skins of bear, wolf, and seal, and treasured bits of gold and rock came from Eskimos, Indians, Aleuts, and white people. A hunter from the tundra brought antlers that were too wide to be brought inside, so Sam fastened them to the top of the porch. "They can almost see them from the landing strip,' Marie said, as she and Sharry watched Sam. "Jewel and Daddy will be married tomotrow. 'They should be back the next day. Hi, Mama Sue and Uncle Herman, look at the antlers. Aren't they the grandest ever? He must have been king of the herd!" Susan and Herman were walking up the path. They smiled and nodded. "The grandest!" Herman repeated. Each day the walk over from the house next door was more difficult for Ferman, but he always made the effort to come. He enjoyed the music and gaiety and long_ talks with Sam about Alaska. Today Susan was carrying a package as though it was something precious. Page 834 "This is for Jewel," she said to Sharry and Marie, as they followed her inside. "We must work quickly to be ready for the reception." "Trust Mama Sue," Marie said, kissing Susan's cheek as she opened the package, displaying a large, velvety white doeskin. "Jewel's dress,' Susan said. "McFarland will want her dressed this way. I have one more I am saving for Swenson's bride—if he marries in Bristol. This is the only place I know where it is appreciated." "How lovely!" Sharry exclaimed. "T'm sure Aunt Jewel will appreciate ie "We'll make it princess style," Susan told them. "You girls can sew seams while I bead it. Each seam must be done by hand, just so. Come, let's get busy." Susan spread the skin on the dining-room table and cut the leather with a razor blade. She showed Sharry and Marie how every stitch must be done exactly night so they would hold. It was a tedious job, but the girls were happy doing it. EL YVERYONE was up at six o'clock on the morning of the reception, to meet McfFarland's plane. He had radioed that they would arrive about seven o'clock. Marie drove sled, and even Herman, bundled up in a big fur parka, went to the airstrip to meet them. Many of the villagers were there, although no one knew who had told ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW them what time the plane would arrive. McFarland, his face beaming happiness, walked down the stair-lift first, then reached for Jewel, who was so rosy beautiful she seemed to light up the turquoise darkness. A little Eskimo boy, not over six years old, pushed his way through the crowd with a white husky puppy for Jewel. She accepted it smilingly, her hand resting a moment on its head. XCITEMENT was in the air. Everyone laughed and _ talked until McFarland finally persuaded the villagers to go home until time for the wedding reception. Jewel stood in front of the fireplace cuddling the puppy, but her eyes were troubled. "It's his special prize puppy," she protested to McFarland. "He told me so. How can I take a little boy's puppy away from him? I must give it back to Joey." McFarland's eyes sobered as he looked down at her. "No," he said, "you shouldn't give it back to him. Don't you realize it made him feel like a king to give it to you? We can pay him back in a dozen ways, Jewel, but I wouldn't let you refuse that gift for an ocean full of salmon!" "McFarland is right, Jewel," Herman offered gently. "Who was the poet who said that the only things we ever keep are the things we give away? 'That's the way it will be with Joey. Every time he sees you with that puppy he'll get a happy feeling all over again." Jewel was silent as she cuddled the white, furry puppy. Sharry, watching her, was lonely for little 835 Nuzzle. She remembered how he had chosen her for his very own the first time he had seen her. "What will vou name him, Aunt Jewel?" she questioned. Jewel shook her head. "TH have to think about it," she said. "He's a bouncy little guy," McFarland said. "Look at that happy little face. He seems full of chuckles." JEWELS face was a sunburst. "That's it!" she laughed. "We'll name him Chuckles. That just suits him, the cute little thing." "The cute little thing needs a bath," Susan said in her practical way. "There will be enough hot water for him after we have all had. Our showers and shampooed our hair. This is a big day — we must get busy before anyone comes. Time goes so fast." Buckets of snow had been melted the night before for baths and shampoos. Susan dropped some blackberry juice into the rinse water for her hair. "Won't it be sticky?" Sharry questioned. "T don't use that much," Susan answered. "I've kept my hair black this way." "I wish I had some magic that would cure my freckles," Marie pouted. "We love your freckles," Jewel said. ""They are little dabs of pure gold. You wouldn't be you without them." McFarland brought out a white: shirt and tie for Sam to wear. "I only use these when I'm in the city," he said. "But the girls have made this a big show so we'll ride along, too. I heard that all the villagers are wearing bright woolen scarfs. Seems that Susan has been around." After the showers and the shampoos, Susan scrubbed little Chuckles until he was a white furry ball. Then McFarland looked at his wrist watch. "Well, Sam, we'll just have time to dress and eat a bite before we meet the plane bringing some special guests." Sam stood up and put the book he had been reading on the table. He stretched his arms above his head lazily. "T've had a good rest up here," he said. "It's been a real vacation for us. I'm sorry we have to take the regular plane home during the reception. But I'm due back at school tomorrow!" "So am I!" Marie said suddenly. "But 'm not going. I want to help Mama Sue get ready for Swen!" Jewel's eyes were startled. She had thought that Marie would be with Sharry in Fairbanks. Sharry did not want Jewel to worry about her. Nothing must shadow her happiness today. McFarland, standing with his back to the fireplace, looked at Marie quizzically. Sharry wondered if he knew why she was really staying longer. His heavy brows puckered together, thoughtfully. He didn't want Marie to be hurt. And yet, he believed in going after what you wanted in life. "What time does your plane leave, Sharry?" Jewel asked. Her voice was strained. "Seven o'clock," she answered. "Sam says we'll make good connections in Anchorage. We'll be home by midnight." "We should be getting ready," Marie said. "I'll go home with Susan and dress there." After Sam and McFarland left, Sharry followed Jewel into the bedroom. "It won't take us long," she said. "First PM comb your hair and you can comb mine. Aren't those white mukluks Susan made for you too cute for words!" Sharry could see the snow-packed roadway from the bedroom window as she stood at the dressing table combing Jewel's hair into wavy swirls around her head. "Your veil will fit perfectly with your hair this way," she said. At that moment she caught sight of the dog-sled coming up the snowy road. Sam was on the back rudders driving. His head was tipped back, and he was laughing as though it was great sport. She had not known Sam could drive sled. He must have learned while he was out alone when the girls were busy sewing. "Who are those three men?" Jewel asked. "One of them is Bishop Harrison," Sharry answered. She didn't mention a big square box McFarland carried in his arms. She was so curious to know what was inside she could hardly wait until the reception, only a half-hour away. VERYONE was ready by twelve o'clock. Even little Chuckles. Maric and Susan came into the bedroom as Sharry adjusted Jewel's veil on her shining hair. "Beautiful!" Marie said. "The prettiest bride in the Arctic. And look at us! Won't Daddy be proud. He's waiting, Jewel. You'll love to meet Bishop Harrison. I like his 836 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW voice. It melts through you like warm honey." "Oh, you!" Susan laughed. "Marie says everything in a fancy way. Bishop Harrison is a fine, sincere man.' "Listen!" Marie tipped her head. "Hear that music! That's a surprise for you, Jewel." HE music rose soft and sweet like a birdcall. Jewel wet her lips and a little pulse throbbed in her throat. Sharry hoped she wouldn't cry. "My Dad had those musicians come from Anchorage. One plays a violin and the other a viola. Aren't they perfect together? He wanted the very sweetest for you." "He thinks — of everything," Jewel murmured in a low voice. "There!" Sharry said as she smoothed a little wave under Jewel's veil. "Perfect." "Like a white angel," softly. "Come on, angel," Marie called, opening the door. "They're playing the bride song!" Sam was at the door. Susan said Jewel put her hand on his arm and_ they walked together to the fireplace where McFarland was waiting. Sharry had never seen him dressed in a white shirt and black tie before. He looked very handsome. He handed Jewel a huge, tissue-wrapped package. 'There was a_ breathless silence as. She untied the ribbon and removed the paper from an exquisite cluster of the most beautiful orchids Sharry had ever seen — white, pink, and gold. Orchids for Aunt Jewel! Sharry bent her head. A little sob broke in her throat, as she re- 837 membered what Rachel Jensen had told her about the kind of woman who can find orchids in the snow. Dear, capable, wonderful Aunt Jewel was that kind of woman. She had earned those orchids — she was worthy of every one of them, and McFarland knew it. Love and appreciation were glowing in his dark eyes as he looked at her, they were in his deep voice as he greeted the guests and introduced them to Jewel. Sharry turned her head to meet Sam's searching eyes. He must be remembering their own wedding last June, she thought. Her heart reached out to him, loving him, wanting to help him. Sam smiled, but his eyes were strangely troubled as they clung to hers. After the bride song, the music was gay and informal. A young native boy appeared with a mouthorgan and McFarland had him play it. "This is the kind of wedding where bridesmaids do double duty," Marie told her, laughing. "Now we're the serving maids. Look at the food coming in!" Villagers appeared with great round platters loaded with hot bread and salmon cooked every way imaginable. Susan had brought a large roast of reindeer and a steaming kettle of beans. Hot ginger punch was served from a tin bowl as big as a tub. "Plenty of tin in Alaska," Sam whispered to Sharry. "Looks as if they used a good share of it for that bowl!" Everyone talked and ate and stayed on and on. They had expected a party and they meant to enjoy it. McFarland basked in their approval. This was his land, these were his people, and he wanted them to be happy. It was soon time for Sharry to change her clothes for the tmp home. Marie went to the bedroom with her. They were both silent as Sharry dressed in her long, woolen trousers and heavy sweater. "T'll miss you, Marie," she said. "Don't say goodbye," Marie answered. "We'll see each other often, no matter what the distance is. Long rides don't mean a thing in Alaska. We don't let storm or darkness or anything else keep us from going where we want to go. We take everything in a big stride." "I know," Sharry said. "I'm beginning to realize that. I have learned a lot, Marie." Marie's eyes were blue candles in her freckled face. "I think you're a real pal," she said. "You can stride along with the best of them. Now, we better get going. I'll drive you and Sam to the plane." They slipped out the back way as thev didn't want to interrupt the festivities or say goodbye. Music and laughter followed them down the hill and along the trail to the airfield. Marie was a good driver. The dogs obeyed her calls. But she drove faster than McFarland or Sam had done, and Sharry had to cover her face against the icy sleet. "Whew!" Sam said when they stopped. "You know the dogs, Marie. That was some driving!" "Guess I'm excited," she said. "I didn't mean to go so fast." Sharry put her arm around her. "Take it easy," she coaxed. "I hope everything works out the Way you want it to, Marie." "So do IJ," Sam added, sinccrely. "T have to stay," she confided, her voice tightening. "Once he said he would wait until I grew up. I'm grown up now — I nope I'm twenty-one.' Sam patted her shoulder. "You're one of the most grown-up little girls I've ever known. Good luck, Marie." She turned the dogs quickly and hurried away. They could hear her voice calling to the dogs as she disappeared in the frosty twilight. Sharry and Sam_ boarded the plane in a strained silence. They were the only passengers. "We have it all to ourselves," Sam said, looking around at the empty seats. Sharry forced a smile. She was determined to be happy and make Sam happy. "T like it this way," she said. "You and I alone for a change. 'There's been so much excitement we've hardly seen each other." Exactly on time the plane. Taxied down the field, lifted easily and sailed off into the blue darkness. AM _ tucked a warm blanket around Sharry. His lips were smiling, but his chin had squared off determinedly. She knew he had made up his mind about something. She waited for him to speak. He leaned back in the seat beside her. "I've been thinking," he said at last. "You'll miss Jewel and Marie. Fairbanks will be mighty lonely for vou without them. How would you like to fly home to Salt Lake City for a good visit?" The words tumbled out in a 838 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW breathless rush as though he had to get them over with. Sharry closed her eyes. Her heart was a dull ache inside of her. So this was what he had planned. He wanted her to go home to her mother! "If you want to stay there,' he went on, "I'll come to you in the spring before it's time for our baby — I'll get a job there...." Silence was a heartthrob between them. Sharry couldn't breathe. Sam thought she was the kind of woman who couldn't live in Alaska. He was willing to give up everything he had worked for to take her home again! With a little sob she put her arms around him and pressed her head against his breast. "Oh, darling!" she whispered. "Home is wherever you are and always will be. Home is where we've worked together, where we've built together. Right here in Alaska. I wouldn't think of going away!" 839 His arms went around her fiercely. J "Do you really mean it?" he whispered back. "Oh, I do, Sam. I really do," she repeated with a song in her voice. "Let's buy the Gilmore house. Aunt Jewel says she'll lend us the money. We can have all the folks to our house for a visit. We'll have such nice neighbors, Rachel and Oscar and Mary Billings. And we'll build a new doghouse for Nuzzle!" Sam's arms tightened around her. A long sigh of relief went through him as he bent his head against hers. "My wife," he said, softly. "I want our baby to be born right here in Alaska," Sharry went on gaily. "After all, this is the United States, Mr. Wynter. If it's a boy, he could be President." Sam tossed his head back, laughing in his old, carefree way. Dreams were in his eyes again. "You're right, Mrs. Wynter," he said. "He could be President. A red-headed Alaskan for President!" What Would J Do? Bertha A. Kleinman If years could turn back for me, many or few, Granting me grace of a decade or two, Memories and heartache again to live through, Mine for the asking—oh, what would I do? What from the yesterdays would I retrieve— Time I have squandered while others achieve, Favors witheld that were meant to bequeath— What would I do with a granted reprieve? Loved ones who trusted me, neighbor and friend— Slighted and hurt in the day's busy trend— Had I the bounty to spare and expend— How would they answer to such an amend? Time knows no back-step, and years do not bide, Yesterday drowns on the outgoing tide, Only today is my own to deride Or challenge the morrow repentant and tried. enemas N DEPARTMENT | Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 30—The Past, Present, and Future Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants: Section 45:1-42) For Tuesday, March 7, 1962 Objective: To learn some reasons why obedience to the Lord's will is necessary, and of the need of being aware of the signs in preparation for the Lord's second coming. The Prophet and His People The title of this lesson suggests the functions of a prophet of God. Although there are many responsibilitics belonging to a prophet in furthering the kingdom of God upon the earth, onc of the principal functions is__to ceive revelation for the guidance of the Church. The revelation thus received may refer to the past, as an example, or illustration for present and future _obedience on the part of the saints, or to clarify the scriptures previously given. A prophet thus uses the revelations of other prophets in his understanding of the purposes of the Lord. Another purpose of the revelations received by a living prophet is to give admonitions, warnings, and 'dvice fo, Te peonle Gh his own gencration. In other words, by the spirit of prophecy, a prophet is empowered to interpret present-day conditions for the people. He enjoys Page 840 the privilege of foresceing future events' as the Lordwills it, that the saints may be adequately warned against calamities of the future. The Lord's Preface to The Doctrine and Covenants definitely states that the revelations in that book of scripture are to constitute a voice of warning. The Prophet Joseph Smith was called by the Lord, among other reasons, for the purpose of receiving revelations because of the judgments to_come in _the latter days. (See D & CG, Section 1.) Historical Background At the time Section 45 was received by Joseph Smith, many efforts were made by the adversary to destroy the effectiveness of the Church. At this age of the Church [i ¢., early in the spring of 1831] many false reports, lies, and foolish stories, were published in the newspapers, and circulated in every direction, to prevent pcople from investi- LESSON DEPARTMENT gating the work, or embracing the faith. A great earthquake in China, which destroved from one to two thousand inhabitants, was burlesqued in some papers, as "Mormonism in China." But to the joy of the Saints who had to struggle against every thing that prejudice and wickedness could invent, I received the following: [D & C Section 45] (D. H. C. 1:158). Obedience—W hy? Not all of the Lord's instructions nor the reasons for his giving commandments are given in one revelation. In Section 45, however, several reasons are mentioned for strict obedience to his will. The revelation begins with the fact stated, as one of these reasons, that the kingdom of God has been given to his people (D & C 45:1). Possession of the kingdom by the saints is the same as the attainment of salvation upon their part, but this blessing is only for those who are obedient. Because salvation is the greatest blessing obtamable toa child of God, the necessity for full obedience is apparent. Why should one be obedient? Jesus Christ is the Creator of our earth, as well as of other worlds. He is supreme and by his power we are able to receive the benefits of an earth-life with its environment so ordered that we may live under a reign of law. Is there anyone who is assured that he will be alive on the morrow? Death comes to all men, but when? In the words of the Savior "... Hearken_unto my voice, lest death shall overtake vou; in an hour when ye think not the summer shall be past, and the harvest ended, and your souls not saved" (D & C 45:2). Now_is the day for repentance. If man fu - ferings of Christ (who is our Advo- 84] cate with the Father), as he made _ the atonement for_us, man would "Be fully determined to obey all of | the Lord's commands. So intense was the suffering of Christ that he sweat drops of blood from his porcs. (See D & C 19:15-17.) It is only through Jesus Christ that man may receive individual salvation; consequently, he reminds the saints of latter days that his prayer to the Father is in behalf of them. (Read D&C 45:45.) As Christ was obedient in glorifying the Father, so, also, may_we glorify the Father _and_the Son by our receiving through obedience the greatest blessing of eternal _life. Everything the Father and the Son dais for "ours blessiay One may relate Hor great the goodness of our God.... O how great the plan of our God..." (2 Nephi 9:10, 13). Therefore, hearken "... Today, and harden not your hearts" (D & C 45:6). He who hardens his heart by disobedience is in darkness. "The Lord Is My Light" sing his people, for Jesus is "... The light and the life of the world — a light that shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehendeth it not" (D & C 45:7). There follows in this revelation another reminder for the necessity of obedience — the_Jewish_pcople as a nation anciently did not receive their Messiah who was one of their own. 'This example from the past poses the thought:... Let it not be said a second time, that Christ has come to "His own," even to His Church in this dispensation, but "His own' refused to hearken to Him (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 254). Obedience, a Challenge In verses eleven through fourteen of Section 45, there is recounted an event of the past which the Lord says could be duplicated in this dispensation by the full obedience of his people. Among the points which are brought to the reader's attention by these verses, we may think (1) verification from the Lord in this modern revelation of the historical fact that Enoch was an actual person mentioned in the Bible (Genesis 5:24); (2) the actual separation of the city of Enoch and its inhabitants from the earth; (3) the promise that the city of Enoch wil] return to the earth in a day of righteousness, the millennium. (In reference to Enoch's dispensation and the great events made known to him by revelation, consult Moses, chapter 7.) The challenge to the saints of | God today is so to live that, if alive on the earth when the millennium begins, they will as inhabitants of Zion, the New Jerusalem, be prepared to meet the people of Enoch's c \ ee Moses 7:62-65.) The Lord also promises that all those in the past who considered themselves to be "strangers," but were holy in their lives, seeking for a day of righteousness, might see that day "in their flesh," as resurrected beings to join with the saints of this dispensation. (Cf. Moses 7:62-65.) Will you be numbered among those Latter-day Saints who have lived faithfully to warrant such a_blessing, whether you are in mortality at the time or whether you have passed away? Ity when it returns to the earth,/ Purposes of the Everlasting Covenant In speaking of the past and the reason for obedience to the fulness of the gospel, the Savior makes known the opportunity for people to become the sons of God and to receive power to obtain eternal life. (Sce D & C 45:8.) For this purpose the everlasting covenant has been established on the earth with all of its powers and glories. (See D & C 133:57-) This covenant is the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. (See D & C 66:2.) The Lord informs us, however, of other purposes, in fact, that there are three other reasons for which he has sent the. Gospel into the world. These nO) "to_be a light ta the world" thats, to_show the world the way to live; "to be a standard for my people; and for the Gentiles to seek to it" — the gospel will always be the means of salvation to those who accept it, and it will be as an ensign to the nations through the lives of the saints (see D & Gyi5:5; Isaiah 49:22; 62:10); and ((3)) "to be a messenger" in / prepalixig the way before the second coming of Christ. (See D & C All. Of these purposes are important. When one thinks of the mission given to the saints in publishing the glad tidings of cternal life through the gospel, and that all may participate in it to some extent, an enthusiasm for magnifying one's calling should be greatly heightened. "T Will Reason With You" In addition to showing forth strong reasons to those who came unto him (see D & C 45:10), 842 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT the Lord says he will prophesy as he gave forth prophecy to men in days of old. (See D & C 45:15.) But of what shall he prophesy? Of those things which are in the minds of the saints today and were in the meridian dispensation. His disciples during the Redeemer's earthly mission asked him what would be the signs of his coming in the clouds of heaven? In verses 16 and 17 from Section 45, notice that the Lord uses language in the present tense as though he were speaking directly to his disciples of old. (See also Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 259.) Continuing his prophecy of events of the meridian dispensation, Jesus foretold to his disciples the destruction of the temple (Cf. Mt. 24:1-2; Luke 21:23-24. Read D&C 45:18-20.) How literally was this prophecy fulfilled? A summary of the siege and destruction of the temple and the city of Jerusalem, including the scattering of the Jews, is given in the account of Josephus: The Wars of the Jews, VI. (Read Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, pp. 261-262.) As one continues reading Section 45, it is discovered that what the Lord declares therein is fulfilled in the description of the desolation given by Josephus, which came upon the Jews of the meridian dispensation: And it shall come to pass, that this generation of Jews shall not pass away until every desolation which I have told you concerning them shall come to pass (D & C 45:21). Following this prophecy, Jesus 843 said to his disciples, according to this revelation, that they said they knew "that the end of the world cometh," meaning the destruction of the world (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 1:4, 31) which would be at his second coming, and later on the purification of the earth. Then the assurance was given (in D & C 45:23-24) that their knowledge of these things was true, and all of the prophecies would be fulfilled. As indicated, the material of this revelation, through verse 24, pertains to the generation or dispensation of the meridian of time, but later verses in this lesson (D & C 45:25-42) describe events of the generation in which we live, the dispensation of the fulness of times. Dispensation of the Fulness of Times Even as the Jews were scattered with the destruction of Jerusalem, so their descendants were to be gathered in the last days. But when would those days come? Only after the long period of apostasy from the Church established by the Christ, and then the Church restored to the earth in the last dispensation of the gospel. This restoration is described in D & C 45:26. Signs of the Times As foreknown by the prophets, the restoration of the gospel would bring many great changes. On the earth. In this revelation the Lord points out:.. In that day shall be heard of wars and rumors of wars, and the whole earth shall be in commotion, and men's hearts shall fail them, and they shall say that Christ delayeth his coming until the end of the earth (D & C 45:26). 844 Needless to state, since the return of the gospel and the Church upon the earth, wars and rumors of wars have increased upon the earth. "Christ delayeth his coming" is another sign of this period, for men teach that Christ will not come until the end of the earth. (Read the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 262). As this revelation unfolds the future for the disciples of old (and now for us of this generation), several signs are given in rapid succession. "And the love of men shall wax cold, and iniquity shall abound" (D & C 45:27). As interpreted by the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 262, this means that because of lawlessness, the majority of men will not have genuine Christian love, which is true, unselfish, and constant. When one thinks of present conditions in reference to the latter part of this verse — that iniquity or wickedness shall abound — there immediately comes to mind the extent of crime and evil practices that are present throughout the world. Regardless of what may be said to the effect that lawlessness has always been present, the presence of organized and unorganized evil in the world in the form of sex _immorality, dishonest practices in business, disrespect for human_ beings and 'life itsclf, are widespread tadayand thus 'they cons constitute one-of-_the signs of the last days. The coldness of men's hearts to the fulness of the gospel is another sign. With the restoration of the gospel to the earth through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZHNE—DECEMBER 1960 said that the world will "... Receive it not; for they perceive not the light, and they turn their hearts from me because of the precepts of men" (D & C 45:29). Although the number of converts to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is presently increasing in the world, yet, over the time of this dispensation, the number of members of the true Church is very few compared with the population of the world. As predicted, the people of the world will reject the gospel message and thus bring upon themselves the judgment prophesied. As people reject the Lord's plan of salvation and wickedness continues to abound, the time will come when our dispensation "... Shall scc_an overflowing scourge; for a desolating sickness shall cover the land {D-& C 45:31). Other prophecies in the modern revelations reveal, in part, the nature and the extent of such plagues. (See D & C 29:18-19.) Amid the difficulties of the times when the foregoing events occur, the Lord makes known that his - disciples shall stand in holy places, and shall not be moved; but among the wicked, men shall lift up their voices and curse God and die'? (D & C 45:32). The disciple is one who is a true follower, and as far as this revelation is concerned, is that individual who has accepted Jesus Christ and has thus become a member of his Church. These disciples will stand in the places appointed by revelation as gathering places. (See D & C 101:16-21.) Other signs indicating the nearness of the Lord's coming are dcsolations of various kinds. Amid conditions such as floods, dust storms, hurricanes, and other commotions, LESSON DEPARTMENT in which the elements give testimony of the rejection of the Lord's servants, men will continue to harden their hearts and will kill one another and curse God and die. When disciples of old indicated concern about these various signs, assurance was given that "... When all these things shall come to pass, ye may know that the promises which have been made unto you shall be fulfilled" (D & C 45:35). By reference to the fig tree shooting forth its leaves as a sign of summer being at hand, so also these various events (see D & C 45:16-33) constitute signs by which the believer will "know that the hour is nigh" (D & C 45:38). What is the haqur spoken of? It is the period ee eg so NCC agtile< shall be fulfilled. "Times of the Gentiles Shall Be Fulfilled" By vision, Nephi was permitted to see the time when Jesus would manifest himself to the Jews first, and then the Gentiles would have the opportunity to accept the fulness of the gospel. Later, however, the Gentiles would "hewe this privilege 845 times of the Gentiles are fulfilled (D & C 45:25, 30; Luke 21:24). This sign is to indicate the beginning of the period of transition when the Jews are to receive their opportunity to have the gospel taught to them. Purpose of the Signs of the Times and a Prophet's Answer President Joseph F. Smith, sixth President of the Church, had this to say concerning the purposes of these signs of the times: There are, in the great world of mankind, much social and civil unrighteousness, religious unfaithfulness, and great insensibility to the majesty, power, and purpose of our eternal Father and God. In order, therefore, that he may bring the sense of himself and his purposes home to the minds of men, his intervention and interposition in nature and in men's affairs, arc demanded. His aims will be accomplished even if men must be overwhelmed with the convulsions of nature to bring them to an understanding and realization of his designs. As long as con-- ditions remain as they are_in the world, none is txempt from these visitations. The Latter-day Saints, though they - themselves tremble because of their own wickedness and sins, believe that great first and the Jews last. (See I Nejudgments are coming upon the world "phi 13:42.) Thus the first should. Because of iniquity; they firmly believe in be last_and_ the last should be first, he statements of the Holy Scriptures, that calamities will befall the nations as signs (Cf Luke 13:28-30.) As we have seen in this lesson, the "times of the Gentiles" are ushered in with the restoration of the gospel in its fulness. (See D & C 45:28-29.) Moroni told Joseph Smith that this time "was soon to come in" (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:41). Later in the dispensation of the fulness of times, when Jerusalem is: no longer trodden down by the Gentiles, it is to be a sign that the of the coming of Christ to judgment. They believe that God rules in the fire, the earthquake, the tidal wave, the volcanic eruption, and the storm. Him tlhicy recognize as the Master and Ruler of nature and her laws, and freely acknowledge his hand in all things. We believe that his judgments are poured out to bring mankind to a sense of his power and his purposes, that they may repent of their sins and prepare themselves for the second coming of Christ to reign in righteousness upon the earth (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, pp. 54-55). Questions for Discussion 1. What are the functions of a prophet? 2. Why should a Latter-day Saint be obedient to the Lord's will? 3. Why would you think the challenge to be obedient in this dispensation is as great as in other dispensations of the gospel? 4. What are some of the "signs of the times" that are found in this lesson? Give some evidence of the fulfillment of some of these signs. 5. As stated by President Smith, what do the Latter-day Saints believe about the judgments of the last days? Visiting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 30—".. - Ye Must Grow in Grace and in the Knowledge of the Truth" (D & C 50:40) Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, March 7, 1961 Objective: The gospel is a plan of salvation through progress. Only by growth in grace and truth can we move toward eternal life. N ANY of us have been impressed with the fact that returned missionaries, in their homecoming talks, invariably state their convictions that the period spent in their missionary labors was the happiest in their lives. Undoubtedly, a significant reason for this sense of happiness is because, during the period of their missionary work, they have been engaged exclusiv ely in helping others and in serving the Lord. Another important reason, however, is due to the fact that the period of a missionary's experience is usually a concentrated time of growth "... In grace and in the knowledge of the truth." It is a fact, all too often not fully realized, that happiness and growth in knowledge of truth are closely interrelated. If we grow in useful knowledge, we develop our personalities and abilities and move forward toward the goal Jesus sect for us when he said, "Be ve therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect" (Mt. 5:48). It is this type of progress which is the essence of genuine happiness and joy. A divine example of the process of growth in grace and truth is that through which the Savior progressed. The scriptures tell us that, "... The child grew, and waxed strong im spirit, filled with wisdom: and the grace of God was upon him" (Luke 2:40). When he was a boy of twelve his parents found him in the temple conversing with the wise men and astonishing them with his understanding and knowledge. All that the scriptures tell us about him from this time until the beginning of his ministry, at approximately thirty years of age, is that he "... Increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man" (Luke 2:52). Jesus himsclf having grown m grace and truth, has sct the example for all of us. Through his own ex- 846 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT perience he knows the great potentialities for joy and satisfaction that lie within the reach of all of us, if we will make the effort to expand our knowledge of the truth, and he has given us the commandment that we "... Must grow in grace and in the knowledge of the truth." In the same section of The Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord promises all of us that, if we will seek after light and continue in God, we will receive more light which will grow "... Brighter and brighter until the perfect day." (See D & C 50:24.) Growth in truth and knowledge seems based on the same principle as growth in physical strength and power. We all know that if we allow a muscle to remain idle, it soon becomes weak and useless. On the other hand, exercise builds and develops strength. It is an absolute truism that the more knowledge of truth we acquire the greater will be our capacity to grasp more and greater truth. Furthermore, it is a significant fact that the acquisition 847 of one truth opens the door to others. Growth in truth and knowledge is a flowering process. As we travel up the road of knowledge, countless new paths open up to our vision, making our journey more and more interesting, beautiful, and challenging. James Russell Lowell wrote, "They must upward still, and onward, who would keep abreast of Truth" (The Present Crisis). Jesus said, "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled" (Mt. 5:6). He also urged us over and over again to seek after knowledge, promising that, if we did so, doors would be opened unto us and we would be blessed with understanding and wisdom. Regardless of how much we may think we know about truth really, our cup is never full. We must never stop learning if we would stay young and virile in mind and spirit. We must seek constantly to grow. If we do so, the Lord has promised that he will feed us from his everflowing fountain of truth. { Tew Serial "Love Gs &nough ° to Begin in January NEW serial, "Love Is Enough," by Mabel S. Harmer, will begin in the January issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The story vividly portrays the joys and problems of Geniel Whitworth, a schooltéacher in Blayney, Idaho, who finds her ideals and ambitions changed by new friends, and new situations which alter the course of her life. Work ITleeting— Caring for the Sick in the Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 6 — Elimination of Body Wastes Maria Johnson For Tuesday, March 14, 1961 Objective: 1. To help us recognize the importance of the elimination of body wastes. 2. 'To make us alert to our responsibility in meeting the sick person's need for the elimination of body wastes. UR body must not only have food to nourish it, but it must get rid of waste products which the body cannot use. Elimination is a natural and important function of the body. In health, cach individual attends to such needs for herself; in sickness she may need help. 'The bedpan, urinal, or enema may become a necessary part of the care. Whenever such care is needed by the patient, it is given by the onc caring for the sick without comment or embarrassment. She accepts this responsibility in the same spirit that a mother meets the needs of her baby. A. Giving and Removing a Bedpan Equipment: Bedpan Bedpan cover Protective sheet or pad Basin of warm water Soap, towel, and washcloth Toilet paper. N Turn back bedclothing at side. Place protective pad under hips. Do not expose paticnt. This may be newspapers or a small waterproof sheet. Closed end toward head of bed. Pad 3. Put bedpan beside patient. May be placed over closed end if patient is thin, as skin over spine is easily irritated. With your other hand. Adjust it, should support the buttocks. Replace cover or have her turn on her side and then patient. Place the pan tightly against the buttocks as she rolls back on the pan. Laxed. Hips and have patient bend knees and lift. Page 848 Important Steps 4. Have patient draw up her knees. Put one hand under her hips. As_patient lifts up, slip bedpan under her If patient is very large or cannot raise her hips, it may be easicr to 5. Put toilet paper where patient can teach it. 6. To remove pan, place hand under Key Points With bent knees the patient can lift with you. Be sure the pan is in the proper position. Upper end of pan When possible have two people, one to hold the pan and one to roll the Unless patient is very ill or weak leave her alone. She will be more reBe sure patient is clean and dry. 7. If patient is unable to clean herself, Always wipe toward the patient's you do it for her. Back to avoid carrying soiled material to the vagina or bladder opening — feces always contain bacteria. 8. Place basin, soap, and towel where After urimating, measure urine if patient can wash her hands. Doctor wants record of amount. 9g. Observe contents before emptying pan. Save for doctor to see, if there is anything unusual. To Clean a Bedpan: Rinse first with cold water. Use toilet paper to remove particles that stick to the pan, wash in hot, soapy water, rinse, and dry. B. Use of the Commode Many patients use the bedpan with difficulty. It can be uncomfortable and the position unsatisfactory for good elimination. Today, most patients, not acutely ill, are permitted to use the commode if they cannot go to the bathroom. A commode can be rented, bought, or one improvised at home. Put an oval opening in the wooden seat of a chair or remove a cane seat. Cut an appropriate-sized hole in a %-inch plywood board, sand well, and attach it to chair, or use regular toilet seat and lid over the opening. Place a pail on the floor under the opening. A stool under the pail will bring the pail up close to the opening. The pail should be cleaned after cach use as a bedpan. If the commode is to be kept in the sick room, cover the seat and make a skirt of interesting material to go around the chair. C. Intake and Output By the expression "intake and output" we mean the fluid taken into the body and the urine passed during a given period of time. The balance between the fluid we take in and the amount we give off is important in the normal functioning of the body. 'The body can get along without food for some time, but it must have fluid. If the patient is drinking very little fluid, or more than usual, the doctor may ask you to measure the amount of fluid the patient drinks and the urine she passes. Keep a record of the time and amount, so the doctor will know. An improvised measure can be made by putting a strip of adhesive tape lengthwise on a quart bottle. Then pour water into the bottle, one ounce at a time, and mark the tape. ENEMAS Enemas are of two general types, those to be expelled, such as the cleansing enema, and those to be retained, such as the oil or medicated enema. Giving an enema means introducing fluid into the rectum and colon. The cleansing enema is given to soften the feces and stimulate the bowcl to empty. The solutions most commonly used are a mild soap solution, plain water, or a saline solution which is made by adding one teaspoonful of salt to one pint of water. For the soap solution use only a mild white soap and in a weak solution. A strong soap or heavy solution is irritating to the colon. The best way to make a soap jelly is to cut small pieces of soap, add a little water, and heat until the soap dissolves. Use about a teaspoonful of the jelly to a pint of warm water. A solution can also be made by agitating the soap in the water until it has a milky appearance. In this case all bubbles and foam must be removed before the solution is used. Disposable enema packets are now available and are being used LESSON DEPARTMENT 849 850 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 extensively in hospitals. They come complete. No added equipment is needed. 'They are effective and arc simple to use. The directions for using these come with each packet. To Give a Cleansing Enema You will need a basin or tray on which to carry the equipment to the bedside. Equipment Needed: 1, A rubber enema bag, an irrigating can or a funnel, and pitcher. 2. The solution to be used — 1 pint to 1 quart for an adult, 1 cup to 1 pint for a child. 3. Rubber tubing, 18 to 25 inches long to attach to the can or funnel. 4. A rubber catheter or rectal tube. These come in various sizes. For an adult use a catheter or rectal tube size 18-24. Fora child use a catheter size 14-18. For an infant use a catheter size 10-14. 5. A glass connecting tube to attach the catheter to the tubing and a clamp to control the flow of the solution. 6. A lubricant on a piece of toilet paper. Never take the container of lubricant to the bedside. 7- Toilet paper, newspapers to protect the bed, and also one to put the rectal tube in when it is removed. 8. Bedpan and bath blanket. Procedure: 1. Assemble all equipment and bring to bedside. The solution should be warm, not hot. 2. For best results have patient turn on left side. If she is not comfortable on her side, she may be on her back. 3- Put bath blanket over the patient and bring the covers to the foot of bed. This will keep odors from penetrating the covers. 4. Place the newspaper under the patient to protect the bed, and put the bedpan on the bed by the buttocks. 5. Lubricate the catheter with the lubricant on the toilet paper. 6. Open the clamp and let a little of the solution run through the tubing into the bedpan. Close the clamp. 7. Lift the upper buttock and insert the rectal tube into anus. Explain to the patient What you are doing. Insert gently for 4 inches if an adult — 3 inches if a child. Open the clamp and hold the can or funnel not more than 18 inches above the mattress. A standard is not needed. We have learned that holding the can high results in too much pressure. G. If the patient feels she cannot retain the solution, stop the flow momentarily by pinching the tubing, then resume the flow gradually. 10. Close the clamp while the tube is still filled with solution, This prevents introducing air into the bowel. 11. Remove the rectal tube, detach and Wrap in the newspaper so as not to contami: nate or soil other equipment. 12. Put the patient on the bedpan. Best results come when the solution is retained five or ten minutes. The urge to expel the solution can often be controlled by pressing a few sheets of toilet paper against the anus. 13. Clean all equipment with soap and water. The rectal tube should first be rinsed with cool water, then washed in soap and water, and then boiled for five minutes. 14. After the bedpan is removed, wash the patient's hands, make her comfortable, and air the room. LESSON DEPARTMENT When Giving Enemas to Children: The Infant: 851 Place the baby on a pillow with waterproof cover so that the buttocks are over the bedpan. The fluid must be given in small amounts because the infant will expel it almost as soon as it is introduced. Placing the child on the lap, over a rubber sheet with the buttocks by the open toilet, is helpful procedure in the home. The Toddler: Toddlers must be placed on the bedpan at the beginning of the treatment as they are unable to retain the fluid any length of time. The Older Child: Same as adult. For the child who is not ill, some mothers like to place a pad on the bathroom floor by the toilet and let the child get down on all fours. This position makes it easy to insert the catheter and most children will co-operate. The Retention Enema: The retention enema differs from the cleansing enema in that it is to be retained. Two or three ounces. It is given very slowly and in very smal] amounts, sometimes not more than The solution is retained or absorbed better if a cleansing enema is given about one hour before the retention enema so the intestinal track will be cleared. The equipment needed for a retention enema consists chiefly of a catheter, funnel, and small length of rubber tubing. Since there may be some seepage, it is well to keep a pad under the patient to protect the bed. A iterature—America's Literature Comes of Age Lesson 22 — Ralph Waldo Emerson, American Idealist Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 250-303) For Tuesday, March 21, 1961 Objective: To recognize Emerson as the nucleus of American literature during its classic period preceding the Civil War. BACH age re-defines truth in its own terms. Looking back, we may be tempted to evaluate a man by his deficiencies revealed through time; likewise it is easy to belittle any person of the past to the degree he differed from what we believe now. Neither attitude yields eminent truth or justice. Thus many moderns find it fashionable to ignore or to depreciate Emerson. Their complaints are various: his essays are vague, repetitious, incoherent, inconsistent, shallowly optimistic; his poems are tonedeaf, roughshod, elliptical, obscure. But their most cutting charge against him is that he ignores at least two subjects ever-present in great literatures of the past and central in modern authors; namely, sex and evil. While in each of these charges lies some substantial truth, it is not the whole truth. Emerson is commended to us for three reasons: first, probably more than any other one person he shaped and spoke for the age now known as the American Renaissance; second, in addition to enjoying during his own lifetime the friendship and estecm of all American writers, plus Wordsworth, Coleridge, Carlyle, Tennyson, Arnold, and Goethe abroad, he has been acknowledged as a dominant formative influence on more recent Americans: Emily Dickinson, William James, Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Frank Lloyd Wright, Edwin Arlington Robinson, and Robert Frost; finally, both as essayist and poet he possesses sufficient intrinsic worth to commend him to every lover of literature, even if his name, time, and place were unknown. Recalling that honest praise and love can never be forced, let us consider words by those who have esteemed Emerson's power and stature. Matthew Arnold who maintained that Emerson's essays had never been surpassed in English, spoke of him as "the friend and aider of those who would live in the spirit." John Jay Chapman believed that "it is solely as character that he is important. We must regard and deal with him simply as aman." The historian James Truslow Adams, who somewhat distrusted him, nevertheless wrote that "in no other author can we get so close to the whole of the American spirit." In his "Partial Portraits" the novelist Henry James wrote: Emerson had a genius for seeing character as a real and supreme thing. He serves and will not wear out; indeed, we cannot afford to drop him. He did something better than anyone else; he had a_particular faculty, which has not been. Surpassed, for speaking to the soul in a voice of direction and authority. Personal-National Destiny Aside from being contemporaries, the struggling young America and the adolescent Emerson shared so many facts and values that it is difficult to separate one from the other. Both were heavily rooted in the Puritan past (Emerson being descended from seven generations of Protestant ministers). Both were acutely aware of their gross inadequacies, and even more. Sharply aware of their great destinies which must not slip by unfulfilled, regardless of the cost. While Emerson was a proud but mediocre student at Harvard College, sharing a winter coat with one of his three younger brothers, waiting on table, and running errands for the President to help lighten his widowed mother's financial burden, Emerson wrote in his Journal on October 25, 1822, aged nineteen: I find myself often idle, vagrant, stupid and hollow. This is somewhat appalling and, if I do not discipline myself with diligent care, I shall suffer severely from remorse and the sense of inferiority hereafter. All around me are industrious and will be great, I am indolent and shall be insignificant. Avert it, heaven! Avert it, virtue! I need excitement. Three months earlier, with transparent impersonality, he had defined himself as the potential prophet-poet of his country: I dedicate my book to the spirit of America. I dedicate it to that living soul, which doth exist somewhere beyond the fancy, to whom the Divinity hath assigned the care of this bright corner of 852 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture RALPH WALDO EMERSON 1803-1882 the universe. With a spark of prophetic devotion, I hasten to hail the genius, who yet counts the tardy years of childhood, but who is increasingly unawares in the twilight, and swelling into strength, until the hour when he shall break the cloud, to shew his colossal youth, and cover the firmament with the shadow of his wings. Exultant with the surge of firstyouth — yet uncertain just how to control such power; outwardly unafraid while inwardly insecure; longing with teen-age passion to leave home and parental domination, Emerson fiercely determined never to submit again to domination by the parental pattern; but, slowly he discovered it to be the only pattern available. 'These vexing conflicts plagued both Emerson and_ the country whose destiny he felt to be his own. 853 Emerson's Life Born May 25, 1803, one hundred years after Jonathan Edwards, to whom he was so heavily indebted, Emerson was left fatherless at eight, his father having been minister of Boston's prominent First Church, Unitarian. When years later he wrote in Nature of "debt, grinding debt, whose face the iron widow, the orphan, and the sons of genius fear and hate," he spoke from firsthand experience, as he did of everything else in his writings. But while his brothers Edward and Charles graduated first and second in their Harvard classes, Waldo was about average, and was appointed class poet only after six of his classmates had turned it down. After graduation he assisted his brother William in running a girls' finishing school held in his mother's home. In 1826 he was accepted as a minister by the Middlesex Association, but his frequent failure of eyesight, rheumatic pains, and _ threat of tuberculosis forced him to go to Florida for a year. On his return, in 1829, he married beautiful seventeen-year-old Ellen 'Tucker after having been appointed minister of the Second Unitarian Church of Boston, but, early in 1832, she died of tuberculosis. For years afterward he walked to her grave every morning. His younger "brother, Edward, "the admired, learned, eloquent, striving boy' had become insane in 1828, dying in 1834; two of his brothers were soon to die of tuberculosis. Though the family religion of Unitarianism was theologically liberal, increasingly Emerson found its members to be proud, staid, genteel, and spiritually dead, leaving his 854 strong craving for religious fulfillment unsatished. In 1832, convinced that true religion "is not a form. It is a life," he resigned his ministry, protesting as excuse his lack of authority to adminster the sacrament — convinced that the Lord's supper was not intended by Christ to be a permanent sacrament. He sailed for Europe and in the next two years he "found himself," aided by the "pilot-minds" Coleridge, Gocthe, and his lifelong friend, Carlyle. Soon after his return he married Lydia Jackson, having previously purchased his grandfather's house in tural Concord and settled down to write his three great manifestoes: "Nature" in 1836, "The American Scholar" in 1837, and "The Divinity School Address" in 1838. In 183 36 his dearest brother Charles died just before Emerson's son Waldo, the beatitude of his life, was bor, Yet six vears later this lov ely lad died, a blow which scarred Emerson until his death, when he exclaimed, "Oh, that beautiful boy!" For some ten years after his resignation from the ministry in 1832, Emerson was considered a failure both by the community and by many of his family. His wife's inheritance, however, of $1,200 a year was soon matched by his income from lyceum speeches which he gave throughout New England and the then West — Indiana, Iowa, and Michigan. He often traveled long distances by sled in sub-zero weather to captivate the isolated pioneers. His first series of "Essays" sold mildly in 1841, the second series more briskly after publication in 1844, followed by numerous other books and poems before the Civil RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 War. When the war came he welcomed it, having been active in the cause of Abolition. He had said in 1856, "I think we must get mid of slavery, or we must get rid of freedom." In 1867 he formally ended his creative iiterdny career with publication of his poem "Terminus"; but he continued to be honored as the leader of the Transcendentalists and was acknowledged the foremost literary personage of his day. Suddenly his regal appearance changed, his memory failed him, and he was old. After his house burned, in 1872, he had to lean heavily on his daughter Ellen for guidance and counsel. Gifts of almost $20,000 came from friends for rebuilding the house. Ellen took him to Europe for his third trip where he was royally received by its great figures. Upon his return the entire village of Concord turned out to welcome him back to his restored home, where he continued entries in his journaal for four years, dying six years later, in 1882, aged seventy-eight. The Rebel Emerson Because Emerson was personally shy and reserved, kind, and _ softspoken, it is easy to recall him as a benign, venerated patriarch | who wrote the beautiful poem, "The Rhodora," with its famous final lines, Tell them, dear, that if eyes were made for seeing, Then Beauty is its own excuse for being: Why thou wert there, O rival of the rose! I never thought to ask, I never knew: But, in my simple ignorance, suppose The selfsame Power that brought me there brought you. This is authentic Emerson, indeed, but only one small phase of LESSON DEPARTMENT him. In actuality a moral teacher more than anything else, he framed within his terse, sparkling sentences the memorable definitions of the American man and America's destiny which were implicit in the great documents of Jefferson and the Founding Fathers, but which had never before been immortalized in literary form. Ripening within himself during his European "wanderyear" a new vision of who man really is, and believing that "Nothing is at last sacred but the integrity of your own mind," Emerson devoted the mature power of his life to preaching to his countrymen his "one doctrine, namely, the infinitude of the private man." It was in contrasting his "ideal man" with existing institutions in American education, religion, morality, government, and business, that the sparks began to fly which indicated to many bystanders in the 1830's and '4o's that Emerson was reactionary. Yet in his explosive "Divinity School Address" in 1838, which caused him to be barred from Harvard campus for thirty years, he announced that "Wherever a man comes, there comes Revolution." Emerson was that man, and for some twenty years revolution reigned, making Concord the leading literary and moral force of the country rather than New York; and freeing his grateful countrymen to a new identity they had long felt in their bones but could not themselves express. The following sentences, taken from his writings, express some of Emerson's personal beliefs. I. Man Is Defined The purpose of life seems to be to 855 acquaint a man with himself; the highest revelation is that God is in every man. —Journal The foundations of man are not in mater, but in spirit. But the element of spirit is eternity.... Nature is not fixed but fluid. Spirit alters, moulds, makes it. The immobility or bruteness of nature is the absence of spirit; to pure spirit it is fluid, it is volatile, it is obedient. Every spirit builds itself a house and beyond its house a world and beyond its world a heaven. Know then that the world exists for you. For you is the phenomenon perfect. What we are, that only can we sce. All that Adam had, all that Caesar could, you have and can do.... Build therefore your own world. —Nature, '"'Prospects"' For men are wiser than they know.... —'Compensation" II. Growth Is Action God offers to every man his choice between truth and repose. 'Take which you please — you can never have both. —'Intellect" Do the thing and you shall have the power; but they who do not do the thing have not the power. —"Compensation" That which we persist in doing becomes easier to do; not that the nature of the thing has changed, but that our power to do has increased. The one thing in the world of value is the active soul. —"American Scholar" Ill. Self-Reliance To believe your own thought, to believe that what is true for you in your private heart is true for all men — that is genius. Trust thyself: every heart vibrates to that iron string. Nothing is at last sacred but the integrity of your own mind. Speak what you think now in hard words and tomorrow speak what tomorrow thinks in hard words again, thongh it contradict every thing you said today. IV. Character We pass for what we are. Character teaches above our wills.... The force of character is cumulative. —''Self-Reliance" Thinking is the function. Living is the functionary. 'The stream retreats to its source. —''American Scholar" Whatever games are played with us, we must play no games with ourselves, but deal in our privacy with the last honesty and truth. I look upon the simple and childish virtues of veracity and honesty as the root of all that is sublime in character. Speak as you think, be what you are, pay your debts of all kinds. — "'Tlusions" Thus Emerson opposed complacency, smugness, and the staid patterns which dominated the Unitarian Church and_ social patterns which dominated Boston and New England. In "The American Scholar," which Oliver Wendell Holmes called "Our Intellectual Declaration of Independence,' he states that "The main enterprise of the world for splendor, for extent, is the upbuilding of a man." Relying heavily on nature, freeing himself from "fear [which] always springs from ignorance," the scholar is to read "life [which] is our dictionary," and "not quit his belief that a popgun is a popgun, though the ancient and honorable of the earth affirm it to be the crack of doom." Having "listened too long to the courtly muses of Europe,' now American scholars are to "embrace the common," to "explore and sit at the fect of the familiar, the low" that they may "know all. Dare all." In "Politics" he reminds us that instead of "reliance on the moral sentiment, and a sufficient belief in the unity of things," "men are selfish," and "government of force" results. The state should exist to educate the wise man and to ensure his higher rights "to be employed, to be trusted, to be loved, to be revered..... We think our civilization near its meridian, but we are yet only at the cock-crowing and the morning star." Emerson was the living spirit of the idea of democracy, but he was far from accepting his Nation without expressing a qualifving awareness of her weaknesses. While most firmly he believed that: Democracy, Freedom, has its root in the sacred truth that every man hath in him the Divine Reason.... This is the equality, and the only equality of all men, he rebelled against accepting democracy in its present low state, in contrast to what it might be. In his Introduction to The Conduct of Life he wrote with fire: Leave this hypocritical prating about the masses. Mfasses are rude, lame, unmade, pernicious in their demands and influences and need not to be flattered but to be schooled. I wish not to concede anything to them, but to tame, drill, divide and break them up, and draw individuals out of them. Masses! The calamity is the masses. I do not wish any masses at all, but honest men only, lovely, sweet, accomplished women only. When [population] reaches its true law of action, every man that is born will be hailed as essential. Away with this hurrah of masses, and let us have the considerate vote of single men spoken on their honor and their conscience. But though he was well aware of America's weaknesses, he knew and loved the undeveloped West even as he did his vigorous East. Of them he asked, What should hinder that this New Atlantis should have its happv ports, its mountains of security, its gardens fit for human abode, where all elements are tight for the health, power, and virtue of man? Most important, for Emerson, America was always the Future: 856 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT One cannot look on the freedom of this country in connection with its youth witheut a presentinent that here shall laws and institutions exist in some proportion to the majesty of Nature.... It is a country of beginnings, of projects, of vast designs and expectations. It has no past: all has an onward and prospective look.— "The Young American" Thus wrote Emerson to his age as to the destiny of his country. Perceptive, wise, entirely honest, fearless, and inspired by both his inward vision of Man as he should be and his passionate love of eloquence," he was to his country its 857 delegated conscience and_ voice. Because he possessed these qualities so abundantly, his indispensability is as timeless as is his hope. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Though Emerson's personal life was filled with tragedy and suffering, his writing ls vigorous and buoyant. In terms of his belicfs, how can you account for this apparent contradiction? 2. Do you feel Emerson's idealism to be unreal? Too ideal? Of what use is the idealist today? 3. Discuss Emerson as a spokesman for American democracy: (a) then (b) now. Social Science—Spiritual Living in the Nuclear Age Lesson 12 — Values — Their Growth and Meaning Elder Blaine M. Porter For Tuesday, March 28, 1961 Objective: and the meaning which they have i in our lives. Introduction HAT proper living requires strength of char I will admit, but mere strength does not suffice: strength alone can mean blind and reckless aggression. What we need is strength prope irected by adequate behavior and properly criticized values. Then only can we expect effective living. There is ample evidence that the decisions which we make are based on_the values which we possess. Furthermore, many of us recognize that as a result of living in this complex world, we are frequently faced with conflicting values. Therefore, the decision we make to take something which does not belong to us or not take it, to give of our time to support a worthy project or not, to To increase our understanding of what values are, how they develop, assume our responsibilities in church and community activities, or shirk our responsibilities in preference for other endeavors depends upon our hierarchy [any things in graded order] of values. Among individuals who do not develop any strong values, we are apt to find indifference and apathy toward life. We are apt to find the flighty individual, the one who plays at being someone else because he has no self to express, the extreme overconformer, the nagging dissenter. Understanding values, then, is important both from the standpoint of making the most of our own lives as well as being adequately prepared to guide and direct others for whom we may be responsible. But what are values? Where do values come 858 from? How do values develop? What role do values play in our lives? Values Defined Values have long received the attention of thinking people and of more recent ycars the intense investigation of social scientists. Values. Represent a term or concept w hich is difficult to define to everyone's satisfaction. But let us accept the following statement as a_ working definition of value. Value is_that which has priority_in a person, that which he prizes, which he deée be _ significant, worthwhi and_important, A man's values identify what he considers to be good, what gives meaning and purpose to his life. A value is a directive factor in human behavior. Values are a combination of ideas and_attitudes_ which give pronity__pr_preterence ice_to certain goals. 'hese goals or values assume a place of high importance in the personality. Bag TS lished, then action _and_ behaviorare set into a priority system which is determined by whether or not they lead toward the desired goal. Values tend to control behavior as well as to motivate it. Values are, therefore, both positive and negative. Each_ personality holds certain goals a ners to be rigorously avoided. How Values Develop Our values do not come as a gift, and we cannot give our values to our children and other people. Values come through "value-ing'; they grow through prizing, cherishing, Politiedehiaantl ao @helcoalle aie for us. <> The several stages of a child's deRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 velopment of values can be identified. Children up to seven or eight years of age tend to respond to problems of values by identifying with parents and family members and ascribing an almost blanket acceptance to the values they've_learned first_in_ the family. Following this there comes a brief period of two or three years which marks a progressive decline in applying values without question. By carly adolescence, the youngster may reject the use of specific rules of conduct and begin to evolve and utilize more general principles which derive their support from the previous values learned as well as some new values which may confront him as a result of his contact with teachers, peers, [persons of the same standing] and heroes, movie stars, and famous personages. The degree of influence of the peer group and hero figures upon the child's values is almost directly dependent upon how strongly he Tas previously dentate his parents. If the parental values have been sufficiently internalized (see Lesson Four, Relief Socictv Magazine, November 1959, page 777), and if the child perceives of himself as a person who does the "right" thing most of the time, then other values which are directly opposed to these are more easily resisted. It is in this latter stage that the child really begins to sce "himself as a person with values of his own. While the indiyidualis forming concepts through life's experiences, he is also ik each of the objects and | forces has for him throug pressions of how each of them affects him. This sense of valué becomes a part of each concept and determines how the individual LESSON DEPARTMENT feels about it. This tends to influence his behavior toward or with that thing. In order properly to understand how values develop, it may be helpful to differentiate between values and value-ing. Values constitute something of or within the valuing transaction, not from within the. Object valued. We cannot say that a goal has value, rather a goal is a value. We put the value on it. It is important to realize that values exist in a context and not in a void. We find it difficult, for example, to talk about good in general. It's more helpful and more precise to speak about a good man, a good deed, or a good family. We also find it advantageous to employ adjectives to modify the term values. We find it more meaningful to speak of cultural values, or human values, or ethical values, or middleclass values, etc. In each case we are identifying the context in which values appear. We ask, valuable to whom and for what? One type of behavior which may be highly valued in one setting may be scorned in another. For example, an_indi- 859 our lives. We plan the expenditure of our moncy in ways which favor certain values. We often choose to be among people who sh our activities which tend to support our values. This penetration of values into our lives is our way of continually testing them. Our values, therefore, are forever undergoing change which shared living and reflective thinking never cease to bring about. Conflict of Values The individual living in the complex world of today frequently finds that he is faced with confietingvalues. All of us have undoubtedly been faced with the task of choosing between two things which we wanted, but which were not compatible or which were not both available to us. When faced with such a dilemma, our values of necessity must be placed in a hierarchical order, and it would be natural to assume that the value assigned the highes would determine the course_of _be-, havior. For example, let us assume that a Mormon youth values keeping he Word of Wisdom, and _ also values the acceptance of his peer vidual possessifig certain qualities of gentleness and _tenderness_working _ group. In a Mormon setting he with emotionally disturbed children may be highly valued, while the same qualities in the business world or military service may not only be scorned and belittled, but may actu-_ ally result in professional failure. In the latter case, aggression, toughness, and a callousness in regard to other people's feelings may be highly valued. Values, then, come from "valueing" and from reflection. They are reinforced to grow in intensity partially by the way in which we plan would gain acceptance and recognition by his group through observing the Word of Wisdom. In this case, the two values would reinforce each other, and his course of action in observing the Word of Wisdom would help him achieve both goals. However, if this person were placed in another setting in which certain practices were valued by the group which were contrary to the Word of Wisdom, he would be faced with conflicting values. He would then be forced to choose between engag- ing in the kind of behavior which would gain him acceptance with the group and break the Word of Wisdom, or observe the Word of Wisdom and lose the acceptance of his group. In this case, the course of action will be determined by which value is ranked highest. Internalized Values The discussion of conflicting yalues suggests that values vary in quality and intensity. If values are to serve their most effective purpose, it is important that the values which will contribute to the personal growth and development of an individual be most deeply internalized. Otherwise, it mav be easy for man an individual to be swayed with the fads and fashions of the time whether these deal with Wearing apparel or political and religious _philosophies. Values at first are imi ted as children identify with adults whom toy admire. As the child grows in age, values should gradually become inte. Grated into the personality. But only as they are carefully examined, reflected upon, and tried out will they truly become 4 part of the individual." As wags discussed in Lesson Four of last year's lessons concerning the individual and religious maturity, to internalize mcans_to make a part of oneself Only as one internalizes Standards and values does he effectively live by them. If values remain in adulthood still imitative, borrowed, and verbalized, but only superficially subscribed to, the individual has not truly integrated and internalized them. This matter, therefore, should be of major concern to each individual in looking at his own values and in his responsibility of trying to grow values in his children. 'he_methods we use 'E itt help children internalize —valucs should Be carefully scrutinized. We sometimes set up creeds and dogmias Which the child can question only at the price of a Parentally imposed load of guilt and fear. Moral instruc. Tion alone never was and va ) al € a_substit ue-religion _ of a faith based on one's own experience. The Inevitable result js pretended values Unsupported by that background of honestly apPraised experience which is 4 prerequisite for real values. Developing Value for Oneself It is important that an individual become 4 living Participant jn achieving a feeling of his own worth. Unless the child is able to accept himself, he js not able truly to. Acceperotiers, antlit males it difficult to integrate desirable values, The child must be al e IS a good person — he m ike-himself. The one and only person he of his days is himself, and learning to inderstand, respect, and accept others is dependent upon one's own self-understanding, self-acceptance, and self-respect, The growing child's ability to accept himself and develop value for himself is influe ¥ ay he is accepted by others. Tf others like him as a child, accept him, approve of him, give him the right to try himself out and the freedom to make mistakes, it wil] be easier for him to acquire similar attitudes toward himself. It js hard for the growing child, on the other hand, to view himself with approval _ if others reject him, Punish him _unMust live with all 860 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 LESSON DEPARTMENT justly, imply that he is inferior to others, interfere with his endeavors to try himself out, deride him, take no notice of him, ignore him as though he did not count, or tell him he is mostly bad. A child once wrote about himself, "I'm no good; I'm stupid; I can't do anything right; things are always happening to me." Adults who lived and worked with this young boy appeared to have mislaid the basic value of respect for his human personality. Parents lay the foundation, and the child and youth in the atmosphere of the family become, as the years roll on, the builders of the emerging self. The parents with an abiding sense of their own values do not need to immortalize themselves in their children. They can give to the child their Tove and direction and feel the rewards in the child's growing sense of independence as he becomes an individual in his own right with the self-confidence and self-respect which is essential in order to internalize the values which will contribute to the individual's personal growth and development. While the_attitudes_others-shew toward a_person_are especially important in_the early stages in the development of the self, all people at all stages of life are responsive to the approval or disapproval of others. Developing and maintaining value for oneself, then, is a continuous and lifelong endeavor. Summary Developing and growing values both for ourselves and for our children present one of our greatest responsibilities. Walues have simple beginnings in childhood as the child imitates his parents. If the maturing 861 process continues in a healthy manner, the development of valucs becomes increasingly complex so that the individual is influenced by the cultural values around him, the values of his peer group, and his own reflective thinking. Careful analysis of one's values appears to contribute to developing higher quality, more complete integration, and more effective internalization of values. Parents, therefore, should keep this fact constantly in mind so that as they proceed with their task of child-rearing, they do not try to "pass on" their own values | to the chil woul him their estate, but rather attempt to provide the experiences through which these values may grow and develop. Values are never completely grown and the process finished. The active, alert person is constantly exploring, modifying, and enlarging his values as he encounters new ideas, goes through new experiences, meets new people. If he confines himself to value-ing the past or simply to perpetuate the present, thereby reinforcing the status quo, his life becomes static and dying. "The past," as Prime Minister Harold MacMillan has said, "'must be a springboard and not a sofa." We need to grow values not only in relation to what man has been and is, but what he can be and is capabl of becoming that is highest and best. — ee Thoughts for Discussion 1. What are evidences of the growth of values in children? Youth? Adults? 2. Give additional illustrations of conflicting values. 3. What kinds of experiences will help internalize values? 4. Why is value of oneself so important? Books for the Church Pianist (| ) Church Pianist— SUNG 4... Ee 1.50 ( ) Eighteen Hymn Transcriptions—. Kohlmann.....2.......---.----- 85 ( ) Famous Sacred Songs—Peery.......----+-++ Ii ( ) Melodies For Church and Home—Shelley.... 1.00 ( ) More Concert Transcriptions of Favorite Hymns—Kohlmannp...... 1.00 ( ) Piano Hymn Voluntaries—Lorenz...........2. 1.50 ( ) Piano Transcriptions of Your Favorite Hymns—Parsons.......... 1.25 ( ) Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Schaum...... 85 ( ) Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Stickles...... 1.25 ( ) Sacred Piano Album for Home and Church—Gahm_............ 1.50 ( ) Sacred Piano Solos— Rettenberq....2.2.2-2.22..-- 1.00 ( ) Sabbath Day Music— Randolph.............-. Cce0- 1.50 ( ) Sunday Piano Music —Boston 20020..... Eeeeseeee es 1.25 ( ) Tranquil Hours— Piesser ee 1.50 ( ) Twenty-Four Voluntaries—Stickles 00... 1.50 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank § DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 1 15 E. Ist South 1 Salt Lake City 11, Utah A \ 1 1 | Please send the music indicated above.! (0 On Approval [] Charge: [] Money Enclosed { ame \ I ddress; ity & State | Ar Zz 15 E. Ist South salt Lake City 11, Utah Page 862 Tica fel Christie Lund Coles I thank thee, Lord, for all the good The year has brought to me and mine. I thank thee for the wealth of joy That traced the human with divine. I thank thee for the moments when Our triumphs were richer than defeat; The roads we walked with surety, With steady and unfaltering feet. And yet, I thank thee, too, O Lord, For hours when the road was dark; When gloom engulfed our path, and hop: Succumbed to fear, enormous, stark; When sorrow gnawed its aching way Into our being, and we fought To maintain soul tranquility. With such as these new strength was bought, Assuring us that night would rise To morning and its splendor, bright; That every dark, prophetic cloud Wears its antithesis of light. I thank thee, Lord, for all thy good, And all is good at long, long last. Be mindful of us in this year, As in the year so newly passed. December Road Katherine F. Larsen A long road calls me When the white drifts fill The narrow lane, and winter-heavy Gray skies spill Snowflakes in profusion, Shrouding fences, trees, until No road can be seen Where ran the once-known road.... A long road calls me, Winter-muffled, white and still.... Now is the time to plan your trip. Just clip and mail attached coupon for literature on any destination in the world. Our special tours include: ® Christmas Holiday— Rose Parade Tours Orient in the Spring Historic Tours of the U. S. Europe South America Hawaii e tC e @ Mexico e e @ Around the World FREE TRAVEL INFORMATION lam planning a trip to oe during the month of... Ceeeeeeeeeeeeeee LJ 1 would like to go with an escorted tour. CL] We plan to travel independently, but would like all arrangements made plus professional advice at no extra cost. CL] | am interested in cruises to Vida Fox Clawson TRAVEL SERVICE 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone DA 8-0303 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover —~ $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Loke City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles oo. 35 150 to 300 miles...... 39 300 to 600 miles «2... Eee 45 600 to 1000 miles ooo... Eee.54 1000 to 1400 miles tee 64 1400 to 1800 miles.. W.0.76 Over 1800 miles.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah LEARN TO TYPEWRITE! New Classes Begin Soon Adult classes for Relief Society and genealogy workers will teach beginning and advanced typing. Classes will run 6:30 to 8:00 p. M., Mondays and Thursdays. Individual help and instruction by professional teachers. Call for reservations and further information. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE Phone EM 3-2765 70 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah Page 863 Birthday 'GF ngratula tions One Hundred One Mrs. Mary Carpon MERRILL Preston, Idaho One Hundred Mrs. Cerestia TERRY PETERSON Fairview, Utah Ninety-seven Mrs. JENNIE McConnaucney Oprie Mountlake Terrace, Washington Ninety-five Mrs. Pautine B. Wate Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Mary D. Burton Grace, Idaho Mrs. ARVILLA HARRISON STORRS American Fork, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. ANNIE M. Rozserts SmitTit Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martua LEANORA STUBBS Napa, California Mrs. Harriet Frances Futter STARK Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Wittre Bonn GoLtson Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Mary Romney Ross Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Anna M. JENSEN Cornish, Utah Mrs. Emma Re_ia Scott Foce Cedaridge, Colorado Mrs. Mary R. Norris Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety Mrs. Litytran Venus Roserts SCHULER Springfield, Missouri Mrs. AniceE PAxmMAN McCune Nephi, Utah Mrs. Cuartotre Louise Reapinc HuBBarpD Salt Lake City, Utah TRYPUENA BrRIMNALL GARFF Salt Lake City, Utah Page 864 Mrs. Mrs. Racwet Atice Fow. Er PETERSON Ogden, Utah Mrs. Grace LitLiaAn PriesrLEY CAMBELL Salt Lake City, Utah j White Decree Ida Elaine James The snow is falling In swirling script, Like a slow message From heaven, white-lipped, Upon the earth's tablet; White upon white Piled high and higher In words of light. Who takes the snow's swectness Upon face and eye Senses soft muted words That satisfy Heart's longing as if wings Had brushed by. White upon the earth's breast Are spread life's decrees; Springtime and summer, Autum's fires cease, Healed by the cool flame Of winter's peace. ' WVoa | th Diane Montgomery Echoes of memories Through the halls of life are ringing, My memories of Mother's work: Her life, her joy, her singing. Love's end in service here is sown, Simple, sweet, and giving, A strength in wisdom that has known The worth of pleasant living. Always shall this lesson true Unfold at wisdom's door: She gleaned from work life's satisfaction... "Never idle, never poor." For a richer, fuller life the year round READ... To" SECRETS OF A HAPPY LIFE by David O. McKay— compiled by Llewelyn R. McKay President McKay's latest writings reveal the ten sources of happiness as he shares his views on the home, marriage, education, religion and government. Absorbing, easy-to-read. 3.50 Published nationally by Prentice-Hall, Inc. ANSWERS TO GOSPEL QUESTIONS Vol. Ill by Joseph Fielding Smith A majority of the questions in this THIRD volume have never been in print before. Includes answers on: Salvation of Women Whose Husbands Will Not Embrace the Gospel, many others of vital concern. Vol. I& II 2.50 each 2.50 TOWARD A BETTER LIFE Mark E. Peterson Dynamic addresses and articles by Mark E. Peterson on problems of youth, parental i responsibility, why Latter-day Saints build ' Temples, other subjects of interest to all. 3.50 TRUE TO THE FAITH Harold B. Lee Elder Lee encourages young people, confused by modern-day philosophies, to return to the timeless truths contained in holy scriptures. 50 OT saAZ, © qsocnos, s y 'Book Co -- Salt Lake City, Utah nc ' AS Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find......... Check ——money order..............1 have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed $.................. For encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 4 Name nooo cee ceecce cece cece scence eeeeeecenseceeeeseseeseeveeeoe City ceceZone.......... State... Residents of Utah include 242% sales tax. Eveceeereeceoeooneeeeevseceoeeveveseeeoeeeevvnesesevee @evoeeeeveeaceeanveeeveeneneneaeesence + iim, ... And, more than likely, come Christmas morning, Johnny and Susie's Christmas wishes will come true... Mom and Dad will see to that. But would the same be true if Dad were suddenly not there to provide? And what about later when Johnny and Susie are old enough for college? Could Mom carry the burden alone? BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Beneficial Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Pleuse send more information about Beneficial's Commercial Whole Life Plan. City a "Joh nny wants a pair of skates: er a * 95 mee Susie wants a dolly. Tf. & Now is the time to make sure your family has the financial security that only life insurance can provide. Beneficial Life's Commercial Whole Life Plan gives you an opportunity to get the additional permanent insurance you need at bargain rates. Ask your Beneficial agent to explain it to you — or mail the coupon below. BENEFICIAL LIFE Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah
